What's up, guys? cuz you don't this industry for some some time now. You know, I've been with by.com since 2011. And we travel a lot. We do a lot of photo shoots, a lot of videos, and always having a diet down consistently for photo shoots can be a a big toll on your body. So, I designed this program to keep my body at peak condition all year round. It only takes like about a week or two to get to like 5% body fat and then you're ready for a shoot. So this around and not have to worry too much about competing or getting 16 weeks out or 14 weeks out and stressing putting too much stress on your body. So that's why I designed this program. So let's get some questions going. I know I see a question here from um Stephen Garcia. He says there's a a bunch of supplements for this program and he wants to know how long do he does he have to keep taking every uh supplement or can he cycle them off? When it comes to supplements, um there's some key ones that you should always take. Multivitamins and like your flax seed oils. Those are the key ones that I say you should always always take. Why? Because you should always take your multivitamins. They just help for every part of your body. And um your flax seeds just help for your body's best process of fat. Some of the other supplements in the program, yes, you can cycle them off like creatine. creatine back in the day used to be there used to be a bad stigma to it. They used to say that it cakes in your your liver and things like that. When I first started training, I used to take a lot of creatine and then I heard research says you shouldn't take it, but current research says that you don't have to cycle off of creatine. If you want to, that's fine, but um you don't have to cycle off of creatine. You can continue to take it throughout the entire program, throughout your entire time. You'll still see your strength um stay consistent. If you stop, your strength does go down slightly. It doesn't mean that you're getting weaker. It's just that your body is not flooding enough uh fluid into your muscle to be able to push that much weight. So, don't be afraid if you shut down on creatine and you you lose some strength. You can still take it back and continue again, but you don't have to stop cycling off of it. Most of the most of the other supplements in this program, you can take them consistently. They won't have negative effects on your body. They're not we're not taking crazy stimulants where you're spiking them up and killing your adrenals all the time. So, you can take them consistently the entire time or if you want to choose the cycle, that's fine. It's up to you. If you feel that you want to get that extra boost again, you can do that, too. But that's when it comes to supplements. You can take them consistently. You don't have to worry about it. Okay. Uh, next question says, "Nick Tibbitz here. He's 180 lbs. That's good weight. He's struggling to consume 3,000 calories daily and he wants to know if uh if he switches his calorie intake, is it going to be a factor or is timing really essential?" Um, that's a good question. I know 3,000 calories may seem a lot for what you're taking in in this program, but if you see the way the workouts are are designed, your body's going to need those 3,000 calories. So, especially in phase one, if you're doing your morning cardio, which is about an hour long, and then you're training the way you're supposed to be training, um, lifting, your body's going to need those 3,000 calories. Now, if you're not able to consume them, that's fine. Later on, maybe four days, five days in, you'll start to see that your body is going to get hungrier towards the evening, which means your body's adapting to the program. It's going to start requiring more calorie intake. That's why we So, that's why when I have the program laid out and it says that your body needs that much calories, your body's going to eventually get used to consuming that much calories because you're going to be putting in that much work. Your body's going to be requiring that much intake. So, in the beginning, it's fine if you're not consuming that much calories. You'll start to see towards the third, fourth, fifth day, you're going to start to get hungrier because your body's going to start to need more fuel to be able to push through those workouts. The beginning is fine, but later on, your body's going to start to accumulate the urge for more calorie intake. Okay. Uh, next question. Patrick Mina, hopefully I'm saying your names right and I'm not butchering them. I'm trying to keep them close to what I can see here. Okay. It says um I seem to not be able to uh lose stubborn body fat on my stomach and he wants to know I mean well let's lose uh he wants to get the percentage down to 8% and he wants any tips or secrets to share. Okay, there are a couple things you can do to lose body fat. Um I'll give you some some easy ones and I'll give you the the hardcore ones. Okay, easy ones you can do is you can eliminate sugars from your diet. Now, sugars um as you say fast digesting carbs or high glycemic carbs, what they tend to do if you're not using them right away, they tend to store on your um which is the overlining fat over your stomach. So, if you cut out sugars from your diet, um immediately you'll be able to lose that body fat. There are also some foods you can take to help you lose uh body fat. good foods to help you lose body fat. Spinach, almonds, and increasing your fiber intake will also help you lose that stubborn body fat as well. Now, that's the simplest thing you can do on the diet and nutrition side to help you lose body fat. Now, let's go over to the workout side to help you lose some stubborn body fat. Some things you can do, you can do high intense interval cardio. What you'll see in this program is part of phase four, our shred phase in the program. And that's where you're doing bursts of high intense intervals or like you're doing one minute of high intense velocity workout and then you're coming back down for another minute. It's like a cool down period. But when let's go to the intervals a second. When I say high intense intervals, I mean when you're sprinting for one minute straight, at the end of that sprint, you should feel exhausted. You should feel like all your energy is spent. That's high intense. So, if you're done at that one minute sprint and you still feel you have more energy, you actually didn't push as far as you can. So, when we say high intense intervals, we're meaning pushing your body to the limit for one minute straight, then bringing it back down. If you do that back and forth, one, two, one, one, one ratio, you'll see that body fat cannot stay on you. You have to look at the physiques of like uh sprinters, Olympic sprinters. I did sprint in uh high school. Um I did track in high school, I should say, and I was a sprinter. And all we ever did was sprints. We never did distance running. I mean, we did some lifting in in high school, too. But all we ever did was sprints. We would just sprint down the track 100 meters, sometimes 200 meters. We'll rest and we'll sprint again. Rest and sprint again. And doing that keeps your body's metabolic rate high the entire day. is you're consistently burning fat and it helps you get rid of stubborn body fat as well. So, you'll see in our phase four of this program, the shred phase, we do a lot of that style of workout that's going to help you target that body fat. So, that's a good way to eliminate that and start off slow in the beginning, but at one point you got to keep pushing yourself, pushing yourself, and then you'll see that body fat will never stay on you again. All right. Uh, next question. Alvaro Hernandez. He says there's a a perpetual confusion on what exactly is a triple drop set. Three drop sets original drop or four uh total sets original drop. Can you clarify? Okay. Triple drop set. What that means is within the uh set that we're doing, say for example, I'm doing a bent over dumbbell a bent over barbell rows and um I have 315 on the bar. I start the set, I pull the bar 10 reps, I cut the weight, do more reps, and I cut the weight one more time and I do more reps. That's a triple drop set. So, you're dropping it three times within that set. Okay? So, example again, one more time. So, if I'm doing a bent over barbell row, I have 315 on the bar. My first set, my first set, I start 10 reps. Right away within that set, I cut the weight to 225. pull out some more reps, maybe 12 reps. Cut the weight to 135 and I'll pull out 20 reps. Okay, that is a triple drop set. I'm dropping the weight three times within one set. So, your set is not complete until you do one, two, three, three drop sets within that set. All right. Okay. Uh, next question. Ryan, wanting to make gains in size and strength, and I'm worried uh a lean plan may hinder the that goal. Your thoughts? Good question. This program, I know it's uh it's it's it's come off as a as a fat loss program, but remember, it's called the Chisel program, and it's I designed this program not just to lose body fat, but to also make sure that my body is consistently growing and adapting every time. I can tell you something a little bit. In the beginning of my uh in this fitness journey and this fitness career when I joined bodybuild.com whenever we had like photo shoots I would uh cut down my carbs and I would do uh excessive cardio, you know, just to get shredded for photo shoots. And it was great because you always get lean, you always look good. But what I couldn't stand mentally was when I got back to the gym, I couldn't um I I hated losing that strength aspect, you know, because when I started working out, when we all joined this fitness industry, we did it because we love working out. We love to see the progress. So, I had to find a way to continue to get stronger but still maintain lower body fat. And that's why I designed this program. That's why you see the phases of this program, the way we have it worked out, is that you're constantly building muscle. When you're constantly building muscle, you're constantly strong, you're constantly getting stronger, fat can never hold on to you. So, yeah, you're going to be losing fat, but the entire time in this program, you're going to constantly be growing. You're going to be constantly getting stronger. So, you're not going to have to worry about losing quote unquote gains. Okay? The only thing you're going to be losing is body fat, but you're going to be accumulating so much more strength. You're going to be accumulating so much more muscle in this program. So, you're not going to have to worry about that in this program. All right? Good question. Uh, next question. Forest Reading, he says, uh, "What exercise do you consider to so essential that it must be done regularly to maintain muscle strength and toned abs?" Um, all right. Let's uh That's a good question. When I first started doing abs, um, all I ever did was after every workout, I would go to the, uh, ab crunch machine and I would just do as many crunches as I could and put the weight as much as I could because my thought was abs are just like any other muscle because they are. If I train them heavy and I train them hard, they get stronger, they get thicker, they get denser, just like any other muscle. Simple fact. So, the best exercise to do to give them the strength and to give them that that toness I say is um to do the ab crunchers, the the seated ab crunchers. You'll see that when you do that, it starts to get that 3D effect ab that you'll have them no matter what. They always look photo shoot ready. Even if you don't do them for a while, they'll then they'll tend to stay there the entire time. Now, um, another tip for you as well when it comes to abs, if you're getting ready for a photo shoot or you're getting ready for a competition or if you're just going to hang out at the beach and you want to show off your body, um, what you don't want to do is do any ab workout like three days before because if you do train abs while um, if you're training abs while you're training abs, they tend to get swell up because there are muscle so they'll swell up too. So, if you want them to look tight, you want them to look chiseled, don't train them like three days before a photo shoot or three days before competition or three days before you go out because that gives them time to relax and that gives them that extra tightness and that leanness, that lean look that you want, too. So, that's a good tip for you to have as well. All right. Um, another question, next question. He said, um, I notic in this program it calls for pretty high intake of carbs. Uh, 200 grams may seem a little high for me. Uh, can you elaborate more? Okay. Okay. This is a good question and I get this question a lot. The carbs in this program, like I said, they're they're basically used to fuel your workouts and that's it. So, we're not trying to do too many excessive carbs. Now, when it says 200 gram of carbs, if you look down and we break it down into the carb aspect of it, you're not just doing 200 gram of carbs where it's just like 200 grams of sweet potatoes or 200 grams of uh brown rice or 200 g of oatmeal. The way I do my carb intake is it's 200 grams of carbs. Okay? Between 50 grams and 75 grams of them are going to be higher glycemic for my entire day. And the rest of it is going to be high fibrous, which means veggies, tons and tons of veggies in this program. So in the morning, say for example, a basic meal, you have your you have like 50 grams of carbs in the morning, 30 grams of that for me would probably be oats, okay? And then the rest of it will be like spinach or broccoli or things like that. And then even at lunchtime too, if I have to do uh 60 grams of carbs at lunchtime, only about 30 grams of that will be either brown rice or sweet potatoes. the rest of that will be veggies and things like that, too. So, when it comes to carbs, there's still breakdowns of parts of it that you have to focus on, too. I don't like to take too much um high glycemic carbs only in the morning or before and after my workout. That's it. The rest of it is all veggies. And you have to count veggies as carbs. You have to count veggies as part of your macronutrient. A lot of times people see that and they just throw it out the window, but they are a part of your macronutrients and they are essential to your gains as well. So even if 200 grams of carbs are high, you're not taking in 200 grams of like high glycemic carbs. Maybe half of that is going to be high glycemic carbs and you're putting them around your workout so they're efficient for your training. All right. Okay. Next question. Tao, it says, um, "What about cheat meals? How often can I have one, if ever? Is a high carb day not part of this program? Also, how can I use this program for building muscle during the offseason?" So far, I love the program. Glad I'm glad you love the program, Teao. Um, as you can see, if you if you've been doing this program for about two weeks so far, you can see how you can gain muscle by doing this program because we're not doing um light weight or anything that that we're still doing heavy volume training where pushing your body to the max. So, that's the way you can build muscle on it. But, let me go back to the first question where it talks about cheat meals. I'm I'm a person that doesn't really romanticize about food. you know, you won't catch me like on Instagram or my Facebook page posting pictures about crazy pizzas or donuts or things like that. It's just not part of who I am. Um, but um that being said, it doesn't mean that you shouldn't be able to enjoy your life. Now, here's a thing that I've always said when it comes to fitness. If you're not going to be able to do something for the rest of your life, you shouldn't do it right now. So cheat meals are essential, but you shouldn't call them cheat meals because when you call them cheat meals, you feel that you're doing something that's detrimental to your aspect. Cheat meals are not detrimental to your aspect. They're actually actually a necessity for your entire life. So what you can do with this program is if you need to have a cheat meal, if you feel that you need to have a cheat meal, is you see what your carb intake is for the entire week and then you start to restrict them in the beginning. maybe Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and then Saturday if you feel like you have to go out with your friends or anything like that, you can increase your carb intake for that day for one meal only. Not the entire day, I shouldn't say that, but for one meal. That way, you can feel that you're still you're not you're not missing out on anything, too. as well. A lot of times what happens to people, especially in the fitness industry, is that they restrict themselves for so long, like they'll diet for 9 months. They'll compete over and over and over and over and over again without ever having a cheat meal that when they introduce those carbs back into their system. Two things happens. First, your body stops producing the uh the required enzymes to break down those carbohydrates, so it doesn't know how to break them down, so it holds on to them. And second, you rebound a lot harder because you're restricting yourself for so long. Restricting yourself for so long is actually really bad for you. And in this program, you can have your cheat meals. You just have to make sure you plan them out the right way. You see what your calorie caloric intake is for the entire week, especially when it comes to carbohydrates, because that's usually where people cheat the most. And um you taper off your carbs either in the beginning of the week and then you bookend them off at the end. Almost like carb cycling. That's really the way I do my uh my diet too is that uh I'll do my carbs actually in the beginning of the week. I'll do a higher carbs in the beginning of the week so I have energy to push through my throughout my entire workout and towards the end of the week I take less carbs. I just do this the way I do it too. But um every once in a while I'll have a a slice of pizza or I have Pop-Tarts here or there. It's not going to mess me up because I'm training efficiently. As long as my diet is 90% great, it's not going to be a hindrance to me at all. It's actually going to be beneficial to me. Okay. All right. Next question. Keith Greenblat, hopefully I said that name right, is uh what is the best situ for size or bet set for size? I think that's what he says. Each body part uh once a week or twice a week. Thanks. All right. Um it depends on you. It depends on how you're training. It depends on how much you recover. When I first started uh working out, I used to just train three times a day. It was a chest day, a back day, and a leg day. and then occasionally cardio. But um as you progress, as your body gets stronger, as you adapt, your body's gonna it's going to require a lot more for your body to grow. So then I started to add an arm day. Then I added a shoulder day. So now I train one body part a day and it pretty much and I train every single day. Um no rest days at all. And it's okay to train that way because if I train one body part a day, say for example, I train chest on Monday. 5 days later is my next chest day. So it has enough time. I have enough time for my body to recover and enough time for my body to rest. So I hit it again. So it depends on what you want. I think um you can train two times a body part two times a day if you want. Um there are certain body parts that recover a lot faster depending on you. For example, like shoulders shoulders tend to be slow uh twitch muscle fibers, so they recover a lot faster. So you can kind of train them every day because they heal faster. Same thing with abs. Um you can train them all the time and they recover and they grow faster. Um, also, uh, some people quads they they grow a lot faster. My quads are are are they grow faster because I used to be a sprinter and sprinter it helps to develop a lot faster too. So, I can train legs every single day and they'll grow faster. So, I have to limit them to make sure they stay proportionate. So, depends on what you do, but I recommend you could train a muscle group twice a day without having to hinderance them at all. But, um, as long as you space them out enough where you're resting and you have enough time to recover. Okay. Question. Another question. If I have a if I have a miss a day at work emergency, this is from Derek Fair, by the way. He misses a day at work. Should I just push my program back a day? Also, is it okay to get my beta alamine and creatine from a pre-workout? Thanks. All right, that's a good question. So, what he's saying is that um if he just can't find a time to to get to the gym, is it okay for him to push the program back a day? Um yeah. I mean, we all we all go through through things in our lives. You know, we can't we can't predict what happens throughout the day. We can't control every circumstance. The only thing we can control is how we react to them. So, what I recommend you doing is that if you can't make it to the gym that one day because it's an emergency. Um, yeah, just do just push the day back once or get what you can in at least. I mean, if you can't if you can find like a 20-minut time to do like the cardio session, just get to the gym and do the cardio session. unless you've done something that day. But when it comes to the weight training, I know it could be a little hard cuz they're a little bit harder to push. Just push that back to the end of the day and uh just focus on trying to get something done that day. As long as you do something a little bit, just do a little bit that day, you're better off than doing nothing. I wouldn't I would never recommend you not doing anything at all, no matter what. Because even if you have an emergency, if there's a problem, um getting to the gym is usually like a stress relief. If you have a crazy day, you get to the gym, you can control what happens there, you know? I mean, I' I've had days where there's there's I' I have my own gym. I run my own gym, too. There's days where things are crazy. It gets hectic. I'm running around and I can't even find time to work out. But, um, but once I'm in the gym, I know I can control what happens there. I know I can control the weights. I know I can control the sets. I know control the reps. So, at that part of my life is control. So, it's actually beneficial for me to get there. So even even if you have emergencies, um if you have to push it back, but try to get to the gym at least to do something. Something is always better better than nothing. Okay. Okay. Next question from Jose Garcia. He says, "If uh my BCAAs have beta-alanine in them, three servings, does that take care of both or should I just take it separately?" Okay. What he's pretty much saying is that if he has a BCAAsor a supplement that has um the beta-alanine in it, does he have to take them take them separately? No, you don't have to take them separately. I mean, that's ridiculous. Why would you take two things separately? But um here's the thing. You have to be prepared. You have to just know what time to take them. If your BCAAs have beta aline in them, the best time to take them are right before your workout. I mean like right before as soon as you get into the gym, you sip on them right away because you have the beat the beta-alanine is going to kick in right away and the BCAAs are going to start to kick in while you're working out. So even if they have them both in one supplement, it's okay to take them. You don't have to take them separately. Um just make sure you time them the right way. So if you have a product that does that where you have the beta alley and the BCAAs in one, you should take them as soon as you get to the gym. not 30 minutes before, as soon as you get to the gym, because that's probably the best effective time for you to take uh that supplement. Okay, next question. This is from Haznan Bilani. Hopefully I said that name right, too. Um, how much weight can you expect to lose in 8 weeks? I'm 5'6, 157 pounds with about 18% body fat. Okay, and this is a good question and it's really depending on a couple things. Um Hassan Hassan um it depends on what your current metabolic capacity is at this stage versus um how much energy you put into this program. And what I mean by first let's talk about metabolic capacity. Metabolic capacity is your body's um um capacity to burn burn off its carbohydrates or burn off the energy that it has I should say. So say for example right now you're used to taking in 500 gram of carbohydrates and your body sustains its current weight at that you have a high metabolic capacity. So once we start to cut out those carbohydrates. So once we bring that 500 gram down to about 200 gram your body is not used to taking in 200 grams. Your body can lose a lot more fat at 200 gram. So at 200 grams of carbs. So you can actually lose a lot more. For some people who are used to consuming already about 150 grams of carbs naturally and they're maintaining their body weight, it's going to be a lot harder for them to lose body fat efficiently right away in this program unless they increase their metabolic capacity. A person that is used to taking 150 grams of carbs in this program in order for them to burn body fat efficiently, what they're going to need to do is they're going to focus more on the cardio, the cardio and the fat burning aspect of this program a lot more because their metabolic capacity is a lot lower. Someone like you um at 18% body fat um I'm guessing that you're probably used to taking about 300 uh to 300 350 grams of carbs. So you have a high metal body capacity anyway. So, you'll be able to lose you'll probably get down to about 12 to 10% body fat in this program if you're doing it efficient in the right way. All right. Okay. Next program again from Derek Fair. Derek Fair is busting out the the questions. I like it. He says, "On shoulder day, um, I submitted battle ropes with the same motion but holding 10 pound dumbbells because my gym doesn't have them. Is that okay?" Okay. Yeah, it's it's okay. I mean, not every gym has battle ropes and um it's just a battle ropes are just an extra tool for people to have. you don't have them, that's fine. But what he did was there he just uh supplemented the the the 10 pound dumbbells for d uh for battle ropes, which is good. In this program, if there's a exercise or machine that there's not that's not in your gym, it's okay to create a new one. Most of the exercises that I've created um were because I was at a gym and didn't have a machine that I want. You know, they say that um necessity is the m the mother of invention. So, if you can't find a machine that that's part of this program, it's okay to adjust it and make it work for you. Okay? Just make the program, make the exercise work for you. All right? Okay. Next question. It says, "Uh, can I do my cardio and abs immediately after my workout?" Of course, you can. If if you find that you can't get to the gym um two times a day, you can do your cardio and your abs immediately after your workout if you have time to do it. Um, the reason I broke out the program like that is because it's a lot easier for you to separate cardio and weight training, for example. It's I don't want you to have to think about looking left and right at the same time. So, when you have cardio at one portion of your day and then weight training at the other portion of your day, it's easier to separate that and still adjust it. So, but if you can't make it twice a day, it's okay to do your cardio and your ab workout um after you're lifting. Just know just know that you're going to be there for a long period of time. Okay, next question from Matthew Barlo. He says, "Uh, I noticed you take protein before your workout. Do you do any post-proin drinks after um and do you do casein protein?" Good question, Matthew. This um I'm going to answer this may I'm going to end this. Okay. Whenever I answer question, I answer everything question uh candidly and honestly. So, um, when it comes to postworkout protein supplementation, that is not as necessary as you think. Okay? The most essential part post-workout is getting in your carbs um, and your BCAAs. And I'll explain I'll explain a little bit why, too. But, um, post-workout, what I like to do is I like to always eat real food. And it's always better for you to eat real food. Okay? And um there's new research out there that shows that immediately after your workout, it's actually detrimental for you to consume a fast absorbing protein like a whey because your body is still in that anabolic phase and breakdown phase. So it's not actually being able to process that that protein at that point. So what it is better for you to do is after your workout is you have your BCAAs because your BCA are going to prime your body for nutrient absorption and then 30 minutes 40 minutes um after your workout you go and you eat your real food. Okay. Um now same still stay with the same question. You ask me do I take case protein or anything like that too. Um whey protein casein protein. And I know they're marketed as one is fast and one is slow, but when you're comparing whey whey protein to case protein, that's like comparing a skateboard to rollerblades because they're both pretty they're they're both pretty slow. Okay, I'll be I'll be honest. They're both pretty slow. They're not there's not that much difference when it comes to nutrient absorbing absorption. Um, but when it comes to protein, the fastest one out there are BCAAs. Aminos, they're that's like comparing um a bicycle to a Ferrari. Aminos are lightning fast. That's why it's better to prime your body with aminos. Fill your body with aminos. That way, when you're eating nutrients, when you start to eat your regular meals, your body's primed for nutrient absorption. So, when it comes to post-workout, the main the main thing I like to focus on is my BCAAsis I like to eat real food post-workout. That's why I have this program designed so you're not just consistently accumulating um a supplement, supplement, supplements. Eat real food. Eat real food is always going to be better for you. Okay. Uh next question is from Palos Con I can't say your last name. I'm just going to say Palos. I'm sorry in advance. Okay. It says uh I use u next day soreness and muscle fatigue as a sign that my muscles have been working worked as well. Do you really have to keep changing at regular times or is a general sign? Okay. What he's pretty much saying is that um he can gauge how well he worked out based on how sore he was the next day. And um he wants to know if do you have to consistently change your programs all the time to feel that soreness? Um that's a good question. In the beginning of any program, we all know the beginning of any workout, there's always going to be uh DOMS delayed on set muscle soreness. We all have that. But what happens is as you progress and as you get stronger, your body starts to become accumulated to the workout and um you no longer feel sore. And uh when that soreness goes away, sometimes people assume that they're no longer achieving, they're no longer growing, they're no longer progressing, they're no longer achieving gains. But that's not true. What is what's just happening is that your body is just used to feeling pain. Um I've been doing martial arts for a long period of time. I studied Kravaga and um one of the things in Kravaga that we we're taught to do first in the beginning is we have to learn how to take pain. So we do a lot of conditioning drills where we're taught to like get punched in the stomach, get kicked in the leg. And what that does is just priming our body for that pain so that when we feel pain, we no longer flinch. We no longer um subside. We no longer get scared of it. That's the same thing your body does when it comes to working out. In the beginning when you're working out, your body is used uh feels that soreness and you feel that tension. But when you continue to do it over and over again, your mind and your body gets used to that soreness. So it's no longer there. That stimulus is no longer there. Doesn't mean it's not working. Doesn't mean it's not taking effect. It just mean that the body is used to that that that soreness. uh that that used to that. That's you'll see the way the workouts are set up that you won't get sore maybe four months into the program later on, but you will get um your muscles will start to spazz and start to tighten up after the workouts because you start to be pushing your body to the limit during the workout. That's where you should focus more on the soreness and the pain. Focus on pushing your body to the limit during the workout. Don't worry about the day after the day after pains. Worry about the workout there. Worry about the set. Worry about the reps. Worry about feeling feeling that tension every single set, every single rep. All right. Okay. Uh, next question is from Keith Green Belt. He says, "Uh, what nutrients are necessary for a post-workout drink?" Um, I think I kind of answered this question before, but I'll I'll elaborate a little bit more. Um, when it comes to post-workout drinks, let's say, for example, if you can't if you don't have enough time to get home to eat a healthy meal, which is which is I, like I said, I always recommend, um, nutrients that are essential for post-workout. Obviously, you're going to need your protein, right? Um, you just have to have your protein. You're going to need your high glycemic carbs. That means your carbs are broken down easily. And the reason why you need that is because your body's going to be primed for ATP and production and repair and recovery. So, make sure you have your protein, make sure you have your high glycemic carbs. Also, you want to make sure that you have your, like I said before, your BCAAs, your aminos. That's always essential. You should always have your body primed for that. Um, other than that, I think those are the two main things I like to focus on post-workout is just having protein and having my carbs as well. Okay. the uh the the three things to I'll give you something else. The three things for for for best muscle recovery are carbs and aminos. No matter what, if you want to recover fast, carbs and aminos are the way to go. All right, next question from Derek Ferry. He says, uh, on leg day there is no specific calf workout. Is that because you are working your calves during running? Hell yeah, that is why. Hell yeah. That is why there is no calf workout in this program. Okay. I've been um like I said, I've been an athlete my entire life and especially when it comes to the cardio in this program. You'll see like in weight in phase two and phase three, you switch the style of cardio to become more like athletic performance. So I give you a choice to either play basketball or play soccer or play active sports. So when you're doing that, you're doing your plyometrics, you're doing your your calf tension. So, I'm trying to make sure that you don't tear your your calves. Um, two years ago, I was um I play basketball a lot. I play a lot of basketball with my friends, stuff like that, too. So, um I was going back to my calf training, but I was still playing basketball. I played basketball for like two hours, three hours a day. And um in the middle of the basketball game, my calf just went pop. And I think it was I know what it was. It was because I I was training calves religiously for like a month and still playing basketball. and I kept them put more tension on my calves, too. So, the reason I don't have calves in this program is because I don't want to overload that part of your body. However, if you feel that your calves are lacking, it's okay to throw throw them in at the end of your program because, like I said, this is your body. It's not my body. Um, this is your body. So, if you feel there's a body part that you want to focus on, go ahead and throw that into your your program uh into your cycle. But I just didn't put in this program because when it comes to running and the cardio factor, I don't want to put too much attention on and stress on that muscle and have you have potential injuries. Okay. All right. Next question from Ben Story. What if you work out fasted for post protein or do you not recommend working out fasted? I just ask this uh the protein for more for Okay. Okay. Good question. um fasted cardio. I do fasted cardio, but I shouldn't I shouldn't really consider it fasted because um I do take like my BCAAs um before my cardio and BCAAs are help to release insulin. So, you're not really doing them fasted and they also help protect muscle too as well. But um he wants to know if you're do you take post protein after your your cardio? Well, I mean, if you're doing fasted cardio, obviously you're going to be eating right after because hopefully you're doing fast cardio in the morning. So, you're going to be eating your breakfast right away after that. So, yeah, right after you do your your your fasted cardio, it's okay to do your protein and then do your your your carbs as well because you haven't eaten anything as well. But, um, the only time you should do fasted cardio is if it's steady state. It's hard to sprint and do cardio. Obviously, you should always have energy when you're doing sprints, period. Um, but um the only time you should do faster cardio is when you're doing steady state uh steady state cardio. Okay, another question. Um, should I enter my current weight or my goal weight for my macros? Good question. Good question. You should definitely enter your goal weight. All right, you should definitely enter your goal weight. However, you have to be very subjective because if you weigh 300 lb and um your ideal weight is to be let's say 180 or even even something yeah about 180, you have to know that when you put that into the uh the macronutrient calculator that it's going to be your calories are going to be drastically cut. And when it cut that drastic, you're not going to be used your body's it's going to be take a while before you're used to to that deficit. So, um if you're going to do a ideal weight, make sure it's uh it's subjective and make sure it's uh practical for you to do. Make sure it's something that you know that you've had before um and you can sustain and you can have for a long period of time because like I said, this program is not just designed for you to do it for eight weeks and then you're done. It's designed for you to do it continually over and over and over and over and over and over again. Some people in this program may have um a lower a lower weight and then at the end of this program they'll gain weight but they're still chiseled. They're still chiseled. So next time they do the program they probably have to increase their calories. For me every year I'm slowly increasing my calories. I can't believe how much I'm eating now versus what I was eating two years ago. You know some people who've seen me before they've known that I've done the u I I still kind of do it too every once in a while. with the intermittent fasting diet where I eat like two meals a day or one meal a day. Um, I've been doing that. I was doing that two years ago when I was doing one meal. Then last year it was two meals. Now this year I'm back to regular three meals. And that's just because my body keeps adding more muscle mass slowly and I'm requiring more calories. So if you're lighter weight in this program, you're going to see that you're going to get stronger by still staying lean. Your body's going to increase your calories. If you're starting at a higher body fat percentage, your body fat's going to go down. Um, and then at one point it's probably going to go back up because you're going to be putting on lean muscle mass too and your calories going to be changing. So, just know that your calories going to be changing throughout your life in this program. Okay. Uh, next question. This is from Alvaro Hernandez. He says, "For super sets, my gym is always crowded." I know. I hate those gyms. That's why I have my own now. And sometimes it's hard to jump from biceps, barbells to tricep cables. People keep jumping on my machines. People always trying to steal your gains. Those are called game vampires. I hate those people. He says, "Uh, what do you recommend? Can I do um can I do biceps then triceps or change one of the moves to something else?" Okay. The great thing about this program is that the workouts are outlined for you, outlined for you ahead of time. So, when you go to the gym, it's like you're going into the battlefield already with a game plan. So, you need to already mentally prepare yourself for what workouts need to be done. I know there's good There's tons of gyms. Gyms are crowded. That's a good thing. Gyms are crowded. Gyms are crowded. That means that people are trying to hopefully better themselves instead of taking selfies in the gym. You know, maybe that's what they're doing, but who who cares? But um if the gym is crowded, you just have to strategize a little bit. You see the machines that you need and then if the machines are occupied, all you do is you go to the next workout and then wait for that machine to open up and then you go back to that exercise. I wouldn't recommend switching the program too much just to accommodate what everyone else is doing because what you're if you keep doing that, what you're doing is you're slowing down your growth because everyone else is holding you back. Don't let anyone hold you back. Um, get to the gym, plan out your workouts, plan out your outline, see which machines are are free at the moment. Do that exercise. Wait, when that machine opens up, go to the machine right away. Set up your stations right away. If you want, take 30 gym bags. Be that guy that everyone hates. I'm that guy in the gym. I take all my gym equipment. I put stations everywhere even if I'm not using machine. Okay, I'm doing chess today. I'm going to put the my bag on a squat rack and I'm using squats uh sometime this week. Okay, but um I'm just saying just just plan out your workouts, plan out your strategies, and um just find a way to make it work. Okay, next question from Faison. He says he's 185 pounds and 5'8. He wants to lose fats. He wants to know, "Will this program help me with current body fat at 26%. I think we touched face someone asked this question kind of before too and we uh discussed it a little bit earlier and it's the same thing like I said at 26% body fat I'm sure your body is starting at a very high metabolic capacity and especially in phase one phase two of this program you're going to see body fat peeling off of you right away um because like I said you're starting at a high metabolic capacity 185 pounds you're going to be at this in phase one, you're probably going to be doing 220 grams of protein, 200 grams of carbs, and uh I don't know, 60 grams of fats in this program. The the cardio that you're doing here, you're going to be probably get down. Yeah, you're going to be losing fat really quickly in this program at this rate. So, you won't have to worry about it, especially when it comes to week phase four of this program where it's called the shred phase. You'll be consistently burning fat. And another thing faison on in this program is that um at the end of the eight weeks, what I recommend for someone at 26% body fat is start it again because you're going to be you're going to your body's going to change at that point. And then once you get into the program again, your body's going to keep adapting, keep adapting, keep adapting. Remember this program, like I said, is the way I live my life. It's the way I train all year round. It's consistently changing. The program, the phases are consistently changing. So my body's not getting used to it, but my body's getting stronger, growing every single time. So in this chisel program, this is for everyone, too. In this chisel program, don't think of this as an eightweek program. Think of this as a life program. It changes every two weeks. Yes. And then once it stops at the 8week, you can start it again and you can still see greater results every single time. Every single time. Like I said, I didn't want to design a program where you're going to do it for a short period of time and then you're done. Because if you're not going to do it for the rest of your life, you shouldn't be doing it. Now, this program is designed for the for you to fit into your life all the time. All the time. That's why the phases are so short where you're doing um where you're doing cardio every day for only two weeks and then it goes down to cardio every other day, then it goes out to cardio once a week. You know what I mean? It keeps changing so you can adapt and you can accommodate it so it fits your lifestyle no matter where you are. Okay. All right. Next question. It says here is from Derek Fair. He says, "Uh, I struggle with burning a lot of chest fat. Um, I know you can't, uh, spot burn fat. However, I think it may be because I don't build chest." There you go. Uh, chest on my muscle. Um, muscle on my chest, I should say. Is working chest once a week going to help me with this program? Thanks for all your great information. All right, let me um, in this program, the chest is not really once a week. It's kind of like every five days. Here's the thing. when it comes to quote unquote spot triggering um body fat. The best way to spot trigger body fat is to build more [\h__\h] muscle on it. Okay? And um that's that's it goes back to the old age tale that you can't mold fat. You can only shape and build muscle. So when it comes to your chest days, uh Derek, what you need to do is focus a lot bringing that muscle mind connection on every exercise, on every rep, on every push pull, on on on contracting that chest muscle. Focus on actually stretching out those muscle fibers. Even in this program, you'll see the way the the exercises are aligned, the workouts are aligned to help you target each muscle group. Every time we target those muscle groups, we're going to be building more muscle on them, which is going to eliminate more excess body fat. So, yeah, maybe you have high body fat on your chest right now, but if you continue to train chest the way you're training in this program, your body fat will disappear. You'll start to get those crazy crazy hulk lines like that one video. I'll probably post that video on Instagram later on today. Crazy hulk lines in your chest because you're building more muscle fiber and the muscle fiber is going to be taking over those uh that body fat. Okay, good question though. Next question is from Dion. He says, um, you list 100 push-ups. I did. And 50 pull-ups as warm-ups. I did. Um, can this be broken down or should you drop to your knees? Drop to your knees and beg the Lord of gains for forgiveness. What do you mean? He said, "Drop to your knees for assisted pull-ups when you reach failure." I've always heard that you shouldn't reach failure in a warm-up. Um, hard not to with 100 push-ups. Okay. Um, this is a good question. Now, I'm a little when it comes to fitness, like my first when it comes to fitness and being a fitness model, the number one thing you have to be, like I always say, is you have to be fit. Fit. You must be fit. You must be fit. So, um, yes, 100 push-ups may seem a lot. uh 50 push pull-up may seem a lot in the beginning, but um your body will get used to them and you can break them up. You can do 10 sets of 10 or whatever or things like that. 10 sets of 10 or five sets of five pull-ups, whatever you can do. Or if you have to go to your um your knees to do push-ups, do that towards the end. I wouldn't recommend it, but um but um yeah, push past it. But the bigger question he asked here is um he's heard that you should never go to failure in a warm-up. I you I think that maybe that was the case when you first started, maybe when you were like in I don't know, middle school, high school, but failure is your friend. I mean, you must reach failure every single portion of your life. Without failure, you won't enjoy your success. You know what I mean? You won't you won't you won't you won't you won't you won't understand you won't appreciate it a lot more. So yeah, for every workout I like to reach failure right away in the workout because once I reach failure, I know I push my body to a limit, to a wall. I push it to a point where it cannot go anymore. So now when I start my workout, every set, every rep, I'm banging on that wall trying to break through it. Okay? The only way you can have a breakthrough in life is you have to hit a wall first. So, get to that wall immediately in the beginning of your workout and then fight to push past it. Push past it. There was a question on here earlier that a guy said, um, how do you break plateaus? And it's the same thing that we say when it comes to fli failure. Plateau is great. A plateau shows you that you your body has gone to a point where it feels like it can't go anymore. That's good. Now, it's time for you to test your body and see what it's really made of. So, I always try to reach failure in the beginning of the workout as early as I can in the workout and then continue to fight, fight, fight, fight, fight more, forcing my body to recruit more muscle fibers, forcing my body to expand, forcing my body to grow. And that's the only way that you can continue to have strength goals. That's the only way you continue to lose body fat and continue to see progress in this program and in your life as well. Okay. Um, next question from Palos again. He wants to know is um what's your idea on carb cycling and what should a bulking diet consist of in order to achieve max gains but avoid that extra fat accumulation keeping 150 grams uh daily intake. Okay, so he just wants to know basically um first of all like I I I do carb cycling. There's a there's there's a lot of terms out in the fitness industry that have been out for or they're coming out a lot more and um I never knew what the the terms were. Like the first time I heard of carb cycling, someone told me about it, I was like I do that all the time. Um someone told me about intermittent fasting, I was like I do that. I've been doing that my entire life. But um carb cycling is a part it's just a natural part of it. Um natural part of your diet um natural part of my diet and I I like it too. Like I said, what I do is I I tend to do my carbs higher in the beginning of the week and I start to taper them off towards the end of the week. And the reason I do that is so I have a lot more energy in the beginning of the week to push through my workouts. And towards the end of the week is usually um if I have to like go to the beach or something like that, it's night out. Um I can taper them off and not have to worry about too much energy. But you can cycle them any which way you want too. So, but when it comes to bulking diets, I've never done a bulking diet, but if you see like in this program, the way it's designed is that phase one and phase two, actually phase one, you have your higher carbs. And then when it comes to phase two, we're decreasing your calories in the form of carbs, but still keep your protein high. And in phase three, we're cutting your carbs again. And phase four, we're cutting your carbs again. So, in this program, you're consistently starting. You're starting with higher carbs and you're slowly tapering them off the entire time. And that's kind of like a bulking diet. It's almost like you're doing a mini bulking diet. And that's why you're able to continue to grow muscle but stay chiseled all year round. And that's why I do it this way. So, that's why at the end of this program, eight weeks, you can start the program again. You increase your carbs again. And then you slowly start to taper them off every single time. eight weeks mark, eight weeks, reach again, you start the program again, higher carbs, slowly taper them off. I think that is the best way to quote unquote do a bulking diet because you're not doing it for months and months and months on end. You're only doing it for about two weeks where you're increasing your calories, getting that hypertrophy in. You're building muscles, slowly tapering them off, and then boom, back again. That's like consistent gains. That's like gains every two months. That's gains on gains on gains. I mean, why wouldn't you want to do that instead? And then you're staying shredded all the time, you know? It's like the easiest way to do it instead of consistently thinking months on months where you're doing overly broken diets. So, this program is designed for you to keep that muscle building and and consistently burn fat. Okay, good question. Um, uh, question, I'm not losing weight. Help me. I wish you could. Her name is Reena and she says, "Super sexy." Oh, thank you. I appreciate it. Reena El Dari. So, she wants to know um basically how how she can lose uh weight in this program. And it's I mean, if you see the program, like I said, the way the program is designed, it's designed for you to to lose weight because we tapering them off no matter what. So, um but um okay, here's a good thing for this is for everyone too on this program. Phase four of this program, um the shred phase is like a crucial time. Phase four of the program is is the the phase that I designed like when I was trying to get ready for photo shoots or when I'm trying to get ready for um video shoots and things like that because it's only about a week long and it's high intense and all you have to do is give it your entire give it all you've got for one solid strong week. you're doing double cardio um intervals and intervals in steady state, still lifting strong, still lifting heavy, but you're doing it for one strong solid week. You do that for one solid week and you'll be you'll go from that's how I go from uh 7% body fat to 6% body fat to 5% body fat within a week because the way this program is designed. So phase four of this program, for those of you who are competitors or for those of you who are fitness models or for those of you who are going to get ready for a photo shoot, phase four of this program is that is that phase, that crucial phase that you want to look at. And that's the phase that you can do no matter what time of year you're in. So say for example, you have you get a phone call from a a magazine company and they say they want to shoot you um two weeks from now. Okay, no matter what program, no matter what phase you are in this program, you should go right away to phase four and do that for one solid week. that will help you burn extra uh excess body fat right away, really quickly, so you get ready for a photo shoot quickly, too. So, remember that everyone, phase four is that like that crucial photo shoot um physique stage that you want to get ready and get there really quickly, too. Okay. Okay. Next question. Um Nudu, he asked if he can have a cheat meal. I answered that before. And like I said, when it comes to cheat meals, you have to just make sure you plan them out a lot more. You don't want to just go out there and have your cheat meal right away. You want to um see what the program is. See how much carbs you're supposed to be taking in for the entire program and then um balance it out. If you know you want to have a cheat meal like on Saturday or Sunday, you cut out your carbs for the for the entire week and then you just book them book end them at the end of the day so you're not messing up your entire program. You're still getting the amount of calories you need. You're still getting the amount of macronutrients that you need and you're not losing out on it. But before before we get into cheat meals, the only time you should think about even having a cheat meal is if that if you've reached a part if you reach the physique where you feel that you're ready to have one. Okay? If you're a person that's just working out and um you're just starting this whole new program, I'm not going to recommend a cheat meal for you anywhere in this program at all. I mean, the meals in this program, I mean, you're not you're not restricting your meals ridiculously where you're just eating brown rice, chicken, and fish. I mean, that's ridiculous. Um, you're still having good meals and still having good foods. So, I wouldn't even recommend a cheat meal in this program to you for you until maybe towards the end of the program at the 8week mark where you're going to start the program again. You can have a cheat meal and start the program again. I mean, it's only eight weeks, but um you should only think about cheat meals if you really feel that you're you're tightening down and shredding down. Um I also sometimes I'll have my cheat meal or my quoteunquote refill meal if I'm um refeed meal when I'm kind of I feel like I'm flatter or my muscles are not as full then I can have it because I know that it's going to go back to growth and repair. So yeah, you can have a cheat meal. Make sure you bookend them, but you shouldn't be even be thinking about cheat meals unless you've reached a point where your body is actually going to absorb that and use it for the benefit of your body benefit of your growth. Okay. Um, next question from uh Derek Ferry. He wants to know, "When I supplement caffeine, I normally just drink some black tea." That's good. About 30 minutes before cardio. Uh, the pack says it's about 70 70 grams of 70 grams of caffeine milligrams. Wow. 70 grams. Is that enough? I I don't get super hyped, but I um still feel I need more awake. Well, I mean, it's black tea. Um, tea. The caffeine and tea is good. I mean, I would recommend you I know you probably don't I don't know if you drink coffee. Um, I didn't drink coffee for years until I heard the health benefits of it. Um, so a cup of coffee would probably be better than black tea for your caffeine as you say you need more energy or something like that. Uh, maybe just take your caffeine with aminos. But, uh, if you if you feel if you need a little bit more awake, I mean, it's morning time. I'm AI'm a morning person. I remember when I used to live with my uh back home with my sisters growing up, I would wake up singing. That's just who I am. I'm a morning person no matter what. But if you need more energy, I think 70 gram, I don't know if that's right number, 70 grand, maybe it's milligrams, but maybe you need a little bit more than that. Um try drinking black coffee. Maybe sipping on black coffee. Um that'll give you more energy. Or if you want take a higher stimulant, you know, fat burner out there. It'll probably spike it up a little bit more. You can do that, too, as well. So, all right. Uh, next question from Jamie Eaglestone. Eglestone, I'm sorry. Uh, what do you think about intraworkout protein shakes? Are they helping or hurting intraworkout protein shakes? You are you mean um when you say this, I'm I'm thinking you mean like a whey and casein protein that you take in between or are you talking about um BCAAs's intra workouts? cuz there are BCAAs, intra workouts that that let's make let's separate those. There are protein shakes and then there's BCAAs. Um, so when you're talking about intra-workout shake, hopefully I'm I'm I'm I'm hopefully you're talking about BCAAs because BCAAs are good. You should always take BCAAs during your workout because they're going to prime your body for nutrient absorption. Whey protein or anything like that while you're working out, I don't recommend that. And you ever see those those sayings where it says uh squat till you puke or things like that where people work out so hard that they puke. And I'll tell you the science behind that. The reason people puke while they're working out is because when you're lifting or you're exercising and you're doing strainous workouts, your body is trying to create more muscle function. It's trying to function a lot more. So when you have food inside your stomach, your body's also trying to uh digest it too. Your body can't do two things at once. can't try to create muscle function and break down nutrients at the same time. So, what it does, it gets it spews out the uh the food inside your stomach so it can lift efficiently. So, I would never recommend an intra-workout protein shake. That's why I even say you have to eat like an hour before so your body can process it a little bit. Um, I would just recommend you just taking regular BCAAs because if you're taking a protein shake while you're working out, your body is still going to try to break that down and still try to create muscle function. So, that's not going to be that good for you. So, BCA are better because they're primed for absorption. Uh, so stay away from protein shakes, uh, sixyear BCAAs. Okay. Um, next question. What is the progression? This is from Chad Roland. What is the progression uh to gain the strength needed to perform a handstand push-up? Um, that's a good question. It's a good question, Chad. Handstand push-ups. They may seem difficult in the beginning. First, I'm a little I'm a little different when it comes to like um handstand push-ups, muscle-ups, and all that stuff. When I see something, I can do it right away. That's just the way I've always been. So, I can see a handstand push-up, I can do it right away. Um, some people it takes a little more time, but when it comes to handstand push-ups, you have to focus a lot on your like your overhead presses and your your bench presses, more incline, more incline uh benching than flat bench because when you do incline, it focuses more on your front delts, you're pressing forward, too. So, overhead presses and uh incline benching should be something that helps you with your handstand push-ups. And then do handstand push-ups against the wall, too. I mean, you kick up against the wall, slowly go down, and then you fall down. The floor is going to be there. It's always going to be there to catch you. So, you don't have to worry about anything like that. But, um, exercises such as, uh, getting your strength up on your overhead presses, seated military press, um, incline bench, that's going to help you with your handstand push-ups. Okay, good question though, Chad. Uh, I have a question from Rahit Messi. He says, "Sometimes we get demotivated in the gym or just feel low in the gym. What should I do to be motivated when I work out?" That's a that's a really really really good question. Motivation is like our driving force in everything. I mean, even in even in our country today, I mean, the reason we're so advanced is because someone was motivated to push and prosper forward. When it comes to motivation, there's a couple things you can do is first what you're doing right now is what everyone's doing right now is they they follow like-minded individuals on social media. For example, if you follow people, fitness people on in on Instagram or Facebook, that's a great way to keep motivated because you look at their posts, you see what they're doing, it inspires you to do more. Or if you're on Body Space, like I'm on Body Space and I'm I'm always posting on Body Space for people to um to stay motivated too. you follow other people like that, people who are in the same boat as you, they can inspire you and push you more. But the thing about motivation in the gym is there are no we all have those times where we get to the gym and we just don't feel the energy to push. But you know what happens is once you do the first exercise, you finish the first exercise, your body starts to waken up. Your body starts to become alive, start to feel good. You start to feel good about it. You know what I mean? You start to feel better about it. You start to fight through it. So, even if you get to the gym, get to the gym and start to lift because once you leave, you're going to feel that much more excited. You're going to feel better that you did something than stayed home and did nothing. A little bit of a workout is going to be better than zero workout. Even if you're unmotivated, even if you're tired, even if you're exhausted, it's always better to get in there and push a little bit because you accomplished something. If you go throughout your entire day and you're having a horrible day, nothing is going right, it's raining, your car stopped, your rent is overdue, all the crap that goes through life. When you get to the gym, you can control that aspect of your life. You can control what happens to you. You can get you can control what happens in a weight. You can control how much you push. That part of your life should always be in control. At least you have some control. Okay? That should motivate you a little bit more to get there and do and do and get there and do what you want to as well. Okay? And also more thing, one more thing. Everyone that started this program, I'm sure you've all had a goal. You've all had a purpose. Your purpose is maybe to change your physique. Your purpose is to to become a fitness model. Whatever your purpose is, never hold off on that. Always remember that. I mean, I have pictures on my phone right now. If you look at my phone, let me show you a picture right now. If you can see right now, the background of my phone is the chiseled trainer. If you can see that. And the reason I have it there is because I want to remind myself the importance of this program, how it's going to change people's lives. So, every time I look at my phone, I say, "Wow, this chisel program is going to change people's lives." I got to make sure that I go to the gym and I do what I can to motivate and inspire people to change. Doing things like this is going to keep you motivated. You have to always keep your your inspiration where you can see it visibly. I keep it right here on my phone all the time. So, whatever your purpose is, whatever your motivation is, whatever your your initial driving force that got you excited about the gym, got you excited about fitness, you got to keep that in the front of your mind every single time. It should be it should be it should be in your in in your front of your mirror when you wake up in the morning. You say, "Man, okay, the reason I'm going to the gym today is because I want to look like this. The reason I'm the reason I'm working out so hard is because I want to be here. The reason I'm doing cardio is because I want to win this." Okay? And you have to keep that everywhere you look. That's going to keep you motivated and keep you inspired everywhere, every single moment of your life. All right? Good question, Ricky. Uh, stay motivated. I'm sure you can do that. Don't don't ever lose motivation. If you need motivation, go to other fitness people's pages. There's tons of them out there, especially all of our other bodybuilding.com athletes. Everyone is always so motivated. They're always willing to help you. So, stay around with like-minded individuals and we'll keep that motivation for you. Okay. Uh, next question. It says, uh, when you apply, Nick is from Nick Tibbitz. He said, when you apply this program to your life and repeat every eight weeks, do you mix up the phases? Jump from phase four to phase two, adjust rest days, blah blah blah. He wants to know essentially is this general structure. Okay, good question. Great question, Nick. Yeah, so like I said, this is a program that's for your rest of your life. So, at the end of the 8 weeks, you go back to phase one. And I don't usually I don't generally change the phases um per se, but there are moments where um for example, I want to do a phase three workout for dur during a phase one, like a phase three leg workout for a phase one cycle or something like that. Um it's okay to switch it up every once in a while. Just make sure it doesn't your phases don't switch ever every two weeks you can change them pretty much. So you can start again. Um it's only two weeks so your body changes. If you want to have the maximum grow growth you can do them this way. But I know sometimes we get excited about a certain phase or get excited about a certain workout. That's fine. You know just make sure that you're um you're not doing for too long because you don't want to hurt your process. You don't want to get monotonous. You don't want to lose your motivation. And just make sure you stick with it for two weeks and then you switch switch back to another portion of the phase. Okay. All right. Next question. Alvarez Hernandez. He was uh question is I was trying to find a comprehensive list of supplements we need to know for the video body.com planning. Maybe discounted podcast at least. That's a question. I mean there's always discounts of bodybu.com. You can check it out there. But um um but that's a good question. I mean there's there there's always sales of body.com. You can check them out there. Check out our page. Follow them. follow RSP's page. They always have sales, too, so you don't have to worry about that too much. All right, but uh guys, I'm gonna wrap it up now. I'm so glad everyone came on. There's tons of great questions and uh I really like discussing discussing this program. I'm so glad that so many people are enjoying it. You know, I there's tons of great feedback from it. And like I said, this is a chiseled program. It's designed to help you burn fat, put on lean muscle, but also do it year round. So at the end of the program, you can start it again and continue to see greater and greater and greater results. Fitness should always be linear. You should always be growing. You should always be adapting. You should always be getting better. And this program is designed to help you get better every single year. If you see the pictures from the chisel trainer from me from 2011 to now, it's consistent progress. Takes time. It's always fun, but it's progress. It's progress and progress. So at the end of the program, you start it again. You're going to get better and you're going to get better and you're going to get better. And that's what we are that's what we're about. That's what bodybuilding bodybuilding.com is about. It's always about becoming your best self every day. You have to become your best self. So this program is designed for you to continue to become your best self. All right. All right, guys. So that's the end of the Q&A here on uh.com. And um if you missed the Q&A here, if you have more questions, you can head over to RSP's Instagram page. I'll be doing a live Q&A over there at 400 p.m. Mountain Standard Time, 6 PM Eastern Standard Time. So, uh, thank you guys for joining me and, uh, I'll see you guys next time.