We were pretty active outside, but when it came to food, I would always choose the cookies or the brownies as a main course. Yeah, I love food. Food, eating food's like my favorite hobby. Growing up, I was born as a big baby. I was always pretty active, but I just ate way too much. I would ride my bike to school, which actually would help somewhat with uh all the food I ate. course. I would always get the dessert first and then my parents would tell me, you know, you have to eat your green beans or your vegetables. But I was a kid that would always take the green beans and sneak them under the table to the dog, but he would never eat it. So I'd be caught red-handed. And then at school, I would eat my first lunch and I would still be hungry, so I would always have to go back up and get a second one. I love food. Food, eating food is like my favorite hobby. It never bothered me as a kid or when I was younger. Uh I just didn't I didn't understand it at the time, you know? I didn't know anything about health or how it affected me at all. It was just normal to me. There were actually two big moments uh that made me really want to change. And one was when I went to get a new shirt and that extra large was simply just too tight. So my mother picked out a XXL for me to try and I just wasn't having it. I couldn't do it. The shirt looking at it was way too big and I just couldn't believe that was me. The other time was when I had to get a physical for football and the doctors almost didn't let me leave the office because I had the blood pressure of a six-year-old man. I was a sophomore in high school when the doctor had told me that. I had just glanced over at my mother like what do I do? You know, like I don't know what to say to the doctor. They wanted to put me on all kinds of blood pressure medication, which I just didn't want to do. I was too young. I just wanted to get up out of there because I knew that I was ready to make a change at that point. The last time I had weighed myself, I was 237 and I was around 20% body fat easily, if not more. When I looked in the mirror, I was just unhappy with myself. How I had let myself get so bad. The change I decided to make at first was to just get down to a healthy, manageable weight. I decided that I would make small steps, you know, and eventually that would lead into greater steps. So, I started small. I didn't want to rush into anything too fast. I might quit on myself if I try to make too big of a change at once and not be used to that style of life. It was not easy. It not only is it a physical thing, it's also a mental thing. The biggest mental struggles for me was honestly just not eating the desserts as often and just making smaller steps to get to where I wanted to be. The whole transformation progress was tough. Uh you hit sticking points, you hit walls, but you just have to keep at it. Just keep knowing like you're bettering yourself every day and eventually you will break through your plateaus and just become where you want. And once you get there, it's not going to be good enough where you're just going to want to keep getting better and better. Today, I'm sitting here at 176 lbs and probably around 9% body fat. I get addicted now when I see like how the body changes, you know? It's crazy. I never would have imagined myself looking like this in a million years. Through myself, through this journey, I've just realized how strong the mind can really be. You know, if you really want something, you will do it and you can do it. My goal now is to just maintain a healthy physique and just better myself every day. Uh I always strive for something. I don't settle for anything. What I would want somebody to take away from my story is that it is possible to make this change. uh you might not believe it at first, but when you get there and you see yourself and how you could do it, you'll believe in yourself that you can do it. At times, it always is in the back of my head. I mean, I'll forever be a fat kid. I just love food. Don't quit on yourself. Even if you maybe you might take a couple steps back here and there in your transformation, just put it aside and keep going and going and going and don't quit on yourself. It'll be worth it in the end.