What's up? Thank you for everybody tuning in. It's Sadiqzovic. We are in wonderful Boise, Idaho. Bodybuilder.com. You guys asked me to do a live workout. I'm here to do a live workout. I'm g train legs today. It was a long night last night. I didn't get in till about 1:00 a.m. But I'm ready to crush stuff. Just took my Nitroflex. You're going to see it's Nitroflex plus C. So, this is added creatine. One of the best creatines that you could possibly have. So, we're ready to rock. We're going to get a serious pump. If you guys have questions, just ask. I'll try to answer some questions in between my sets. And uh and that'll be it. So, this is like only my second time in this gym, so I got to get familiar with the machines. Let me know if you guys like my shaved legs. I hate hate hate to shave, man. I feel like anytime I shave, I feel like like a 12-year-old boy. So, what we're doing here is we're not lifting really heavy. We're just trying to warm up the knees. Um, I usually try to do two warm-up sets before I start going a little heavier. And we're not going to go super heavy today. I only had one meal. I got in late last night. haven't had too much time to hydrate, but I guarantee you we're going to have a sick workout. It's going to be more of a leg circ circuit leg circuit training than a real intense heavy leg day. But I'm a little disappointed. I'll be honest. I was promised that Steve Cook would be here. The handsome, handsome man. I love you, Steve. Oh man. Yeah, I remember bodybuilder.com was like the first website I ever ordered protein powder from a long time ago. I saved up every penny to buy like two tubs of 5B proteins and the deal was great. So, been a loyal supporter of bodybuild.com for many years. So, it's very surreal for me to be here um filming with you guys. All right. Question on YouTube. They say leg extensions are bad for your knees. Is this true? Um, anything is bad, you know. Anything could be bad if you do it incorrectly, you know. Um, is driving in a car at 100 miles per hour around a corner dangerous? Depends, you know, if you're doing it properly. You know, it's you just got to use caution. You know, you got to lift smart. You know, same thing. A race car driver, he knows what he's doing. He's not going to go around that corner with more weight than he could, you know, he could handle. So, everything in moderation. Work your way up. You got to learn how to crawl before you run. So, don't Look, I'm using 55 lbs. You know, I'm one of the best best competitors in the world. You know, placed top three in Olympia for the last four years in a row and I'm doing leg extensions with 55. That's one of the total weight. So, is it bad? No, but if I put it all the way down to 250, it might cause a little bit of damage. What is your favorite music to listen to when you work out? Somebody just asked me what my favorite music is. Uh, the reason I'm laughing is because I have such a weird playlist. So, I'm a big fan of Pandora. You know, this way I could just find new music all the time. Thumbs up, thumbs down. But I have everything from like Justin Bieber to Meek Mill to like stuff that like college girls be listening to like coffee house music about like breakups, you know, and then I go with some real like trap music like 21 Savage, you know. Um, so it all depends on what my mood is, you know. But it's really important to cultivate a mood when you're training cuz training is very painful. So, if you could distract yourself or put yourself in a state, you can get through the workout a lot easier. You know, we've all been on cardio and we all been 20, 30 minutes deep into cardio and then that one song comes on, you're just like on fire. You're like, you know, got another 10 minutes left. Let's do this. So, music is very important. Let me know if you guys are feeling my Jordans. I figured I needed a new pair. I'd like to get a new pair of sneakers just for good luck whenever I compete or do photo shoots. So, been getting a little bit of hate on Instagram, man. Guys, oh, those aren't retros, man. Those aren't retros. Only one through 12s, you haters. How long have you been with GAT supplements? GAT. Oh man, let me first start by saying that GAT products I've been using since I've been in college. And so seven or eight years I've been using GAT products, you know, and uh and the first contact with GAT was over three years ago and they were looking for entrylevel men's physique competitor and I got so like I got so like offended. I'm like entrylevel physique competitor? Don't they know who I am? I'm Sadi, man. and I'm like the top in the world. So, it was so funny cuz I wasn't even going to respond back and uh I have, you know, and GAT is, man, I could never be with a company that I don't like their products, you know. So, number one, products are great, but number two, I really fell in love with the people. Like, I love I love traveling with the team, you know, and uh you know, the people that I work for are now, you know, some of my closest friends and family. So, I speak to the VP of the company more than I speak to like my best friends, you know. So, it's really cool. I love GAT and they're very cool. You know, they help me formulate some products, you know, Nitroflex. I've been adding my own creatine to my own Nitrlex for years, man. I've always wanted a Nitroflex with creatine because why am I going to buy two products? Like, why do I have to open up two separate containers, purchase two different products, and mix them together myself? Why don't you guys just put them together and package them? You know, when I asked them for a stim-free pre-workout, boom, they delivered. You know, I was training two or three times a day. I didn't want to be all up at night, you know, just sweating in my bed and not sleeping. So, the stimree pre-workout, the PMP, the night flex creatine. These are just some some small things that they've done for me. Um, we were even discussing a new product today, you know. So, so Gat's a great brand. So if you guys notice, I'm not simply just going through the motion. I'm contracting at the top and in my mind I'm pretending that I'm on stage flexing my quads to drive more blood into it. So try to hold it at the top for one second. Don't lock out your knees completely, but create that tension in the quad. Keep that blood there for a quick second before you release. And if you even go two or three seconds up, two or three seconds down, it's even more effective. By the way, so hard for me not to curse. Like in between my sets, I'm always like sword, fbomb. I'm like hunch over like I'm sure I'm going to let a few fb bombs out by accident. I think it's a New York thing. It's an East Coast thing, man. We all curse. It's a real cute really cute cup holder. Great idea. So, one important tip for you guys. I've been doing tons of traveling, um, going to different gyms. Every gym has different equipment. This hack squat I've never used before. Um, so it's important when using new equipment to start light. Start lighter than you think you need to go just to get the feel because the angles, the sled angles, the different machines, different grips, different foot position, it all matters, you know. So, if you get one injury, we train so hard. We train so hard to make a little bit of progress that if you get one injury, it sets you back one or two weeks. You know, you just take a mental like, you know, a step backwards. So, really take your time when you're new gym. Don't try to break records. When you're using new equipment, don't try to break records. You want to train smart and effective, man. My legs are super You guys super smooth right now. See, new machine, guys. So, what I'm going to try to do is I'm going to try to get a little lower than this. I need a little more contraction at the bottom. So, let's see if we could maneuver. I don't know what this does. Yeah. Any questions? All right. Well, I guess that's as good as going to get for now. If you guys have any questions, just ask away while I work out. Catch my breath. this year haven't uh what am I bringing to Olympia this year that I haven't br a lot of people don't know I only trained five months for that show I didn't have an offseason so pretty much I went from a men's physique guy that was super soft and overweight you know I was just enjoying my offseason too much and what I had to do was just crash diet and just look the best I could and try to get rid of all the fat and And in return, what do we have? We had a really good physique last year, but we didn't have the size. I was extremely underweight compared to my competitors in my high class. So, they had 15 pounds of muscle on me. So, what do we do this year? We had a incredible offseason. We gained almost 20 pounds of muscle in one year. Um, I will not be the smallest guy on stage. I'll be one of the biggest guys on stage. Better posing, uh, better package, better legs, better back. The number one critique I had last year was that I needed more back thickness. This year we worked very diligently training back twice a week. Um my back came up tons. Conditioning will be better. Um and I'm bringing the winning physique. You know, if everything goes my way, you know, as long as nothing happens last minute, I'm very confident with the package I'm bringing. Uh, third place was great, but you know, have enough like runner-up finishes. I have enough third place trophies. Got one for number one. You know, I don't have any more room in my house for another silver or bronze medal. There is no more. No more. So, let's get it set in. Yeah, there's a big misconception that you're not supposed to go below parallel when you're squatting. I don't believe it. You know, as long as you controlling the weight and the weight's not controlling you, then you could go below parallel. I actually wish I could go lower than this. It's not allowing me. And uh I'm sure there's somebody on the internet right now. I was like, "Dude, just lift that lever, bro, or twist this red thing. This yellow thing, Mark, can you figure this out? How do I go lower?" Mark's a trained professional. Train professional. needs to know what needs more development by trying uh the mirror you know it's the mirror you know as a bodybuilder everything is image it's not performance so how do you gauge you know what you need you know do I need more back do I need more legs you just gauge it based upon how and what you see in the mirror um but also if you go through my phone have pictures of myself every day for years and years and years and years. So if there's any hesitation or doubt in my head, I go straight to the pictures cuz pictures and videos, they don't lie. I could see what I looked like last year on July 27th and compare it to today at July 27th and put them together and I can see exactly what's going on. I got smaller here. I got bigger here, holding more fat. I'm drier. I'm harder. I'm rounder. So just use your tools. The scale is a tool. Pictures, videos are a tool, you know, so use it. How often are you doing cardio? I try to do cardio six days a week. Uh the only day I don't do cardio is on heavy leg days. I mean, the legs are already so taxed from cardio. So, what do my cardios consist of? Usually 30 minutes a day, five to six times a week. But now, as we get closer to the show, I'm doing 15 minutes post-workout hit cardio on the spin bike, which I will show you guys later. Um, so what I do on a spin bike is 15 minutes intense, 45 second cool down, continue. So it really gets heart rate up. Then I come back at night before my last meal, do 30 to 40 minutes of steady state cardio. What are the differences between your rep ranges when you're getting ready for a show off? Well, rep ranges are usually the same. So what I do is I periodize my workouts. Uh some days or rather some weeks or months I'll go with low reps and I'll do four weeks where I can do high reps. Then I go back to four weeks where I go do low reps. So I go anywhere between 10 and 30 depending on what month I'm in or what part of the prep I am. But the last month before a show, I try to keep it all uh low reps, heavy weight, low reps to keep the muscle full and hard. What's your favorite car? My favorite car ever is the Ferrari F50. Uh why? Because I had poster of it when I was a little boy and I would look at that poster every night and be like, "Damn, that's a hot automobile." Are there cars that are faster? Yeah. Are there cars that are better nowadays that handle better? Yeah. you know, but just for some reason, it just creates a feeling and a moment and a memory in my head that I'm really I really like. Mark, were we able to figure out or no? Doesn't go any lower. All right, guys. Like I said, like I said, you're in a new gym. You got to work. You got to improvise. Work on the spot. So, something's not feeling right. It wasn't feeling right with my knees. I couldn't get it to go lower. So, we're going to switch machines. We'll go to leg press. You want to know what? What's in my shaker? So, what's in my shaker? I already drank my Nitroflex. Had my creatine, my Nitroflex already. Nitroflex plus C. So what's in my shaker is one scoop of glutamine, one scoop of carbine, one scoop of amino GT and agmatine. So kind of replenishes and rebuilds my muscle as I'm breaking it down. Also better pumps, better contraction, better blood flow, better recovery. What else you need to know? And it tastes good. One funny thing I get is like I'll carry around a gallon and I'll put like some crystal light or branch chain aminos in it and people like what is that? I'm like this this the secret. You don't even need to work out. You just drink this stuff all day. So they really think that I have some kind of magical potion, you know. And uh the great thing about supplements is wow, this machine feels great. The great thing about supplements is they give you the edge, man. You know, so if you could get stronger and recover quicker, and if you could afford to take supplements, then do it. Is it a necessity? No. But is having a Ferrari or a Porsche in your driveway a necessity? Absolutely not. You don't need a Ferrari or Porsche, but you know what? If you can afford to, and if it makes you happy, then take it and get one. Same thing like supplements. So guys, notice my feet positioning. Oh, you know, I tend to see a lot of guys with like stringy legs, and what I notice with guys with stringy legs is their feet are all the way over here, shoulder width. So, when my feet are wide, shoulder width apart or further, I'm actually hitting the inside of the quad. And in reality, the outer quad, the quad sweep is what gives you that illusion of having really big legs. So, how do we correct that? Put your feet closer. Okay, you don't want them super close where they're touching because it's a little uncomfortable, but this is usually a good place for me. And you're just going to feel just your quad sweep exploding and widening as you do your presses. So, definitely if you guys aren't making this adjustment, if you need more outer quad sweep, feet close on almost everything you do. And we need more weight. cuz you don't build muscle with with light weight. You build muscle with heavy weight. What's your favorite body part to work out? My favorite body part, you know, it's uh my favorite body part used to be chest, but I've been training almost every day for like 12 years now. So now my favorite body parts are my weak body parts. So like this year I really fell in love with back training. really fell in love with it. Um, so it's my favorite because my goal is always to improve. I always want to be better than I was last year. I always want to improve my weaknesses. So, your worst body parts quickly become your favorite body parts. And you know what? Training is fun and it can be fun, you know, but you also have to challenge yourself because what's more fun than training is training hard but seeing the results and going to the gym the next week and you know like if you're doing three plates on leg press, now I'm up to four plates. Hey, guess what? Now my jeans don't fit. This is great. I got to I can't wear skinny jeans no more, you know? So, or if you're wearing extra large shirt and now you got to go to 2X. Feels great. Or the opposite. If you want to lose weight, you go from an extra large shirt to a large shirt or you get a smaller waistline. So that's that's the wonderful thing about weight training, you know, and everyone's got their own goals and it's goal specific. Hey Mark, can you help me uh get some content on my phone periodically? Yeah. So, my phone's all the way back there. Just anything that looks cool. That's Mark. That's my best bud. So, you guys might know him. You see him on my Instagram a lot. I call him the silver fox. You got to follow him on Instagram. It's postman life. And he hates when I do this because now he's got to go through all his notifications and accept or reject you guys. So, postman life on Instagram. Find this guy. Tell him Tell him how handsome he is. An hour of his life. There we go. Yeah. What are your social handles? People are asking. My social handle is just my first and last name. Sadik Hadzovic S A D I K H A D Z O V I C. So that's everywhere. Instagram, Facebook, uh YouTube, all that good stuff. Uh match.com. Yeah, match.com. It's actually funny because I had like ex-girlfriend contact me like six months ago and she's like, "Hey, like I know this is not you because it says you have a twin brother and your favorite food is pizza bagels." And I'm like, "Yo, I definitely don't eat pizza bagels. I wish I ate pizza bagels and ate you like this." But now I'm wondering how many how many like dates has that guy went on using my pictures? Like come on, man. That's serious catfish. So a lot of fans will see that guy too and they'll be like, "Hey, I don't think this is you." So yeah, if you see a guy, and his name is Mark with a C, M A RC, he'd even use the name Sadique, but he's using my pictures. So if you see a guy a Mark with a C who likes pizza bagels, who has a twin brother and has a physique like an action hero, listen, just block this guy or like reject his comments. You guys are probably like, "Nah, it's really Sadique. He's just messing with you." So yeah, I'm not on match.com. I'm on Craigslist. That's where I get a majority of my dates on Craigslist. It's a joke. Yeah. So, when I'm home, like there's no time to like joke around between my sets. Uh have like two or three serious training partners. Man, we just killing it every day, man. I cannot believe like, knock on wood, Wood, Incredible Prep, Injuryfree, I'm eating. I was just telling my friend, I've been eating 700 grams of carbs for four days in a row when I was losing weight. And then I went to 1,000 grams of carbs. I'm still losing weight. Every morning I take pictures for my coach and uh it's just constant improvement, you know, and uh the switch to classic physique has really allowed my body to grow at a rapid pace. You know, I was losing 30 to 40 pounds between every show and men's physique that my body stopped responding as well. So, listen guys, if you're not seeing results, if you're not responding as well as you should, you got to start reconsidering some things. It's either you're not sleeping enough, you're not eating enough, or you're not resting enough. Weight training and bodybuilding is super simple, but you guys, I don't want to say you guys, but some people on the internet, they want to complicate it. They want the magical formula. How many reps? How many sets? How many how many macros? And in reality, you got to focus on the basics. Lift heavy, rest a lot, and eat a high protein diet. It's that simple. That's how you build muscle. But everyone wants results now. I've been weight training for 12 years, man. 12 years of my life. I've been in the gym every day, you know. Maybe I miss like a handful of days a year, you know, but took me 12 years. So, just realize, you know, it's slow and steady. You'll get to where you need to be. You're not going to get there overnight. Serious question. Do you train your neck? No. I used to be obsessed with training my neck. I really have because I grew up really skinny. Uh when I was 18 years old, the reason I got into bodybuilding, I was very insecure. cuz I was very skinny. And uh with men and women, women they always want to get like smaller and men they can never be big enough. So I used to be very insecure about how skinny I was and I always felt like my wrist, you know, my neck, like these body parts are very skinny. So YouTube like different neck exercises. Never seen any any real growth in my neck. the girth, but uh eventually it just you just get over it, you know. So, but I think major core movements like deadlift, squat, uh you know, those actually target little muscles that you know may not be targeted directly. So, indirectly you could have some nice growth, you know, in these strange body parts just by doing heavy compound movements. Give me 15 seconds here. Make sure we post everyone watch. What's up everybody? Sadikadzovic right now. Facebook live bodybuilder.com. You'll see my leg training. It's happening live. Awesome. I had to put you guys in a video. He put me on the spot. So, I think I'm going to do one more set on a leg press and then we'll move on to another quad movement. We'll do two hamstring movements, maybe some calves, but really I just feel like doing some cardio. So, I'm going to do like 15 minutes of hit on the spin bike where you guys can ask me questions at the end, too. And uh I'll be breathing heavy into the mic like so. It's pretty sexy. Pretty sexy. All right. Guys, remember, control the weight. Don't let the weight control you. Control it. Contract the muscle. Really wish I could do some deadlifts. Maybe we'll do some deadlifts. You guys could check out the content on a later date. Who's your biggest inspiration? My biggest inspiration, you guys are probably thinking, I'm going to say somebody like Ronnie Coleman or Jay Cutler. It's my mom. My mom is the biggest inspiration. Why? Because she never complains. She raised four children. Uh, we grew up without a father, no help, no financial help. And she would work two or three jobs, never complain a day in her life, always cook for us, always come home, make sure it's clean, always take care of us. We didn't have a lot of money growing up. But she would come home some days at 2 a.m. in the morning, wake up at 6:00 a.m., go back to work, pick us up from school, drop us off, go back to work. So, you know, when I'm complaining about traveling and doing two cardio sessions a day in a weight training session, it's nothing. It's nothing compared to that. You know, she didn't know English. She didn't have any parents. She didn't have any friends in this country. So, I'm inspired by people like that. Everyday people, you know, bodybuilders are everyday people, too. But, you know, they be complaining about eating fish and asparagus. Come on, man. Be happy that you have fish and asparagus. Some people don't even have fresh food. They don't even have clean drinking water. So instead of focusing on what you don't have, focus on all the wonderful things you do have. Wake up every morning, make a list of two or three things that you're grateful for. You know, what am I grateful for today? Had a safe flight last night. I woke up. I'm traveling in Boise. I'm at Bodybuilder.com. I have hundreds of thousands of fans. You know, I have a few friends, some family that love me. That's enough. You know, I don't need the Mr. Mr. Olympia title. I'm going to get the Mr. Olympia title, but I don't need it. I have everything I need inside me. I'm going to do one more quad movement. So, I'm just trying to familiarize myself with the gym. Looking for one more quad movement to finish it off. I don't know what this is. This looks like some kind of bicep preacher curl. Wow. It's a really fancy preacher curl. Oh yeah, the hoist. Oh man, you used it yesterday. I use a tricep. I'm ready to go. Three plates both sides of triceps. The silver fox. You got to see this guy do pull-ups. I've never seen a guy do pull-ups like the way the silver fox does pull-ups. Postman life. So, I like to I like to do different variations of workouts. So, last week I did behind the neck squats. So, what I want to do is I want to keep my body guessing. So this week I'm going to do front squats, which is in the front of you opposed to behind you. Targets different things, similar movement, hits the same body part, but just a little differently. What country did your family? My family came from former Yugoslavia and they came here and uh no money, you know, no education. Um, and like I said previously, like that makes me so fortunate for what I had, you know, to be able to, you know, finish high school and go to college and to have food, you know, and uh, makes me super fortunate. That's where it gets my work ethic. That's exactly where I get my work ethic. And, you know, if I could just make my parents proud, you know, that's that's my main goal. You know, I'm going to do the same for my kids, and I hope my kids do the same for me one day. So, I'm going to start off with just the barbell, guys. No need to put any weight on right now. Get the feel the movement, you know. So, I put my feet a little bit further than shoulder width. And my toes are pointed out slightly. These are pointed forward. I want them out a little a little bit. So, what we're going to do is contract our core, tighten up our core. We're going to keep good posture and we're going to slowly descend and we're going to contract on the way up. Now, there's many different ways to hold the bar. I mean, you see some people, they go overhand, they cross over. me, I don't have the same range of motion, so I just like to keep my thumbs on it. See other people, they use no hands. So, whatever is more comfortable for you. Main thing is keep good posture. What did you study? What did I study in college? Great question. A lot of you guys, a lot of you guys don't know that I uh have a degree in graphic design. I'm a great illustrator, graphic artist. I used to be able to do a whole entire website of HTML code. Um then I kind of just got sick of just, you know, being behind a computer. So what I did was I switched to a more diverse major and I studied in communications. So, communications pretty much is the way you communicate and talk with people. And that's a great major for anybody because every almost every single job requires you to communicate whether it's with your boss, whether it's with the people, with your fans, in my instance, public speaking. And at the time, I didn't know how this was going to, you know, pan out in my life. But, you know, I do travel the world and give seminars and speeches and I am behind a camera talking to fans and they're able to receive what I'm saying in a positive way and they get inspired by me and that's because, you know, my degree in communications, I learned how to talk. But I also minored in girls, studied girls. So, Mark said it under his breath. He's like, "What do you study in college?" Girls. Um, I did, you know, but growing up in high school, I was very shy. Like I said, I was very insecure. I hated the way I look. Um, and I didn't even have the confidence to approach a woman, you know, or to speak to another man or make eye contact with another man. I didn't like the way I looked. Constantly my head down, my hands in my pocket, bad posture, bad body language, you know, very shy. And uh, I didn't want to be a bodybuilder. I never wanted to be a competitive bodybuilder. I just wanted to feel comfortable in my skin. And I wanted to change my body because I needed to change in order to be successful in what I did. And that's successful in my relationship, successful in my family, success in bodybuilding. So it's not an egotistical thing. You know, everybody thinks bodybuilders are very bodybuilders are very like into themselves and very vain and look at me. I'm going to take off my shirt and take a picture in front of the mirror. I'm post this video of myself. And we're not posting a video or a picture to say, "Hey, look how great I am. Look at my perfect six-pack." We're posting it just because we love what we do and we just want to inspire people to be more confident and we like to see our changes in our bodies. Nine out of 10 guys when we look in that mirror, we still see like the skinny teenager looking back at us or the overweight person looking back at us or the non-athletic person or the unhealthy person, you know? So, it's always just a battle with yourself. You want to be better than yourself. And when I look in the mirror, I see what I could be. I see the future in me. I see the Sadi from 10 years from now. The Sadi with a few Mr. Olympia titles. The Sadik that has 10 more pounds of muscle or that's a little leaner, a little healthier, or is more flexible with his diet. So, that's what I hope to achieve. And I'm always trying to beat my future self. So, it's not about me me. Look at me. Look how great I am. Look at my six-pack. It's about how can I improve on what I have? How could I be more healthier? How could I be faster? How could I be stronger? So that's what it is. So don't get it twisted. A lot of you guys are meattheads, but I ain't ain't a meithead. And a lot of you guys watching a meattheads either. We're just trying to approve. It's actually a pretty good weight, but I'm going to go heavier. Bracelet. These bracelets. All right. So I got AI got an issue and a lot of guys you can relate to this. A lot of women be taking our sweatshirts or bracelets or t-shirts and leaving us with none. So what I had to do, I had to go to the mall. I had to buy myself some new bracelets cuz the bracelet that I really loved is now somewhere. And uh I just like to have something on my wrist when I work out. There's no there's no energy or no purpose or no rhyme or reason to what I'm wearing. Uh I just think it looks cool. And uh what was that movie? There was a movie where I don't remember the movie. Maybe you guys can help me. But it was I think it was one restaurant where they're wearing pieces of flare. I think it was Office Space. And this is just my pieces of flare, you know? It's all it is. There's nothing nothing special about these bracelets. You want another plate? Yeah. Awesome. So, I think this will be my last quad movement, you know, and uh I'm actually enjoying this because this is a slower pace than I usually train. So, it's really cool. Yeah. Yeah. My coach ain't yelling at me. He likes to call me and get names. Oh man. Mark, you think you could hook me up with a video of this last set? Yeah. See, uh, nowadays like social media, I get a lot of questions about, you know, how to get sponsored and how to make a living doing what you love. And how do you make a living doing what you love? um in this particular field is having a wide reach, being able to impact people, being able to inspire people, and there's only so little you could do. I live in Long Island, New York, and if I only see the people, the same hundred people in my gym every single day, I'm only inspiring the same hundred people. But if I could take my phone, I could record a video and I could post it and I could reach somebody in China the same time I reach someone in Brazil and I reach someone in Brazil the same time I reach somebody in Ireland or in California. Now instead of having a 100 people reach of the people who could only physically see me in the flesh, now I could reach hundreds of thousands of people like this and especially if it's a cool video and then it goes viral, you know. So the way to make a living, do what you love is number one, be passionate about it. Number two is build your reach, you know, whether that be social media, you know, websites, YouTube, Facebook, all these things are free, you know, so why not utilize it? So, that really is, you know, that's a big question I get. How how did you become a professional bodybuilder? How do you make a living doing what you love? And people, they really just want to be happy and do what they love because when you're sitting on the couch, you're not fulfilled. You know, when you're all working in an office doing something mindless, you're not being filled either. You know, do what you love, inspire people, and motivate people to do what they love. And it'll come back to you. It'll come back to you 10fold. Maybe not immediately, but eventually. So, do the work. All right. So, I'm only going to go for like 10 reps. I could do more weight. Somebody out there is going to be hating like, "Dude, it's only two plates." But I'm doing it. Woo! Wow! Whoa! Remember to breathe. Breathe. Yeah. So, that's it. We're going to do three for quads. Now, we're going to do two for hamstrings. So, we're probably going to use like the leg curl, maybe some stiff leg deadlifts. And then, like I said, we're going to do a little cardio after we train. continue creating that thermogenesis in the body. Keep the body hot, promote fat loss, probably sweating. Um, probably breathing into the mic really heavy using my sexy voice. But, uh, guys at home, just reckrack your stuff. I'm going to leave that there for now, but I'll reckrack it later. Wow. Connor Floyd. Man, you know how many heated arguments I've gotten with at the barberh shop about this? I can't believe that some people Listen, it's a fight and anything can happen. Anything can happen in a fight. But listen, man, Floyd Mayweather is going to win. You know, it's like it's like I've never jumped inside a swimming pool before. But yet I'm going to try to do a lap around Michael Phelps. You're talking about the best guy in the world, you know? So, but anything could happen. Anything could happen. Only takes one punch, but man, you know, it's But yeah, so the cool thing about being Boise is it's so close to California. So, I'm a big fight fan. Um, you know, Gat Gat Gat has set a lot of trends like in the industry and one trend that they started, they started getting, you know, people different sports. So, we recently signed Jon Jones and I've been able and fortunate enough to become very good friends with Jon Jones and he's fighting this weekend. So, it's going to be so great to be there to support him. He's a great athlete. Um, a lot of stuff has happened in the media and the press and there's a lot of bad stigma about him, but he is not a bad guy and he's one of the best, most talented fighters in the world and I'm so happy I could be there for him this weekend. So, any UFC fans out there, Jon Jones or Daniel Cormier, both great fighters, but obviously I got to support my man It tastes so good. So, let's talk about some cool flavors right now since I'm trying to catch my breath. I'm not being the sales guy. I'm not a salesish type of guy at all. But, uh, man, Cotton Candy Nitroflex is incredible. The Nitrlex Swiss creatine. So, you can only get the cotton candy flavor and that plus plus creatine, which is available now on bodybuild.com. Um, but I'm telling you, we also make like incredible uh mojito flavor amino GT. So, Amino GT is a branch chain amino acid and has some uh caffeine in it. Incredible flavor. Mix that with the orange carbine. Sick, sick, sick, sick. I wish I could drink that like with my dinner. Like, it's incredible. You got a customer service reps. Hey, what's up, brother? How are you, bro? I like that beard. Thank you. I'm planning on competing this November, but the old over 40 class. Great. So, awesome. I think I How old you? 40. Right at it. I just turned 30, dude. Yeah, man. But, um, good, man. You look young, dude. About six or seven% body fat right now. Yeah. How many weeks out? Um, enough. Enough. Basically, I'm trying to Yeah, I can still Okay, so you could decide and keep the same way my metabolism works. Yeah. So, I know I like out of shape. My normal thing is martial arts and great personal training here. Hell yeah. Big fan of watching you. Hell yeah, dude. Great. Frank Zane. Oh, cool. Yeah, man. Frank's a great guy, man. Yeah, Frank's a great guy. probably my my main inspiration since his body was under 200 lb, perfect physique, everything was aesthetic and proportionate for him. Since you mentioned Frank Zay, I'm going to tell you guys a cool story. And since we're on uh Facebook Live, I'm going to tell you a cool story. Like, so I joined a gym like 12 years ago with a little skinny guy, you know, a little kid, you know, no confidence walking around. And I go to the front desk and the guy behind the front desk, you know, is like, "Hey, man, you got like a real like like real Zane physique." I was like, "That's a weird thing to say. What the hell does Zane physique mean?" You know? And then one week later, like it was like two floors, you know? So, I'm in the basement. on training and I'm doing some like barbell rows and one guy comes up to me. He's like, "Hey man, like you look like Frank Zayn." I was like, "Ah, cool. Thank you, bro. I never met him. I don't know, you know, what time does he come? Does he come in the evening?" Cuz I usually train in the morning, you know, couple weeks later, you know, for those that don't know is Frank Zayn is like uh three time Mr. Olympia, you know, it's a big deal, you know. So, incredible physique. Some people say he has best physique in the world. And then a couple weeks later, hey man, real Frank Zayn, like, yo, Frank Zayn 2.0, Frank saying this, Frank saying that. It wasn't until three or four years later, because I'm not into bodybuilding. I just wanted to get big. So, you know, just to be confident. So, it was three or four years later that I'm stumbling across like the word the name Frank Zayn on the internet. I'm like, "Oh, dude, this guy does look like me." So, I thought this guy was like he lived in my town, you know? I thought this guy was like a member in my gym, you know? So, it's so crazy that like for like 12 years people have been comparing me to this guy and you know and now I'm on the Mr. Olympia stage, you know, and I'm right on his coattails achieving many of the same things that he's achieved. So, it's so incredible, you know, and here I am. I'm just like, I want to gain five pounds of muscle, you know? So, it's cool picture with you guys. Awesome. Awesome, dude. Thank you so much. Hey, uh I'll be here tomorrow, too. We'll catch up. I'll be upstairs. You upstairs or downstairs? Be downstairs. Downstairs. I know. They keep you guys locked up down there, dude. Yo, over here at bodybuild.com. They like knock them up. We have different levels to this, man. I'm moving upstairs. Yeah. Yeah, we'll move up. We'll give you to an executive suite. Got my master's degree. Great. Congratulations, bro. That's incredible, dude. Hey, I'll see you later. Awesome, brother. God bless you, man. Cool. Bandana just because I always wear hats, by the way. All right, guys. So, last year on Mr. Olympia stage, we had a question in the beginning of our Facebook live about what are we bringing differently to the stage this year? And last year, I've received so much negative like comments on the internet. I received more positive than negative, but obviously I'm more popular now, so I'm seeing a lot of negative ones. they tend to stand out more and a lot of people were criticizing my hamstring development. So, we really been hammering the hamstrings and the way you have to train your hamstrings is similar to a bicep. You know, when you have that bicep peak and that top contraction where it feels like this is going to rip out of the skin, that's the same movement and the same contraction you want to feel when you're uh contracting your hamstrings. So, as I go down, I'm going to control and I'm going to squeeze. I'm going to flex for a second and that's really going to drive the blood into the hamstring. So the hamstring is very similar to the bicep in that aspect. Okay, it's not a fast jerky movement. The slow contract and controlled movement. And I've been saying the word control so often because really it's the effectiveness of the exercise. Okay, bro. Don't embarrass me on Facebook Live, man. Anybody going to ask me about my zodiac symbol? They asked about your haircut. You asking my haircut? Yeah. Like, are you going to get a new haircut for Olympian? I don't think so. I don't think so, man. I used to have long hair, but uh I think my long hair days are behind me, you know? I'm done. I'm 30. Need long hair. How many calories do you eat to maintain your body? Um, I haven't measured in a while, but I remember my magical number was between 42 and 43 uh,000. Um, I mean, sorry, 4,200 43,000 4,300. So, 4,200 and uh, but lately my body has been on fire. So, I'm just burning through like any calories I'm consuming, you know, whether it be fats, carbohydrates, protein, burning through my system. So, I think it's a little higher. It might be up to 5,000, though. Especially with the output that I'm doing, you know, with the cardio and the training. Someone asked, "What's your zodiac sign?" Well, I thought you would never ask. Thank you. Well, I am the twin. So, I'm the Gemini. So, but anytime somebody asks like if you're, you know, Geminis have a bad stigma, you know, people like, "Oh, you're Gemini." But if you want to like make people laugh, you just be like, "My my sign is is a dollar sign." And they look at you funny and they start laughing and giggling. So, it's a good way. But women get really hesitant when you say you're a Gemini because they think you're moody. And I'm super moody. Especially like when I'm dieting, man. I go through my stages, man. And the thing about like, you know, people that diet, you know, if you're trying to like improve your physique, lose weight, gain muscle, compete for a show, look good for the beach, you have to remind yourself when you're feeling down and moody, and you can't take it out on other people cuz you chose this. This is your goal. This is your life. You chose this, you know? So, just understand and recognize the feeling. You know what? I'm feeling irritable because I'm hungry, not because I'm an irritable person. You know, I'm being moody because I'm overtraining, not because I'm a moody person. So, just remind yourself of who you are and what you're about. And sometimes it's better just to, you know, remain silent and keep your mouth closed instead of saying the wrong thing. So, that's a tip for all you people that are having issues with your diet. What's your sleep schedule like? my sleep schedule. Um, with the exception of last night because I was traveling, what I do is I get eight hours of straight sleep. Eight straight hours of sleep. I wake up, I eat breakfast, and then I get a 2-hour nap. And then I eat my meal too, and then I get 45minute nap. So, I have lots of sleep. And it wasn't always that way. I've earned the privilege and the opportunity to do this full-time where I could commit myself 100% to doing this, you know, this is my career. Uh, I don't have any children yet, you know, so really, I'm just putting all my eggs in this basket and doing what's necessary. And like I said before, what's necessary to stimulate muscle growth, recovery, and rest, which includes sleep, high protein diet, you have to lift heavy. So that is my goal. That's what I've been doing for the last year. But, you know, if I had, you know, a wife and children and stuff and, you know, a mortgage that I couldn't afford, then obviously we have to do what we have to do, you know, because those are priorities. You know, put food on table and support your family and take care of your kids. You're going to miss out on sleep. You know, you're going to miss some meals. You're going to miss some workouts. But it's a fair trade because those are life goals. You know, life goals. I don't like this machine. Like I said in the beginning of the workout, like if you're not feeling the machine, if you're not feeling contraction or the movement, just stop. You know, save those calories and that energy and do something else. So, we're going to go to stiff leg deadlifts. Now, these these could be done with many different things. Um, I'll show you today. I will show you. I feel like doing barbell today, but you could also perform them with dumbbells, kettle bells, resistant bands, or even the pulley machine. So, they could be done many different ways, but today we're going to do barbell. Grab my special potion. So, anybody out there, um, it's going to be in Las Vegas in September. Um, the pinnacle of bodybuilding, the Super Bowl of bodybuilding is something called the Mr. Olympia. You may have heard of it. Um, Arnold Schwarzenegger won the Mr. Olympia six years in a row. Um, I mean, not six years in a row, six years and before he went into acting and eventually politics and all the other great stuff. And, uh, so in September, we're seven and a half weeks out of the Mr. Olympia. And although I'm competing, I will be at the GAT supplement stand with my teammates. Um, stop by. You know, very personable with my fans. Um, I love talking to my fans and uh, so if you're there, stop by, man. You know, say hi. Let me know how you like the, you know, the broadcast live. And, uh, wow. No other brand. Four athletes in Mr. Olympia. So, it's pretty cool. Um, we really, you know, GAT has a lot of pride in the team, you know, so they're athlete driven company, you know, and, you know, they stand behind their athletes and they allow me to make a living doing what I do. And man, you know, like I got goosebumps just saying that, you know, because, you know, all these jobs that I had, you know, uh, when I was in college, you know, what did I do? I worked two jobs and I went to college. So what I did was I used to work at BMW and I used to clean cars and you know New York gets pretty cold so I would clean the cars outside, you know, and get paid very little money. And uh I also worked at a movie movie theater, sweeping the floors, ripping the tickets. Um then eventually I just started getting more serious into bodybuilding and you know I wanted to see you know muscle growth and you know the majority of my money was going to food and supplements. So, I was like, you know what? If I get a job at a supplement store where they sell protein powders and vitamins and pills and energy drinks, then I could save like 20% on what I'm buying. So, then I worked at supplement store and I would do my, you know, my homework and, you know, my essays and whatever I had to do like when it was slow in the store. So, fortunately, my friend Adam, he owned a store. He allowed me to do, you know, my classwork with no issues. So, you know, I used to spend like $300 a month on supplements, you know, and that's normal, you know. So, if you guys are on a budget, you know, like I said, supplements are not a necessity. They're a luxury, but it's a really great luxury to have because it allows you to reach your goal quicker. So, if I were to pick three, I get this question a lot. Three supplements, top three supplements, what are they? A good whey protein, creatine. Creatine is like the most proven like most clinically tested like supplement that there is you know especially for sports and performance and a good branch chain amino acid you know so obviously whey protein use it post-workout or as a meal replacement um creatine use it pre-workout five grams please do five grams a day you don't need anything more um and a good branch chain amino acid when you're doing your cardio or during intra-workout which means you sip on it during your training So, those are my top three supplements. Whey protein, creatine, and a branch amino. All right, guys. So, stiff leg deadlifts. This is my last hamstring movement. What we're going to do is contract our core. We're going to roll our shoulders back. Okay, we're going to have good posture. Chest up and chest heavy. We're going to slowly go down with the bar and we're going to kind of drag it towards our shins. You want to keep it as close to the shin as possible. Create that tension, that stretch, and then squeeze the glutes on the way up. Notice I have a slight bend in my knees. You don't want to lock out the knees 100%. You want to keep them kind of 90%. The reason that is you don't want to put any unnecessary stress on your knees. So, one of the questions before is performing this type of exercise dangerous? It depends on how you're doing it. If you're doing it incorrectly, it's going to be dangerous. If you're doing it slow and controlled, proper form, you're going to see the results. And vice versa, you do it the opposite, you're going to see negative results. I'm tired, guys. It's coming. Yeah. Good things. Yeah, yeah, we'll take off my shirt eventually. Not during leg day. Maybe during like a chest day or like nice shoulder pump. Should I upload uh update this Snapchat? Yeah, he said it once every hour. So, I have a few responsibilities here at bodybuilder.com. One of the responsibilities is going to the Snapchat. So you guys got to follow bodybuilder.com on Snapchat for updates. Guys, where you at? We're live right now. Go to bodybuilder.com. See my leg workout. bodybuilder.com on Facebook now. And that's it. Guys, where you at? Where you at? You guys ever like listen to yourself on a voicemail and be like, "Oh my god, that's what I sound like. Delete that. Erase that." you know, like like that's like, you know, in the beginning of this whole social media, we're in a social media age now, you know, so you have to really get comfortable in your skin. And just because you're uh, you know, you're hard on yourself, you're harsh on yourself, it doesn't mean like, you know, that people are thinking, you know, you have a bad voice or bad physique or, you know, you don't look comfortable on camera. Just be yourself. You know, people people, they don't want perfection. You know, we're inspired by people that are imperfect, you know, not perfect. You know, nobody wants somebody that makes everything look easy. Not bad, Mark. Mark's been helping me get some content for my Instagram, so got some cool little videos here. That's good. Awesome. Cool. All right, guys. So, I'm going to show you this movement one more time. All right. What I like to do is I'm going to go a little more in depth. Now, feet are shoulder width. Okay. Shoulder width apart. And now, what I like to do is I like to place my hands on the ridges of the barbell. So, most barbells, they have a smooth side and they have a textured side. So, what I like to do is I like to put either my index, middle finger, or my ring finger right in the middle of this groove and textured part, the smooth and textured part. So, I'm going to grip the bar, but I'm going to use my hands not to grip and squeeze because if you wrap your thumbs around, you grip and squeeze, you can activate your forearms, you know, and it's great to have good forearms, but really we're trying to train our hamstrings. So instead of gripping and wrapping your thumbs around, let's use our hands as hooks and just simply hold the weight there instead of squeezing because you're taking, you know, you're putting blood in your arms instead of your hamstrings. So, like I said, right on a smooth surface and the ridges with your index fingers, middle fingers, whatever finger you like, whatever's comfortable, chest heavy and high, good posture, contract your core, slight bend in knees, and you're going to drag it close to your shins and contract. Squeeze your glutes. Wow. So, my friend Gina, she's like really into CrossFit, so I watch her videos a lot. So every time I do that movement, I just so badly want to be like then I remember I'm a bodybuilder. I'm not a crossfitter or Olympic lifter. So I can't do it. I could do it, but I should probably practice. Not on Instagram or Facebook practice like in real life. So I felt pretty good. So I'm going to do another set. So if you guys got questions, let me know. What are you doing at the BBC office today? What am I doing? Well, it's only my second time here. But the first time I came here, like I told you guys, when I was growing up, like there was only a few popular guys like in the industry that weren't like 300 lb, and Steve Cook was one of them. So, always like in my head, I always visualize what my goals are. And one of my goals was to like, you know, kind of do something similar to Steve Cook, you know, come down here and train and have good content on the website. And uh that's what I'm doing. We're here for two and a half days, get a bunch of kick-ass content that we're going to release periodically all the way up till September. Um tomorrow we're going to do three workouts. Um and we're going to release them on bodybuild.com. You know, I'm going show you guys some nice arm pump chest movements. I'm going show you some lifting hacks which are pretty much like different, you know, hand positions and attachments and movements that'll make your exercises better. And uh, you know, I'm seven weeks out, so I'm only doing this so that you guys could really like appreciate it, you know, and if I could help one or two people out there, and if you could help one or two people, it's just going to snowball. Can supersets or even giant sets be beneficial for leg growth and muscle development? Oh yeah. Uh super sets and giant sets, drop sets, pyramid sets, whatever you want to call them, they're all good, you know. So, one analogy that I like is like you can't eat like vanilla ice cream every day. Sometimes you want chocolate, sometimes you want strawberries. Same thing with your body. If you keep giving your body A, B, and C, you're going to keep on producing the same result. And then after many many months, you're actually not going to produce the same result anymore. Now you're gonna you're gonna find a most beneficial way and easiest way to do the workout and complete it. And your body's not going to get stimulated and it's not going to grow. So periodize your workout. You know, do weeks with low reps, do weeks with high high reps, do weeks with light weight, do do weeks with heavy weight, do weeks with straight sets, and then drop sets, super sets, giant sets, pyramid sets. So, keep it keep it keep it guessing, man. Keep your body guessing. That's it, guys. Do you use wrist wraps or Yeah, I like all the accessories. You know, I try not to use them only when I get to my heavier movements, but belts, wraps, knee wraps, you know, if it makes you lift and contract better, then definitely do it. But don't become dependent on it. You know, like this is only one plate, so I don't need any wraps. But if I put two and a half plates or two plates or even three plates, you know, I probably want to use the wraps or, you know, the belt. Um, the reason I'm not using a belt right now, I love wearing a belt because it makes me look super cool, you know, so it makes me look like I'm way stronger and it makes my waist look small. Um, but the reason I'm not using it is because I have this mic underneath the shirt, but usually I would wear a belt, you know. Um, but we're not going heavy today, you know. If we're going heavy today, I definitely would have it on already. Does wearing a belt as protection? You wear a belt as protection for your um I wear a belt not so much as protection. Like I said, I like the way it looks. Um but also makes me aware that I have good posture. So the belt I don't put it on super tight. I kind of just put it on a little loose but tight enough to know that it's there. And it makes me aware that I have to really concentrate and focus on what I'm doing and my form because if I get injured, number one, it's going to prod it's going to it's going to affect me from going to the gym and that's going to ultimately affect my happiness because I love to work out. You know, it's therapeutic to me. Number two, you know, it's going to affect my competition and my career and, you know, I have no time for injuries. I'm trying to progress. I'm not trying to degress, but I don't have a belt with my name on it. Like I got a belt like as a gift with my name on it. I'm like yo like the hell. Like I gotta wear like my own name. Like you never like you know what I mean? Like like you can put your name on it. Like I guess it's a good like gesture but like come on man. You guys know who I am. No, I'm playing. People are saying they want to see a workout. Yeah, I'd love to do a video with Steve Cook. you know that, you know, I'm fortunate enough to call Steve a friend. You know, we don't speak on the phone or anything, but when we see each other, we always catch up. But what you guys don't realiz is, and what I didn't realize for many, many years, is Steve Cook is actually a bigger dude, like in person than he appears to be on camera. He's a really big guy, and that dude is strong, man. So, yeah, man. I'd love to do a video with Steve one day. Um, and I'm sure it's going to happen, but you know, I prefer not to do a video only because like I don't like to have cameras when I train. You know, to me, like I said, training is very therapeutic and it's very personal and uh I like to just be a beast. Go in beast mode. You know, you guys hear about it all the time. Beast mode, you know, picture motivational picture with a lion on it. I'm a beast, guys. That's what I'm trying to be. So, this is what I do. Like I said, what I put in here, intra-workout shake, branch chain amino acids, glutamine, carbine, and uh what else? Agmatine. So, what I do is after my first exercise, I sip on it. I sip on it all the way up until threequarters the exercise. So, this is complete. I'm threequarters into my workout. So, I'm still digesting it. By the time I'm done with my workout in 15 minutes, I would have all the muscle building opportunities that I could have. Um, and I'm naturally such a fast burner and I have fast metabolism that I tend to lose weight very easily. So, if I don't have something feeding and replenishing my muscles, then you know I'm going to lose it. It's a good problem to have because I can lose weight really fast, but vice versa, it's hard for me to put on weight and muscle. So, I always have to use my supplements. What else you got for me? What else you guys got for me? Because I'm almost done. How to Bodybuild on a tight budget. How to Bodybuild on a tight budget. Oh man. Um, so listen, we're just talking about this the other day. Uh, we're talking about like a famous popular food chain. Um, I'm not going to mention any names, but you know, they have a whole bunch of healthy foods and it's really expensive, you know, and we made a joke that it's like you kind of spend your whole paycheck when you're there. So, how to bodybuild on a budget. There's plenty of lean and clean protein sources that you could have on a budget. Okay. Um, obviously if you can afford chicken breast, we go with the chicken breast, but for people on tight budget, we go with the darker meat like the chicken thigh. The thighs tend to have the same protein content. Um, a little less lean, but still you got all your muscle building opportunities there. Another uh cheap source of protein and probably the most easily digestible protein that there is is egg whites. So, don't neglect the egg whites, too. So, definitely chicken thighs, egg whites. um buy in bulk uh protein powders. Uh so stuff like that like high protein is really the thing. Um in terms of you know carbohydrates and fats you know you can pretty much find cheap carbohydrates and fats anywhere anywhere. Um just make sure that your carbohydrate and your fat timing is beneficial to what your goal is, you know. So, you know, for me, for instance, you know, I tend to keep all my fats and my vegetables at night, whereas all my heavy and fast acting carbohydrates are towards the first three or four meals of the day. So, I want to be in a fat burning state when I'm going to sleep. So, that's why I cut out carbs gradually throughout the night, even when I'm bulking. So definitely you can bodybuild on a budget and plus like gym memberships are cheap now. I think like there's some gyms advertising like $10 a month which is like incredible you know $10 a month that's like less than 50 cents a day. Come on. Get your butt to the gym. All right, let me bang out the set and then we'll answer some more questions. Wow. Yeah, Mr. Olympia. Um, you have a really nice compliment. This girl says, "You are so amazing. You work so hard for what you want. Amazing quality. I'll be cheering for you at this competition." Thank you. I try, you know, I just try to I just try to be myself, be humble, be a human, you know, just because I'm Mr. Olympia stage fourtime world champion bodybuilder doesn't mean that I'm better than anybody else. Still the same person as the beginner in the gym. So, I just been doing it a longer time. And I always tell people, I could have done anything in my life. I could have been a dentist. I could have been a lawyer. I could have been a cop. I could have been a firefighter, but I chose one thing. I decided what I wanted to be and I focused all my energy into that one thing for 12 years. If you focus all your energy into one thing for 12 years, you're going to be great at it no matter what it is. You know, it's just this is my passion. This made me happy. So, I saw this as a worthwhile opportunity and I want to do what makes me happy. So, if I played basketball for 12 years, I'll be a great basketball player. If I was, you know, in in law school, you know, for four or six years, you know, be a great lawyer. It's just what do you want to do? Decide what you want to do. Decide what makes you happy. And you're not going to know right away. I didn't know until I was like 25 that I want to pursue this as a career. I thought I was going to pursue a career in either, you know, something to do with graphic art or then eventually real estate. But this is just what made me happy. This gave my life purpose and meaning. And uh if it gives something gives you a life purpose and meaning, do it. And there's nothing wrong with being in a job that's not fulfilling at the moment, but just use it as a stepping stone. And always do what makes you happy in the meantime on your free time. Whether that's 20 minutes a day or two hours and 20 minutes a day or if it's three hours, four hours a day, whatever you could dedicate to your craft and your hobby and your passion, do it. Okay? So, life is short. Do what makes you happy. But it's okay if you have to work a job temporarily in the meantime, you know, to make ends meet, but just always know what your goal is, what your ambitions are. Um, I'm just starting out. How do I put together a good workout that will show results? All right, cool. So, that sounds exactly like me like 12 years ago. How do I put together a great workout? I would go on the internet. Okay, so you know, for instance, like where I would go, there was a few different websites. Um, but this is one of the websites, you know, like I said, I looked up to guys, you know, so I looked up to guys that had muscles and physiques that I wanted to to uh emulate, you know. So, I would go to these websites and I would get example of their training, you know, like right now we're recording a training video and you might not like every exercise that I did, but you could pull one exercise out of it and be like, whoa, I tried that and it was effective. I'm going to keep this and everything else I'm going to throw away because I don't like the way it feels. But then I find another athlete. Oh well, Arnold Schwarzenegger did this and Arnold Schwarzenegger had a great chest. So, let me try what he did for chest mixed in with what a little bit of Sadi did for his back and a little bit of what Steve Cook did for his arms and a little bit of what Ronnie Coleman did for his legs. And then you create your own formula. You know, you take a little bit from different athletes, you know, with good body parts or, you know, progress or athletes that you like. And then you bring them into the gym with you and you try it and what you love you keep. And what doesn't feel good or doesn't feel right or is not producing growth and muscles, then you reject it. So just do that. Don't complicate things, you know. How do you know if you like, you know, chocolate ice cream? If you never tried chocolate ice cream, you know, so you just got to try new things. And it's only one workout. One workout if you don't like the exercise is not going to kill you. Stop doing it after one or two sets and then switch it. So like I said, so many free resources. We're in the age of instant instant information, internet, magazines, everything. So, just Google it, YouTube it, bodybuildt, you know, go to my social media. You know, I post tons of videos and pictures and I try to give helpful information. Take a little bit from everybody. Make your own formula and find your own, you know, blueprint for success. So, I got a question for you guys. Do you guys want to see me do cardio? because I got to do 15 minutes of hit cardio. Um, it could be a little boring. Um, so what I have to do is like the spin bike. So, like I said, after I weight train, I like to stimulate a little fat loss. You know, I'm going to come back tonight and do 40 minutes of more intense cardio. But since I'm sweating, I got the pit stains, a little bit of chest, you know, my butt is sweating a little bit, uh, my socks. So, I'm going to keep this fire burning. Um, so I suggest that for people that are trying to just get a little leaner, lose a little fat after you workout, keep it burning, you know, so keep the fire going. So, you know, I'm having really I'm having a lot of fun with you guys. So, let's just do cardio together and you guys can ask me questions. They said 15 minutes or 15 15. Not like the 43,000 that I made the mistake earlier. You guys made me nervous. Yeah. So, the reason I like the spin bike is because um it's easy for me. Like, it's very light on my knees. Um I put on about like 20 pounds of muscle, so some movements are hard. Like, I got asked a question the other day, like I was doing pull-ups with no weight, and people like, "Hey, man, do you do weighted pull-ups?" And I used to do weighted pull-ups when I was like 160 pounds. But now I'm like 230 lbs. So I am the weight, you know. So I put on all this mass. So for me to add more pounds to the 30 to 20 to 30 lbs that I've already put on my body, it's just a lot to pull, you know. And it's not necessarily about the weight, you know. It's not the weight, it's the contraction, it's the way you perform the exercise, you know. It's similar um you know when you're in a relationship you know and let's say like every Friday or you know every other Friday of the week you go out with your significant other and you don't have to spend a lot of money to have a good time. It's the quality of time that you have with your significant other or your family or your or your children or your friends that make it the experience. I could spend $10 and have just as good a time, if not better, than if I spend $120. I could use 50 pounds of resistance or I could use five pounds of resistance, but if I'm contracting with the resistance the proper way, I'm going to get more out of it. So, it's about quality reps, you know? So, just keep that in mind, guys. It's not about weight. And you know, I'm one of the top guys in the world and I'm not using any weights that are breaking records right now, but yet I'm still growing muscle and I'm still getting leaner and I'm getting stronger. So keep that in mind, you know, but we see a lot of the images, you know, of people lifting heavy weights and screaming and sweating and grunting and we think that's what it takes. And that's not always what it takes, but that's very marketable and looks cool. So keep that in mind. That's not always how it's, you know, the top guys in the world train. Why do you still use a trainer? Uh, why do I still use a trainer? Um, I'm in the top of the division. I'm on top of my sport. And in order to to remain on the top of the sport and to have a long career, I have to continue being a student and I have to continue learning and I have to continue improving my game. Um, that's one reason. Another reason is I've gotten lazy. Um, so in 2015, uh, it was my last year competing as a men's physique comp uh, competitor and I got comfortable and I got lazy and I relied on my genetics and my popularity and my, you know, my fame to just carry me to the top. But really what happened was I lost the passion from the weight training because, you know, I'd stop at rep number nine instead of going to 10 or 11 or 12. I would stop at 29 minutes of cardio instead of push myself to 30 or 40 minutes, you know. So, I need somebody, you know, I need somebody I have to pay somebody to really push me further than I would push myself. And sometimes it takes somebody else to do that rather than yourself, you know. And I I try to train with friends, but you know, some friends they're biased, you know. Like, Sadique, you're great no matter what. You could stop at nine reps. Yeah, you're going to win. You're great, dude. you know, and that's cool, you know, but you need someone to be hard on yourself to continue improving, you know. Um, that's why I have a trainer. Why did Michael Jordan have a trainer? Why? Because he wanted to continue being the best in the world. Because everyone was working so hard that he wanted to ensure himself that he was working twice as hard as they were only to stay where he's at. But to get, you know, excel even further, he's got to work three times as hard. And I put myself I'm not basketball I'm not a basketball player but I put myself on the same level as Michael Jordan or Wayne Gretzky or you know anybody any professional athlete on top LeBron James you know so that's a category I put myself in that's where I see myself you know so I put in 120%. And you can't put in 100% for 12 years in a row because eventually you know you start to like you know fall out of love. You need to be pushed. So that's why I have a trainer and that's why I made so much progress this year is because now I have someone to push me. I'm not, you know, being easy on myself. What's your favorite cheat meal? Oh man, what's my favorite cheat meal? So let me tell you guys a secret. I haven't had a cheat meal in like 5 months. Yeah. And that's cool, you know. I mean at this level, you know, I don't really need a cheat meal. It's good to have. But my favorite cheat meal, um, I really like pizza, but I never choose pizza as a cheat because it doesn't have like a lot of protein in it. So, I like something that has like, you know, beef or meat in it. So, burgers, I like Shake Shacks, Smashburger, um, any kind of burger joint, French fries, but with every cheat meal, I always have a piece of carrot cake. So, I don't know why like carrot cake is like my kryptonite. So, if you guys are coming to see me in Vegas or at any expo or show and I'm not dieting, bring me a piece of cheesecake and I'll let you bypass the line. Um, carrot cake. I said cheesecake, didn't I? You guys make me nervous. Where do you see yourself in two years? Um, where do I see myself in two years? I see myself, and I please nobody take this cocky or, you know, because I compete with so many great competitors. I don't want this to be any disrespect to anybody, but where I see myself in two years is with two Mr. Olympia titles and uh you know and and shortly after that you know I want to start my own family. Um, right now like I'm in the process of like buying purchasing my first home, you know. Um, so I have I focused so much on this sport that I kind of let a lot of things in my life like kind of like, you know, take second place to like what I'm doing, competing and eating and training that I need to kind of like, you know, achieve my goal and take a step back, focus some other areas of my life, my personal life, my financial life, and then come back into the game and continue dominating. So balance is good. You know, you have to work hard and work like hell, but then eventually you have to know and be real with yourself. Be like, you know what, I got to restore some balance. So, two years, two Mish Olympia titles, reigning defending champion. Um, hope to have like 10 or 15 pounds more muscle, better conditioning, better muscle density, better thickness because I'm getting older. You know, I just turned 30, so you know, the muscle density is coming with age. So, that's where I see myself. Um, I was just speaking to a gentleman. I want to focus more on my YouTube channel. Um, so my Instagram, my Facebook is very popular. I want to get up to a million subscribers, my YouTube. So that's where I see myself. Yeah. Um, best advice to start working out and how to stay focused. Um, best advice to start uh working out is to be gentle with yourself. And what I mean by be gentle with yourselves is like as humans we tend to be so hard on ourselves that like we see the guy in the magazine and like wow this guy looks so perfect. I look nothing like this guy. Or we see the guy in our hometown gym and it's like wow that guy is like lifting like three times more weight than me. Be gentle with yourself. Give yourself time. Be patient. You know you can't like before you can learn how to sprint, you got to learn how to like walk and you know or you have to learn how to crawl rather. So be gentle with yourself. Be patient. Don't be too hard on yourself. Um, but also have the confidence in knowing that if I do A, B, and C, I'm going to get the results eventually. Not immediately, but eventually. And what is A, B, and C? High protein diet, lift heavy, and recover. So, be gentle with yourself, man. It took me 12 years to like, you know, get to this level. And you know what? But it's been a fun 12 years, you know, and have fun. Enjoy the process, you know? Um, don't be super analytical and like super hard on yourself, man, because that just takes away the fun out of everything. Let's take two more. I know you kind of already mentioned this, um, but was your goal from the beginning always to compete? No, I never wanted to compete. I went to one bodybuilding show like seven years ago and I thought it was the most strange and odd thing in the world. Like I felt so dirty. I wanted to go home and take a shower. I was like, "What did I just witness? A bunch of men like in speedos oiled up and tan." I was like, "This is very weird." Like, "I'm never going to do this." Um, but then life has its own ways of like taking twists and turns and eventually, you know, someone convinced me to do a show and I did it just for fun and I had immediate success and I wanted to improve myself. So, I just kept on going. So, my goal was to gain five pounds of muscle. I wanted to go from 139 pounds to 145 pounds. But what I really did was I went to 240 pounds because I got carried away because I love the way it felt and I loved the way it made me it helped my confidence and you know helped every aspect of my life. So one thing led to another and I wouldn't start weight training with the you know intention of like you know being the best in the world or you know being like a world champion. I would start weight training with the intention of let me make an improvement. Let me make every day matter. Let me try to make every week better than the last week and then see where it takes you. So, no, I never wanted to be a competitor. It just happened. All right, end it with a compliment from someone. Hey, speak. I want to say thank you for your passion weighting with motivation. Oh, man. Thank you guys. And listen, motivation works both ways. So, a lot of people that say that, you know, they're inspired by me, but that motivates me to keep going. Like believe me, man. Like once people tell me that they're motivated and inspired by me, like that is actually like it helps me be a better competitor, better person or better, you know, ambassador for the support. So, thank you guys so much, man. I couldn't do it without you guys. Um, thank you guys to Gat Supplements for allowing me to do what I do for a living and to be able to travel the world. Um, thank you guys for bodybuilding.com. Like, you really making a dream come true. Uh, like it's so surreal being here. And um I have more cool content. So stay tuned. Bodybuild.com. If you guys want to follow GAT supplements, you go to uh gat team.com. If you want to follow me, it's sadikadzovic at everything, you know. Siadzovic, you know, for Instagram, Sikzovic for Facebook, all that stuff, YouTube. So God bless you guys. Peace out.