Good morning. Guess what day it is? Day 13, active rest day. It's uh was it about 6 6:30 in the morning? just gone 6:00 and uh decided to get outside and then I hit cardio. I woke up, had breakfast, had my green shake, took my clean burn and now I'm getting my ass up to Table Rock Mountain. All right, enough chitchat. I'm going to chill out, relax, enjoy my drive, and I'll see you on the hike. Day 13 and we just got to the top. Sunshine made us run part of the way. So this is what we're looking at. This is what the 30 minutes is for. Well worth it. Top of Table Rock overlooking Boise. Day 13 of this beautiful video train. It's beautiful because I'm surrounded by beautiful people. So, we got out for cardio today instead of being stuck on the steer master or around uh the gym because you're going to be in the gym all week, remember? So, it's good to come out, enjoy a bit of company. We have team cage muscle here. And what about you, sunshine? What What are you What plan are you following? Are you following my plan? I'm following Chris Chris Gin's plan. You bet. All right, let's get our asses back down here and eat. So, we're doing a little bit of shopping now. Sunshine here is going to be putting together some high protein healthy waffles for us. Okay, so obviously this is very high protein cottage cheese, low fat. Not all countries do it. So, there's only one g of fat here, over 14 g of protein, and only 3 g of carbohydrates. So, we got one cup of flour in here, but remember on a weekend non-training day, you're having 85 g of carbohydrates, complex carbs, and of your body weight. So, obviously, you're going to have to measure it accordingly should you be doing a protein waffle like this. This is the protein, baby. That's going to add uh to the protein that we've got there. We got some protein powder we'll be adding into it as well. And the egg whites from my understanding helps it bind. Oh, this looks like professional. This is my topping. I'm sure the rest of them may have some fruits and other sauces and whatnot, but I'm going for caloriefree Walden Farms pancake syrup. That's awesome. That's really good. Give it a go. You will not be disappointed. Okay, I am here doing a little bit of uh house hunting. Ooh. Okay, here we are out eating again. Yes, you can eat out. you may have to take your um scales out with you just to make sure that you have the right around amount of protein and carbohydrates for your meals. So, what I have here, you know, I've been uh come to this healthy restaurant and you may not have one in your area, but you make it healthy. You tell them exactly how you want to order your food, your carbohydrates, your protein, your fibers carbs, your greens. No oil, no bron, no sauce, no dressing if there is any. It's on the side. So, right here I've got my greens. I got some beans and uh got my egg whites here. They don't generally do egg whites, but they were nice enough to do them for me. And uh I have some potatoes on the end here that are grilled. So again, it's fat-ree uh complex carbohydrates, fibers, carbs, and uh my first glass protein. Can't be done.