It's been pissing down with rain all day. So it's not the best conditions but, luckily our skin is water proof. I'm 3.37 miles in. One thing I've learned running on terrain like this, I have to re-educate myself and relearn how to go by fast cadence, because I automatically want to grip a little bit more. I'm trying to convince myself this is good. This is good. Okay. Which way do I go. I'm Kris Gethin. I'm going to be training to prepare for an Ironman. Most people give themselves two years, I'm giving myself six months. And we're going to do it. This is a bloody hard first session. How you been, dude? Everything's been A-OK. It started off with, it was supposed to be a 90 minute, easy ride. But it was a route that I hadn't taken before and it turned out to be a little bit mountainous, but it was good, it was easy, you know. And then I followed that up immediately with that 5-mile charity run. And lo and behold, would you believe it, we both won our categories, our age categories. Something's obviously working in what you're telling me, buddy. So I was really, really happy about that. Did exactly as you said, started very slow. Literally everybody passed us then it was about mile three, three-and-a-half, we started picking them off and had the power to pretty much sprint at the end which was really, really good and it obviously paid off. Excellent. So going into this week would you suggest anything different further than the program? The only thing I would say is, you know, this might be... I would like it, as some of the intensity starts to ramp up, I know getting aggressive with recovery sounds backwards, but over the course of this week kind of more precisely track what you're doing for your entire recovery protocol the rest of the day. Okay. Appreciate it. Thank you. Sure thing, chat soon. Right that was just under an hour. Done. We're completed. Shoulders, triceps, and abs completed in well under an hour, so that's good. Now. We're going to get into the pool now our body's pre-fatigued, after I've had my Re-Kaged, and get this cardio did. I can't talk during my rest. I've done 150 fast. Oh my god. The 150 is supposed to be easy. Some days will go hard. And other days will be very, very easy. And that's like your recovery. You know there's no grey areas where we're going at a pace that's kind of difficult but kind of easy. You know you're not going to progress. It's either go fucking hard or go easy as an active recovery. What is tough about this bloody Watt bike, even on zero resistance, I keep checking to see if it is on zero and it is, it's harder than any other spin bike. So I think what I may do next time is just put my bike on the trainer and do that instead because there is a resistance on this. What's up, guys and girls? Chef Gethin here, in his kitchen. Without further ado, let's have some egg, cheese, on toast. And three. So I'll let that cook for about 5, 6 minutes until the top's cooked as well. I know all the pros are saying you shouldn't use metal in the frying pan. So be it. Put on a little bit of fat-free cheese. One on there, like so. And I'll leave that on there for about 4 or 5 minutes. Alright, that's been 4 minutes, not even five. Good, cause I'm friggin hungry. So there we go, our little toasties. Voila. Good morning. It is 3:30 a.m. I'm going to the gym early, obviously. Because I have to fly to New York early this morning. If I do sacrifice anything, normally when it comes to my busy travel schedule, it is usually sleep. I will never sacrifice a workout. Ever. People say, but it's important to have your sleep. Yeah, it's fucking important to get your workouts in as well. Remember this is a muscle building program regardless and muscle building comes first. Then, workouts that are specific to my goal, which is an Ironman, those come in second. Lets hit it. What's up guys? It's been a bad, bad couple of days to be honest with you. When I was in New York, filmed those workouts that I had there, filmed the travel, filmed the meals that I was eating, and everything like that. The sim card become corrupt. Apparently you should replace them. This is the first time this has ever happened to me. And anyway, so all that footage is lost. Good morning. It is. Day...11? Eight. Nine, 10. Yeah, day 11. And only on 2 1/2 hours sleep. I actually feel OK. Thank God for Pre-Kaged. I don't know how many hours we spent in bloody planes altogether. But anyway, luckily we got here. I didn't think we was going to get here. The workout today is chest. We're getting back into abs as well. So we've got quite a big cardio session going on today as well. It's 45 minutes on the bike, and it's a 5-mile run. I just fell on my ass. I rolled onto my ankle. Would you fucking believe it. I should stop. Should ice it Probably. But I'm a little stubborn and I'll figure out what I've done later. There's a little bit of swell in it now, not much. So I should be OK, I should be alright. There's hope for the old man yet. I'm about an hour. Yeah. Just over an hour. An hour and 4 minutes into this ride. I've just covered about 16 miles. Or 15 miles, sorry. And for my drills, man, I'm getting lactic acid build up. But it's tough going. This is definitely my hardest Now because the route I've taken, but because I'm forcing it upon myself now. I'm making sure that when the 5 minutes is easy, I'm taking it very easy. I am recovering. But when it's 5 minutes hard, I'm going bloody hard. I'm going do a much harder effort. That's the idea. Craziest shit has just happened to me. As I was coming down this hill, for some ungodly reason, I have no idea, I felt the chain slip and then complete lock up this time. The wheel completely locked up. I started sliding, as you can see. On this massive black line. The tire actually blew up, just a massive bang. And I managed to stay on, thank God. What a fucking day. So I was 18.34 miles into my ride and I'd only been going an hour and 21 minutes. So unfortunately, I'm going to have to split this bike ride up. What a piss off, like, I was really going well, and I was hoping to get in a record mileage this morning, but I guess not. Shit happens. Fuck. All right, day 13. As you saw on the GoPro this morning, the bike really screwed up this morning. The gear went, the hub went, or something. I've taken it to the store and they've gone through the hub, they've gone through the gearing, they've fixed it now. I just got a call, so I'm going to pick that up a little bit later. I finished my cardio on the watt bike after, so I got my time in, thank God. I'm out here, with these gentlemen. So we're going to shoot them up and have a little fun.