Hey, BodyBuilding.com, it's Liam McIntyre from "Spartacus: War of the Damned" here to tell you about the guy that changed my life, changed my training, changed my shape. This is Tyrone Bell. Tell them a little bit about yourself. I am the official "Spartacus" trainer and I am the man responsible for what you see here. Yeah, no, Tyrone and I had an interesting little journey, so-- We did, we did. How did we meet? It was in a gym, funny enough. No, it was an interesting time for me because I had just lost all this weight for another film, like 45 pounds, so I was in the works for maybe getting this role. And the head of stunts, Al Poppleton, was putting me through this crazy boot camp training which was soul crushing but amazing and learning all these, you know, really fundamentally-amazing things but-- We had to assess at the start that your skills were up to scratch for fight scenes, for--you know, we had to know you had the endurance to last the entire season, but unfortunately that was not the best, you know, as when it comes to packing on muscle. Yeah, so I got real fit despite myself. And as soon as you got the role, then we were thrown the brief that you needed lean muscle mass. You needed to be ripped, which went against, all against our boot camp training and we had to send you into a another sort of form of training. Yeah, well, Ty is the master of hypertrophy training, I suppose you'd call it. So the hard taskmaster of hypertrophy training so I was, I don't know, I felt like I was in this room and working out that I had to have a trainer for the season. And Ty, I can only imagine, was sitting down there going, "Well, not me 'cause this is gonna be a big job, I don't know." I think we met like once at the end when I was testing or something, you know? Yeah, yeah, and I mean the first moment I looked at you and I was given the brief and I was good. I know I'm good, but I don't do miracles. But you don't argue with Al Poppleton 'cause that guy's the business. And he's like, "Ty, you're the man." I was like-- "Make him into this." And I'm sitting there going, "Well, he's massive so this is gonna work out great. This guy's built like a brick shit house. Can I say that? Probably not. You know, this guy's massive so if anyone's gonna help me out with this, this guy's good. Meanwhile I'm thinking, Ty's probably not as excited as I am. Like I said, it was a challenge because of the timeframe, not only because we had to get you in peak form before shooting but we had to, you know, we had to be training the entire time throughout the seasons. And with the timeframes we were given for training, you know, the workouts not only had to be effective, but they had to be very, very time conscious. Yeah, yeah, so we had to shoot days where we'd start at 5 and then we'd finish up at, you know, 7, somewhere like that, 7:30 and we'd hit the gym at 8:30. Yeah, those, those-- Those were the days. And then there was times where it's like, "Okay, with your schedule, you've got 20 minutes." It's like, okay, this is our only chest session for this week. We've gotta make 20 minutes work. But that's where we developed and we needed to develop the 19-minute workout where you had to get hypertrophy results from 19 minutes and we had to develop that. And hey, it worked not only for you but for other cast members. Yeah, true. Well, it's funny, by the end of it, there were people were just like lining up. Like I started off there and they're like, "Oh, you're training with Ty, okay, sure. Go have a good time. I'm going down to my gym." By the end of "War of the Damned," everyone's like, take a number, take a number. That's right. It's funny and I was like, "Stay away from my dude." It's my time. "This is my time. You should have come here earlier." But yeah, early days, that was fun 'cause I was like, oh, this is gonna be great. You know, how hard can it be, right? And-- Oh, yeah. And Ty was all about hard. Then I introduced Liam to-- To reality. Yeah, and nutrition, and nutrition. Yeah, I got nicknamed the carb nazi for good reasons. Oh, my God. I would count and watch every calorie that went through your mouth. And there were times that I'd be like--I'd be at the lunch table like on Thursdays. Literally I'd walk past it and this guy would just be staring at me. I'm like, no, that's messed up. I gotta get a new trainer. This guy--he's just-- This is gonna be a long season. He would just appear and I'd have like, I'd have some, I don't know, so anything--I was like, it's a potato, what's wrong? It's not Ty approved. That's off. Yeah, it's not Ty approved. Yeah. Even now, like it happened today. I'm like, "Spartacus" is finished but he walked past, I'm like, nothing on my plate is wrong. It's all right. Let this slide, this is good. This is good. Yeah, but that was probably, to be honest, that was 80% of your results. It was what you were eating. It's all diet, right? Absolutely. And especially when your schedule is so full on and then our workouts are so intense for that short period of time, recovery and nutrition was paramount. Recovery, right. Yeah, recovery. That's the other thing that I couldn't understand 'cause I just spent so long training with Al Poppleton, who probably at the time very rightly was like, "More is more. Just work till you can't work anymore." And from where I was at, it was a really good mind state to get myself into. It makes you mentally hard. Yeah, yeah, it really toughens you up for when, you know, you have to do the work. But Ty's like, "All right, so if you want to grow some muscle mass, we're gonna have to change this." But I'm like, no, no, no, I've got this worked out. I know what to do. I'm just gonna lift more. No, no, no dude, you don't know what to do. At the end of some training sessions you're like, "What are you gonna do now? You're gonna sleep, aren't you? You're gonna sleep." Yup. I'm like, "Yes, sir, I'm gonna sleep." So I owned you for two seasons. Yeah, it was great. Please Mr. Ty. And, you know, I'd be early days, I'd be training and then I'd like oh, that looks like a fun exercise, so I'd start doing some arm curls. And Ty would say, "What are you doing? What are you doing? You want to just throw this away?" But so I think I eventually came around to it, of course, "Spartacus" schedule is hard to get to sleep in but. But yeah-- That's where supplementation came in. We had to get your L-Glutamine going, you know, make sure your BC double A's were in there because, yeah, were, a lot of the time, sleep deprived which was unfortunate because, you know, you would have made even greater gains if you had more sleep under your belt, which I'm excited to see because you are gonna stick with it. I'm excited to see where you're gonna be. Yeah, well, me too. That's the thing. But that's what I mean, like you actually changed the way I look at training and changed the way I diet and changed the way I live my life. Because, you know, I was a computer-game nerd and I'd-- I know, I know. Yeah, he still finds that hard to sort of accept. But, you know, so I--it was weird. Like a week ago, I was sitting in a hotel room going, oh, finally I've got some time to play some games. I'm sitting there with a game I was playing and I was like, this is great fun. And I'm looking at the clock going, oh, I've really gotta get a training session in. I've never had that thought before. It stuck with you. It's engrained now. I know it's part of me now, and I'd play, I'm like ah, I'll just put it off for a little bit and I just couldn't. I couldn't do it. I was like--and for the first time in my life, put the game down, walked into the gym, hit out a quick, you know, 30-minute session and, you know, blew the chest apart. So it was great. And I've just never been like that. See I'm proud now. I'm proud. Thank you. But it's a life-changing thing. I think that's the most important thing that you got through to me, and I was lucky enough to have you for because you were there to like change--like change my perspective and that's the thing 'cause like anyone can do a diet. Anyone can lift some weights for a week, but you have to really change the way you think about training and I think that's what you-- Absolutely, you need to adapt that lifestyle. It's not--I mean hey, you could have blown--we could have got this done, you're done with "Spartacus" and that's it. But now it's engrained and it's a lifestyle now. And you are always gonna be busy, whether you're on a feature film or another TV series but you know now how to fit an effective workout, effective training, nutrition plan, everything in 'cause you've adopted that lifestyle. Well, that's the gift though. I mean and that's the benefit of having a guy that just isn't very nice to you sometimes. Well, there was moments. We don't need to talk about that. I got the nice thing going on, all right? So-- But that doesn't train kill a body. 'Cause you gotta be hard on yourself too, right? You do, you do. You've gotta be honest 'cause I'd sit there and I'd sit there with a chocolate cake going, you know what Ty would say if he were here. You know what he'd say. See, that's good, you're now talking to your food. That's--you got a connection. I'm just looking at all those empty calories and he's like, "There's sugars, there's fat. You don't want those. You don't want those." And I'm like, no, no, I'm just gonna put it aside. Oh, jeez. But, you know, it makes--it's results. That's right. What's your favorite session 'cause I think we're on the same page with this, but-- No, well, I just remember when we were doing, you know, our 19-minute workouts 'cause sometimes we were thrown, "Okay, guys, you got 20 minutes." So that's where we developed that 19-minute workout hypertrophy for different muscle groups. Chest was always a challenge. That's my challenge, one of my challenge-- That's right. But I think, you know, the most rewarding was always the arms. In 19 minutes with that rest period, you used to pump up huge. And we used to do that before you had promotional shoots and stuff like that as well. We just filled them and, you know, it's instantly rewarding. And I slowly turned into a headcase. It was always good for Ty because, you know, I'd be like, "Look, nothing's changing. I cannot see anything." And Ty's like, "Dude, your body's like in a totally different place." You look at the before and after and the progression shots and it's like, we can literally see the changes happening month to month. Ty said early on that, remember you telling me that--you're like, "Well, unfortunately the bad news is you'll never be big enough now." Like you'll always look at yourself and go, "Oh, I could fix that. I could fix that. I could fix that." In fact, Todd Lasance, we were doing the same thing and we were both getting back into training and he was like, "Oh, I don't know this shoulder, is this big enough?" I'm like, "Dude, you're massive. You look ridiculous." And I'd be sitting there going, I don't know, I feel like I'm not the same size. See, it's important to be happy where you're at but there's always that once you're content, then it's over. You know, so maintaining's boring. You're always looking for constant improvement. Refining it and just pushing yourself. Yeah, just making the quality better. Yeah, I remember you warning me about that. And I'm like, no, in my head I was like, you know-- Are we happy at this weight? Are we happy there? No. It doesn't work that way, man. But yeah, I know I always thought, chest was more satisfying 'cause I felt it always felt really, really rough in the morning, which I've learned to accept is the best way to feel when you're just like, oh, I just can't move properly. So obviously I did a good job. That, or seriously damaged myself. But no, it was--yeah, and safe training. That was the good thing 'cause I mean it was so good having a spotter and someone that knew what they were doing, could lift the weight, could tell you how to do it so you didn't just waste your reps and stuff like that. That's right, that's right. When time is that valuable, every rep counts in both phases, the up phase and the down phase. You know don't cheat, don't bounce, you know, because you only have 19 minutes. You have 1,140 seconds so you literal every second counts. Every rep. Work out and math. Oh, mate. I'm good. What was it, if you're thinking you're shrinking? What's that rule you told me? Yeah, we'll edit that out. Yeah, totally, man, I know. It's--you're up against it and it's hard to make big gains when you're time poor. But it is possible, yeah. That's right. I only it was only--that's the thing, you know, you gotta--it's a long-term gain. Like near the end of "War of the Damned," I started to go, you know what? I do see what you're seeing. I do see the change. Yeah. You know, it had been happening for a long time but I didn't want to believe it 'cause I was used to being the other guy. And that's the thing too is other people were seeing it, you know, but you yourself, you see yourself every day so you don't. Don't see the big change, yeah. But it wasn't, like you said, it wasn't till the end of the season it's like, "You know what? I'm looking all right." You saw a few covers of magazines, you saw yourself in a few things it's like, "You know what? I'm okay." Have I thanked you for that yet? Yeah, man, that was seriously life changing. But then, you know, it wasn't always good news 'cause for those covers and things like that, you had a new system for me, which was something that was very-- Well, you know, we had to peak you and that was the hard--that was the hard thing. You know, during--like guys who compete, you're gonna peak a few times during the year but, you know, we'd be dropped on you have a promotional shoot in a week. It's like--and I used to like prepping you like it was a competition. We would drop your carbs out completely and then we would carb load you or dehydrate you, all that and it was hell for you in a short amount of time but, you know, look at the results. It worked. It's, again, if I wanted to feel good about myself, we'd do that then do an arm exercise. That's right. Do an arm training and be like yeah, all right, I can do it. Which I practice all the time. But yeah, those were some of the hardest days. 'Cause I'm not--I'm not new at this so I've never really flown business class, but they flew me business class to this photo shoot. So I'm like, oh, all this food, all this stuff. Of course, Tyrone's decided to put me into like this massive carb depletion phase 'cause I had to because I was basically gonna walk off a plane into a photo shoot. And so there was free chocolate cake, there was all this amazing food, and you know, chicken, beef, prawn, what do you want? Like, oh. And I had to bring a box of boiled chicken on the plane and kumara and egg whites that-- depending on the meal times. And I had to tell the steward, I was like, "Can you just bring this cold chicken out to me at like 2 hour intervals in this amount exactly please?" And he's like, "You're not serious, obviously?" I'm like, "Yeah." He's like, "Well, what about--we've got food." "We can make you chicken." I'm like, "You can't make me chicken the way I have to have the chicken." He's like, "But it's just chicken." I'm like no--I don't have--does it have seasoning on it? "Yup." Salt? No. See, man, I'm proud. That's made me really happy, man. I'm sitting there and I'm just munching through this horrible chicken. But exactly, but, you know, that's what you can teach me in the sense that the Liam from 3 years ago couldn't have done that at all. Like I couldn't even think like that. You do it, I'd do it for 2 days and be like, that's stupid. Surely it won't make that much difference. You know, surely--but that's--I guess that's the lesson of this whole training exercise. All of it does make that much difference if it do it all at the right times in the right order. That's right. It all has to work together. You can't do one part, you know? The training, it just all works together and rest. Well, yeah, rest, of course, which, again, I was still--even by the end of the season I'm like-- I know, I know I still reckon it's gonna be the one that you're gonna--we're gonna have disagreements on. That's okay. No, I do agree with you, I just, you know, I get lazy about it but not the right kind of lazy. Yeah, you're stubborn too. Stubborn, yeah, sorry about that. But, you know, it pushes you through a bit. Yeah, I remember he was like--too many people will give you outs like too many other trainers that I've had in the past give you like a little wiggle room. A little wiggle room, okay. You know, so I was like--he's like, well, you can--you know, other trainers might be like, "Shake a little bit of salt on there, you know, have a bit of this, have a bit of that." And I was like, oh, cool, so, you know, I can sort of put a little sauce on there or something like that. But when it was--especially when it was coming down to cutting, you know, you were like, "Exactly this much--many milligrams of salt, exactly this many grams of protein. If you get that wrong by an ounce, you've ruined the whole thing, everything." I'm like, that can't be possible. "Everything. Everything." That's what we were working with though. I mean, you know, everyday normal people, you know, day-to-day, they can afford that wiggle room but you were put in front of the world. You know, you were meant to lead a rebellion. You're a sex symbol. You know, you were meant to be this warrior, you know, so there was no room that the milligram could be up, you know so-- That's part of it. You know, I think, you know, there's a lesson in that food for everyone that's like training for me now 'cause like I know that if I'm not having to be that guy on camera every day, I've got a little more wiggle room, but I only know that because I didn't have the wiggle room and I can know my body a little more from that process. But it's been--it's been one hell of a journey, man. It's been exciting. And it's not over yet, mate. Well, I know. It's sort of just beginning. It's life now. Well, here's the thing, like the hard part for me every day was looking at you training huge weights that I was always try to like match even though I had this not experienced body. You know, you'd be lifting these huge like, you know, you'd be doing three-- But that's--that's great as well though is like, you know, normal people as well, you have that goal. Somebody, you know, you follow. It might not be your training partner, but you watch training videos of these guys and, you know, "That's what I want to be. That's what I want to be lifting," and stuff like that. So but, you know, you had that in your corner every day which obviously it helps. Yeah, no, but so this guy was just massive and I had to look at that every day, which was kind of like the psychosis, I was like, "Oh, why is Tyrone so big?" But, you know, I guess that's keeping it up for a long period of time. That's right, man. That's right. It all comes. It's just a long-term goal. So, you know, like-- What I made you do was what I was doing as well. Exactly, which was amazing. You know, and so like long term is how you gotta start setting your mind up 'cause so many people are on short-term diets, short-term training cycles, short-term this, whereas the stuff that you do is all about, you know, really changing your life, which is what I got. Definitely. I mean you can get fast results if you do everything to the gram, you know, to the pound and to the second. You can get fast results but then, like you said, it becomes a lifestyle and that's where you start making your great gains is once it's-- Early days, it took a while. It did. As we went, it got faster and faster and really started to take hold. And when it got engrained it was--yeah, man, look, I'm excited for you to be able to do like this workout with some of these people for BodyBuilding.com. Oh, I can't wait to show it. I mean 'cause these are the actual workouts that I made you do, you know, and I do personally as well. So to be able to show everybody what we did, you know? So it's great for people who push for time massively. Totally. And it's achievable. And it just--it takes discipline, but it's a realistic life change. Yeah. I think that's what--I mean that's what you brought me and I appreciate that so much so-- You're welcome. Go out and knock them dead, man. Will do.