Life isn't always fair. I didn't choose to be critically nearly fatally injured. Losing 50 lbs of harnered muscle and living with chronic pain isn't fair. But fair is just another four-letter word that starts with F. Your life, your body is what you make of it. I'm James Grage. What's your excuse? To me, each and every training session is more mental than it is physical. It's about your ability to really tune into your body. Focus on each and every single rep. Make everyone count. That's where your growth is going to occur. It's when you're uncomfortable and it hurts that you're forcing your body to adapt. And this is what's going to instigate change. So, for my workout today, I'm going to be alternating between biceps and triceps. So, let's get to it. When I do my warmup, I get on here for about 15 minutes. I'll increase the resistance just enough to get my body warm, but this is also my mental warmup. This is the time that I take to come in and focus on what I want to do for my workout. So today I'm going to do some chin-ups to warm up my biceps and then I'll drop down and do some push-ups to warm up my triceps. I like the full body exercises because I get more of a full body warm-up instead of just warming up that specific muscle group. I don't do them to fatigue just enough to warm up the muscle just so I can stretch lightly. The reason I put so much emphasis on a good warm up and a good stretch is injury is no joke. Unless you want to take a couple months off from training, there's no need to jump into it too fast cuz trust me, we're going to go in and we're going to kill the workout after. Now, when I do my push-ups, I actually have to do them with my knuckles. I got in a car accident years ago and I not only broke my wrist, but all the metacarpals at my hands. So, I don't really have that kind of range of motion in my wrist anymore to do a regular push-up. But for the same reason, I like to do body weight exercises because I want to warm up everything. I also try to stretch out everything. So, in between, I'll do some light stretching. I usually do about two sets of each to warm up. All right, so I'm warmed up. So, let's go get started. So, the first thing I'm going to do here is I'm going to use a straight bar and I'm going to do a wide grip bicep standing curl. I feel it emphasizes a little more on the inside of my biceps. Now, everyone's going to agree that you can't isolate a particular part of your bicep, but you can certainly emphasize it. So, I'm going to do 15 reps, and then I'm going to drop down to 12 reps and then down to 10 reps. I'm going to do that on each of these. My philosophy with arm training really comes down to balance. I thought big arms was all about training my biceps hard. So, I'd get in there and I' I'd obliterate them, but then I'd ignore my triceps. So, that's 12. So that's when I know I've got a good weight when 12 is challenging and 15's pushing it. There we go. The key here, keep your elbow in a fixed position pointing toward the ceiling. Sometimes I'll even take my hand here. In other words, try to keep it close to your head. Don't let it straight too far out. This where that mental aspect comes in. Make sure you really put your thought right into that muscle. So, it's been my focus lately to try to try to work on that that area that I've neglected in the past. As I drop down in reps, when possible, I try to jump up and wait. I want nice clean reps. So, I'd rather drop some weight off. Keep the form clean. Between my sets, I really don't like to rest. The reason being is I like momentum. Really, the only rest that I'm getting is really in my setup between exercises. Got to get your head in it. There we go. So, that's my first super set. So, as I jump into individual bicep curls on a 45° bench, what I'm really shooting for is I'm trying to emphasize the long head of the bicep, which to me I feel right on the outside of my arm. That's where my focus is. Your biceps actually connect at the shoulder. So the position of your arm relative to your body affects the way you're going to emphasize the muscle. So that's where you're going to feel that or get that that peak on the outside of your bicep. Now the key here is letting your arms hang a nice natural relaxed position. I'm going to do single arm. And what you want to do is focus on turning your pinky up. So as you curl up, turn that pinky up. Squeeze all the way up at the top. From there, I'm super setting over into my tricep exercise, which is a single arm cable push down. So, now I don't like to use a handle. I actually like to just grab the cable itself. This gives me a nice neutral grip. It's easy in tricep push downs to use a lot of other muscles, including your shoulders. See a lot of people that lean forward when when you're doing these. I want you to stand up nice and straight. Really squeeze it. Feel it in the back. That's 15. I can probably go a little bit heavier my next set. All right, I'm going to jump back to biceps here. I'm going to try to jump up and wait. Going into the gym, a lot of it really just comes down to focus and intensity. Too many times I see people going into the gym and it's just a checklist that they have. Okay, I got to 15 reps, check. Next exercise, you know, 12 reps, check. going in and making sure that you have that focus and you have that intensity and you're pushing yourself out of your comfort zone. Oh yeah, when I hit a wall like that, sometimes I just got to shake it out, get strong in my head again. Two more. You can have the best workout plan in the world, but there's no substitute for good oldfashioned hard work. There we go. So, last set I started with the 35s. I had to jump back down to the 30s. But this is where decisions come in. This is where you got to push yourself, challenge yourself. So, I'm going to go ahead and start with the 35s again because I can always drop back down and jump back in. All right. So, that's the finish of my second superset. Now, I'm going to go over and start my third, which is actually a tricep. The reason I'm doing this is I want to get two tricep exercises in. So, I'll start with a reverse curl with my hands facing down or palms facing down. That's a pronated grip. And what this is going to do is this is going to emphasize the brachialis which is another flexor in your upper arm. I'm going to go ahead and jump now to skull crushers. On these, I actually prefer a narrow grip. So now, you'll see a lot of people with their elbows facing straight toward the ceiling. I like to actually kick mine back a little bit. This keeps constant tension on the tricep. So even when I'm at the top of the range of the motion, I'm not able to rest. So that's 15. Now I'm going to come over, pick up some dumbbells, and do kickbacks. The range of motion is real small, so I just like to rep them out. So I'll just lean forward just slightly, and I'll just let the weight kind of let my forearms hang in a neutral position, and I just squeeze them back. Like I said, the range of motion is real small. You got to focus on it. You got to put your thought right into your tricep. Really focus on that squeeze. So, that was 15. Now, I'm going to jump in. I'm going to go ahead and do 12. So, that was 12. Just because you got to 12 or whatever number you're counting to doesn't mean you're done. You know, working out isn't about just counting reps. It's about really pushing yourself. So, so let me squeeze out a couple more. All right. And again over to my kickbacks. When I'm doing these super sets or even these giant sets, the intensity is high and my heart rate is elevated. So able to not only build muscle but but burn fat at the same time. That's 10. Let me see if I get a few more. Probably make it burn. There we go. Two. So, this uh third and final set, I'm going to go ahead and uh drop down to 10 reps. That's my whole workout. That was three sets of biceps, four sets of triceps. I've seen people do more. Me personally, through my 23 years of training, I found that anything more than that is overkill. You have a difficult time recovering. It's not about what you do in the gym. It's about the recovery outside the gym. So, you want to grow, you got to be careful not to overtrain. If you have any more questions for me, please visit me on BodySpace at James Grage. And for more articles, content, and videos from me, come back to bodybuilding.com.