The back is the second largest muscle group in the body. So if you want to see fast results, obviously you need to train your legs hard, but you also need to train your back hard. It's a good source of power. It's going to help you also on leg day. It's going to help you be functionally fit. You know, when you're training with Aaron, it's going to be intense. Your cardiovascular system is going to be taxed. Your nervous system is going to be taxed. And she again approaches this by using super sets during the workout. Think about your goals before and during the workout. When you do that, it's a lot easier to maintain intensity because you know what you're going for. It's going to take hard work. It's going to take perseverance, but you can do it. We're going to hit back hard. We're going to do supersets, four sets of 10 for the first three exercises, and then we'll do a nice aesthetic finishing move. The training techniques that Aaron put together that the user will encounter today are a number of very critical elements. The first is that Aaron trains her back in all different planes of motion. So for example, we have here what's called the sagittal [music] plane. She trains her back in this region. We have a lateral plane or a frontal plane. She trains the back [music] in that region as well. And then finally, she trains it in what we call a horizontal plane. And then different angles and variations of that. The reason why it's so important, muscle groups are actually arranged in what we call functional neuromuscular compartments. And when you use different angles, it calls into play different populations of [music] that muscle group. But more specifically, the back is not just one muscle. It's several muscles and it has to be trained at different angles. The second technique of [music] course that Aaron uses is that she uses more training volume during this training session. So, for example, for the shoulders, she had two hard super sets, whereas in the back, she actually uses three super sets and a finisher. This is because the back's more complex. It's much larger than the shoulders, and so it requires a [music] lot more volume. Before we hit the weights, it's important to do a 5minute warm-up. Get the blood pumping and get [music] started, and then do your static stretching afterwards. From speaking with Aaron, she's thinking about the exercise that she's going to perform. She's going through those motions. The purpose of this is to prepare her mind to actually [music] train her back during her warm-up, and that's going to give her a more effective workout. [music] I think it's important to do a general warm-up and some dynamic moves versus static stretching. Static stretching before a lift creates micro tears in the muscle and then lifting creates micro tears in the muscle. So you have a higher chance of pulling something or tearing something when you do your static stretching before. We'll start the back workout with a super set of rows on the bench [music] followed by easy pullovers. We're going to do four sets of 10. It'll take about 45 seconds to a minute in between sets. For the rows, you want to make sure you keep your elbows close to your body and rather [music] than torque your shoulders, you want to keep your shoulders at a at a level plane. So, you'll choose a weight that's challenging, but again, keep proper range of motion and proper form. [music] Anytime that you're laying flat on a bench and the dumbbells are [music] straight down, that actually targets directly the center back muscles. In fact, it lines Aaron's arms directly up with the center back muscles. Remember those are the romboids as well as the center trap. So what are their job? Their job again is to retract the scapula and to be performed in this rowing motion. That's what you're going to want to focus on is again squeezing the scapula and rowing at [music] the same time. And then for the pullovers, you just want to keep your back nice and flat. Keep your elbows slightly bent and close to your body. and keep your abs tight. The pullovers are perfect because remember what do the lower lats do? They extend the arm backwards. So the pullovers are working again in this sagittal plane and they're moving the arms backwards. But what's unique about both of these exercises is that they place both the rhomboids as well as the lats on stretch. So when you're on a bench, you're actually able to stretch out the rhomboids. When you're doing a pullover, you're able to stretch out the lats. [music] As with all of the other exercises, it's very important to time your rest. Maybe take a minute in between sets. [music] The next two exercises that we'll be doing are rows on the incline bench with dumbbells and close grip lat pull downs. We'll be doing four sets of 10. [music] Again, we're going to take about 45 seconds to a minute in between sets. When you're performing rowing movements, remember that your focus is going to be at the shoulder blades when you're performing the movement. You don't want to move it at the arms. This is not working the biceps. You're particularly focusing on the back itself. So, your first movement should be to retract your scapula. That means you're initiating the romboids as well as the center traps first. And that has to be your priority. For close grip, you want to stay upright. You don't want to lean back too much and focus on using your lats. I think another reason why I like to time my recovery is to hold myself accountable. And you want to hold yourself accountable through everything you do. workouts, [music] meals, supplementation. It's It's all about making sure everything [music] is done at 100%. For the dumbbell rows, it's important to keep your elbows close to your body. I I like this exercise because [music] you have to keep your body against the bench and you really have to isolate the back that way. This is again focusing on the extension motion of the lower lats themselves. Now remember when she did the pullovers that's focusing on the stretching portion whereas the pull downs are focusing more on the extensor [music] portion of the lower lats. So the combination of the two is going to develop Aaron's lats perfectly and [music] symmetrically. The next two exercises that we'll be doing are wide grip lat pull down followed by face pulls. four sets of 10. Again, 45 seconds to a minute in between sets. [music] When we're actually talking about these wide grip lat pull downs, when you're doing this exercise, you want to focus in essence on pulling your elbows in towards your body as opposed to working here or as opposed to rocking back and forth. I like supersets for back [music] because um you're going to feel a constant burn. the lactic acid after the first couple of exercises is going to be there and just push through it and keep lifting heavy. [music] We talk about the high cable rows that is perfect for tying in the rear delts to the upper middle back [music] and that is a very dramatic appearance when you're on stage and again sets off the beginning [music] of that sort of Vtaper. I think it's important for women to build a Vtaper because it does give the illusion of a smaller waist. It gives you a very pretty shape [music] from the back. And then for men, it's very important because a lot of times they'll train chest, but they won't train back as hard. So the shoulders tend to round forward. So it's something also [music] for aesthetics to help bring the shoulders back. Now Aaron is a very smart trainer in in the fact that she [music] keeps her workouts extremely efficient. So, she knows if she's working with a cable, if she's able to switch from one angle to the next, that limits the time down on her workout. It increases the density of her workout, and it's also going to elevate her heart rate. So, not only is Aaron working her back, but again, she's taxing the cardiovascular system and increasing the leanness of her physique, as well as you who are going to be [music] following this program. The last exercise that we'll be doing are single arm cable pull downs and just three sets of eight, but I really want you to focus on pulling with [music] your lats and pulling both sides evenly. I like to do unilateral training, especially at the end, because it works on the aesthetics. Um, a lot of times you'll have a dominant side and a non-dominant side, which are not the same size. [music] So, it's important to work them evenly to build them up to be the same size. So, now Aaron is getting ready to finish off her back with a unilateral [music] movement. So that means when you're actually training the body with one limb at a time. [music] Now this is very important because think about how do we move in everyday life. We're not swinging our arms up [music] when we're walking. We're actually using them unilaterally. Same thing with our feet. So it's important to incorporate unilateral movements. Since this is a finishing move, it's not going to be as intense. I want you to really focus [music] on using proper range of motion. Again, holding it at the bottom a little bit longer. Over the next four weeks, you'll get stronger, your endurance will improve, and you'll be doing the same exercises, but it's important to go up in weight and also take less time in between sets. It's the start of a brand new physique. Push yourself hard. Challenge yourself. Earn your elite.