athletes, Abel Almanetti and Jesse Hilenberg. Thank you for joining us. Hi. Hello. If you guys wouldn't mind just giving everybody a quick background on your experience in the health and fitness industry before we get started, that'd be great. Uh we're going to start with you, Abel. If you wouldn't mind sharing a little bit about yourself. Okay. How I got started. Um really when I was 17, you know, started working out and stuff like that at a younger age, uh at a YMCA. And from there, um, when I turned 20, that's when I really got serious about it. Uh, went through college, I got a business degree, uh, in a local college. And then from there, got my, uh, personal training degree from ISSA. And, um, yeah, so that's pretty much, you know, from there on, you know, personal training. Right now, I'm at a personal training gym in downtown Memphis, uh, training, you know, about full-time right now. So, yeah. Cool. How about you, Jesse? Um, I am an IFBB figure pro. Um, I'm also a competition coach across the country. Um, I have a background, an extensive background in just being an athlete. Um, I have a black belt in taekwondo. I'm a certified yoga instructor. Um, I love CrossFit style workouts and just trying new things. I've always been an athlete, but I started in this industry really in 2009 when I started getting ready for my first NPC figure competition. Cool. Well, thanks for both being here again. Um, I'm just going to dive right into it. If you guys wouldn't mind letting me know kind of overall what your physique goals are and how supplementation has played a part in helping you reach those goals. Again, let's start with Ael. No. Okay. physique uh goals really. I don't really really want to get much bigger for uh my, you know, height and stuff. I'm, you know, like 5'9, so I don't really want to get much bigger. Uh just pretty much lean out and, you know, pretty much uh the look of a photo, you know, doing photo shoots for, you know, in men's physique. So, nothing too big. Um just lean out and stay around there. Um you know, supplements is a big big thing in, you know, what I do. uh the main things you know protein u you know getting enough of that BCAS all that stuff you know helps you know a big role in either you know leaning down or you know building size so right now I'm just trying to stay the same size but you know leaning down for different photo shoots and stuff like that so okay how about you Jess and I'm the opposite I love getting huge so um my my you know I love sculpting my physique and I love tracking my progress. Um, I get so excited about, you know, you don't really think a lot of things have changed and then you look at a progress photo of you from, you know, three years ago and it's a completely different body. Um, that's one thing I love the most about Body Space is you can look at your pictures from so long ago and just really look and see how many how much you've progressed. Um, so I love doing that. I love tracking my progress, taking pictures, um, and seeing how much I've changed. I don't obviously want to get huge. I don't want to look like a, you know, a big giant bodybuilder, but I love, you know, building muscle and sculpting out my physique. Um, I will always bodybuild, but my long-term goal is really just to kind of stay lean. I stay lean pretty year round for, you know, photo shoots and just to set a good example to everyone out there. Um, but I always want to stay muscular and I'm not getting any younger. So, um, I just want to stay healthy and be fit for a really long time. And so, what what type of supplements did you guys do you guys use in order to maintain throughout the year or keep the physique that you have? Uh, pretty much, you know, the basics as far as protein, you know, creatine. Um, you know, I do take creatine, uh, CLA, uh, multivitamin, um, just pretty much the basics, uh, as far as building or leaning down. It's not really I don't really change it up either way. If I'm building, I'm using the same supplements as pretty much when I'm, you know, leaning down. So, yeah. Go ahead, D. And I'm I'm pretty much the same way with my supplements don't really change uh much throughout the entire year. Um, I will say though that if I'm really trying to lean out for a competition or um a photo shoot, I will add some uh fat burners into my program and then if I'm really trying to kind of bulk up and, you know, I don't have a a competition or a photo shoot anytime soon, um, that's when I really take advantage of trying to grow and I'll add in kind of some I'll really pay attention to my post-workout supplements. Um, but year round it's always uh whey protein. My fish oils are a really big deal to me. CLA's and um a really good high quality fish oil uh and all my multivitamins and glutamine and branch chain amino acids. Okay. You actually touched on a topic. We reached out to some of our Facebook followers to ask them what kind of questions they have around supplementation. And one of the questions that kept coming up was about fat burners and how do you guys feel about them? if there's specific ones that you do like, which ones are they and when do you actually use them? It sounds like you don't use them all the time. If you want to go ahead and that, Jesse. Okay. Um, I really never got into fat burners. I tried them a long time ago when I first, you know, started in the fitness competition world back in 2009. Um, and I'm really sensitive. So, I'm really sensitive to supplements anyway. I've always kind of been, you know, I've been doing yoga my almost my whole life. So, I kind of have that state of mind where I just want to be as natural as possible and, you know, I really pay attention to what I'm putting into my body. So, when I first tried, you know, experimenting with different kinds of fat burners out there, um, I got real jittery and it just made me kind of feel like not myself and I'd find myself feeling awkward talking to people or something. I just didn't like it. So, I kind of threw them out for a while and then um just recently I started using uh NLA for hers shred her and the only reason I really, you know, wanted to give it a chance is because it's all natural and they're really low on stim stimulants. So, that's the one that I use. That's the one that I always recommend. Um and I don't use it year round, but I do use it when I'm trying to lean out. So, I'm not going to use fat burners if I'm trying to bulk or if I'm already lean and I'm just trying to maintain it. But, if I do want a little bit of an extra push, I will add those in. Um, and I play with it. You know, sometimes for whatever reasons, I'm a little bit more sensitive to them than others. So sometimes it's just kind of like one to two, you know, before I go do cardio in the morning and then I'll follow a pattern like three days on of them and then I take a two-day break and then I add them back in, you know, 3 days on, two days off, stuff like that. And I think it's good to do that regardless because it keeps your body guessing and it doesn't get your body used to kind of operating with that in your system. Do you ever have you ever tried them, Ael? I have tried them. I tried them once and the only time I've ever you know actually would try them or anything it was um about two weeks out from a competition. Uh so I tried them once uh just pretty much for energy. Uh you know at that time when you're two weeks out you're trying to you know get as lean as you can and uh you know your energy drops. Um so I've tried them once. Uh I don't I haven't tried them again because u I mean I've done it without it. So, if I can live without it, you know, I'm going to do it naturally with like CLA and L quarantine and stuff like that. But for the most part, I do not mess with fat burners. Okay. Well, both of you guys have mentioned whey protein. It's very popular. A lot of people use it, but it's determining when to use it. People aren't sure when to intake. Is it first thing in the morning, before the workout, after workout, at night? Snacks. I mean, you hear everything. So, how how do you guys personally what times do you take your whey protein and how important do you think it is to reaching your fitness goals? Let's start you with you again, Jesse. Um, I use whey protein almost every single day of my life. I think the only time the only days that I don't have it in my daily routine is if I happen to be like one week out from a competition where I'm really just trying to be all raw, all natural food. Um, but other than that, one week before a show, um, I use it right when I wake up in the morning, you've kind of fasted all night long and you wake up and your body really wants those nutrients. So, a really good high quality whey protein isolate where that protein really, you know, gets shuttled into your muscles to use as fuel as quickly as possible, um, is what I like to do. So, first thing in the morning and then, like I mentioned earlier, post-workout nutrition is really, really important to me. So, as soon as I'm done with a workout, maybe even five minutes before I finish, I'm already starting to drink um my whey protein shake. Okay. How about you, Ael? Uh yeah, pretty much the same thing. It's in the morning and then, you know, right after a workout, you know, because you everyone knows you're not building muscle as you work out. You're tearing it down. So to, you know, to actually rebuild, you know, you have to have, you know, fuel. So the protein, like she said, the isolate, you know, gets into your muscles quicker than eating, you know, solid food. Uh, but I take it, you know, protein all the time, every day, you know, in the morning and then after workout. And yeah. Okay. Uh we're getting into the season where people like to put on a lot of mass and uh trying to get the right supplements and food intake and everything to make sure that they get that mass put on. But a lot of people are nervous that they're going to be putting on not just muscle mass but fat as well. Are there any tricks or supplements that you take that have helped you gain the mass that you need, the muscle mass without putting on the extra weight? How about you, Jess? Uh, for me, it's all timing. So, uh, you can I think you can have carbs, uh, every day. um a if if you like a post-workout carb type of supplement, um you can have that year round, especially in a bulking type of a season or time for you. Um it it all comes down to timing. So, of course, if you're just shoving carbs in your face all day long, um you're probably going to be a little bit farther off from what you what you want to be after a while. Um, but if you make sure you kind of figure out the timing of when your body needs nutrients, such as you just went and had a, you know, a vigorous 30 or more minute workout, um, your body can benefit greatly from introducing carbs right after a workout like that. Um, and those are the kind of those are the kind of things that I try to really watch um year round, but especially when I'm bulking is when I will, you know, just eat clean all day and then, you know, just kind of some like slow digesting carbs throughout the day, go have a awesome workout, go kill a leg workout or whatever it is that you do. And then as soon as I'm done with that workout is when I'll get in kind of the bulk of my carbs. If I'm taking a post-workout carb supplement, that's when I have that kind of post-workout shake, things like that timing. How about you, Ael? Uh, as far as, you know, supplement goes and building and stuff. The supplements, like I said, pretty much stay the same year round for me. The only thing is different is really the diet. Um, you know, so supplements is going to be, you know, your creatine to make you stronger. So that initially make you bigger. Um, and then, you know, protein. uh I just jump up the protein. So if I'm wanting to build a little little bit more, you know, up the protein and up the carbs. So it's really, you know, the diet as far as, you know, if you want to stay leaner and uh you know, build size at the same time. It's really about the diet and when you know you when you're taking it in and stuff like Jesse was saying around the workouts, you know, the most carbs and stuff like that and then throughout the day, you know, slow digesting carbs and yeah. So okay. And the another thing that people brought up, the midsection seems to be an issue all the time. It comes up very frequently on all of our social media channels and on our site and we all hear abs are made in the kitchen and we have tons of great exercises. Is there any supplementation tips of bringing it into the mix that you feel would actually help them reach their goals faster? How about you, Ael? Um yeah, abs are pretty much made in the kitchen. I mean the saying is really true. I mean you can work out so you know often but you know they say you can't you know out you know train your you know diet and that's very true. You know some people you know go in there and they work out all the time and you see them in the gym all the time but they don't change at all um as far as physical because you know their diet's off and stuff. So really it is it is true about you know the K you abs are made in the kitchen. Uh, so yeah, I mean there's supplements that can help. Uh, you know, like we're talking about fat burners and stuff like that, but you know, for the most part, it's going to be about the diet. What do you think, Jesse? Um, yes, abs are made in the kitchen. It is all diet. Um, but also for me, a big big one is getting um those fish oils in your daily routine. um things like CLA's um you know just really good high quality fish oil with good EPAs and things like that. Um being consistent with those fish oils you would be really surprised how much that kind of really helps the fat burning process along not just in your middle section but you know your entire body. But I would say a really good clean consistent diet um with a really great uh routine of taking daily uh fish oil supplements. Okay. Uh also we're wondering what type of supplements do you guys take pre and postworkout? Um, I know that Jess you remember mentioned taking whey protein five minutes before you stop working out or right directly afterwards, but do you guys take any type of pre-workouts? And what do you recommend right after? How about you, Abel? Uh, yes, I do take preworkout. Uh, I take Fast Fuel from RSP. Uh, just something that, you know, gets me going a little bit. It helps me, you know, work out longer and harder. Uh some pre-work workouts and stuff I I didn't really like when I tried them to begin with probably a couple years ago because they gave me, you know, a lot of jitters and stuff, but you know, you really have to pick what kind of pre-workout works best for you because uh like I said, some gave me jitters and I didn't like that feeling. But uh you know, Fast Fuel, it gives me plenty of u energy without the jitters. And um then I take a nitric oxide supplement with the pre-workout. Um afterwards, you know, it's protein uh and creatine mixed together um for that post-workout. And that's going to be, you know, taken anywhere from a, you know, right after the workout to 30 minutes, uh just to, you know, refuel the body after, you know, a hard workout. Okay. And Jesse, um I do use a preworkout supplement. Um, and that's about it before I work out besides just making sure my that my diet is good and I'm getting good fuel from clean food. Um, I don't use a pre-workout every single time I work out, but if I know it's kind of a big muscle group and I'm going to need a lot of endurance um, and a lot of kind of power to get through the workout, I will use a pre-workout supplement. And I, um, use uplift by NLA for her. Um, you know, a lot of people think a preworkout powder is, um, just to kind of get, you know, enough energy to get the motivation to walk out your front door and go to the gym. And yes, it will definitely do that. Any pre-workout will do that. U, but to me, and what I think the real purpose is is to really support um, you know, your endurance to get through a workout. With a pre-workout, you can get out, you know, a few more reps where you would, you know, normally stop by yourself. Um, where you kind of peter out toward the end of a workout or the end of a set, you kind of have the energy and the focus and the drive to finish it out and go a little bit longer and stronger and harder than you normally would without a pre-workout. So, um, that's a big one for me. Like I said, not every single workout, definitely not cardio or maybe a small muscle group, but definitely, you know, big muscle groups that are that are going to require a lot of um power and focus for me. Great. Um, another question that people brought up was for people that were 50 and over, which I was actually surprised that we got so many questions about this, but do you have any type of tips supplement wise for people that are a little bit um older in demographic? Jesse, how about you? Um I being a competition coach um I actually have more uh mature women than I do younger gals and so honestly they don't do much different. I don't you know recommend anything much different to them um than I do you know every all my girls and guys. So um the one thing that I would pay attention to are the things that um you know mature women have to watch like you know a calcium supplement could benefit them greatly but just making sure that uh you get in you know enough protein and branch chain amino acids and and the fuel that you need. Uh again I keep going back to fish oils. You can see how important those are to me. Um, and you know, a whey protein, a good high quality ingredient whey protein. Um, making sure that you are, you know, fueled before and after workouts. Uh, a great multivitamin and a calcium supplement is really as far as I'd go as long as there's no other, you know, medical uh, things going on that you should discuss with your doctor. Would you have anything to add to that, Ael? Uh, no. Pretty much the same thing. you know, a good multivitamin. Uh, you know, I train a lot of older people where I, you know, personal train and, uh, really it's nothing different, you know, that I tell them. It's, you know, protein, just the basic BCAS, uh, multivitamin, you know, fish oils, uh, just pretty much the basic of anyone. So, it's not going to change just because you're older really. Uh, so yeah. Okay. Well, a lot of people these days are on a budget. Do can you guys give us a recommendation like your top three to five I have on the shelf at all time supplements that you guys would recommend people to that are wanting to get and maintain their fitness health and fitness. How about you Abel? Uh for three I would have to say it would be protein, multivitamin and a fish oil. Those would be uh you know the top three for basic you know um just for the supplements. uh the top three for me for sure. Okay, how about you Jesse? Uh for me it's protein and fish oils and then the third would be branch chain amino acids. Okay, great. Um I think that's all that we had. Those were the top questions that people were wanting to know about. I did recommend people can actually post more questions on our hangout if they have any and I can send those out to you to be answered later if you wouldn't mind stepping in and answering some more questions. But otherwise, uh, thanks for coming out today. I really appreciate it. Yeah, no problem. Thanks for having us. And of course, always happy to answer further questions that get posted. Great. Thanks, guys. And if you want to learn more about Jesse and Abel, I'll put their information right below this video. And don't forget to subscribe. Thanks very much. Bye for watching. Bye.