Strength isn't a slogan. You want to win this year? What time is it? What time is it? It's not an image you find on billboards or the big screen. It's never been about any of that. It's all around you in everyday moments just waiting to be unleashed. Strength is the knowledge that inside you lies anything you've ever wanted to be. The confidence that your failures never define you. And the passion and purpose to drive beyond any limits placed upon you. When you call upon it, strength embraces you, challenges you, pulls you back up. No matter how many times you fall, it compels you to draw on courage, resilience, intensity, and hope, and expects your very best to help others find theirs. True strength demands you build more than muscle. Not in pursuit of a personal best, but a better tomorrow for everyone. Hi guys, welcome into our little Q&A chat we've got going on. My name is Broen. I'm a Muscle Tech athlete and I've been with Muscle Tech for coming up on two years now. So, what we've got going on, we've been doing a little rebranding and um I've got Raza here with me. He's our product developer. I'm going to let him introduce himself, give him what you he does. Sure. Hey everyone. um VP scientific affairs um and oversee you know essentially product quality uh love formulas and uh you know today just really looking forward to you know talking to everyone at bb.com and all the muscle tech fans and talking a little bit about uh you know products ingredients how we can help uh performance recovery and uh yeah excited to get right into it. Yeah. So, like I said, we've been rebranding and um I've just got a bunch of questions and I'm gonna ask Raza because I think that you guys have probably a lot of the same questions I do. So, first things first, why why the rebrand? What's behind it? Yeah, I mean, we're we're always looking to to evolve, you know, continuously sort of improve. And uh you know one thing that we wanted to do was ensure that you know we're really catering to everyone because when when we when we create products you know we're making products that are going to help with strength uh muscle um energy u but also things like mobility uh recovery from exercise which you know it doesn't matter if you're training twice a day you know three times a week you're the aspiring or the elite athlete we kind of got you covered and you know we felt it was it was time to make sure we know we kind of updated modernized what we were doing. Yeah, I think that's one thing that like really spoke volumes to me when I was reading through all of our values and what we're going for. And it's like, you know, it's not necessarily how much you can lift anymore. It's not like, hey, you need to be able to bench press 3,000 pounds, you know, it's more of like we're trying to get, you know, it's it's just the fact that you're living a balance and living a healthy life, right? Yeah, you got it. I mean, strength's important to everybody, right? No matter what you're doing, you know, whether you're doing it for fitness, health related reasons. So, Exactly. Yeah. Well said. Great. So, you know, we've got a new look. We've got all kinds of new things. So, what improvements exactly have we made to specifically our formulas and our flavors that everyone's excited about? Yeah, you got it. So, I mean, again, continuously looking to improve that means, you know, new science, uh, you know, what's out there, whether it's new publications, new ingredients, new technologies, delivery formats, um, and even packaging. And you know we looked at all that um and again you know how could we you know modernize our products. In some cases it meant you know starting from the ground up uh reformulating using more novel ingredients. Um in other cases it was maybe modernizing the flavors again because we've come a long way even on on flavor technology. So you'll see a lot of that as well. Um and and what we did was to make sure that we were in fact you know catering to everybody in in terms of the products that we're making. We we created our products into sort of two different uh sorry three different pillar pillar systems. Um so there was one which is sort of a health and wellness where you know what we're doing is essentially providing the daily needs that people need um to kind of feel their lifestyle. Uh then we created a performance pillar. So that's for you know the fitness enthusiasts um all the right ingredients to kind of help them perform. Uh and then the elite uh elite science where we're talking about the most cutting edge leading edge ingredients to kind of fuel that elite athlete. So yeah, lots of lot lots lots of changes and and improvements for sure. Great. Love that. Um, so my next question is so more from like an ingredient standpoint. Um, what exactly are we looking at now? Yeah, so you know some of my some of the ingredients that you know some of the favorites and I'm really excited about I mean if we look at our like our elite chatter we've added things like dynamine um in combination with dynamite from a really unique sensory experience. So dynamine sort of like a pyion alkyoid really similar to caffeine really rapid onset in terms of its effects. Uh combine that um with zyomite which is sort of like a mango extract standardized to mangiferin again truly unique sensory um in our uh actually our test HD product uh couple couple ingredients I'm really excited about. one like the the Eden Sim ingredient in here uh which is essentially it is a grape apple skin extract plus saffron which got emerging science shows that increases um blood flow and nitric oxide. So you know with this product it was about testosterone enhancement but also strength and overall vitality. So that combined with the KSM66 novel form of ashwagandanda uh that helps with strength and then the prima shiliget among many other ingredients. Uh and then another one that uh really excited about is our our red spinach using the NO3 technology. It's uh the highest naturally occurring uh nitrate uh source available and in a in a botanical form. So that's just again really good for blood flow. And then a couple other favorites that just continuously have new science. Uh something like our our beta tour in our in our clear muscle. Um you know we're first to kind of bring that to market. A lot of great stuff there whether it's related to muscle building. Um but also overall recovery as well. A lot of a lot of new research um on that front and and then uh PKTP another ingredient you know always always kind of excited about. So you mentioned recovery. Can you tell me like exactly what ingredients are helping you recover and you know why that's so important. Yeah. So I mean recovery is so important because no matter what you're doing to be active, it's all about sort of repair and recovery. So if you're playing sports, you want to be you want to be practicing consistently, right? you can perform at that game at the next highest level. What's going to allow you to repair, you know, recover between each session. Um, and then again, for, you know, the average person, whether you're doing home workouts, um, you want to keep up your routine, you know, keep up, um, your fitness level and your goals. Um, and it usually involves recovery. Um, so there's mult there there is multiple ingredients. Um, probably one of the most important for sure would be would be protein. Um, getting enough protein in your day uh, is is key. Uh what we know about exercise is when you exercise, when you especially when you weight train or do some sort of resistance training, you increase protein synthesis for 24 to 48 hours, usually after exercise, and you can amplify that with certain nutrients like protein. Um so the whole the whole thing with recovery is what you're trying to do is, you know, you want to delay that that soreness, but you also want to really amplify the protein building aspect. We want to tip the scale in favor of protein building um rather than protein breakdown. Um, so that's critical when it when it comes to uh recovery. So protein would be one of the top ingredients um on that front. And by the way, I can keep going. There's a lot of other ingredients uh on that. I'd say uh creatine is another really well-known one um for recovery. Um and because it replenishes ATP um so ATP is your key energy source. Um that you know really important for muscle contractions. So, you know, anytime you're doing something really sort of rapid movements, acceleration, you know, the first zero 30 zero to 30 seconds in like sprints or sports, um, weight training, lifting reps, you know, that's that's your ATP and your creatine that's really really going to benefit you. So, you know, that's that's that's another key one. And then, uh, the clear muscle clear muscle is probably one of my favorite favorite. It's even a a favorite at our at our business. Um, so it's your favorite, too. Yeah. Great. Okay. Excellent. And are you and are you taking it for recovery? Are you taking it for strength? Um, usually I'll take it before and after later. Yeah. Okay. Great. Yeah. It helps you. I mean, it's it's one of those products every time, you know, I've heard someone try it, you know, you give it to someone or they bought it, it's just the feedback they give, they're always really surprised um, you know, by by the results of it. Yeah. Oh yeah, I think recovery is absolutely like and supplements is something that you know it's going to just like you said just help speed up the recovery process. And you know to bring it back a little bit um for those of you who are maybe a little more less scientifically over here that Ros has got the science down. Basically, when you guys work out, what you're doing is really like you're breaking your muscles. And what these supplements are doing is help rebuilding them faster so that you can get back in the gym and not feel so weak and so sore. Right. Exactly. The less science version. Okay. So, um, next question that I have for you is, so let's say for someone who's just looking to build strength or maybe just like completely redo their physique overall, like what supplements do you say are absolute musthaves? Yeah. Okay. So, I touched on the the protein aspect of it. Um, which is absolutely key. You know, provides those essential amino acids um that you need to kind of recover. Um and uh a couple of the products that I'd recommend for we got our Nitro Tech Power which which we released and it is like it is one of the most comprehensive uh proteins out there um sort of period. Uh and again that elite right it's you know we had to make sure we deliver on that elite promise which is you know having ingredients at you know all the right ingredients at the right doses and in this product you know we've got 30 grams of whey protein isolate and on top of that we added um uh creatine we got HMBB we've got Nordic cherry uh and then we also have prohibdy in there which is an enzyme complex. So, anytime you're getting a a protein, what we want to do is make sure that, you know, you're absorbing as much as that as possible. Uh, so there's research on prohibited in there, which shows that it increases um protein absorption of those amino acids by 20%. And and how it does that, it's actually fully hydrarolying your protein. So, it predigests that protein. And whenever you can predigest a protein uh into smaller sort of peptide forms, what you're doing is you're getting a protein rather than this really large molecule, you're getting a smaller highly, you know, absorbable form of it. So people really um swear by hydrayzeed products and by using this prohyd you're fully hydraying it in solution. So that's a big one. Um the other one I'd recommend which kind of got sitting here, one one of my favorites is our isoay clear. Um, have you tried this? Yeah. Yeah, I have all of them sitting right here, too. Oh, you do? Okay. Um, the the Do you have a favorite flavor? Uh, yeah. So, right now, my favorite is the orange dreamsicle. Nice. Okay. So good in smoothies. Yeah. Fantastic. Okay. My mine's the the lemon beer. I absolutely love love it. And um the what's what's really special about this is so again it's it's it's this is hydrayzeed. Sorry. This is um isolate protein. So, you're getting the isolate protein, but it's got the hydrayze in there and it's a clear whey protein isolate. So, if someone wants something different rather than sort of like the more creamier chocolate and vanilla type flavors, they can go to something like this uh which is really light. You know, a lot of people like this is easier sometimes to do um you know, post-workout, especially if you're going to eat a meal really close. Um sip on this and again pre it's got the brohydrolyze in there. Predigest that protein. um you know the feedback I've gotten from this not only people love the flavor but it also just absorbs really well and it digests really well um with them which again that's really important. So you know everybody knows their own digestive tract really well but you know I highly recommend trying this product. Yeah I actually um for the most part I eat fully vegan um because I have such a sensitive stomach and like this stuff is so clear and so clean that it doesn't upset my stomach. So I mean I say if you have any type of digestive issues just like me you are perfectly fine. So it works out great. Um so I want to talk a little bit about preworkout and you know like what do you think about all these you know ready to drinks or powder formulas like what what what can you tell me about what we're going what we're doing? Yeah the it's a really really good question. Um in terms of pre-workouts you know there's a lot of lot of lot of RTDs out there which are really convenient. Um, but the one thing I'll say is a pre a good solid pre-workout powder is critical. Um, it's like especially right now training at home, it's like it's the most like intense and important training partner you can have, which is having that powder uh side by side. So, our um our elite shatter elite uh product really, you know, we engineered this one to have all the key ingredients that you need to really kind of push yourself uh through your workouts. Um so you know within it we have two sources for nitric oxide um production. So we got for example um elcitriine six grams of it. So that's sort of the arginine citrilline pathway where converts um to arginine. Um it's actually more effective um than actually supplementing arginine. Uh increases more larginine in the blood. So you get more nitric oxide production. But again we've got the the red spinach in there. Um one of my favorite ingredients. Just unbelievable for increasing blood flow, helping with muscle endurance and even time to fatigue. So again, doesn't matter what you're doing in training. Um it can kind of help help with that. And then of course unique sensory. You know, we all need sort of um you know, something kind of whether it's push us through our day, push us through our workouts, our training sessions. Um the dynamite in combination um with the dynamine, the caffeine, the alpha GPC, uh we really we really kind of stack this product uh to kind of have everything. So that's one of the upsides with this elite product. um leading edge science and you know really comprehensive formula, multiple mechanisms and then of course beta-alanine, betane, other ingredients uh to help with preventing that lactic acid buildup. So again um reduce fatigue, what whatever you're doing for exercise, that extra set uh it it it really it really helps. Yeah, that lactic acid buildup aka the burn. That's um so one thing though that like Raza was saying all these RTDs I don't know about you guys and I've I've heard a lot of complaints from other people but I mean sometimes you just get the spins you get dizzy. Uh I don't know if it's just maybe they're too strong or what but anytime I mean I always my thing is a go-to powder when it comes to pre-workout especially before a workout. Uh just because like you said, you just you get it so much faster and you're just ready to go and your uh ours is not overly strong to where I'm like tingling in the gym like too much. Um but you know, you just you get that energy and you're just ready to go and your sets are longer and you can just keep going longer, you know. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. I like it. Um so we do have some questions coming in. So I'm going to read some of them to you. All right. So let's see. We've got one. What is a better supplement for beginners trying to build muscle? Yeah, so um if if if your focus is muscle, uh I definitely say uh creatine. Uh creatine is going to be uh yeah, you know, more effective for citrine. Citrine is a great a great ingredient. It's a little bit more about blood flow, blood flow um um in exercise, whereas creatine is is all about muscle. Um and and what we know about it is um on average, most of the research shows that you can gain about 2 to five pounds of muscle within about 4 to 12 weeks and people typically get about 20% strength increases. Um so it's certainly certainly the way to go. Okay, perfect. Let's see. Um what should I be looking for when trying to find a fat burner? Yeah. Um you know what? That's that's it's a great question. I you know what you need really need to do is look at a product that's got science behind it. Um it's got clinical research. So if they're making claims, you're going you're going to want to know that is it is it backed uh backed by science. So for example, like our you know all the products that we launch, we've always got two human clinical studies um to support the weight loss um the weight loss key ingredients within that. Um and we're always going to talk about the science. you go to our links, you know, you'll see you'll see information on the ingredients, how they work, the science. So, uh, that's that's really key. You know, there's a lot of products that make bold claims out there. Uh, just, you know, just ensure that there is there is product out there. And, you know, we've launched, uh, a couple new products, hydroxyut hardcore elite and a hydroxyut hardcore super elite. Um, it's got, you know, key ingredients in there. For instance, like the, um, you know, the one of the key ingredients is the green coffee extract in there that's, you know, standardized chlorogenic acids. Um, and that really helps. Again, two studies uh from two different research groups. And you know, essentially kind of how it works is it kind of helps um prevent uh glucose glucose absorption in the intestine um and helps with helps with weight loss. Great. And oh, we've got more coming in. So, oh, I like this one. What's the difference between regular whey and isolate? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, that's you know, so the the biggest difference between sort of like a a standard whey protein, usually if it's it's whey, you kind of got to look at the bottle if it's whey protein concentrate or whey whey protein isolate. And typically what it is is so weighty protein um is a byproduct of of of cheese manufacturing process. And what happens is is after what they do with the whey protein, it can go through additional filters. Um so sort of micro filtration and ultrailtration and those filters remove sort of additional carbs, fat, lactose which then leave you with isolate which is sort of a more pure pure form. Um great benefits both uptake really fast. It's just in terms of getting a more pure source. Usually you'll look um and you'll notice your percentage of protein will be higher uh per serving if you're buying sort of an isolate isolate product. Uh the other thing I'd say is, you know, for some people who are who are more sensitive to lactose, for example, you're gonna you're going to want to look u look to an isolate based product. Great. I think that drives me into the next question that is I found that I like. So uh right now, what are the hot or trending ingredients in the supplement industry, whether it's weight loss or strength or whatever your goal may be? Yeah. So, you know, the only thing I'd say is you got to check out our elite our elite pillar line. Uh, you know, the elite science, you'll see kind of across the board. Uh, I believe in the link you're going to you're going to be able to to to directly go to those. But you know again like in our pre pre-workout you're going to see that red spinach N3 technology supplying nitrates you know plant sourced um z you know zynamite dynamine for that really unique sensory you know that in combination with alpha GPC and caffeine um you know really provides something special um bro I think when you're talking about sort of that energy and sort of tunnel vision effect like that's it it's that focus that you get um from from that combination which truly makes things um unique. Uh and then I have to talk about clear muscle. I always got to kind of mention that one. Um it really is is a favorite of mine um because of the HMBB free acid. Um you know, we were we were first to market and I actually see another question on it. So hopefully I'll try to address both questions at once about how clear muscle uh works. And it's what's really what makes it special. It's the most effective form of HMBB. And um HMBB is a metabolite of lucine. We all kind of know the important of leucine. Um, you know, it being a key essential amino acid. You consume protein, you're getting leucine. When you're taking HMBB free acid, you're getting a metabolite of of leucine, but it's the most effective form of HMBB and and how it works and what makes it more unique because a lot of people know about HMBB, but the difference maker with clear muscle is that it absorbs so much faster, you know. So usually, you know, the regular HMBB, which is still a great ingredient, but it takes about three hours to sort of peak. HMBB peaks within 30 30 minutes and then it peaks about 97% more. So it really has that benefit. And again, you know, in terms of it's it's like the ideal supplement if you want to try something a little bit different, more unique to creatine. Can even stack the two um to to help with uh muscle strength and recovery. So those are some of the ones that are kind of top of mind. Uh I mentioned Enoim as well. anostim being a really unique ingredient. Um it's it's kind of polyphenol rich compound with emerging science uh to help with blood flow and and nitric oxide as well. Great. And we actually have a couple questions on this and it kind of flows. So bulking, let's talk that. Um what supplements should people take to bulk and are there anything that can kind of help get there quicker? Yeah, I mean if putting on size fast is, you know, it's a combination of, of course, you got, you know, you definitely want to sort of, uh, be weight training, lifting heavy, um, and then protein. Protein is really important. Um, and what's really key is the amount of protein that you're having. So, for for athletes, you know, and active people and especially people that want to bulk, we're talking about 1.4 to two grams uh, per kilo body weight. probably easier way to remember is probably um you know a gram of protein per pound and over meals you're usually looking at at least about point4 grams of protein uh per uh per kilo per meal somewhere in the 20 to 40 again you're trying to bulk I'd skew to the higher end uh and then over calories you know typically you're going to want to increase your your calories by about one to 2,000 if you're serious about bulking um and and then one thing that I'd recommend is while you're doing take some lean muscle builders to also help because you know you're take you're taking in a lot of calories. Why not benefit from ingredients like you know your your creatine something like creatine monohydrate again proven proven science the most researched sports nutrition ingredient uh and then something like you know our clear muscle HB acid which just has tremendous amount of research kind of emerging and coming out more than 10 more than 10 clinical studies on it now. Awesome. All right. Yeah. key to bulking. Get all the protein and you can. Well, that's the nice part about bulking, right? You can just enjoy your food. Eat a lot. Add more protein. Um, yeah. But when bulking, it's recovery is even more important because, you know, the more days you've got off from lifting, slower your bulk's going to go. So, you got to get these recoveries in. Got it. All right. So, let's see. Oh, here's a question. I'll answer says, "Broen, what products do you use? Can you share your list? Absolutely. So, I'm big on, like I said, I love pre-workout. Um, but I like generally here I have it right here. Um, so I like this one as well. It's shatter ripped. It's got BCAs and pre-workout in it. So, I mean, it's it's recovery. It's pre-workout. I actually drink it while I'm working out. So, I'll have a little bit before workout, let it kind of kick in, but then, like I said, when I get there, uh, it's really in there. And then I just keep drinking it as I'm working out. Um, any flavor is great. Anything with grape is usually my go-to flavor. And we have a lot of grape stuff, which is great for me. Um, but then my usually I will have like two shakes using this a day. It's orange orange dreamsicle, and I'll usually make it into a shake. Um, so I definitely try and get this in like within 30 minutes post-workout. Um, but a lot of times I might have it before workout as well. So, it's kind of like a pre and post. Um, it's not heavy. It's easy on the stomach. So, sometimes when you have a really big full meal before you go out, the last thing you want to do is go work out. Uh, so it's nice to have something light. Um, usually I'll put half a banana, some almond milk, ice, just a little bit of fruit in there. Um, I have tried it with actually orange juice before, which is h pretty good. Kind of enhances the flavor. Um, but those are my big ones. And like I said, I I do use clear muscle. I'll usually have it in the morning. Uh sometimes right after I work out I'll take it again. But that's where I see when I'm not taking my clear muscle that's where I see like my muscle definition starts to like go down a little bit. So as long as I'm taking it like you know you can see a difference. You feel a difference. My recovery time. I am rarely ever sore taking all these supplements. Um because the recovery seriously and if the second I forget to take anything I can tell the difference because my whole body is like oh yeah we're not going to the gym today. So I will say supplements they really do make a difference and everything that Muscle Tech has. I mean I've been with them for two years and I would never work with a company for two years if I didn't love them. Um but everything in there I mean nothing ever upsets my stomach and like I said I have a very sensitive stomach. The flavors are always amazing. My clients are always like, "What can I get? What what flavor can I try this week?" And they're always, "Oh, send me this. Give me this." Like, "Give me the give me the supplements." So, it's like an addicting thing. And it's every flavor is great. I mean, there's nothing that I've ever hated, which is great. So, yeah, that's that's usually what I do and what I use. And, uh, those are my favorite flavors because that was another one of my questions was favorite flavor. So, all right, we're going back to you, Raza. Are you ready? Do it. Yeah. All right. What do you recommend as a good multivitamin? Um, good. Yeah. Uh, great great question. Um, I think, you know, a couple things in general to look for for a multi. Um, I'd say, you know, look at uh, especially nowadays, um, you know, vitamin C, zinc are great ingredients, right, to to look for, um, towards sort of supporting normal immune functioning and and things like that. Um, B vitamins. A lot of us, um, are actually kind of low in in B vitamins, um, as well. Um, I noticed, um, Rogan, you mentioned you're kind of doing more of a plant-based sort of diet. So, B12 is a is a great thing, uh, to be on the lookout for something like that. But, uh, you know, we've got our Essential Series, uh, vitamin, which is, you know, kind of what we did. We designed them to have, you know, essentially all all the kind of the multis you need. Uh the only other thing I'd kind of recommend sometimes is during the winter is also taking a vitamin D supplement on top of that. Uh but definitely give our give our essential series uh platinum multi a try. Yeah, I do take our multivitamins every day too. Rico, he is very excited about these multivitamins. Um okay, here's another question I like. Should I take protein if I'm a runner? Yeah. Yeah, I think absolutely. So the difference in running um is probably not going to be sort of in terms of supplementation might not be towards protein. Protein will really benefit anybody that's active. Um if you're trying to maintain a lean physique um you're trying to recover faster. In fact, if you're a runner and you're truly doing really long distances, um what you want to do is also make sure that you're protecting a lot of that hardearned muscle. Um and a couple things the more active you are uh the more type of calorierest restrictive diet you do um whether it's even you know a lot of people are doing intermittent fasting uh timerestricted eating you know obviously you know tremendous amount of benefits from that but as you do those kind of things you start to and you are dieting or doing either sort of prolonged exercise that can kind of get on to the point you know a lot of athletes potentially over you know they overtrain um as well and they just they just have to um and a lot of active people doing really long distances is um it can lead to protein u protein breakdown which essentially muscle breakdown. So what you want to do is consume protein for sure. Um I'd still consume it. Look for high quality fast acting protein. I you know you can take it at any time of the day but I still recommend taking it um after exercise because again after exercise depending on what you're doing that 24 to 48 hours of elevated protein synthesis by taking protein you can optimize that and elevate that further. So why not do that immediately, right? Immediately after you're done exercise to really get the to get the best benefits. Um so I definitely certainly recommend that um for for runners. Yeah. Like you said, anything you're doing active protein is so important. Yeah. And and again, a lot of other people have actually sworn by our our our clear muscle product. You know, again, when you when you hear the name, it sounds like it's something for just putting on muscle, but it's absolutely not. Um you know, it's about muscle. It's about recovery. Um strength recovery. And people notice DOMS, like that delayed onset muscle soreness, they're really able to to reduce that. So, you know, give that a try, too. Yeah, exactly. Like I said, I take that and I'm rarely ever sore. And the day I don't take it is the day I'm sore. Um, so this is another question I like. Um, what's the difference between Iso Clear and Nitro Tech? Yeah. Okay. The So, the biggest difference is the type of protein source used and the flavor. So, they're both whey protein isolate. Um, but here we're using a a clear a clear uh whey protein isolate. So, what you'll find is much lighter. Um, sort of that lighter refreshing refreshing uh sort of flavor that you can do. Um, so we're talking about like we've got like a cherry blast um flavor. Um whereas our traditional nit our edge product has more of a chocolate vanilla. So, it's more of a traditional um whey protein isolate. So, it hasn't gone through the same same type of technology uh to to to allow you to have. Um but both great products, both really high quality protein sources. It just depends if what flavor you're kind of looking for, something more dairy, chocolate-based versus um uh something a little lighter. Uh and Nitroch also has more protein though, I should comment on that. Um so, if you are trying to skew towards the higher end, whether you know you're a little more focused on muscle strength or maybe that bulking, you can go towards nitrate. um you get to that sort of 30 30 gram mark and 22 grams of protein uh in this product. Yeah, my prevegan days had a lot of nitro tech in it. Oh yeah, all the chocolate flavors. Um so I'm going to do maybe two more questions and then we'll kind of start to wrap it up. Um but I like this one of course with digestion. Does Muscle Tech have any supplements that support digestion? Great question. Um so remember earlier I talked about that that pillars uh you know that sort of pillar system that sort of lifestyle there's definitely things we're looking at um for that right now um not anything specifically um focused on that as much as we're trying to do things to products like our nitro tech power um like even our mastec uh we've also added the prohyd in there and our isocar what we're trying to do is if you're taking supplement because you know our goal is to really help people sort of exceed their potential in terms of performance, whatever that may be, in and out of the gym. And um to do that, we want to give the right ingredients, the right nutrients that have proven science, and we want to help with absorption of those, right? And help with digestion of those. So things like the the prohydraise in here is is kind of the way we're doing it. And again, I will say I of course have all kinds of digestion issues and this is the one protein powder because trust me, I've tried them all that never upsets my stomach. you know, it digests perfectly fine. I'm always It's still like light. It's never like you get bloated and painful after you take it because there's absolutely some whey products out there that, you know, a lot of times you feel very very bloated, very uncomfortable after having a shake. Uh so I will say as far as digestion goes, like you're you're generally pretty safe with this stuff, right? So we're gonna get Sorry, we're we're gonna get you some more now that you told me that. I'm gonna get you some more products to try. that I want to get all the stuff. And don't worry, I'll keep you posted. Instagram, I'll I'll let you guys know what I'm trying. Um, so this is perfect because my last question for you. So, what's the future of Muscle Tech brand? What are we trying to do? And, you know, what can everyone expect to see? Sure. Um, again, that you know, pro we're continuously looking to evolve. Um, and we really, you know, it's what's in our DNA is bringing products with proven science. Proven science, um, high quality ingredients. You know, we're still one of the few companies industry that has all the R&D and quality inhouse. Uh, we're so focused on that. our partnerships for example with University of Toronto um we're really we're really determined to help elevate science in the industry in sports nutrition overall knowledge because by doing that we can create products bring better products to market uh and really help people and uh you know we're going to you know we want to be as innovative as possible you know always be on the leading edge um so we're going to continuously you know invest in science launch great products and have new innovations are going to help people to really perform at their best um and help with those sort of transformational results that they want no matter what they're doing in the gym. And do we have any any more campaigns coming up? I know my favorite campaign is what are you made of? You know what? I'm sure there is. I'm sure our marketing team's got something. I sure hope so. We worked really hard on these products. So, I want to see something something supportive. But no, we I I I know they they they've already started just with the whole new uh brand architecture, but I think there's more to come too on that front. Awesome. Well, thank you so so much, Raza. Um, so guys, like I said, everything I try, everything I do, I always post it to my social media. Um, my my handle is fitness with Rogan. If you type in fitness with Rogan on pretty much any platform, I will pop up. And I'm always sharing new ingredients and, you know, everything that Muscle Tech's got going on. I'm always sharing recipes and shake ideas or pancakes or whatever it is that I'm eating for that day. So, if you type in fitness with Broen, you will find me. Um, so thank you guys for joining us. Thanks for your awesome questions. It was really helpful. It was great. Um, glad you guys are also super interested in this kind of stuff. It's fun to see. And, uh, so again, Raza, thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks very much. And appreciate everyone for joining us. Thanks a lot. Yeah. And head to bb.com. You can find our supplements on there. Bye, guys. Thanks. Bye, everyone.