Now, I've been your training partner and trainer for many years now through various video series where you've transformed with me, you've built muscle with me, and now it's time to get shredded with me. Let's do this. supplements do play a big role in this program because you're going to be building up a lot of free radical damage. Uh, you know, your antioxidants are going to be low in the natural form of no fruits. Obviously, you're not going to be taking in any dairy, so your probiotics are going to be low. You know, your good bacteria. So, I do recommend that you have a lot of supplementation that is convenient that will keep you in good health. So let's say you know your glutamine is great for your immune system. Your antioxidants you'll need to eradicate that free radical damage that you won't get in throughout your fruit. And obviously you know like your probiotics and then if you look at convenience if you can't eat your meals you're going to have to drink some. So protein powders become um an intricate part especially after your workouts when you need to repair damaged tissue as soon as possible. Supplements aren't just for professional athletes. there for everybody to help support in this case your fat loss goals. So it doesn't matter if you're male, female, younger, or older, you need supplementation. A lot of the food that we have today is overh harvested. The soil is overh harvested. So the minerals and the vitamins that once were in the soils, maybe just as little as 30 years ago, aren't apparent now. So, it's always highly recommended, especially on a plan like this where your foods are kind of restricted, where you're not going to get a free range of all the foods needed, that you do supplement. Now, supplements do not take the place of uh food of real food. They're exactly what they are, supplements. They supplement your nutritional plan. They're there to assist. So, they're the icing on the cake. They're not there to replace. I would say maybe three, possibly 5% of your overall goals are going to be enhanced by supplementation to assist with your recovery and your performance. Now, fat loss doesn't mean less supplements or more food or anything like that. Basically, again, it's there to supplement exactly what you're already doing. So, for instance, if you want to raise your body core temperature a little bit, you're going to take a little you're going to take a thermogenic. If you need more energy because you're low on calories, so you're feeling a little bit lethargic, you're going to need a little bit of caffeine. And it's the same with your pre-workouts. And if you're dehydrated, a little bit of coconut water, uh, you know, won't go a miss. And then if you want to have your fat utilized within the mitochondria, the cell that will utilize your fat as calories, then carnitine is going to have its place. When it comes to fat loss, yes, it's there. Uh, but it shouldn't be any less or any more than any other plan. The main differences between like a fat loss supplement stack for this and say a bulkin plan is going to be your fat loss supplements are going to be obviously a little bit more apparent such as your energy sourced ones, ones that will raise your body core temperature, ones that will utilize fat as energy. You're not going to be taking mass gainers obviously on a plan like this because your calories are going to be restricted. you're going to be focusing more on protein powders as opposed to anything with additional calories that's going to help bulk you up. Now, I approached and developed a supplement stack for this program, especially around people who I've tested within universities in the US and on my clients and on myself and in the lab uh to make sure that we are taking the right supplements at the right dosages at the right times to support your fat loss needs and to maintain your muscle. So you know making sure that the quality of the supplements that work hand inhand within your body without any negative effects whatsoever or anything additional such as you know a lot of sweeteners a lot of calories or the way they're absorbed by your body has been focused and tested time and time again until we made sure that we got the sweet spot for results. Now supplements won't make or break your end results. If you can't afford the supplements, then you know, don't worry about it. It's you can still get great results with this plan. As I mentioned earlier, supplements are only going to give you like 3 to 5% of your results based on your recovery and your performance and, you know, keeping you healthy. Now, I'm not going to go into every single detail of every supplement on this plan. I'll go into that a little bit more throughout the video series. So, make sure that you watch every single one. But the basis model that I would recommend is a hydrayzeed whey protein. Have your glutamine. Have your branch chain amino acids. Have your caffeine. Have your green tea. Uh your citrine, your LC carnitine for instance. And some antioxidants. And a probiotic would be absolutely perfect. Eradicate free radical damage, improve your performance. And a preworkout and an intra-workout and a post-workout. And that's about it. We will be grouping these supplements based on your goal. So the goal could be just before you go to the gym, you're going to take a preworkout. During the workout, you'll need something intra to make sure that you are replenished and rehydrated and then to assist with your recovery, obviously a post-workout. So every supplement will be stacked primarily for a purpose. Now the supplements that you should be avoiding on this program is anything that's going to add additional calories. When you go shopping online, for instance, the last thing that you should be looking for is a mass gain of 2,000 or anything like that with additional calories that's going to help you bulk up basically, not just muscle, but additional fat. Other than that, then, you know, there's going to be a lot of supplements that will work specifically for your needs. So, if your testosterone levels are a little bit low, then maybe a testosterone builder, for instance. Now, I have to reinforce that you make sure that you get your supplementation from reputable dealers, uh, such as bodybuilding.com because there are, you know, in various countries a lot of black market supplementation and a lot of supplements that don't exactly have in the bottle what they may say on the labels. When we're doing this plan, we don't want to put our hands together and hope it works. We need to make sure that it has lab test results that back up the claims, that they're safe, they are tested, and that they give you exactly what is recommended within the bottle. So, before you start day one, you want to make sure that you watch every single videos. Check out the supplement stack that I have prepared ready for you and uh you know, make sure that you've got everything planned in advance. So don't be ordering your supplements at the very last minute and you know they could take a couple of days to get there and you're going to be out without for a couple of days. So I would recommend that you get all four weeks upfront if you can afford it right now so you're prepared and not prepared to fail. So remember again I'll always reiterate this because it's the importance of the mindset that will get you through this. People will maybe look for a supplement as being the magic be all and end all that will get them from A to B. This right here, your mental intensity and consistency is the supplement that you should be really focusing on because that is what's going to separate you from an okay result to an amazing result.