(grunting) - Okay jump off. Man, it's not so much the weight, it's the awkwardness because your weight is so far back like that. - [Camera Man] Have her grab you from the front? - Wrap your legs around me? Wrap your legs around me, that's it. Oh no, fuck it, that's even more awkward. Alright stabilize yourself as much as possible. Oh fuck it. I'm Kris Gethin, I'm gonna be training to prepare for an Ironman. I've given myself six months, and we're gonna do it. Alright guys, day 134 and we're back in Boise, we were away for like three or four days here in San Diego, had some great sessions with Alex Viada when he was well, and we went through a lot of summit high intensity training at high elevations, so I should be fit as a fiddle coming back here now that I've got a little bit of EPO. You'll notice the heavier I go, I don't go down as far. You might say "well why don't you go lighter and do "a full range of motion?" Well the reason being is that I really want to target the peak not so much the insertions or attachments of the bicep when I'm performing that exercise. Today is the swim day, however I'm not gonna be swimming today. Wednesday is our day off, however I'm gonna make sure that I train then because yet again on Wednesday I'll be traveling to both Miami and then straight from Miami to Vegas. (grunting) Got nothing left, huh? I've decided, you know what, it's getting to the latter part of the afternoon, and after I've gone to see Dr. Jason Watson, I have a little bit of cryotherapy and some oxygen saturation and oxygen therapy, I'm gonna go for a ride towards the Bogus Basin. So it's only an eight mile incline but it is a good incline, so I'm thinking you know what, I feel that I've got a little bit of motivation and inspiration after riding with Alex on the weekend. I've just hit mile five and this is the flattest bit of incline I've found, flattest bit of incline, that's a laugh isn't it? But I'm still working on it, full rotation, some of you would probably think I'm stupid doubling up considering that I just did incline with Alex yesterday. But sometimes I like to do these things on fatigued legs. The environment that I'm gonna be in for the Iron Man is gonna be very hilly. So I need to adapt to fatigued legs and hitting hills because I'm gonna be running on fatigued legs after the hills on the bike. 9.6 miles baby! - [Woman] Nice! - One hour, 14 minutes. - [Woman] This is all freaking up hill! - All up hill. Never thought that I'd ask someone to come and pick me up because I can't be bothered going down the hill. Weird how times change. Come on you've got more there, you've got more there, keep going keep going keep going! We're hitting legs on fatigued legs. So I wanna hit my legs today, whilst being kind of fatigued. So we've got Michael Wittig who is joining us for this leg beat down today, so I told him don't worry about hydrating, just bring your balls man, and we'll be good. No fucking about, let's go go go go. Again, Let's go. (grunting) This has been a real struggle today, guys. I've had to really slow things down on inclines. I stopped in the shade there for a little bit. I know I'm not gonna have that option in the Ironman but just the insane training that I've been, for me, putting myself through, two elevations rides and crazy leg workout this morning. My legs are absolutely shattered, they feel like two big lead weights. Which they usually do anyway but I'm not making it any easier. Even though it's like in the 90's, it feels well over that. What a fucking wonderful view this is up here. Man, as painful at it is, it's so pleasurable. I have the opportunity to do this, I have the health, I have my limbs, I have the mobility. And what's even better is that I look like a body builder doing it. Alright I am back from my run and my legs are absolutely bloody shattered. So it's about 8:30, I just wanna go to bed, I have to get up at like four. But I've just got an ice bath here waiting for me. Thankfully I gotta swim tomorrow, which will be a little bit easier, and then a long ass flight to where am I going? Miami, Miami. Oh this feels good, man I've definitely got some inflammation in my legs, so if you've got any inflammation guys, you may get a little bit of shrinkage from the ice bath, but the justification is then warranted. My cycling feels a little bit better, that was the strongest of my disciplines in the half Ironman, and I just feel it's got a little bit better again. It's hard to gauge if my run has got any better because I've been doing mainly trail running and quite an incline at that. But then as soon as I start hitting a little bit of flat surface, my speed does go up quite a bit and it doesn't affect my heart and lungs as much as it once did. I can't say for sure that my swim has improved, I don't think it has at all really. I think more than anything I probably need a little bit of coaching to improve my technique. During the last week before the Ironman, I think I'm gonna swim every day even if it isn't for that long. Just to continue to get the feeling for the water, because I've noticed sometimes when I'm swimming, it's only like the last quarter of the swim, I really feel like I've got into my rhythm and I've got the proper stroke down and the efficiency, and obviously the hydrodynamic portion of it. So I think it's just gonna be a little and often is gonna be the formula to success here. Are you fucking kidding me? Did the zip just split? - Yes. - Fuck! Okay swim is fucking off! - [Camera Man] Do you wanna film any of the reality of that or no? - No mate, I'm fucking too pissed. Oh for fuck sake! No mate I'm too pissed off. - [Camera Man] I don't blame ya. - I have to send this off to California, it takes two weeks for it to come back. Day 137, time is getting away. Outside it is so friggin' hot here, it is so hot and humid so the run that we've got lined up should be very entertaining, before that though, we've gotta go downstairs and hit shoulders. You can tell how humid it is, this camera's starting to mist up already. (upbeat music) Alright I'm three miles into my run, I'm in Miami, Sunshine has dropped at two miles because she's gotta go back and get prepared for this fight event that we're at this afternoon. It's at Combat Americas, it's an MMA event that we are involved in with Kaged Muscle. So I'm gonna go and do a commercial for ESPN, and we're setting up a booth. Woo, for some reason, I have no idea why, but my left ankle is playing up. I don't know, it hurts with every stride. I don't know, it's beyond me so I'm just trying to foot strike as much as possible. It is friggin' hot and humid here. So just as well I got my camel's back with my hydrocharge, glutamine and BCAAs... The Go Pro broke, it's not working, I don't know why, I was in the middle of recording. It's fucked, so we're relying on this now. So that run absolutely destroyed me, I was at like eight and a half miles, eight and a half miles. And it's just the fucking heat man, the heat and the humidity's immense. One thing I learned, one thing I did learn, when I go out on these runs or any type of cardio I can't go short on time or just in time knowing that I've got something to go to. I have to be so relaxed or in plenty of time because the whole time when you left I'm thinking, fuck I gotta get my nine miles in before this time! I gotta get back, I gotta get ready, I've got to eat, I've got to fucking hydrate, I've gotta get my stuff ready to take in there. So I'm running faster than I should be. So halfway through I was fucked and I had to walk several times, I had no choice. Look at that! That's disgusting. - [Woman] That's your sweat! - That's fucking sodium, I need it! Yeah that's my sweat, and my shorts are exactly the fucking same. We are the Kings of the Octagon. So this is our first partnership with Combat America, so obviously a lot of fighters use our products. So we just think it's a great partnership for them to understand the importance, especially for something like Hydro Charge. So it's a pretty good opportunity for us to partner and they've given us some great, great coverage as you can see on the banners, on the mats, on the parallel bars. So hopefully it'll gain a lot more awareness now among the fight community on how we can help 'em. (rock music) It is day 137 here still, except we're not in Miami anymore, we're in Los Vegas. So tomorrow morning we're heading out for a run. Dorian Yates is in house, I've been speaking to Dorian on the phone so we'll be hooking up with those guys tomorrow at six at Mr. Olympia. Alright, I'm gonna tuck into this food and get fueled up and be ready for tomorrow. No time to party in Vegas. Alright so we're running on the Calico Trail here in the Red Rock Canyons. Starting to get a little bit warmer now in the middle part of the day. We've got a good, steady pace on. Mr. Yates taking names, and just keeping it consistent, just high cadence and obviously being aware of the surface below. Keeping our hips high, working our flexors. Beautiful way to enjoy the morning here in Vegas. Better than the casinos, that's for sure. (upbeat music)