Good morning. It is day 20 of this video trainer. Uh last night by the time we got here it was like I don't know it was dark anyway. It was around 9:30, 10:00, and by the time I set up the tent and cooked food and whatever, it was too late and too dark to do a wrap-up. So, uh, here I am, day 20 and we are at a place called Petite Lake and the lake is just over there, past. All right, I keep cooking. So, I just cooked them on a frying pan. And of course, I've measured well, I've got to take some of the carbs off, but I've got my scales here to measure it all out. And of course, going to cook myself up a nice dec. So, I got some egg whites here with some smoked papa. Got some potatoes. And yeah, you can have that. Oh, yeah. Your bread. Your um sprouted bread. And I have some Yeah. egg whites and steak and some mushrooms. What are you doing? I am cooking for the journey ahead. So, we were going to go and we thought, no, snacks aren't going to be enough. So, cooking some steak, some turkey, bacon for you, and a veggie burger for you. I'm going for the steak. All right. We're just starting our hike now. We're looking at the map. We're going to go to uh Alice Lakes. Remember, it's a non-training day. It's active rest day. Got the heart rate monitor on to make sure that I'm around 70% max to begin with. Let's see if the camera woman can keep up. Finally made it to Alice Lake. It's been 3 hours and 15 minutes. I'm walking and going at it hard. Going at it pretty fast. Like I was measuring on my heart rate monitor and I was right up there. So I think I'll be putting in a little a few more calories today uh than I would generally just to make up for or compensate for the cows I've been burning. But look at this. Definitely worth it. This is the view right amongst the sawtooths. So now just going to sit down, get some more fluid out cuz I've drunk mine obviously and uh get some food. Got the food out that I weighed up earlier that I cooked, which was uh steak and some peppers and some salad. And I got some carbs in there as well. Weighed out. Ready to rock and roll. So we're just uh halfway through the hike now. We are at Alice Lake and I am having my only piece of bread for this video series. It is sprouted bread. It is Ezekiel bread it's called. And within that I've got my steak. I've got peppers and I've got salad. Just give me enough fuel to get my ass back down before having another meal. So, in the meantime, just going to take this in. Take in this beautiful view. Meditate for a little while. Chill out. Hydrate. Get my ass back down there. Which part of the workout is this? Oh, bloody hell, woman. This is active meditation. I was actively trying to meditate until you actively it up. Oh my god. Oh my heart. Good job. The tick is still strong. Still have a little jerky. Just sat down to take a little snack break and fuel up with some hydrocharge. I got some glutamine, branch chain amino acids, hydrocharge, and what have we got? Creatine, HCL. We've just come out of the clearance there and just been opened up to the sawtooth. And I just wanted to get this on a wide angle on the GoPro. I want to justify this. It looks absolutely amazing with the naked eye, man. I'll burn 5,000 calories for this. Just a second. Got back after God, what time is it? Five, six, seven hours hiking. And I tell you what, it was really tough. Last two miles were really hard. All right, it is the end of day 20 active rest day, but it was an extremely active one for me. Uh we came up camping last night, late last night, but it's been an awesome day. As I've always mentioned to you, try to do something outdoors. Try to get out and relax. Get away from, you know, your electrical devices and, you know, from work and whatever it is. And try to meditate and, you know, look at the view here. How can my cortisol levels be high? It's impossible. I'll see you in the morning if I don't speak to you a little bit later when I'm cooking. Um, and we'll probably still be here. Just finished doing another camp meal. Camp meal. Camp cook. And uh what we've done here are some zucchini, some peppers, some broccoli, and some tofu. Soft tofu. Can you see it? And some egg whites. All mixed in here. So, we got our first class proteins and obviously our fibrous vegetables. No complex carbs this time at night. Now, This is a beautiful way to end the day. Reading my new book here and uh sleeping. No. Am I lying in a a sleeping bag hammer? Mhm. It's a prototype, so it may collapse.