- [Sunshine] Mad scientist. - If I had a way to stop it... So don't bring your apple cider vinegar with you in a shaker bottle and add tumric, ginger, magnesium glutamine, BCAAs, BioPrime, pepper, and all that shit together and shake it up. 'Cause this is what'll fucking happen. It just exploded everywhere allover this fucking... The frame, the parts, my T-shirt just got blasted. The worst of all was my eyes. (laughs) It blasted me so hard in the eyes. - [Sunshine] Why don't you stop drinking it? (laughter) - I don't want to fucking waste it. Here I am, trying to relax. Serenity. Oh, that's good, let's have this. Eat my food, have a nap. I don't know if I can now. (epic music) I'm Kris Gethin. I'm going to be training to prepare for an Ironman. I'm giving myself six months, and we're going to do it. Hi guys, day 162 and we are back in the lab where we started six months ago. We've gone full circle. Did that go quick? - [Sunshine] Yeah. - No, it took ages. - It's been six months. - It dragged along. Yeah, six months. Anyway, so we are here for judgment day, to see what results come out of the lab. You know, obviously the mileage that I've been putting in has given me results where I feel that I've had a positive effect, that I've been able to maintain muscle and improve my cardiovascular fitness but who knows. - [Technician] Don't smile. Okay, Kris. That's it. - Okay guys, so the results are in. I just got out of the bod pod and very, very happy with what I've been able to achieve over the past six months. This is what I'm really, really happy about. I started off at a 15.2% body fat. I finished at an 11.7% body fast. Well no surprise, I'm going to drop a bit of body fat following this sort of program. However, my lean body weight finished at a 190.7 pounds. So that means that I've dropped approximately 3.5% body fat and I've actually put on four pounds of muscle during this time. We're going to get into the FTP test nowand see if I've actually increased my cardiovascular endurance. (epic music) So I started at 5.5, we may increase that. But more than anything, I have to continue at that speed but we're going to increase the incline. And then I've got that chart there, the Borg chart, that scale, where I will put up my fingers to say two, very light, three, moderate, eight, very, very hard and ten, I'm crawling by my lips now. (cheering) (heavy breathing) - [Woman] Woo. Nice job. - I remember in the beginning they said that you can't change this read out much because it's something that you can't... You're kind of born with it. You're either born with a great VO2 max or you're not. You can't really, generally train it to increase that much. That's substantially... So it'll be interesting to see if there is any change. Certainly didn't feel like it. - [Clare] So this is the big values, this is your VO2 max. 52mL per kilogram, per minute of oxygen. - [Kris] Yeah. - [Clare] So that's what you were today and then in February you were 44.1. - [Kris] Wow. - [Clare] So that is a significant increase. - That's a great increase, I'm really happy about that. - So 18%, 17.9% increase. - [Kris] 17.9% increase? That's good, right? - That's pretty good. Yeah. - [Kris] That's great. - No, that's quite impressive. - [Kris] That is the end of day 162, and it's a very happy ending. I'm just over the moon with the results that I was able to obtain over the six month period. When I started off of 44 in my age category, it was between good and excellent. And now, I'm in the superior category. So it goes to show that you can live in both of these worlds. You can live the world as a body builder and as an endurance athlete without losing muscle. If anything, you can possibly build muscle. But remember, you have to supplement and train like a body builder and especially eat like one. However, you can incorporate the endurance outlook. I'm very happy that this program has definitely worked out very, very well. (slow rock music) Now, it's just the hard part of any essential part of crossing over that Ironman finish line this weekend. So we're on the right track to do so. We're going to be doing a little bit of legs. We're going to be doing a little bit of upper body as well, because we will not be hitting a workout on Thursday. Thursday we travel up to Coeur d'Alene. We'll not be training then. (slow rock music) So after my run this morning I went home and did some work, got on the computer, had my hair did, and now I'm at the airport and I'm not flying out for a change. I am actually here to greet my parents. My parents have come over, they've flown all the way from Wales to come visit me and put pressure on me at this week's Ironman. You know, Dad has always been with me on competitive fronts, when I was racing motocross, like every weekend. He kind of knows what is required and the mental state that I kind of go in. I kind of close myself off and whatever and he knows how to communicate with me in that regard, so you know it'll be good to have them here. So looking forward to getting them here in Boise, getting them carb-loaded on the Idaho potatoes. Actually, good timing. And there they are, look. See if they spot me. Spotted me. Hello! There they are. - So Kris is a lucky boy. His mom is in town and she is getting his bike shirt ready to go. - [Beryl] These scissors aren't too good. - [Sunshine] They're not that good? Ah, dang it. - We're getting there. - [Sunshine] Make it work. - [Beryl] I'm just about to ruin his shirt. - [Sunshine] Yeah, well you're making better than he has. - Mum's fixing me up, so I put some pockets in the back so I can fill myself up with food. 'Cause a little pocket was only going to feed a little triathlete. (laughing) (light music) Good morning, y'all. Well, I was up at 3:45 a.m. this morning 'cause man, I've got so much work to do. And this is my last workout day here in Axiom. (feigned crying) We've got the bike there ready, so soon as I get my ass out of the gym, I get straight onto the bike, finish the bike, get straight into the run. It's all about time efficiency. Often people say, "God, how do you get all that stuff done?" Or I have the opposite, they'll say things like, "Ah, it's easy for you, you workout for a living." Workout for a living? Do I fuck? I get all my training done and I'm home by about 8, 8 o'clock in the morning. Then I am working all friggin' day. Let's fucking do this. (heavy rock music) So just finished the bike here on day 164 and then went straight into my run. It was only a 20 minute run. The bike was a little bit harder than I anticipated because I was going into a headwind for the majority of the time. But I still tried to put in my eight minutes Ironman pace, four minutes easy spin. I'm so hungry now. I'm going to get some of my food in. I can smell food. Have you had food? - Yeah. Waffles. - [Kris] Waffles? You've had waffles? - [Aidan] I had waffles. - [Kris] Waffles good? - [Aidan] Yeah. - [Kris] Oh, and look. Mum's sewing my bike top here. Perfect. Looking good. Look at this. I've got such an easy life. I come back, mum's doing my top, there's my stack of waffles. Life couldn't be better. We're putting on the quick... The quick release. Quick, not quick release. Quick release laces, whatever. Quick laces. So we just took them off the tracers. So that's what I used during the half Ironman, which were good. They're very light, but I'd have to say 10, 12 miles running in these I feel... The kind of slap on the bottom of my feet a little bit and I've become a bit of a shoe connoisseur now after all this running. I know exactly what my feet want and what they don't want. So I'm going to put these laces in. My laces don't have the option of undoing as I'm racing, as I'm running. You know, this will just stay tied up all the time. My God, they are a bummer to put in. So just as well... - [Sunshine] Won't they also help you in transition? - Yeah, in transition obviously. It's a lot faster, don't have to tie up any laces. My God, I'm cutting myself. - [Sunshine] Ooh. - [Beryl] Ooh. - [Kris] They are a bummer to put in and luckily I've got Dad to take half the bourdon here. (laughing) - Tough hands. - They are tough. (soft music) We are at our destination. We're at the bed and breakfast. What a fantastic choice. It's about five miles from Coeur d'Alene. The town is down there, you can kind of see the lake in the distance. But it's like a very Victorian feel to this... English Victorian feel, I'd say, to this bed and breakfast. Fantastic downstairs. Check out this freaking bath. So I'm going to make sure that I have myself a good soak in here, loosen up those stiff tissues. But this is the hardship, I don't want to freaking do an Ironman being in this comfort. I was going to go down for a swim down in that lake now. Could I just do laps in here instead? - [Sunshine] Yeah, you could just kick your feet back and forth. - [Kris] Put the bubbles on and all that. - [Sunshine] Yeah, it's like the same. I think it's the same. - [Kris] Wow, that's unbelievable. It's huge, man. (soft beat music)