So happy to be able to be here and take all of your questions. It's always um it's always great when we get to interact directly with the Clutch Army and people who are following our brand. So um I know you guys have a lot of questions about the relaunch and the old products versus new programs training. So let's just go ahead and dive right into it. Um starting at the top. So, it looks like a lot of people want to know what has changed with the with this relaunch of the brand. Are the products different? So, the short answer is yes. Basically, everything has changed. Um, I I just think it now would be a good opportunity to um explain to you what what has changed and why it's changed. So, back in September of last year, guys, we good. Okay, there we go. Sorry, we were getting some we getting some noise feedback. Um, so back in September, uh, unfortunately, our product manufacturer went out of business and that left us kind of in a, um, a bad situation in regards to pumping more product out. But um instead of coming back to the table and just going straight in to production on what we already had, we had this time period where um we were given the opportunity to make improvements. And so as many of you know when we launched in June, uh the brand took off rather quickly. And so as it took off, we got a lot of requests. We got a lot of recommendations that the clutch army and people who are buying the product were saying, "Hey, this doesn't taste that great. Hey, could you guys maybe add, you know, these ingredients to this product?" So, as a CEO of the company, I made the decision, you know, now's our chance to make these massive formula improvements. And for me, the whole point of creating this brand in the first place was giving people what they needed and giving people something that isn't currently offered in the marketplace. And so every single product, there's a couple things. One is the formulas have changed. To give you kind of the overview of what the changes are, we're now using more patented ingredients in all of our products that have clinical studies backing the research. Our sourcing on our whey protein, we've got an even pure source going all the way over to New Zealand. All of our product uh on the whey side are sourced from New Zealand. And that's because in New Zealand, it's actually illegal to use antibiotics and hormones in cows. And so by doing that, we're actually able to 100% guarantee that that is never going to end up in a clutch protein shake. Um the other thing is touch on the price increase because of that. Well, yeah. And and again, that's why um I'm just looking down the feed. That's why you see our protein powder sits at a little bit of a higher price point because for me, if we're going to release a product, I want to make sure that that product is at the absolute best in the space and going to New Zealand really ensured that for us. The other thing that's really important to note is that when we went in to reformulate, we did it using 100% non-GMO ingredients. So now the whole line is non-GMO. And lastly, outside of our clutch protein powder, which is lacto vegetarian, every single Clutch product that you see is 100% vegan. So, what we've really done with these formulas is is we've taken the worlds of sports performance where you get a lot of crazy chemicals and stimulants and all this stuff that can that can really jack your body up over time. and we've blended it with the world of natural nutrition and fueling the body in the way that it's supposed to be fueled. And so the formulas that you see, they're not just better in regards to the science. We also decided to go in and combine products together. So, we we did one detox product that combined the old detox rehab and the detox fat flush, giving you guys an even better value because ultimately, I want every single person that comes in to buy our brand to be able to get the whole brand. I want you guys to be able to get everything that you need for your body and your mind to be at its abs absolute best. And when we when we released the products to begin with, there were a lot of skews and it made it impossible for people to buy everything. So, that's kind of the overview. So, let's move on. We've got a lot of questions to go through. I hope that that kind of answers the why behind the changes. Um, okay. What is Clutch Cut and why is it the ideal training program? Um, I'm going to speak to this because, um, what I love about Clutch Cut is it is a program that is designed around not only getting results, but it increases your athleticism like exponentially. So for me coming from two separate worlds, one being a fitness model and the other being an athlete, it's great to have a program that kind of kills those two birds with one stone where it's like, yeah, I want results, but um I also don't want to get those results at the expense of my athletic performance, which is probably priority number one for me. So, Clutch Cut being it it's only 21 days, it's a great preparation program, whether it be for a wedding, a special event, a shoot, um, anything like that. Or if you're, you know, during the summer months and you're a collegiate athlete and you need to train for that fall sport, or, you know, you just want to take your athleticism to a whole new level, Clutch Cut kind of handles all of that. And what, you know, it's a three-week program, but you can double it up, you can triple it up. And what we've suggested is after you're done with those 21 days, if you love the program and you're like, "Well, what do I do now?" It's, you know, we've gotten a lot of emails and feedback from people that kind of go through clutch cut withdrawal and they're like, "I'm so sad that the program is over. What do I do?" And so, we really encourage them to continue and start over. But, you know, by adding one cheat meal in a week, you can keep your energy sustained. you can make sure that your uh results continue to get better and better. And so really for me the program is just kind of such a great um staple for anybody that is supporting a brand or taking the products to engage in. Definitely. Yeah. And then I would just add that um you know the history of Clutch Cut is the following. You you know it when I became a trainer in Los Angeles, what separated me from every other trainer in Los Angeles was just simply getting people results faster than everyone else without putting them on crazy diuretics or without, you know, completely calorie depleting them. And Clutch Cut was the really the first program that I ever created which separated me from everybody else. And so this is the program that I've used countless times to prepare celebrities for photooots or a movie and to just get their body to respond fast without doing anything that long term is going to be detrimental to the body like yanking all of your carbs out or doing cardio three times a day. You know, it th this program is designed to just hit it hit your body with exactly what it needs to ramp up metabolism, burn fat, and boost hormones that are responsible for actually building new lean muscle. So, um, that's the history of the program, and that's what's up. All right, let's move on. Okay, so I'm going to go ahead and answer this even though it may be controversial, um, because we do get a lot of questions about CrossFit and what our thoughts are on CrossFit. I think like um well there's a couple things. One is is that I'm not in the business of ever ever bashing what other people are doing. I'm in the business of really educating people on why we do things the way that we do them. And so for me, um, you know, being an athlete and going through, you know, the USC women's basketball program where a lot of Olympic lifting was included, um, in those programs and training with the football team during the winter and Amber being an athlete, us actually both having phenomenal coaches throughout our career. Um, I think with CrossFit it really depends because like like a doctor, like any trainer, like any specialist you go to, you're going to find really good people in that space and really bad people in that space. One of the things about CrossFit that I don't like is that I have been through to quite a few CrossFit classes where I unfortunately got a bad instructor who I watched put people through movement patterns that really take months months of one-on-one training to get the body locked in to that movement and to be able to complete that movement correctly. And because you're dealing with a lot of weight that goes through the spine, you're putting stress on the discs of the body, you're putting stress on the joints. And so I really my cons I I don't believe that in some areas what it's evolved into is what it intended to be when it started. And it's going to be interesting to see 10 years from now that what is going to be happening to the bodies of these people that are doing CrossFit and are pushing their bodies and putting this immense amount of pressure on these discs even in their back. That's my that's my biggest thing. And shortening all the hip flexors because the classes that I've been to, they don't stress a lot of stretching. um they don't st they didn't stress a lot of um proper movement patterns and to be quite frank I watched three people go down doing a movement because they were lifting way too heavy for their body and so when you understand the way that the body works you know that there are progressions to everything and shout out to my boy Mark Mena who I had this conversation with Mark Mena was a great is was a great NFL football player and is now a like a worldclass trainer trainer. Um, and that that's kind of my biggest quip with it is we're throwing people into these movements and into this style of training that is putting so much pressure on the body that takes months to to really it it should take months to build into that, right? So, I'll I'll speak to the good side of CrossFit and it's not so much uh the training philosophy or anything like that, but CrossFit has revolutionized the entire world by creating a community that is fitness focused and for that I'm very grateful. Um it's it's created a sense of athleticism in people that may have otherwise never found it. So, I'm really excited that it's it's proven that with the right model and with the right um message that you can really ignite the athlete that lives inside of people that maybe lost that person. And for that, I really commend CrossFit and the owners and the instructors and all of that. And I think that it really has inspired us quite a bit um on how we plan to structure certain things in the future just with our business. So for that reason, I just think that everybody whether they agree with philosophies or not really owes CrossFit a round of applause for kind of transforming the world as we know it. And for that, I just find it to to be completely amazing. Totally. And I would just add to what Amber said in saying that what I want what I said when I began I want to just finish which is just like any doctor or trainer or dentist or therapist or whoever the expert is you have to educ it's really up to you and to the people doing it to be able to recognize when you are in a class or do anywhere you know going to any expert that doesn't who's not good at what they're doing. And so then you can say, "Hey, this isn't the right CrossFit instructor for me." But CrossFit, just what Amber said, has completely revolutionized fitness. I mean, these people are built like machines. They're they're in a lot of cases, they're people working out who are so healthy that would otherwise be sitting on a couch. And the c that the culture of CrossFit is really what I admire the most is they've created a culture that look these people are a family and they stick together and they pull each other through it. And that's what's really powerful and it's extremely encouraging because uh in my you know in my personal opinion there's never been a fitness movement like that that's been able to accomplish that. And that's really one of the things that um we want to do with our brand. So kudos to CrossFit and everybody who does it. Yeah, let's move on. Alrighty then. Let's see. I just want everybody to know that I put perfume on like you could actually smell me. Just smell nice for the people that can't smell you. Um, okay. How about why don't you take this one? This one says, "Amber, as an athlete and a fitness cover model, what is what is different about the way you live and prep for shoots now that you're a Clutch Body Shop athlete?" Okay, so for those of you that don't know or maybe do, um, a few years back, I had a huge career um, in fitness, I was represented and endorsed by a very large supplement company. And what ended up happening is I was using methods to prepare for shoots and taking products to prepare for shoots that really disrespected who I was as an athlete. And because of that, I chose to kind of walk away from my career in fitness because I didn't and the athlete in me will always come first before the model. That's I don't even tell people that I'm a fitness model. I always tell them I'm an athlete. And there's a reason for that. It's because, you know, I feel like a lot of fitness models get into the into the arena of fitness modeling and fitness because they were born athletes and eventually along the way they start doing things um and cutting and depleting and doing all these things that you know as an athlete you would never ever do. An athlete fuels their body so that they are the absolute strongest person at the point of their uh when when they're demanding a absolute perfect performance from their body. So the difference between then and now is that I refuse to deplete um to prepare for photo shoots or anything like that. I'm sure that some of you may notice a change in my body. Good for me because the the mile marker that I set when I know that I can still shoot and I'm still treating my body um right is I need to run a sub6 minute mile the day before my shoot to prove that I haven't depleted my body too much. That's clutch. Um, so that's pretty much, you know, I I went from behaving more like a model in the past and I just behave 100% like an athlete no matter what I have going on um current day. And I'm actually really proud of that because there's a lot of pressure um for women especially to kind of cut and and and just do things that, you know, I I just don't agree with. So that's all. Okay, let's see. Um, okay. So, here's a great question from Melinda Martinez. Why was the thermo renegade drink mix discontinued and what are your thoughts on pre-workout drinks? Um, so great question. It we are releasing the new one in it's clutch workout powder in four to six weeks. Um, the reason that it wasn't released with this uh this current line is to be totally honest um production just ran behind. And so we will we're hoping to have that out to you guys by the top of the year. What we did with thermmo renegade drink mix is we just made it better. Quite simply, I really wanted to um take the sculpt muscle definition which was a pre-workout product and the thermo renegade drink mix which are two products from our old line and put them into one product. So now people are getting a better value for their money and two we reformulated it. So now there are patented and clinically proven ingredients that buffer fatigue, that improve endurance, that increase power output and strength. And so for me, you know, I'm I look at it as, okay, somebody's going in to do clutch cut or somebody's going in to do any one of our workouts, which look, we're the intense workout brand. What is it that I want them what ingredients do I want them putting into their body 30 minutes before they work out? So, we kind of, you know, came to the table, worked with world-class scientists and formulators, and this was the formula that we came up with, and I'm really excited to share it with you guys. So, um, it should be out top of the year on bodybuilding.com, and I'm super excited for you guys to get it. Okay. Um, I'll answer for myself and then I'm going to let uh Amber also answer this one. Uh, cuz I, you know, a big thing for me is just coming into this space. I think that in fitness it's really everyone kind of does their own thing. You know, fitness is run by a lot of big egos. And I really think that when uh powerful things happen is when people band together and it doesn't matter what company you're affiliated with, it's really about the message and how do we motivate and inspire people to become better today than they were yesterday. And so, um, this is a question from my boy Mark Onsman. Hi, buddy. Um, besides one another, who do you most look up to in the fitness supplement industry? So, I've got two big ones. One is Mark Mena and um, he signed to Muscle Tech. Mark's become a really close friend of mine, and I have nothing but respect for the dude. We actually he could he he could potentially have my brain in a guy's body because we think exactly the same. And I just love him. I respect him. He's he's great. The other one is Corey Gregory who is the president and co-founder of Muscle Farm. Corey has been a great friend to me and also an amazing mentor um throughout the course of the last year. And I just think that everything that Corey does on a personal side from his Instagram and his social media is all about inspiring people and educating them. And that's really what people need. And um Corey's just an awesome dude. He's got this incredible story of coming like fourth generation coal miner and he started Muscle Farm. Like that's a special guy right there. And um his just his mindset and everything. I just I have a lot of respect for those two guys. So I'll let Amber answer hers. I would definitely agree with both of those. Mark and Corey definitely great guys. This is a hard question for me because I've actually made it a point to not gauge um my success in the fitness industry based on anybody else's success in the fitness industry. So for me when it comes to looking to people um for inspiration, I mean I'm thinking on a scale like who has absolutely changed the world and made people better because of it. And so I think of like people literally like Oprah and she's traveling around the United States right now doing like incredible fitness events with our girl Angela Davis who is the um an incredible Nike sponsored athlete and soul cycle instructor. Um, that's a huge impact. Like people are really having their lives changed through exercise and you know it it's a business and that's what I like about it because as a businesswoman and as an athlete I really want to look at what people are doing on a mass level and what is appealing to not only the fitness industry but the entire world. So for me it's definitely I have people that are good friends of mine like Chotty Dunore. I love her to death. um and things like that. But I'm not trying to gauge what I do based on what anybody else has ever done in the fitness industry. I'm thinking much bigger than that. And then there's three other people that um are probably outside of anybody that's in fitness who are my probably three top people that I would want to emulate um what they've done. And that's Ryan Duca, the CEO of bodybuilding.com, Jeremy Duca, Ryan's brother, co-founder of bodybuilding.com, and Briana Duca. Um, the three of them basically started bodybuilding.com from the ground up. And as everyone on this platform knows, bodybuilding.com is in my eyes the company that has you talk about CrossFit for take CrossFit off the table. Bodybuilding.com has completely changed the fitness industry, the supplement industry, the motivation industry. to have the thought that, hey, we're going to give people what they need to succeed for free. And if they don't want to buy anything, cool. If they do, great. But to me, to go into a business model, and that's the mindset. How do we help people? How do we motivate people? Oh, by the way, uh let's let's talk about the money later. Let's let's get them what they need first. And you know, for me, that those three people and just bodybuilding.com in general, um that's it for me. and just the morale, the values um of the company. That's if I had to literally build my company and replicate somebody else's, that would be it. From the people that work there to the people running it, all the executives. Um that's probably my hugest inspiration and influence, which is why it's such an honor to be in business with them and doing this live chat with them. So anyways, okay, you want to move on? Yes. Okay, next question. John Hardesty. Yeah. Yeah. So, John Hardesty is one of the executives. He's a head of digital publishing at Bodybuilding and he wants to know, "What's the best way to get back on track after some time off because he was on his honeymoon? What's a good detox plan consists of?" Good question. Go ahead. Oh, okay. You know, and I'm going to answer this question with somebody else's question that I actually saw below. It was um it was Oh, it was from our girl Candace. If you could give people one fitness tip and one only, what would it be? Okay, so I actually um this is something that Amber said to me one time and that something was just get there. And it was in reference to, you know, how do how do we motivate people to to work out? How do we how do we get them to do all of these things? And Amber said, simple. We just get them there. Just get to the gym. Don't think about your workout. Just just get to where you need to be to complete the thing that you need to do. And I find that to be so powerful. And so, you know, for me, the best way to get back on track after some time off is to just get back on track. Just decide. First, you have to decide. Secondly, to detox the body. Um, oh man. Okay. A good detox program. We're going to have one coming out on bodybuilding.com. I think top of the year, which will be really exciting. But just super quick, would be cut out um everything processed that you have currently uh in your cabinets or that you're currently eating. So, anything that's not single ingredient, like stick to simple things like organic chicken, broccoli, quinoa, boom, you're done. um that's going to help cut out any of the high glycemic carbohydrates that most people have in their um diet. The second thing is is figure out what your non-negotiables are. So every person like it's okay. Picture this. You're coming off of a binge week, month, 6 months. You've been like downing crazy amounts of sugar, various alcoholic beverages, whatever it is, you name it. Now, somebody says to you, "You've got to get in shape." And what do they do? They take away everything that's bringing you pleasure mo like in the moment. And so, you know, one of the interesting facts that I was um made aware of a couple years ago is that there are chemicals released in the brain when you have sugar that mimic some of the same chemicals that are released in the brain when somebody takes freebase heroin. I'm just going to let that sink in for a second. So, when we say to somebody, you just need to have more discipline, it's more than that. It's a it's literally chemical. And so for this exact problem is the exact reason why I created Clutch Baking Mix. You know, for myself, I grew up eating things like pancakes and waffles and cookies and delicious like sweet things. And so for somebody to come in and say, "Hey, if you want to get the body you want, you can't have those things anymore." When I when I did when I created the product line, I was like, I have to solve this because I just refuse to believe that getting the body you want entails never being able to eat or not being able to eat even every day something that you really love. And so it's really important when you go to detox or when you choose to kind of change your life that you have things in your repertoire that you can go to that you enjoy having because not eating anything you like for the rest of your life is not realistic for most people. It's not even realistic for a week. Which is why even after a few days of trying something new, people drop off. And and so the clutch baking mixes that that's literally the history of why I created that product. It was like, why does somebody like Amber who's preparing for an oxygen cover shoot, why does she have to eat tilapia and asparagus, eight meals a day? Does that make any sense? That's You can't maintain that. So, it's really about Let's wait. I I could literally lecture on this for probably two hours, so I have to stop myself. As you can tell, I'm very passionate about this topic. But the pro the detox program will come out um hopefully top of the year on bodybuilding.com. two great products out of our line that are designed specifically for this clutch baking mix clutch cleanse one. More info, go to the product page on bb.com. Got carried away on that one. Oh my gosh, just passion. Um, before we get too far into this, um, I really want to talk about there's the what the clutch army is. And I think that it's just really important to kind of establish like what that means. I'm sure that many of you have have seen the hashtag and used the hashtag and basically, you know, there's this African proverb that I've quoted a few times on my Instagram and basically what it says is if you want to go fast, go alone. And if you want to go far, go together. And I think that when we sat down and looked at the scope of influence that we could possibly have on the fitness industry, just the two of us, I think that we realized that if we activated as many people as we possibly could with the same vision and the same purpose, we would have a much greater impact. And so the clutch army, I think a few of our incentives are the following. I really believe that we want to change um why people are working out to an even bigger why. You know what I mean? We don't want it to be so much about aesthetic results um as about as as much about a life transformation. I think that we just want to increase the depth of what a transformation actually is. It's not just about your body. It's about um you know, exercise has been proven to like literally get people off drugs and save marriages. And that's kind of where we're at with it is like we want you to be happy with how you look. Absolutely. It's a really powerful thing. It it helps you hold your head really high, but we also really want you to become um a person that is just as strong internally as you are externally. So when we hashtag clutch army and we use that term and we're referring to all of you guys out there, we're referring to ourselves, our athletes, all of that. And so just as a community when we bind together and we use that that terminology and um we talk about all the things we're hoping to do, the biggest thing is that we just believe that things can change and we really believe that they should and um we believe that they will. So that's just the clutch army summary. Yeah. And I'll give I'll give my two cents on it. No. A shocker. That's crazy. Shocker that I would want to say something about it. For me, the greatest revolutions in the history of mankind were started not by two people coming together, but by one or two people coming together and bringing the masses together um under a common belief. And that's what starts everything. And so for me, what the clutch army is is it's us bringing people together with a common purpose of changing lives, quite simply. And you know, I'm I'm a singular person. I may not be everybody's cup of tea. Amber's a singular person. She may not be one any someone's cup of tea. Our stories may not resonate with that person that's sitting on the couch that's about to give up. But someone who's following our brand, their story is exactly like that person's story. And what the the outside of, you know, anything that we're ever going to sell, the biggest thing for me is can we create a group of people that can go out into this world and go speak to that person that's given up and instill in them the motivation and the inspiration to start fighting again. And that's what it's all about, you know. And it's interesting because for me personally, you know, um, and I've said this a couple times like in customer service trainings with bodybuilding.com, but you know, when I was in my mid20s and I was, you know, traveling all around with celebrities and all this and I thought I was the, you know what, I was all about me and I thought, oh, I can do this and I can be all these things and I'm going to create this brand and it's going to be the greatest brand. And you know, when you go through things in life that are extremely humbling to you and your perspective changes, the thing for me now is let's let's get our let's get the best athletes, the most inspirational people that we could find that can go out and inspire the clutch army and then in turn have the clutch army go out and inspire others, you know. And that's what it's about and that's what the movement is and it's continuing to grow and as a brand we're continuing to um we are innovating uh new technologies and new things on our side to be able to activate the clutch army more and engage more and those things are evolving. Um, but yeah, I mean the Clutch Army, I think looking 5 10 years down the line, that's probably going to be the biggest part of our brand and that's probably going to be the thing, you know, when you look historically at the history of the brand that everybody's going to talk about. That's the thing that will change the face of things is us going out unified with the message. So, so let's get back to a couple product questions. This person up here wants to know, "What other protein sources other than animal proteins do you recommend?" That's from Wise Cleveland. What up? Go ahead. Look, plant-based is amazing. Um the one of the things that we did with our clutch baking mix um was when we re we reformulated the baking mix. Just so everybody knows, it's now reformulated to not just taste better, but ding ding ding, you can now use it to make protein shakes because that's all it is is protein. I don't believe that people should be having animal proteins at every single meal. It's highly acidic. It's very difficult for your body to break down. Now, am I sitting here saying I think people should adhere to a 100% vegan diet? No. But this is where you have to find balance. And so, um, plant-based proteins are amazing. And in fact, new studies have actually come out proving that when you combine hemp and pea protein isol, I'm sorry, P and pea and rice protein together, there's going to be a lot of people that are going to be upset when I say this, but science is science and facts are facts. It has the same benefits as whey protein. Bodybuilding.com actually published an article on that that um it's a full pro profile of branch chain amino acids when you com combine brown rice protein and pea protein. That's right. So check it out. That article was actually really good. I enjoyed it. Yeah. So plant-based. Um, now one of the issues with plant-based is just simply that, you know, if you're eating like a cashew and you're trying to get protein out of a cashew, you have to eat a lot of cashews and a lot of calories to get 20 grams of protein. That's why having a plant-based protein shake is a much better answer. So, I'm really excited for people to be able to use the baking mix as a twoin- one product because anytime you can offer people that two in one, you're golden. Okay. Um, you want to touch on that? Okay. Yeah, I I do want to touch on this. Okay. What are the disadvantages of using a protein powder made with whey sourced from cows that are on antibiotics and hormones? Let's just let's just offer a disclaimer here that well everybody just calm down. Okay. Yes, please. Because calm down. I want before I answer this question, I want us to all just take a deep breath. Everybody just What I'm about to say is not my personal opinion. What I'm about to say are the facts. And when I got into this industry and when I decided to create a brand, my entire motivation, the entire reason I wanted to do it is because people aren't being given the truth. And that really upsets me. Not because I want to be the person that's condemning everyone, that's not giving people the truth, but my whole thought, the way that I was raised is let's at least give people the truth so they can choose. Let's not lie to them and say, "Oh, this is fine." And then they buy it or they're using it and they're not fully aware of the implications of what they're doing. So again, this is something that I could speak on for a two-day conference, but I'm going to keep this very short and sweet. We're going to give her 35 seconds. That's not going to be enough. Give me two minutes. Okay. Um, the dairy situation in America is not good. I don't fault the dairy farmers. I don't fault the families of of that are raising the cattle. I don't fault any of that. This all came about because of the demand of how much dairy was needed. And so the solution was, let's go in and let's start pumping these animals with antibiotics and hormones to make them grow faster. That makes a lot of sense. Problem number one with doing that, there are no long-term studies on what the effects of these hormones and antibiotics are inside of the human body, which is why in countries all over the world, it's been banned. Okay, just going to let that sink in for a second. I know, but it's been banned because there are no long-term studies. The second thing is I want you to just consider this. Would you Oh, no. I don't even want to say that because it's going to upset too many people. These hormones that are being used are hormones that have been designed to fatten a 2,000 lb animal. You are now ingesting that in your whey protein. Okay, whey protein to me is one of the greatest. It's like God's gift to nutrition because of all the benefits of it. But most people, especially guys, work out to boost testosterone and to boost growth hormone. So the thought that you're then right after you work out putting something in your body that's going to interfere with those hormones doesn't make any sense. Okay. So the next question is is going to be for most people watching this. So why aren't other companies doing this? Simply put because it's so expensive you guys. It is so expensive to go over to New Zealand and to go get the purest protein that you can. And the reality is is that there are a massive amount of people who just simply don't care. For me, I care because I want to be healthy. I want to be like Jack Lane who was healthy and, you know, dragging boats behind him swimming through the Pacific Ocean until he was like, "God knows what age." And so the reality is is that the reason that we Can you not scroll for a second? It's very distracting to me. You know how my mind works. Sorry, everyone. The thing is for me is that if I know that there's a better way, if I know that there's a better ingredient, if there's a something more that we can be doing to deliver to you the purest, the best, the most cutting edge, the most innovative, I'm always going to do that thing. So that's why we're going over to New Zealand because I don't want the possibility like even when companies say oh RBST free or hormone free unless that protein is actually being sourced from a country where it's illegal it can't be guaranteed right so um again we will come out with more material on this topic um but that's kind of the overview of of what it is um and it has been highly controversial um but you know I'm not really in the business of not giving people the truth. That's just the truth. You know, you're more than welcome to go by other people's brand. I don't care. But I just want you to know what the facts are before you do that so you can make that decision for yourself. All right. Should we scroll now? Somebody has Clutch Cut meal plan up there. Right here. Are we still live in this thing? I think so, cuz this isn't blinking anymore. And then says live. Okay, we're still alive. Sorry. Okay. Um, meal plan for cut clutch program cuts out red meat, processed carbs, and dairy. Oh, okay. Um, Wise Cleveland wants to know the meal plans for clutch for the clutch programs cut out red meat, processed carbs, and dairy. Do you recommend following this for dayto-day nutrition and only eating these foods for your cheat meal? other fitness models do eat some dairy and red meat. So curious. Great question. Um so this this philosophy started um with my career as a celebrity trainer having to get people results faster than everybody else. That's where it came from. Red meat is difficult for the body to break down. It is much harder to digest. And so it was my job to get people ready to be on camera. And one of the one of the tricks of the trade um with men and women to make them look more spelt or to make guys their with their upper body make your upper body appear to be even bigger is to reduce the size of somebody's waist. Now that doesn't always have to do with with dropping body fat. The average humanin America has 8 to 12 lb okay this is going to be gross. 8 to 12 lbs of poop in their bow. just chilling in there. Okay, so a lot of people say, "Oh man, I've got this pouch I can't get rid of. Oh man, I really wish my waistline was smaller." Okay, well, you're full of crap. No pun intended. I'll be here all night. Come on. I got to go. No, in all seriousness, in all seriousness, this is one of the greatest tricks of the trade I've I I use. This is one of the things that launched my career was cutting out the things that cause inflammation in the stomach and in the bowel and replacing it with things that actually reduce inflammation in those areas. And so red meat and dairy and gluten are three huge things that create that inflammation. And so by taking those out, the first thing is is from an aesthetic level, you're going to get results faster. Bottom line. The second thing is is that because those three things are difficult are more difficult for your body to break down. That's what I'm I'm not in the business of that. I want pe I want to be giving people foods, supplements, everything that it's so natural and it's so pure that your body takes it in, burns it, breaks it down, and we're on to the next meal. And so that's why I do advise it on a day-to-day basis. I do advise it as a way to eat for life. Does that mean that you can never eat a pizza? No. Does that mean that you can never eat regular pancakes or, you know, whatever? No, of course not. But, you know, for the most part, that's what I do advise. And that's exactly the way that I have every single one of my clients eat. And it's the protocol that I used to launch my entire career. So, there are a lot of people that, you know, feel that this whole gluten thing is a load of crap. That, oh my gosh, don't cut out dairy. eat cottage cheese and drink milk and all this stuff till you're blue in the face. Go for it. I know what's worked for my my career and every person I've ever worked with. And that's where this came from and it came from research. And so, yeah, it's a day-to-day thing. What else do we have here? It's weird because the questions are all mixed up. Okay, I I like this question. Do you ever train the average show or are you more focused on celebrities and athletes? That's a great question. 5 years ago, my career was all about celebrities and athletes. And um you know, I found myself in the back of an SUV with P DY and his whole team of people. and I was on tour with him and he was one of the greatest people I ever worked with. But sitting in the back of that SUV, I felt this question really placed on my heart. What are you going to do with the platform that you've been given? It's one thing to train celebrities and it's one thing to be on the cover of magazines and you know to be in the public eye or to be given this platform where people listen to you, but what are you going to do with that? And so for me now, the entire I still, yes, we're still involved in that side of the business, but the focus and the passion of my heart is for people, millions and millions of people. And so that's I saw a question down here that I wanted to answer. Okay, so this is from I think this is I think I know who this is as a good friend of mine from back home. So, I have to answer it. Says, "Are you planning on franchising the brand? Will we start seeing clutch body shops with instructors trained by clutch athletes?" Representing She's representing Rochester, New York. Holla. Um, we get a lot of inquiries about people wanting to wholesale the the the line, bring it into their gym, offer it to their clients. Um, we are planning on setting up an ambassador program. The details of that program are to be determined. Um, we have a retail strategy that we are still perfecting at this point in time. The answer to the question about uh franchising. It's highly doubtful that we would franchise. I don't know about franchising, but in regards to um in regards to clutch body shops with instructors. Yes. Yeah. In regards to um trainers being certified as clutch trainers, clutch body shop certified trainers. Yes. Absolutely. Right. what we've decided as a brand as far as the retail strategy just in case you guys are wondering you know are we going to see you here or there or wherever you know we um have created a partnership with bodybuilding.com for a very specific reason and we are very passionate about being sold exclusively online with them and our own website and the reason for that is we have created a family and trust is is very hard to come by and we have found somebody in a company that is singular in in our vision as far as helping people, giving them the tools that they need to become better. So, as far as you know, franchising and all that right now, we're just trying to reach as many people as humanly possible with a really powerful message, which is why we are with bodybuilding.com right now. In regards to the training as element of it though, yes, that will be expanded. But in regards to products, right now, as Amber said, the focus really is simply bodybuilding.com and and clutchbodyshop.com. But bodybuilding.com is is going to be the go-to. Um, simply because, you know, when I decided to create a product line for me, my worst nightmare was to be that brand that like sits on a shelf and is like, "Oh, yeah. It's that those girls and the one that's on the cover of the magazines and the one that trains all the celebrities and somebody picks up the the bag and goes, "Oh, this will give me Kate Hudson's abs. Let me let me grab this fat burner." I don't want to be that brand. I'm not interested. I The thing that's genius to me about this partnership with bodybuilding.com is you get the nutrition plan, the workout plan, and the supplements that you need to get you results. Taking a product and not changing the other parts of your lifestyle is never going to do anything for you. Yes, it may make you healthier if it's a multivitamin, but in regards to getting results, you must your nutrition and your exercise habits. And you know, I just find it to be very sad that there are a lot of companies and a lot of just singular products that try and sell people on this dream. And it's so fraudulent. Like just tell people the truth. Like, hey, this isn't going to do crap for you unless you work out, you know? And so that's what I love about this is we get to now be that brand with bb.com and you guys get to get everything that you need to make a change and that's what it's all about for us. Um, Michelle wants to know, "What do we recommend for snacks?" And this month, actually, in Train Magazine, I wrote an article um about snacking. And basically, you know, what I said about snacking is it's important. It's unfortunate that a lot of these um boxed snacks are so loaded with preservatives because it's so easy to grab and go and it offers a lot of convenience. Um I personally would not recommend grabbing anything from a box that has a lot of preservatives in it because when preservatives enter it's underneath this computer. Oh. When when preservatives enter the digestive system, your body immediately goes and devotes all of its attention to breaking down that foreign object. So, you miss out on absorbing a lot of the essential nutrients from these snacks that you're having. Um, we are Do you want to talk about the snack that we're Yeah. So, we're this computer that we're coming to you live from is sitting on our final prototype of a snack bar. And so, to answer your question, you know, for the time being for a snack, I would recommend uh a clutch protein shake. We're going to be coming out with a recipe article on bodybuilding.com using the clutch baking mix so you can make your own protein cookies and your own, you know, um, your own snacks that have the perfect macronutrient levels. One of the things that I have a real issue with is is people thinking that all they need at a snack is just protein. That's not correct because then what's going to happen when you sit down for your next meal is you're going to overeat your carbohydrates and you're going to spike your blood sugar. The key to getting the body that you want is staying consistent with your macronutrients and potentially cutting, you know, carbs out at night, but staying consistent with them through the day, especially if you're following one of our programs. And so, one of my issues with protein bars is just that they're filled with crap. They've got sugar alcohols. They've got artificial stuff. And it's like if it's not filled with a bunch of artificial stuff, it's loaded with like 40 g of sugar. Okay? So unless you're a marathoner, you don't need that amount of sugar in a snack. But you also, it's like fake food that most of these protein bar companies are selling people. And so we've actually been in development on on our, you know, snack for a couple of years and it's finally done. And so, um, we will keep you up tod date on when that release will be, but best believe it will be right here on bodybuilding.com. Is Oh, okay. So, this question is um a great one. I want to make sure that we answer it. It says, "Is Clutch just for all the ladies out there or do guys get to use the product also?" So, funny enough is this fact. When the brand was originally launched, um, every product that I was in development on for two years before we launched on bodybuilding.com last June, I developed that line by testing it on my clients, more than 50% of which are men. And so, this is not a women's line. This is a line that can be used by anyone. Now, if you're a dude that wants to build muscle, great. Use the product line and adjust your nutrition plan so you're taking in the calories and the macronutrients necessary to build muscle. If you're a lady who's trying to lose weight or is trying to tighten up or whatever you want to qualify it as, that has everything to do with your nutrition plan. And again, you can still use the product line. So, this was the So, that's it. It's a it's a it's a line for both. It's a line for people that want to be at their absolute best and don't want a product line that's filled with a bunch of crap that your body can't break down and it doesn't need and science has proven isn't good for you. So, so as we wind up here, we just wanted to make sure that we mentioned that we have two incredible athletes signed to our brand. The first is Michael Gaspersonson who was a wide receiver for the Philadelphia Eagles. And his his story is actually really compelling because he chose to leave the NFL and become um a record-breaking firefighter. And he also is featured in Train Magazine. I believe it was um this issue that's out now. and he talks about sometimes he only has 20 to 30 minutes to work out, but he needs to make sure that he stays in peak physical condition because he has to pull people out of burning buildings. And if you don't have a big enough why, I encourage you to go and look up Michael Gaspersonson. He is one of our athletes and he is just the real deal and he knows how to train effectively with very short time periods and he is just a specimen of a man. And the second is Angie Green Fletcher. She was a incredible and still is training and is u like a pro triathlete and an enormously an amateur tri triathlete and enormously successful uh fashion and fitness model and a mom and she really is incredible with a lot of recipes and things that she's using. She does a lot of TRX training. And what we did with these athletes is we took a look at what we were able to offer. And then we wanted to really round out the things that we lack because I think it's a really delusional concept for anybody to think that they can be everything to everyone. We realize that we can't. So, we have signed athletes with incredible stories of overcoming some unspeakable things in their lives using fitness to get through um some really difficult things that would probably lay most people out. So, if you want to hear their stories, make sure that you keep up with us on our Facebook page. Um I believe that they both have body spaces. So, again, it's Michael Gaspersonson and Angie Green. We'll send we'll send out a social media post. Just to follow up on what Amber was saying, you know, we get a lot of questions from people who want to be clutch body shop athletes. And you know, the thing for me is I feel that a lot of other companies have the have the um like model and competitor market already covered. And you know, so when we went in to create the brand, like let me just in a nutshell explain to you these two other athletes. Michael Gaspersonson rode the bench on his high school football team, went on to play in the NFL. Okay, you can fill in the blank of what happened between then and that period of time. Clutch cut. Then he walks away. He walked away from the NFL because he felt that he wanted to do something more with his life and is now by choice a professional firefighter. So he wakes up every day. He's choosing to wake up every day and risk his life to save others. There's nothing more representative of this brand than that. Angie Green is a different but similar type of story where she went through a very very difficult divorce and time in her life and it was just a hard period and um the sport of triathlon literally revolutionized her entire situation and her condition. And through the sport, she began to fight back. And now she's used the things that she's she went through to inspire other women who are going through the same thing. And so it's like for me, I it doesn't matter what somebody looks like. If you're not using everything that God's given you to help inspire other people or connect with people that are currently struggling, what's it all for? To just stand there and look good? No. That's ridiculous. There has to be more than that, you know. And so I'm really excited and I know Amber's really excited for you guys to really get to know our a the athletes that we've signed and for us to develop this program and to really tell their stories and their stories will be told in more full length through articles on BB.com and when we relaunch our website. And I just want to take this opportunity real quick as we're wrapping up also. Um, just to clear up, not even to clear up, but I want to just give you guys like a brief history of Clutch Body Shop because as many of you guys know, the brand name has also changed and um, we have gotten a lot of questions to our um, customer service about what Clutch Body Shop is and the history of it. So, you know, as many of you know, just from if you've watched any of my videos on bodybuilding.com, I was going to I was attending medical school and I was flat broke and I went to go get a job as a trainer and I thought I would have an easy time getting hired because I, you know, I played basketball at USC. Who wouldn't want to hire me? I'm an athlete. I know what I'm doing. I couldn't get a job anywhere. I ended up working at a local gym making like $8 an hour. And I looked at the landscape of this gym, which was a major corporate gym. And what I saw was this is that in Los Angeles, people were having to go all over town to get to their nutritionist or they had this massage therapist over here or they had this expert over here. And you know, there's a lot of egos involved, especially with celebrities when you're trying to transform somebody. And so I had the thought as a trainer at this gym making no money, I want to start a company and a company that has the best people in every field under one roof. And so that that's what Clutch Body Shop is. That was the company that I originally started. And um so you know it started off basically as an invite only training club and then it's we started to get commissioned by major movie studios and celebrities to try and do these transformations for movies. And so when we went in to go and to um reformulate the line, I really looked back at like historically my career and just everything. And Clutch Body Shop is what the Clutch Body Shop is the reason that we're even on this call right now. And so when we decided to go in and and and change the packaging, I also wanted to rename the brand because everything that we do even in LA, as many of you know, we're opening a a full facility here. it will be Clutch Body Shop. And um and so I'm really excited to give you guys like behind the scenes um more history of the brand and video and all of that stuff kind of explaining um all of that. But I just wanted to um that we know that we didn't get to a lot of your questions. So we're actually going to be doing a live Instagram chat with bodybuilding.com today at 4 Pacific Standard Time. So, make sure that you check back in there and you can write out your questions and we'll respond to those. We'll both be there. Um, we would love to get all of your questions answered. So, just if we didn't get to you here, make sure that you head over there. Um, and we will do everything that we can and then Ashley can't control the feed because everybody gets to type. What are you trying to call me? No. So yeah, we're going to wrap up here, but Instagram bodybuilding.com today 4:00 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. What one more thing if you guys cuz it upsets me like it actually upsets me when we can't get to your questions. I know. But also, you can email us at our customer service at info@clutchbodyshop.com and we will answer you. Um, so please hit us up there. Just Okay, that's it. Thanks so much, guys. Um, we'll see you at 400 p.m. on Instagram. Anything else to say? No. Do you have anything else to say? I have a lot to say. I mean, I just It's upsetting to me. I want to stay in this thing for another four hours answering questions. I'm stopping it right now. All right. How do I do it?