Hey everyone, welcome to the bodybuilding.com podcast. Here in the executive boardroom today, we're the CEOs for the day. Anyone want to do something completely reckless? Cap implants on the insurance plan. Perhaps I can't. What are they going to do to me? Uh, I'm Nick Kolius, an editor for bodybuilding.com. And here to my left, we have Chrissy Kendall, science editor in her final podcast. She's moving away down under where the weights are in kilos and she's going to just fall right off the face of the dam the damn earth down on the bottom. Right. That's what happens. You go down there, you just fall off. But we'll miss her in the podcast. And to my right, we have two familiar faces. The buff dudes, Brandon and Hudson. Hudson and Brandon. Who gets stopped billing? We'll do it alphabetically so no one gets offended. Or older brother, younger brother. There we go. There we go. So, depends. Okay. Yeah. They they're YouTube's kings of better understanding of food and fitness and fart jokes. Yeah. Or the clown princes. I mean, the clown princess always like sells pretty well, at least for us. You got to have a little bit. I And I like that, you know, as as the as the channel has matured, you haven't abandoned your your roots in, you know, a little bit of poop. Yeah. We try not to change too much. Dumb and Dumber is one of our favorite comedies. So, I think that kind of spawned all of our bathroom humor after that. Yeah. From a young age. the channel matures and we get more immature. Yeah, mature in a relative term. So, you guys are hanging out in Boyisey doing a big project with us, but before we dig to that, I wanted to check or dig into that, I wanted to chat about what you guys have actually built over the last fourish years because um I was watching the very first one this morning, the very first Buff Dudes video, and it seemed to come out somewhat fully formed. Like, I fully expected it to be a total little turd shot on shot on a shot. There we go. Shot on a camcorder. Let the bathroom humor continue. I love it. We love where your head going. Yeah, this is nice. But uh but uh put me at the moment when when this vision sort of came to you. I'll let Hudson take over that cuz I feel like he's he's explained this quite a few times in the past. Um as as you know, four years ago, we were both on uh we were actually at the gym, so it's fitting. And we were discussing a good way to spend our free time. We're living down in LA at the at the moment and sometimes down there you're waiting on other people to give you a go. So, we just figured, hey, let's do something in the meantime. So, we spent actually, it's a it's what you said as far as fully formed. We spent a couple months because we love animation, illustration, all that good stuff, graphic design. So, we spent a couple names think uh spent a couple months thinking of the name, the graphics. Uh we wanted to have it really fun. That's why we thought of the acronym Buff Dudes and then it could stand for better understanding of food and fitness. And we really wanted like the Bill Nye the Science Guy, the Steve Irwin Crocodile Hunter, all that stuff we kind of grew up on. we really enjoyed where people could learn some things but also they could really be entertained. So that's why we've always tried to keep it really light and funny. And even in the beginning, like with that first episode, we're like, "Hey, let's just do it over the top and silly so people right away go, "Oh, okay. This isn't really like they're not going to be too put off." Cuz I know even in this day and age, surprisingly, people can still be like fitness guys. And get a little like, oh. So, we just want to let everyone know, hey, it's it's fine. I mean, even if you don't enjoy fitness necessarily, you'll you'll have a good time hopefully. Right. I was I was just relating to somebody the other day who doesn't familiar with you guys. I was like, it's kind of like Square One or Bill Nye the Science Guy, but for fitness. Yeah, definitely. There you go. You got it. Square One, man. I love that show. It just reminds me of the music and and just there's satire and also like engaging with stuff in culture built into it. Just through satire, which I totally dig. Yeah. So, when when though did you kind of have a moment where you thought, "All right, this might actually have some legs." It um I think it was nice because it was very organic. I mean, we never had, as far as like the online world goes, sometimes you'll have people that have something really big right away. We've had a few friends because down in that LA area, you're surrounded by a lot of like creators and everything and it kind of they ended up shooting themselves in the foot a little bit cuz they would have something big immediately like millions of views or whatever and they'd be like, "Whoa, so this is what it's like and then they would do something else and it was just like here." And that wasn't their fault. That's just kind of the way it works. Whereas with us, it was a very very slow progression. So we were just very happy every time we would get like a new subscriber, a new comment or whatever. It was always like, whoa, you know, people are actually watching this. It was it it was just very exciting for us. And I think it was like after the first maybe two years, we looked back and went, oh wow, we've actually really started to build something. And it's just like fitness with the consistency. We just thought we have to do this every single week. And then you do look back and go, "Oh, this is awesome." And how many how many are there now? How many videos have you made? Uh 300, I think. Yeah. Yeah. On a fairly steady cadence, it seems like you haven't ever just All right, we got to do start doing it every day vlog style. Yeah, we've never gone that we've we've experimented quality over quantity in a sense. You know, we didn't want to go over too much where we're just like every day, you know, we're just like you said, kind of doing more of a vlog and everyday stuff. And it for us it was kind of like it's it's more fun for us to just do entertaining kind of bigger budget stuff. Although that's not always the case. Although that's kind of what we strive for for sure because it's just, you know, to add that entertaining quality, you know, it takes some time to maybe come up with an idea, maybe write a script and then the actual shooting and then of course Hudson with the editing and stuff like that. Uh it's a lot lengthier than let's say just having a camera, you know, and just recording yourself as you're going along your daily activities, you know. So that was kind of the struggle sometimes. And that was the one of the things I said to Nick was watching the videos. It's the quality like you just said. I'm like this is really impressive. And so I'm interested to know like that I like you have an idea the whole timeline. So you map it out how long it takes to to go through that whole process to shoot it to edit it to just do a you know and I know you have different lengths of videos. There's some that are four or five minutes that might be like a shorter recipe one or a longer one like average length it takes you to throw something together. Yeah. What we have a lot we find a lot of enjoyment is is we love the creative process. We love having a crew. It's not, you know, we love doing stuff by ourselves, of course, but the longer we've done this, the more energy we can inject when we have other people helping along, just like with the bodybuilding.com crew this week that that we worked on with this project you mentioned, is you have those other people in there and they inspire you to just go bigger, go better, and it usually it's a lengthy process depending on, like you said, the project, but it has been getting lengthier and lengthier. So, we do every once in a while step back to go, we need to tone it down a little bit because it's getting a little too big. Because then too much is riding on them where you've spent so much time that with that kind of very shaky online world, it may not really go over as well as you'd hoped and then you're like, "Oh man, we're out 4 days of like doing all this stuff and, you know, we don't get quite as many views as we want." Cuz you know, it could take a day to really hammer down a good idea. You know, write a few synopsis, write a few ideas, and then kind of like flesh one out, move on from there. Then actually the shooting process and a lot of times the editing process, you know, depending on the the scale of the video can take a couple days if not more, you know. So I mean that the post-production sometimes can take the longest, you know, and that's hard. And I feel bad for the bodybuilding.com crew cuz they're going to have their handful with this. Yeah, we went Yeah, we went hearing already. Okay. Well, the word's already getting out there like a buff dude's video. It's like, well, good. That's what we would hope. We have amazing editors who love doing that sort of thing. So is it is it a fairly smooth running machine at this point or sometimes you just find yourself scrambling like oh my my my life my professional life my personal life is riding on this getting this done in the next day. Yeah. Yeah. In the beginning it was more so for sure especially because we did work you know there's a a time when I worked two jobs Brandon worked two jobs and then we were trying to do this as well on the weekends. So, you know, with the social world, as I'm sure many people know, it can eat up so many of your time with all the social media outlets and we our biggest thing is always just making a good video and sometimes we can really slack on all those other things like well then you got to keep everyone updated on Snapchat or whatever and it's just like ah, you know, it gets to you a little bit like there's just too much. So, that I would say is the most overwhelming part where we personally just like to be left alone, do a project and then get it out there. Yeah. And when you started doing this, maybe there wasn't the same level of pressure to be that. social media psycho to quote one of your Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. No, not at all. Yeah. Exactly. That that one's been a hit as well. I'm glad you enjoyed smacking it. Oh, yeah. You know, you got to Yeah. Give it some life, you know. Yeah. But um that was a commentary on others and us as well. I mean, we're not going to lie. Yeah. So, but I mean, even back then there wasn't even as many social media platforms, you know, they've really expanded as it goes along. Um, so it's kind of, you know, it feels like every other week there's a new social media platform that you have to kind of jump on and try to expand and and to make sure you're kind of on top of the game and stuff, but yeah, it can it can be a little much sometimes, but you know, when you love to do it, it's kind of like, you know, you just got to remember to do it. Yeah, totally. I was watch I was looking at what your most watched videos are, and you know, number one was I think Jim Wildlife, which is um, you know, pretty silly, gratuitous cleavage. Like it's there's it's a much more of a humor video. And then the second one I think was like upper body training for teens which is one that was also featured on bodybuilding.com where it's much more instructional. Have you been surprised by like what's resonated and where you're like okay clearly we're speaking to this person really directly. Yeah it it's it is and that's what we've another thing we've had to also kind of like reel ourselves in a little bit because we do like we want to do this and then this and this and you have to remember like there are times you need to streamline it so people like who are these guys? I mean they're doing a crazy video then a serious training video. So that one, the teen training really was nice for us because I feel that when we are doing a little bit of the more serious educational stuff, it's cool to have someone like a teenager in there with us cuz then we have their passion. They're um they're not so maybe I don't want to say jaded, but just they're just so used to everything. They're like, "Yeah, yeah, whatever. I've done this a million times." And they're just like, "Wo, you know, so then that gives us energy like, "Oh, this is great." So, we do enjoy doing that as well, but we just can't stop the, you know, the silly stuff. I mean, we're that just gives us like, oh, yeah, we just get to go wild. So, yeah, I'm glad we can have access to both of those worlds. Sure. Well, and you guys were spindly teens at one point yourself. Oh, yeah. Yeah, absolutely. It's always kind of nice to be able to kind of inspire and motivate and stuff. So, either whether that be through just a funny entertaining video or an actual, you know, training video itself. So, we try to hit it all, you know, as much as we can. I think that comes across in the nutrition videos too because nobody likes to I was watching one, you know, you're making cauliflower tots or something. It's like that's the worst thing ever. And I've tried to make I've tried to do that before and it's just horrible and I probably won't ever make it, but I'm like at least it's entertaining to watch. And I think that's the biggest thing. Uh and we've kind of hit on it a few times is reaching this audience. And in the past, it's instructional videos can be incredibly boring to watch and you just stand or watch someone standing there and doing something. But when you can make it uh almost theatrical or or it's like you're watching a show now um and you're watching characters more or less and but you're getting an education. Why is this important? What does this do for me? It just takes it to a completely different level. And there's not a whole lot out there that's doing it for uh anyone, you know, whether they're teenagers, whether they're middle-aged, whether they're they're older adults. For fitness in particular, yeah, it made me wonder, you know, going back to when you guys started to find your way in fitness as as spindly teenagers, not only who helped inspire you to go down that path, but actually see like, okay, this is actually stuff we love. This is fun. It's not just like something I'm desperately needs. I need, you know, it's like, yeah, we're not like obsessed too obsessed with it. But at the same time, it's like we've been doing it for quite a while now as well. And it almost just, you know, we're hoping that people watch it, have fun. Uh but also it makes it fun for us cuz you know, if you do that same thing again and again, you know, there's only so many ways you can explain how to squat or bench press. Uh after a while, you just have to you have to come up with another way to actually make it interesting, you know, cuz I mean, at least in some kind of way, not only for the viewer, but even us in front of the camera or doing some silly skit about it. So that's always fun. We try to make it fun. Mhm. Yeah. Although I think it comes across on your videos. Oh, that's good. Where would you say so kind of in in general, new ideas, where do they come from? Um because there's a lot of videos already out there and you guys have a lot of videos and you're coming up on over 300. How do you keep coming up with new things? We struggle with this all the time with articles. True. Yeah. Don't give away our struggle. No, but it's But you just said it. How many how many times you come up with saying how to do a squat or what the benefits of of a squat are? It's something that still has to be talked about. Yeah, you're always going to have a new audience. There's going to be someone who clicks on a BBOM article or clicks on a video, but how do you present it in a new way? I know sometimes we we'll see something in the gym, we see someone doing it wrong and it's like, ah, there's that's what we need to talk about or we just hear about it or someone's talking about it. So, I'm always interested to hear how people get their inspiration. I think you brought up a good point. It's mainly just kind of be aware of your surroundings. Uh, pop culture, movie references, anything that's really kind of that can, you know, you can reference to that people relate to. Um, I think I feel like we try to get as much influence as we can if not from other people, you know, movies, you know, that's experiences we've had in the past, you know, whatever that may be, you know, but sometimes it's a struggle because Yeah. I mean, you know, you really have to rack your brain to to figure out, you know, how can you present it in a package, which it is not only entertaining, but relatable and and informational as well. Yeah. And and there's so many more fitness personalities online than there even was four years ago. I I mean, every day I was like, wow, if there's it's just very vast. So, we've kind of found to ease back a little bit and go, you know, there's so many great people with so much advice and so much that that we're like, you know, we always want to keep the education of course, but I think we've probably amped up our entertainment even more cuz we go we just want to focus on what we do best. We don't want to try to maybe play the exact same game like you guys were mentioning earlier vlogs. I mean, we're kind of boring guys, you know? I mean, we we have the energy and the entertainment for these videos, but then after that, it's just kind like, all right, well, just, you know, become hermits and begin writing the next one or whatever. So, that particular format doesn't work quite as well for us, but other people just kill it. So, we try to focus on the entertainment. It's like why we're growing our beards all gnarly right now. We want to do a kind of like a history of fitness. So, show it through, you know, beginning with like the um uh Neolithic age and kind of move on. So to just be silly with it and so people are like they see characters and they can maybe get a little bit of history in the process and then as we said before it's just very entertaining for us as well. Yeah. No, there's and there's room for a total absurdity in there too. Oh yeah. As long as there room for that then we're good. Like the most recent video that I saw is um was um taking place on a farm. It's like a farm safety video. And the fitness aspect is totally absurd. Like I mean you have to you have to sort of wrap your brain around the whole concept but it's fantastic. And with your dad as well. Oh yeah. Oh, that's been so much fun. Yeah. Well, we we really base that on, you know, you'll see and it's not so much anymore, but you know, back in the day there was so many of those school educational videos and they're always so dead serious and every, you know, the monotone voice over it and so we thought, let's just like just get wild and just do something that's silly. Squats on the hay floor. Yeah, exactly. And I think a lot of sometimes too something like that it's kind of experimental to see what people's reaction to it because we'll we'll be doing it and we'll just we'll be you know we're excited doing it but then we're excited also to see what the reactions will be cuz you know we'll just be like this is so out of left field for so many people you know that are maybe subscri that subscribe to our channel because they watch maybe one of the kind of more just training videos and then all of a sudden this comes out and they're like what the heck is this thing you know but uh and it's always just fun reading the comments sometimes comments can be a little hard don't read the comments. I was about to say they're fun. Sometimes they are. They're like pretty fun. Yeah. More like soul shattering. Exactly. No, but you guys have been doing this for a long time though. You've been lifting and training for a long time. Um, so I I wanted to go back to sort of the dawn of the dudes a little bit and nice future episodes. There we go. Dawn of the dudes. Dawn of the dudes. I I know that your your dad was an inspiration. You were kind of what working together as as an older brother, younger brother probably too. But um yeah, what put us at the at the dawn of the dudes? Yeah, definitely. Our dad our dad got it into us for sure. Started hitting the gym about 14. Uh an inspiration for him was Steve Reeves, like Hercules, you know, so we would see little glimpses of that as kids and like who is this? This guy looks awesome, you know, this beard and all, you know, that set in the ancient age. So he was working out and then we would begin to go with him. And I think what really really got us going is um when Brandon was just about to um you just turned 19. I think I was 20. We're like, "Well, why don't we just try to prepare you for a teen training competition?" Because it seemed like, you know, the competition wasn't so, you know, you turn 20 and then all of a sudden you're in a totally different ball game. So, we're like, "Well, the teenage I think, you know, might work a little better." So, yeah, Brandon got prepared. It was just trial and error. I'll let you explain that, Brandon. Yeah, it was a learning experience. I mean, yeah, it was kind of one of those things where you see, you know, you see these guys in the magazines and you kind of see how how uh they look and you're just like, what's it what's it take to look like that, you know? So, I mean, we had already been working out, but of course, it was kind of more that just going in the gym and and living some ways not knowing what the hell we were doing really. And uh so pretty much just doing as much research as possible. You know, we cruise the body.com forums and reading up on people's experience and Hudson was, you know, he I think you kind of scouted that out before I even I did, you know, and you kind of you were let me know as far as the, you know, the zero carb, you know, kind of thing. We had no clue. I mean, come on. We were like, you know, we're still teens at that time. So, uh, so I kind of did this mini bulk to put as much, you know, weight on as possible. And the Klondike bulk pretty much. That is exactly Yeah. You've done your research. As much as we love our dad, I mean, he he advice calories, all about calories. So, I went to the grocery store and I was cruising the aisles and I found the Klondike bars. Like, well, one, these are probably delicious. But two, they're like 600 calories each. That means if I have like three at night, man, that's like, you know, I'll put on some weight real quick. Not having any clue that. Yeah. Right. Gains. All about the gains. So, I remember I doing that for a while and then waking up one morning and I was like kind of working out or whatever. But uh waking up one morning and I was I was getting a little little uh chunky, you know, and I looked in the mirror, I was like, "Something's not right here. I don't think this is the way to do it." Wait a second. Massive pretty much. Yeah. They were going right here on my stomach. So, uh yeah, I was like, I don't I got to do some more research. So actually started learning a little bit more about it and then uh started doing it the right way and uh working out pretty hard and then yeah went through the competition phase and it was great. It was a great experience you know I mean probably something you know I I wouldn't do again because it was so much work and a lot of effort but uh it was a great tool to learn how to you know to to learn about your own body and what it takes. especially at that time in your life when you're just, you know, an anabolic machine, right? Do you feel like there's there's value for for an experience like that for for a young man just like in maximizing that that crucial part of his Oh, absolutely. And I think that's probably one of the reasons why we do gravitate towards doing like teen videos cuz I mean when we were that age you know the information wasn't quite as as available um you know other than maybe like bodybuilding.com but uh but after that you know now in this day and age you know with YouTube and Instagram and all this you know they have a lot of people look up to but in the same sense that we kind of hopefully can bring in some of that information to people that are maybe curious about it or want to get into it or you know even if not bodybuilding at least just a healthy lifestyle. Did you ever heed the call of the stage? No. No, I never did. I saw Brandon compete twice and um it it it's just like he was saying, it was as much work as it was. And it's very rewarding, don't get me wrong, but I was just always felt very rewarded in other avenues such as like the production side, you know, that was the whole creativity in that outlet was something that I gravitated towards almost immediately. And in fact, we need to check our username because I think it's like a 2004 account on bodybuilding.com. Yeah. Old school. Oh yeah. We had like the pictures and a lot of the people were very helpful like, "Yeah, we recommend this and that." And we were so clueless. Yeah. We're like, "Huh?" All right. We can go dig up the old MISK comments. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. We hit up We hit that forum up a few times. Yeah. Don't look up the Yeah, maybe. Yeah, maybe. So, now you guys just did a recent video series that was all beards and bulks, right? M uh how how is bulking this far in the game different than the old Klondike bulk back in the day? Yeah, not the same. There's pizza involved in them. Like that's my type of Yeah, pizza and beer. There's always that involved. We tried to be as strict as possible, you know, but we're uh you know, we're around our parents at this point and and uh mom's home cooking. You know, it's as good as it is, sometimes it can get a little carried away. She's like, "Come on, here's here's mama's meatballs." Like, you know, they're like thousand calories or something. Venezuelan baseball players are notorious for coming back from the offseason completely overweight. And they ask one of them, "Why is this?" And he says, "My grandma, man, she makes these aripas. They're unbelievable." Yeah. We have something in common with them for sure. Yeah. Mom's always giving us the biggest carb loaded, you know, meal right before, you know, uh, bedtime. It's like, you don't leave the table without finishing your Exactly. No, it's right there. What are you supposed to do with it? She slaved over that meal. You better finish it. you know, it's not going to eat itself. Hey, but it's been going great. Yeah, absolutely. So, it was kind of new for I mean, we hadn't done a bulk since probably like our, you know, teens. So, uh we were like, you know, I think it'll be really interesting to do that and see how much size we can put on and uh it's been going good. But, uh done a bulk like just a straight up what we're talking four months of continuous about that long. Exactly. Put on about 20 pounds and uh tried to put on as much strength as possible, which was which was a lot of fun. But, um you know, I think we're ready for a cut. I think it's getting close. Summer's coming, especially here. It's been so nice out, you know. Yeah. All of a sudden. Finally. Yeah. Yeah. So, how what does your training look like now? Or has it changed a lot? Bulk versus we are big fans of, you know, with with like Bran was saying with the bulking, we're really focusing on our one rep maxes. We hadn't ever really done it. So, it's just very interesting for us. Like, well, I mean, if we really put ourselves to it, how much could we do? So, that was interesting. We didn't quite hit maybe, you know, what we wanted to, but that happens. I mean, we'll just continue to try to up that. Uh, but we're real big fans of, you know, things such as like supersets, just really getting in there, getting it done. Never really more than like, you know, an hour or so. Um, not a lot of time to sit around and talk. It's makes it perfect with us as training partners. So, one of us will just hit the exercise and we'll just keep switching out. So, yeah, we usually keep it we usually keep the heart rates pretty high and yeah, it's a lot funner. You get in there, get out. But, uh, hypertrophy, I think, is one of our favorites. you know, implementing supersets or drop sets, just higher energy, higher volume, you know, high intensity kind of stuff. I mean, that's what I kind of, you know, we grew up on anyways because we, you know, after like Steve Reeves and started getting into the bodybuilding, you know, of course, the evolution of that is then Arnold and, you know, Frank Zayn and Frank Columbo and stuff like that's all of a sudden now it's like into the, you know, golden era of the '7s '8s guys. And, uh, that's how they trained, you know, for for most of the part. And that's kind of I remember looking at all the magazines and that's how kind of I learned in the beginning. Um whereas it's like well I'll just follow their programs you know how cuz I mean they look great. I mean if I worked out like them I'll look like them. And for the most part I just fell in love with that training we both did and then we kind of just continued on training like that you know. But you you guys have covered so much ground in these videos too. Like I there are on every conceivable type of strength training there there's full body workouts. There are like total minimalist workouts and there's very specific movements. Do you feel like um moving through all of that has influenced your training as well? Because it's easy it's easy for somebody to get in a rut that lasts years where it's like this is what I do. This is what my body likes. Like you guys, you find you find that that feeds back into what you're actually doing. Oh, definitely. You know, we did kind of some body weight stuff last year due to recommendations from um the channel and subscribers, which we've also really found that we like because we don't know everything. We don't know how to do everything. So, it's nice when we're getting that feedback. Like, speak for yourself. where it is so nice to get that positive. You know, criticism is great when it when it's kind of has a point when it's not just, you know, like your typical YouTube comment of just, you know, whatever you guys suck, but when they actually say, "Hey, you guys should try this cuz I think it could benefit you in this way and everything." So, we've done stuff such as like a bodyweight series, which we really enjoyed. Just real big fans of just just keeping it so simple. I mean, a lot of my favorite workouts, we had a outdoor backyard gym for a while, which we really loved. I'd love to probably try and build one of those in the future, like half indoor, half outdoor, because for me personally, it just is motivating and inspiring to me. The the real simple things like working out for a little bit, going outside, feeling the sun, jumping in the pool immediately afterwards. That's like what drives and inspires me. Those just those little things. Yeah. Otherwise, it can be super easy to get stuck in the basement, I imagine, especially because you guys have a pretty sweet looking basement. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Yeah. The ceiling's not too high, though. That really holds you back. Yeah. So, so tell us about what you've been working on here. Uh, my understanding is that this is the um 9week journey to the goblet of gains. Oh, yeah. The name says it all. Exactly. Buff Dudes and the journey for the goblet of gains. Yeah. Cue the angelic kind of, you know, I'm I'm envisioning some some 8-bit music like this is this this feels like uh like a video game. Oh, yeah. Very inspired by a video game. Yeah. Um we were huge fans of that stuff, you know, growing up. uh the original NES and SNES and stuff like that. So, you know, whether it be Double Dragon, Bad Dudes, or you know, any kind of RPG you can think of, Zelda, you know, stuff like that. So, not Tetris. This is a Tetris theme. We had the game. We had the game. Everything I know about the human body I learned from Tetris. Look at these elbows. Look at Yeah. Wrist connected to the elbow, how it goes. But, uh yeah, so very very much inspired by the video game. And again, we're trying to implement uh that real fun, entertaining quality, you know, and the bodybuilding team has just been amazing. I mean, they immediately got kind of what we're about. And um and yeah, it's been it's nice when you work with a crew who's right on the same page where they're saying, "Oh, this is like, you know, this." You're like, "Exactly." You know, like so uh each each boss is going to represent a certain style. Like, you know, you have a boss is like super set. Another one is steady state cardio. And they each have their own look and feel. So, we're trying to get people hopefully maybe people who have been doing it for a while and just want something like refreshing or maybe someone who's never done it like oh wow this is kind of an inventive nice entrylevel way to learn about these things without feeling too intimidated but uh yeah it's going to be very silly for sure through the journey. Yeah. So it' be like there'll be kind of three phases or in this case three worlds. The first world is going to have three levels and then you're going to kind of make it through those three levels. You're going to beat that world, move on to the next world and so on and so forth. And then hopefully by the end and the last world, you know, uh the last level, level three, world three, uh you will acquire the goblet of gain. I was going to say like the goal is gains here. Oh yeah, it's all about gains. And there's a little little surprise ending, you know, a little twist at the end. Hope you get to type in your initials. Three three letters at Yeah. There you go. Oh, that would be awesome. Dang it. Yeah. See, we're so bad. Don't give away all the good ideas. I don't know. I I really apologize if I just if I just ruined it. Oh, this is great. Well, um, so what So what's next then after this? Another big cut or any other exciting? Yeah. Yeah. Well, we actually have a live show. Oh, that's right. I I saw that. What the what's going into the live show? Good question. Guess we'll find you guys. There we go. I'll go with the qualities, man. We'll just put two qualas on. Sad and say there you go. Start counting. 43. Everyone count along. Yeah. Reps. Repetitions for us. It's a high rep. Gym wildlife taken literally. Yeah. There it is. Yeah. But uh no, we're going we're going to try to implement that history into it. So we'll, you know, we'll be like cave dudes and all that stuff. And then we'll kind of have like the dudes. I think we're going to have the dudes. That's fine. Thank you. Thanks for that. We'll give you credit. I like it. Okay. So then we can look for it in a town near us. It's going to go on the road, right? Hopefully. This will be I don't know. experimental show. Yeah. And it's going to be in Irvine on June 11th. Yeah. So that'll be the the official date. So the pressure is on to to make sure it's a good show. Yeah. Totally. Well, you can also find them on YouTube. Of course, you have multiple YouTube channels, right? Three workouts, food, and then just the allin-one dude entertainment craziness. And then on all the other social media things if they if they want if they're interested in you rather than just, you know, and also on bodybuilding.com. uh imminently and we'll link in the description in case um in case somebody smashed their fingers and can't type it in or something. Okay, perfect. Yeah, those got the nose, you know. Exactly. Thanks a lot for coming by, guys. Thank you so much. Thanks for having us.