What's going on, guys? Evan Centopani here, Animal athlete and IFBB pro bodybuilder, and here are the top five ways to not grow. Number one: overtraining and not getting enough rest. Now, it's not enough just to give 100 percent in the gym: You need enough rest. If you're busting ass in the gym and then you're going to go out and party all night, there's no way you're going to recover. Growth happens when your body is at rest. You need rest to Number two: not enough training intensity. Keep in mind there's a difference between working out and training. Working out is what your grandma does. Training is what Rocky did in Rocky 4. People who go to the gym will look the exact same way five years from now as they do right now. That's not you. You need to go where you haven't gone before. Push. Number three: trying to stay too lean. You all want to maintain a six pack and a beach body all year-round and get bigger. Everyone wants to get bigger and leaner at the same time. If you're going to get bigger, thicker, stronger, there needs to be a surplus of calories. In order to grow, you need to eat. Eat to grow; cut down later. Number four: listen to your mom, your girlfriend, your bros. Okay, they're all going to tell you how great you are, how handsome you are, how big you are, how you should be Mr. Olympia, how you should have won that show... blah, blah, blah. No good bodybuilder ever looked at himself and liked what he saw. Your standards for yourself, they should be high and if they're not, keep people around who are going to be honest with you. And the fifth way to not grow, and this is a guarantee, is keep doing what you've always done. In order to get where you haven't gone before, you need to do something different. That's a given, alright? To keep doing the same shit over and over and over, you know you're going to get nowhere. So do what you need to do, make the appropriate changes, and put in the work. My name is Evan Centopani and this has been 5 Ways to Not Grow. For those of you who are interested in growing, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.