(dramatic music) - If you have a single pair of dumbbells you have all you need to achieve a great workout in less than 30 minutes. This is where it all comes together. Bringing the most badass workout to you right now. The Total-Body Dumbbell Fix builds muscle, increases strength, improves athletic performance, burns fat, and leaves you dripping sweat after every single workout. Notice, we can do these workouts anywhere we go. All you need is two dumbbells. 10 seconds. The Total-Body Dumbbell Fix is the perfect plan when the gym is crowded, space is limited, you're short on time, at home, or traveling. No matter where you are, you can get a quick and intense workout, whenever you need it the most. Sweat's dripping, you know it's a good workout. Fix consists of five individual, unique, follow-along workouts designed to target every major muscle group and it can be utilized in place of your regular workout routine. Three, two, one, and go. The Front Of Body workout targets your chest, quads, abs, front delts, and triceps, and delivers dynamic compound movements to get your heart rate up, while isolating all of your favorite muscle groups. The Back Of Body workout is anything but typical. It combines heavy pull and set movements with challenging core exercises to target your lats, hamstrings, glutes, rear delts, core, and biceps. The Strength and Muscle Building workout isolates your prime movers, with single-sided compound movements. This workout is guaranteed to build total-body strength and mass using as much dumbbell weight as you can possibly handle. If getting lean and mean is your goal, look no further than the High-Rep Total-Body Burn. Designed with both weight loss and athletic performance in mind, this high-rep cardiovascular workout hits all of the major muscle groups with a powerful combination of high-rep resistance training and calorie burning anaerobic intervals. If you want to test your limits, the Man Maker Mayhem workout will do just that. Deconstructing this brutal total-body exercise into its four main components, Man Maker Mayhem teaches you the proper form for this classic all-in-one exercise and provides a grueling time-based challenge at the end to test your skills and your strength. If you push yourself through this, you can push yourself through absolutely any workout. The Total-Body Dumbbell Fix allows you to follow-along in real time, providing instruction and motivation to make every single minute count, so you can get the most out of each and every workout. On the descend, you'll feel your lats widening up. That's exactly what you want to feel. All five dumbbell fix workouts are time-based. You'll perform as many reps as you can during each interval before time runs out and you move on to the next exercise. This allows you to combine resistance exercises with cardiovascular training, so you get in a better workout in less time. Your legs might feel a little shaky, like mine do right now. That's a good sign. That means you're working hard. This is where the strength comes in. Depending on your fitness level, you control the intensity. Work as hard as you want during each interval: speeding things up to get your heart rate up or slowing them down just a bit, to focus on form and those heavier reps. It’s tough but it is absolutely worth it. The Total-Body Dumbbell Fix will challenge you and provide you with the confidence of knowing you always have access to a great workout no matter what. Total-Body Dumbbell Fix. Exclusively on Bodybuilding.com All Access.