As a fitness professional, more often than not, I hear the same thing. How do I make a change? I know exactly where I want to go, but I have no idea how to get there. I want you to dig deep and find your reason that will last forever. So over the next 30 days, you're going to commit 30 minutes every day to me. Don't work out for hours a day [\h__\h] around giving you 20%. Work out for 30 minutes a day and give it 150% and leave your body on the floor. In this 30 minutes, we're going to get a kick-ass workout that will challenge you. It will test you and it will probably make you angry. But did you die? No. You've got 5 seconds. Let's go again. But one thing that I can tell you is it will make you strong physically and emotionally. That puddle in front of you is hard work. Over the next 30 days, there are going to be three levels of training. So you can follow along for the 30 days at each level. So you can come back to this trainer three times and get something different out of it. No matter where you're at in your fitness game, there is something within this trainer that is for you. Whether this is just the beginning and you want to move slow and you lift light, I've got Tanner over here. So if you're a beginner, I want you to follow him for the next 30 days. Or if you're in that in between stage where you want to step it up but you're not quite sure how. We have my husband Paula. If you're intermediate, I want you to join him. Or if you think you're advanced, then I challenge you to try and keep up with me. BRING THAT INTENSITY. COME ON. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. You at home. You got this [\h__\h] So, what are you going to need during this program? A couple of dumbbells, a couple of kettle bells, some resistance bands. So, that excuse of not having access to all that equipment will not suffice within this program. Don't tell me you do not have time to work out. Look at this. What I do need you to do, though, is bring your aame. This is your workout. Bring me what you got. I program these workouts for you, but you are in total control of the intensity and what you put into it. What you put in is exactly what you're going to get out. Oh yeah. How you doing? [\h__\h] [\h__\h] is right. It means [\h__\h] is getting real over here. Over the next 30 days, you will follow this program. 3 days on, one day off. Two days on, one day off. Every Thursday and Sunday will be a rest day. So, every Monday will be a monster Monday. For every 3 seconds of work, you'll get 1 second of rest. A monster Monday is a great way to combine intense cardio, but also build strength, too. Never miss a Monday. You miss a Monday, you're more likely to miss the rest of the week. Then, we move on to Tabata Tuesdays. Tabata is an incredible way to blast fat without tapping into that lean muscle that you put the work in to build. We're going to combine an intense cardio movement with a resistance movement, spiking your heart rate up so when we go to lift our weights, we can reap the maximum benefits. Every Wednesday, workout Wednesdays, the 45s. We'll have 10 exercises. We'll spend 45 seconds on, 15 seconds off. We'll hit two rounds of that with 1 minute rest in between. Before or after your workout, you will either have a tailgate, which is where we usually get too [\h__\h] up to make it to the game, or an afterparty. And it's not the kind of afterparty that you think it is. It's called Ab City. for 4 minutes. We are going to work on abs every Friday. I call this an open format Friday. I'm literally going to just throw some crazy [\h__\h] at you and see how you can perform. Friday is a day for me to test you and show yourself what you've been doing. Then we have a Saturday. I like to call it mashup Saturday. We're going to combine some of the exercises and the intervals that we did throughout the week to make a mashup workout. Mostly body weight workouts to confuse your body and to make you sweat. We've got a spill on aisle five. More often than not, people get bored with their training program. This program will offer you anything and everything. It is a hybrid training style. We'll have animal flow, functional movements, athletic drills, cardio, bodybuilding, gymnastics, strength, you name it. We step outside of the box. I'm trying to bring every world of fitness together to create our own weird and wonderful world. Smack yourself on the ass. Let's go. Think about those sexy abs you've always wanted. My quads are on fire. You will never get bored. I can promise you that. No matter where your fitness game is, if you start this program, you're going to finish. That voice that is doubting you, tell it to shut the [\h__\h] up. Just wait. Shit's about to get real. If you start this, I promise you, you will be challenged, you will learn, and you will have fun doing it. DON'T YOU DARE DROP. I'M WATCHING YOU. SO, ALTHOUGH we'll be spending 30 minutes with a kick-ass workout, none of that means [\h__\h] unless you can dedicate the other 23 and 1/2 hours to yourself. This program will provide you with a detailed nutrition plan that will help you understand what you need to eat in order to fuel your workouts and set yourself up for success over the next month. I will also provide you with a supplementation plan that will support muscle growth and muscle recovery. I'm also going to provide you with a workout calendar. I will literally tell you what days to work out and what days to rest. Everything is going to be laid out for you. The only thing that you need to do is find your reason to commit from day one to day 30. And I promise you, you will succeed. Wow, your life just got lit up. At the end of the 30 days, I know that you're going to find a side of yourself that you did not know existed. You're going to continue to push yourself and challenge yourself past your limits. You're going to become unstoppable. Don't be that person that complains but never makes a change. That wishes that they could have something without making any differences. So, let's go. You and me and the next 30 days starts now. Here we go. It's you versus you. Come on. WE GOT 10 SECONDS. PULL. YOUR sweat should be everywhere right now. Way to work. We've got three, two, and one. Rask. What's your