I'm going through 30 days of this program with you guys, holding your hand, walking you through it. This is 30 days out, maximizing your intensity and your time. You're 30 days out. Dial it in. All right, so let's break down the training. We're 30 days out. I'm going to get you ready and shredded in 30 days dialed in. Something I call super 30. What is super 30? Super 30 is my way of training to get dialed in in 30 days. People ask me how do I get ready in 30 days or they really have a small window of getting ready. They don't have 12 weeks to prepare or 16 weeks to prepare. They got 30 days to prepare. I found this the best approach by working through with it myself as well as my online clients. So super 30 encompasses a lot of different philosophies that I use in training. You know, there's not one way to do something and I tell that to people all the time. A lot of people get hung up on one idea, one way to do something. That's not this model at all. We're going to break it down in many different ways. So super 30 is the overall program, the shell. How that's broken down is many different things like HBT, Tabata, cluster sets, rest timing, triceps. The first one I want to talk to you guys here is HBT, heavy volume training. The first one in the program is going to be 10 sets of three. So we're really pushing the intensity and the weight here, guys. You're going to basically try to find a weight that you can fail at three. I don't want you failing at four. I don't want you failing at five. You're going to use your warm-up to find out exactly where you should be failing at three. All right. So, the next technique we're going to use here is triceps. And we're going to break down three exercises. We're going to put three exercises together with no rest in between, no rest under completion. So, you do, let's just say, for example, the way we work it in super 30 is triceps, biceps, calves, repeat. No rest in between. You go one to the next to the next, repeat. That's a tricep. part of this tricep comes something we call pound per rep. All right. So, under the tricep and bicep portion of this exercise, we're going to basically take a pound per reproach. So, if you're picking up the dumbbells, you're going to pick up a 30. That means you got 30 reps. Pound per rep. All right. So, when you move into the third exercise in your tricep, now we're moving away from pound per rep, and we're getting into something I call clusters. Cluster sets for me are all about maximizing as many amount of reps with intensity in one minute, having very little rest in between. If you can go the whole thing without resting, it's probably not a cluster set. You probably didn't push yourself well enough and push enough weight. But basically, utilize as much weight as you can push until you fail. Take a small rest and get back to it. All right. So, the next technique you're going to encounter here is something I call ascending reps. All right. So, we're going to use this when we go one by 30. So, that's one set of 30 reps. And the way we're going to do it, you know, using the 30 philosophy, the super 30, we're going to go 2 4 6 8 10. If you count them up, it's 30 reps. So, the way we're going to get there, you're going to go two with the right, two with the left. Repeat. Four 4 6 8 10. 30 reps. That's ascending reps. So, the backbone of super 30 here, guys, is our timing. Basically, I'm not giving you more than 30 seconds rest in this whole entire thing. I don't trust you enough to say, "Hey, you're going to basically work out as hard as you possibly can in the gym." No, you have 30 seconds rest in between, maximizing your time in between sets with your rest. All right, so let's talk cardio. The first one, let's talk about everyone knows is steady state or low intensity. So, what we're doing is we're going to throw you on a machine, make you do something that's not very taxing on the body, and we're going to start this in week one, and we're going to taper it down by the end of it because I want to make sure that you guys are not jumping in all in and getting frustrated with, you know, where your endurance is at. We're going to build that through progression. All right. So, the next form of cardio let's talk about is Tabata. So, Tabata, it's going to last you 4 minutes. You're basically going to do eight sets. It's going to be 20 second timed, 20 seconds of intensity followed by 10 seconds of rest. and you're going to do it eight times in a row. It's going to come out to four minutes. I give you a few different ways we're going to go about it. We're going to do some abs. We're going to do agility. And we're going to do some kind of straight hit cardio. No one in my training program has ever said, "I'm just going through the motions." It doesn't exist, and I don't want you doing it. Not in my program. So, now that we've broken down the techniques, let's break down your weekly routine. So, the way Super 30 I've taken this spin is break it down into two ways. Major muscle groups and auxiliaries. So major muscle groups, the way I break it down is we're going to train those guys on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday. The muscle groups that are included in that is going to be your chest, your back, your shoulders, and your legs. And then we break down our auxiliary exercises. Those are going to be done on Wednesday and Saturday. So it gives you a little break in the week. And those are going to be your biceps, your triceps, your abs, and your calves. You also have cardio, and you're going to do that Monday through Saturday with one day off. It's important to get one day off a week to let your body repair and get ready for the workload to come the very next day. So, now that you got the schedule, you know what you're going to be doing, what body part, what day, Monday through Saturday, what's going to change as you progress in this program is going to be the weight and where we're going to introduce you to those exercises as well as your cardio as well as your nutrition. So, you got to make sure that you're watching these videos as you progress through this program. All right, let's get down to the nitty-gritty here. Starting with week one and let's talk about our major muscle groups. Chest, our back, our shoulders, and our legs. And the way it's going to work, week one, you're going to have your first set is going to be 10 sets of three reps. Your second set is going to be six sets of five reps. Your third set is going to be five sets of six reps. Your fourth set is going to be three sets of 10 reps, followed by two sets of 15 reps, followed by one set of 30 reps. And week one cardio for your majors is going to go like this. You're going to do steady state followed with one Tobata exercise. And you can do it either way. It doesn't matter how you break it down. Just follow the program the way it goes. Within week two for the majors, it's going to go like this. Instead of doing 1x 30 at the end, we're going to bring that 1x30 and bring it to the front. So basically now you have a lot of reps in the beginning. And then your second set is going to be 10x3 followed by 6x5, 5x 6, 3x 10, 2x 15. That's it. Then get into the cardio. Week two cardio. We're going to take away 5 minutes of your steady state and we're going to add one more Tabata. So now you have two Tbatas in week two with steady state. Week three majors, you're going to do the same thing. You're going to take away that bottom exercise which is our 2x5. You're going to bring that to the beginning. So the program starts like this with our majors. 2x5, 1x30, 10x3, 6x5, 5x 6, 3x 10. Let's talk about week three cardio. What we're going to do now is we're going to take away another five minutes of steady state with um three hit Tabata exercises. All right. So, that's what we're going to do. We're going to progress as we get, you know, better endurance. Our body's going to change. Your nutrition is going to be a little bit lacking. So, it's really in week three is our transitional period where you really have to push it. You really have to be accountable to yourself. All right. So, week four for the majors. Guess what? We have 3x 10, 2x 15, 1x30, 10x3, 6x5, 5x6. But here's where it gets interesting. You do not have a lot of nutrition in you at this point. These are going to be the lowest calories you're taking in. Your energy is going to be down. And guess what? You have four hit tobata workouts. Hit it and quit it. All right. So, now that we finished up our major muscle groups, let's talk about our auxiliary muscle groups. This is our Wednesday, Saturday workout. And so the way this works is we're going to go with three triceps. Tricep number one, tricep number two, tricep number three, followed by Tabata abs. I'm going to show you in these workout videos how we get it done using Tobata to use your strength and resistance training to train your abs as well as steady state cardio. And that's going to be constant throughout the whole program. So that's week one. What we're going to do in week two is going to take our bottom exercise and bring it back to the top. So instead of doing Tobata abs, you know, last in the progression, now we're going to do it first. So you got Tobata abs, then you're going to do tricep number one, tricep number two, tricep number three, and then do your steadyst state cardio. That's week two auxiliaries. Week three auxiliaries, same thing again. And this is our transitional period where our training is going to get intense because it's now you got to hold yourself accountable because now our calories are getting really depleted. We're really on fumes and you got to hold yourself accountable for what you're doing in the gym. So week three starts with basically you're going to take your tricep number three, which which was the bottom of week two. You bring that to the top. Then you have your Tabata abs. Then you got tricep number one followed by tricep number two. Then you got your steady state cardio. Getting into week four. You're really on fumes at this point. You really have to push it. And these this is where it's going to go. So you're going to take your bottom exercise, which was tricep number two. You're going to bring that to the top. So then you're going to start week four with tricep number two, tricep number three, tabata tricep number one, as well as steady state cardio. That's how we're going to finish out this program with the majors and the auxiliary muscle groups. Now that we're done with all the detail, you're going to see it. It's going to be very laid out. So, don't worry about what I just said as far as if you didn't understand it completely. You just got the ideas, you got the techniques, you got the reps, you got the idea of what the program and super 30 entails. So, let's break down the user experience from a macro perspective. You're going to be able to follow these videos with me daily as I'm going through this program. So, you're going to see really where my head's at. In week one, what you should experience is you're going to be have a lot of energy, right? You're going to still have your calories kind of high, so you're going to have some good energy going in. It's the beginning of a program, so you're going to be you're going to be pumped up. What I can bet is you're going to be pushing some big weight. You're going to be maximizing your efficiency, your time, and you're you're basically your 30 days in the gym getting to your goal. So, that's week one. Going into week two, now you you're on track. All right? So, now you know where your nutrition's at. You got your plan, you have your nutrition, you have your training, you have your cardio. It's getting easier. Week three is a big point in this program, with any program. If you follow basically any traditional program, you're going to find out in week three is where you're going to find a lot of people either jump off the program or they stick to it and they they they hunker down, right? So, what's going on in week three? A lot of psychological things are going on. You're saying, "What did what did I just do for the last 14 days? Did it work? Is is how is my body responding? Am I on track?" A lot of second guessing goes on. You have to hit it in the gym. You have to bring the intensity and hold yourself accountable, especially going to week four. The pivotal point of this program is week four. The biggest point in this program is week four. Push it all you have. You only have six more days into this program. Week four is the major one. You basically four toata exercises. The intensity is through the roof. The calories are depressed. You have to hold yourself accountable if you want to see those goals. Super 30 in a nutshell. All right. So, we just gave you a great macro overview of what the training entails. All right. So, on this page, you're going to see that global view of what you're getting. But make sure when you guys go through this program, you're going from day one to day 30 because we're going to now break it down into a micro detail. Give you all the small details that you're going to need to have the best success with this program. Give it 1 hour of your day. But I just said one hour of your day. What happens the other 23 hours? Guess what? That's the nutrition. You must watch the nutrition video before you even click day one. Because you know what? If you fail at nutrition, you're going to fail at this program. If you were going to break it down to percentage, what is training? What is nutrition? What is supplementation? I would say it's got to be 10% training, 90% nutrition. Supplementation is just an eight on top. You're 30 days out. Dial it in.