You know, you're asking me if I get sick of being a bodybuilder. Never. I mean, I love lifting weights, that's what I do. Let's go, Jay, come on. Come on, come on. Stack 'em is the show. Come on. Almost every night, seriously, "When is he coming in? When's he coming in next?" What do you think people think when they see Jay in the gym? Most of 'em can't believe that they can be that big, to be honest with you. First time you see him, it's a lot of looks. Everyone goes shakes his hand, interrupts his workouts, takes pictures. That's excellent. Appreciate it, man. But Jay has never turned one person down ever to take a picture, to do an autograph, to talk to someone. He's always been out of his way to help everyone out. When Jay comes in, everyone wants to be like Jay. Not like Mike, everyone The biggest achievement that I'd never expected was to give the motivation to a lot of people when I was just trying to be motivated myself to go to the gym. You know, I train in public because I don't want to be surrounded and locked in the lifestyle to the extreme. I mean, I live in it day in, day out. You know, I'm cooking and training and never stepping out of the shoes of being who I am and that's Jay Cutler, the bodybuilder. So for me, I have my own sanctuary which is pretty much my office that, you know, here I look around at the achievements. I'm surrounded by what my life from the beginning to now has become. So, for me, it's enough for me and, yes, I have some functioned equipment in the gym, like cardiovascular and that kind of things, which are necessary in the morning. I don't want to have to drive to the gym so that allows me to be able to get in what I need to and, of course, I leave all the weights to the gym. They have the most weights. I like to do variety. You know, I move heavy dumbbells so, you know, I work anywhere between 25 and to, you know, 160-pound dumbbells most often so that'd be kind of a big collection to have in your home gym. And the way I look at it, is I'm always gonna weight train but not to that extreme. You know, I think when I retire, I mean, throwing around 100-something-pound dumbbells, I mean, that's probably not gonna happen as much, so it's kind of pointless to build something that's not forever. You know, I think the biggest misconception is that we do things really extremely different and that's not necessarily the case. I mean, it's very, very basic, what a professional bodybuilder does and I'm just speaking on my own behalf. I mean, I've been basic since the beginning. You know, I had certain monogenetics that I was blessed with. You know, I started on a specific diet, I stuck with the basics of training. I get a common question all the time. People approach me and they say, "Jay, what's the secret? What's the secret?" And there is no secret. It's--the secret is progression, consistency, dedication, day in, day out. There are certain body parts I do like to train harder, like, you know, I might train arms a little lighter whereas, you know, back training, leg training, is a lot heavier and harder. What I like to usually do is structure, you know, rest days around those training days because they just sometimes can be pretty intense. Anyone asks me, "What are you training tomorrow?" I usually have an idea but if they ask me what time, I couldn't even tell you the time I wake up in the morning what time I'll go to the gym. And if I tell you a time, even an hour before I'll never be on time. That's how I work. I don't have really scheduled training partners. I have people that pick up and train with me here and there. They kind of know just I'm on call and, you know, just let me know an hour before so, of course, they can get food in and get to training and where to meet me. I'm done here. Let's do some dumbbells. Okay. It's different when you don't have a team, you know, have a structure where it's, like, you know, a time schedule where you're, you know, you're expecting people to show up or some place is gonna be open. Vegas, I mean, that's why I train here. It's the best place to train. It's like an athlete's playground here pretty much. I mean, we just--we train 24 hours a day and eat 24 hours and, I mean, nothing--there's no weather variables. Everything is just in tune with what you're trying to do because you can just make it any kind of structure you want and the result will be the same each day. Every day's similar. I mean, I don't listen to music so, like, you hear these stories about guys listening to music and amped up and going and, for me, it's not really an emotional thing. Here, I'm very driven to do what I do and I realize the job on hand so I don't need that extra anger or any kind of frustration to train any harder. You know, I surround myself with people sometimes if I need extra motivation I'll get someone to go in the gym and push me. I get some people to pick up some weights sometimes. One more set with that 10 on. I'm gonna do one more set with that 10. Everyone knows what I do in the gym, you know? Everyone always trains harder than you. No matter what you-- "I train as hard as him. I could be his size if I trained, you know, if I had the opportunity to work--not work and go to the gym." So no one--you can never teach anyone training advice. I mean, we talk about spending money for food and all this other stuff, I mean, I spend $1,000 a week on tissue work. It's crazy. Anyone that weight--lifts weights, you're tearing down muscle tissues so you're gonna have breakdown of the tissue that's gonna get adhesed to other tissue. So what we're trying to do is take the stress off that muscle, keep the muscles healthy and, of course, flexible, pliable, and it's gonna help with muscle growth. It's gonna help with flexibility and it's gonna help avoid any injuries and even fix injuries. When something's so tight, you're not gonna get the blood in there like you need to. And that's what happens, like, with a lot, like, my hamstrings get super tight so when I train my hamstrings I don't get, like, say, the pump that I might get when I do chest or whatever else. You have super-tight muscles and no flexibility and no stretching, your muscles aren't gonna grow. This is gonna help with all that. This guy's a--I think he's a chiropractor by trade, but he's the specialist in this active release and he's probably the guy in Vegas that, I mean, I've been going to him since 2003 or '04. Has he been a staple of my success and my career? Absolutely. So I want to do the hamstring and the lat of course, shoulder whatever you think feels-- I had last week off from you so-- but I do want to get this hamstring, that inside canal. Where we were last time? Way at the top? Yeah, get in there and then see how that feels. But you can feel there's a spot on the inside of the hamstring too. Yeah, that's actually pretty sore today. A normal person, if you're looking at the quad, they mainly have a couple inches of tissue. If you look at these ham hocks, I mean, it's 30 passes to the 2. And he's getting bigger, so. I mean, Jay's dense so what happens is, especially with inside that tissue, those fibers adhere and stick like a paintbrush with the fibers all here together. So as they start to stick and bind, it creates the scars. And what I'm doing, is I'm finding those areas of concern. I'm taking a contact on him and I'm holding a translated contact so I'm not highly compressing the tissue even though there is some compression. We're trying to get those fibers to break free so that they can fill with blood. Oh my goodness, ow, ow, ow, ow. Agh, agh, right there, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Aghhh. You have to laugh, it hurts so much, no? That felt amazing though, as much as it hurt. The biggest most impressive thing is that each year it gets better. I deal with a lot of world-class athletes, thousands. You know, a lot of guys post season, there's a big change in their physique. Jay stays pretty much a specimen, if you will, year round, looking great. Right in there, bud. Yeah. Is it the hamstring? Yeah, that's a hamstring with a little bit of adductor. I don't know what that looks like on the camera but it's, like-- I can tell by how hard he's working and when you raise your head, there's things that are-- Like, we've discussed this, the necessity of certain areas of my body and he's, like, you know, there's a lot of places where people won't, you know, go to really relieve what's stuck, you know? He's like, "Well, you have to get in certain places and it may not be the most comfortable but." You've got to put in the time and he does that whether it be my table or the gym. I mean, you have to have a pretty trained eye to even see some of the areas of major injury. And Jay's had his fair share of injury. He's worked through it. If you were to look at the recovery rate which he had on the bicep, you know, it's a little bit of luck, great surgical, but great rehabilitative effort. I mean, you just sometimes that you can't rehab. It's like putting together two ends of a paintbrush. That's a feat, man, right there, that's a huge feat. You can see it a little bit when I do a front lat for-- see that indent? You can't see this--you can see in the right light, when you get under the stage lights you can see it. 'Cause the belly tore too. That's why they told me it won't--you'll never have flexion in your arm again. That's why I said I'm never gonna compete again. They told me it would never be hard, it would be soft. So when it healed, the guy's, like, "I don't know how it healed but." He said, "We tied it super tight so let's hope that it heals right," and it healed okay. And it was hard as a rock, like, right after. It made it bigger so now I got to--the other one's-- this one's gonna be bigger now. Go. Up. Push it. The unique thing about me is I don't have a set schedule so it really varies on day to day how I feel and when I train is determined on how my body feels. Typically, I go by the basic guidelines is I try to eat three or four meals before I train, for sure. Most importantly is my sleep. I need to make sure that I sleep enough, which is really only about 5 hours a night, 4 to 5 hours. But typically, I train really, really late. I avoid the crowds. I don't go by any set schedule and I don't train on a specific body part schedule. I just train specifically how my body tells me that I need to so if I'm scheduled to do back or chest on a certain day I might switch it and do legs. Sometimes I do body parts differently. It kind of go by feel. If I'm really sore, I'll take a day off. I don't have a set day off schedule, like most people take a Sunday off. I don't do that. I just regularly go by feel and that's helped me gain great success all the way along my career, it seemed to be the best thing for me. Go. So I like to keep the weights very heavy and do lower reps and obviously, what happens is when you train with as much volume as me, you can't do as many repetitions because you'll just burn yourself up. I mean, you have to have one or the other. Either you're gonna do less weight, you know, more repetitions and less sets or you're gonna do a lot more sets, heavier weights and less reps. So I choose to do the heavier weights, less reps, more volume, pump the muscle, keep filling it up, hit the angles. I wanted to have, obviously, freakish body parts. It was never really, like, I want all eyes on me, type of thing. It was never an ego I want everyone to notice me. I wanted to look presentable where I walked around when I wasn't in contest shape and I just was big and round and people admired the muscles. I think pretty much I've, you know, I've secured the legacy on the competition stage. I really don't have any real specific goals insofar as my physique, as far as, you know, I'm not going to the gym and saying, "Well," you know, "I need to have my legs 2 inches bigger," or anything like that. I think, you know, with me, it's more on the aspect of the legacy of Jay Cutler and where it's gonna go from here. Stack 'em is the show. Come on. Let's go, Jay, come on. Suck it up, suck it up, suck it up, suck it up. Mentally, you have to be, I think, a little crazy. People approach me and they say, "Jay, what's the secret? What's the secret? What's the secret?" I don't like to eat anything. If you ask me what my favorite food is, I don't have a favorite food. I don't look forward to any meal at all. You're a living legend, that's what's amazing about what I do. Jay Cutler! And I tell you, Jay Cutler's the greatest of all time.