Better slow down here. I'm going into the 30 mile an hour limit. Don't want to get a speeding ticket. I'm Kris Gethin. I'm going to be training to prepare for an Ironman. Most people give themselves two years. I'm giving myself six months. And we're going to do it. My legs are absolutely destroyed now. So what's the best thing to do? Running. Good morning! I believe it is day 50 of this video trainer. It is Monday. Yesterday we participated in our very first open water swim. We hadn't used our wet suits before, we hadn't been in murky water, we certainly hadn't been kicked in the head before, which we experienced all. And, uh. We, we had a success. We completed our one-mile swim. So it was good to get that out of the way. Not have those fears going around the back of our mind, holding us back before we going into the half Ironman. Can't wait to do it again. Today I'm kind of going by instinct, I'm navigating my way around the floor. But it's good, my instincts are serving me well. Just coming in and kind of making it up as we go along. But that's what I do in pretty much all of my video series. Going by instinct. That's why I do these video series with you. Because I kind of want to understand how the body reacts and how it feels. So I can relate more to the viewer. And so now we'll go for an ab exercise based on how we feel today. Let's go and have a goosy gander. Day 50 completed, as far as weights workout is concerned. Did the triceps, shoulders, abs. Abs feel blitzed. But unfortunately, like, I'm a little bit pissed off, because I want efficiency with these workouts. So I like to destroy my triceps and my delts before my swim. But I haven't had that opportunity today because we came in late and there's a swim class that starts here now. So I've got no choice now but to come in later to do my swim. We're in a bit of a rush this morning. We've got to leave here, go straight up to Camel's Back and get our run in before I start filming in the morning. I got a pretty jammed day, so excuse me if I'm a little bit rushed. We've got a lot of exercises, or a lot of movements, sets, to get through. Let's hit it. Took about 50, 50 minutes. 50 minutes and we're done, we're in and out. Gonna head up to Camel's Back now, get a bit of a trail run. So, hope you're fit. So we got Leah that's going to be joining us. As you may have noticed, Leah was in the leg workout. Leah is from Boise here originally. When I used to see her training in the gym, I didn't notice her because she hardly looked like she trained. And then I come back a few years later and I was like, what the fuck happened to you? It's like somebody threw, like, bits of meat on her frame and just, like, grew. So we got a one mile warm-up trail running. So of course it's not fucking tough enough for me, so I have to put a weights vest on. Cause I just want to make it a little bit more difficult, so then when I get the weights vest off, I feel kind of normal. So after the one mile warm-up, we have eight of these rounds. It's half a mile at a seven out of 10 effort. That's a half Ironman effort, apparently. Seven out of 10. Keep it controlled and focus in on that effort. Then a 90 second jog after each, OK? We repeat that eight times. And then we cool down with one mile, just easy. Oh fuck. That wasn't wasn't a seven out of 10. What was it? It's a fucking 10 out of 10. Only because I was running so slow, I didn't even look at the speed, but my heart rate was up to, like 170. And I was only a little slow, but I had to walk. Well no, I didn't walk, I was almost walking. I just had a little, little tiny jog. Oh no. And I fucking collapsed. Oh man. What's really hard, which I really like, is I'm doing this trail running and wearing this, and after the leg workout, it's really hard for me to pick my legs up now. I'm kind of shuffling, which is good. Because bigger people generally do that anyway after awhile of running. They kind of shuffle because they can't pick up the size of their legs. Now I understand what Alex is talking about when he says that. So hopefully doing this is actually strengthening it now. What up? It's that time again. And that time is back and biceps. Very early morning. It was a late night, not much sleep. But I travel to Europe this afternoon, so maybe I'll get some shut eye on the plane. Hopefully. Possibly. Leah Dolan, IFBB pro, could be joining us today. And then I'm going to go out for my bike. I was going to do the watt bike, but then I thought, you know what? I don't know if I'm going to have the chance to go outside on a bike whilst I'm travelling. I'd better take up that opportunity now while I can. So I'm going to come back home and quickly get onto the bike and get out for an hour of drills. Okay let's do this. We're going to start, like, an inverted row. Got to be engaging the core. I'm doing a lot of core work. Throughout these three disciplines of the swim, bike, run. And then I'm going to go straight into, like, more of a lat row. And then I'm going to support my legs and pretty much do the same: lats and traps. Hitting biceps now. What we're doing is a bosu ball curl with the cables. And by doing it on a bosu ball obviously it's helping with the core engagement, the stability of the ankles and the knees. Alright. So it's time for our cardio now. We just raced back, had our Re-Kaged. Sunshine and I are going to go up to a place called Lucky Peak, where it's got some steep inclines so we're going to be able to increase the intensity and the effort by doing so. Because what we've got to do after our warm-up and our slight build up towards our maximum efforts, is five minutes at about an eight out of 10 effort. And then we've got one minute at a nine out of ten effort, and then four minutes easy. We're repeating that four times and then we've got our 10 minute cool-down. So it's not that long of a workout, but it will be intense. Day... What day is it? 54. Day 54. Yeah, it's day 54 and it's finally hit me that our life right now kind of revolves around these work outs. I never thought I'd be out here in lycra. But here we are. Beautiful day out. Beautiful day out and. Now we're going to Joe and the Juice, going to have a nice cup of coffee. Yeah. Bit of a nice toasted sandwich. Beautiful, healthy, gluten-free toasted sandwiches there. And we're actually taking on an optional run today. 30 minutes. 30 minutes skip around Hyde Park. It will take, like, 30 minutes to run there. Yeah. Alright. Joe the Juice is nearby? Alright. We just stopped at Joe the Juice, to get ourselves a little juice here. And I don't know if you can see up there... Well it's called the Ironman. With some added ginger in it, as well. So, this way? So usually on these video series you'll notice that I definitely don't suggest juices, especially ones that are containing fruits because of all the fruit sugar. But on this video series it's not so much a fat-loss program as such, as it is muscle building and performance. Fat loss will come at it towards the end, so juice is obviously being a healthy antioxidant when we've got a lot of free radical damage happening. Is the perfect antidote. Anybody that says antioxidants don't belong in a performance or muscle building regime are bloody crazy. What, am I going to ban fruits now from people's diets? Bloody hell. You're nuts. Alright. So off we pop. This is Hyde Park. Isn't it beautiful? We just finished our little galavant around there. We're going to do our proper sessions later and tomorrow in Cardiff when we get there. We are restricted in time when we're travelling, so we just have to make sure that we do get it in, best way we can. So we're going to head on back now to our little Airbnb. And it is freaking little. It's so little I found the fridge in the wardrobe, it's that small. And when I sit on the toilet, I have to sit on it at an angle because I squish against a wall otherwise. It's crazy. I've never sat on a toilet sideways in my life. But that's what you get when you have big lats and shoulders. What a gorgeous place to run. Yeah, isn't it just? It's cause you're in Cardiff now, babe. This is beautiful.