I'm Chris Gthin and I've been the host of many video series where you've seen me build muscle, burn fat, and now I'm bringing to you a completely different video series. It's a kicking the balls, but what's the point of doing it if it's easy? I'm going to be training for 6 months in the leadup of a full iron distance triathlon. I can't talk during my rest. There's going to be two programs that coexist here. Number one is going to be the bodybuilder program that's going to have some conditioning aspects to it. However, there's going to be the full program that I'll be following and you can follow as well. The goal of this program is to build muscle, complete an iron distance triathlon, and be a hybrid athlete. That was a hell of a hill. Today is supposed to be an easy day. It's far from an easy day. Follow me for the next 6 months as I put my mind and body through hell. It's a 2.4 mile swim, 112 mile cycle ride, and then we finish with a full marathon. My ego just got checked. Most people give themselves at least 2 years to complete an Iron Man. I'm giving myself 6 months. If you think you can do it, join me on this program. Bodybuilders are generally thought of as uh being people that are quite static uh not ones that can actually perform and sometimes not healthy. And I feel that bodybuilding can have its own way and form within the endurance world. Typically for something like an Iron Man, it's like a lifelong dream or at least a 2year plan to prepare for. My brain doesn't really work like that. I'm not wired that way. I need a sense of urgency. So, I'm giving myself 6 months to prepare for an Iron Man. Unfortunately, there's a lot of people out there that say it can't be done. A friend of mine was only telling me several days ago, you know what, Chris, I don't think you can do it. That's all the motivation that I need. My experience in the past with swimming, biking, and running is no experience at all. I've never swam open water before. I don't think I've cycled any more than 10 miles. I've ran 6 mi, 7 mi, and that destroyed me. So to begin with, I started looking for a coach that could help me because uh you know, I'm swimming through dark waters here. I've never done anything uh like this before. And I started talking to some uh top name athletes, some that were world champion Iron Men. And a friend of mine told me about this gentleman uh Alex Viada. This monster of a man of around 230 lb was very intelligent in his approach of training. Like this guy just pulls amazing amounts of weights. However, he'll go and do ironmen. He is to me the perfect hybrid athlete. And I looked at Alex and I thought I want to be like that. My name is Alex Viata. I'm the founder and head coach of Complete Human Performance. When Chris contacted us, I was hugely excited about it because I know that he's going to have what it takes to push through it. Easy. The level of respect that he already had for this whole process going in, it's very easy to take it too lightly. And you may say, well, how can you take an iron man lightly? But people do. You know, bodybuilders look down on runners and runners look down on powerliffters and everyone else focuses more on what the other people don't have. Oh, these people don't have mobility. They don't have any endurance. they don't have any strength. What we noticed in this is that a lot of people come out from this sort of training with tremendous respect for what other athletes go through. Man, what a warm up that destroyed me. And for somebody like Chris to say, you know what, I'm going to do this right. I'm going to leave no stone unturned. I'm going to speak to everybody I can. I'm going to immerse myself in this. That's exactly what you need. I could certainly lose a lot of muscle and perform much better in an Iron Man, but that's not really in my framework. In order for me to do this, I have to be comfortable on the start line thinking, "Okay, you know what? There's a lot of people around me that are going to beat me. They're going to be much better." And I have to be good with that. But you know what? Can they do what I do within a gym? Probably not. So that's my advantage. I want people to look at this program from every perspective and gain a complete respect for bodybuilding, for powerlifting, for marathon runners, for triathletes. What's going to be different about this triathlon training program is there's going to be some atypical work that you may not see in a typical triathlon training program. And a lot of this is going to be designed specifically for larger or more muscular athletes. The program isn't going to be as extensive as a lot of you may think it is. If you watch any of my video series, you know that I train normally 5 days a week and cardio is put on top of that. On this program, you're going to be training four times a week and that is going to be optimal. As an example, you'll be weight training in the morning on a Monday and you'll follow that with a cardio session and that could be for an hour each. So within 2 hours you have left the gym and that's going to follow the same sort of protocol on your Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Friday is going to be completely off. One of the first things we're going to see is that there's going to be an emphasis on trail running. It's a bit of softer terrain, so you can put in more hours and more miles there at with less wear and tear on the body. The biking, some triathlon training programs will have power work. Chris doesn't need any more power. pedaling along at a slow cadence isn't going to do anything for his power given his leg size and strength. So, we can eliminate that entirely. The swim workouts are going to be different as well. One of the first things that they tell people when they get in the water is, "Don't worry, you're going to float." That's not the case with somebody who is 100 kilos and 15% body fat. He's he's not going to float. So, we're going to eliminate or modify a lot of those conventional swimming drills to account for the fact that he's got negative buoyancy. There's going to be two programs that coexist here. Number one is going to be the bodybuilder program that's going to have some conditioning aspects to it that will allow you to perform and build muscle. However, there's going to be the full program that I'll be following and you can follow as well to again put on muscle as a bodybuilder but take your performance to the next level and you could possibly do an iron distance triathlon as well. I've got a massive amount of respect for the athletes that that do triathlons that do iron man that do endurance sports. Their capability to endure pain is unbelievable. And to have the mental strength to go through that and take yourself a little bit further and further within those limits, I think it's unbelievable. I'd say my only concerns personally is number one, injury. Had quite a few injuries over the years. I've separated both my AC joints. I've torn my pec twice, torn my hamstring, broken my wrist, my ankle, my toes, torn the tendons in my ankles many, many times. And you know, I understand I've got very skinny ankles and they they twist. Ankles and knees. For heavier runners, that's always always an issue. There is so little room for error when you're over 200 lb and you're running a marathon. The objective is going to be unless something truly gamechanging happens, which it's a risk in any sport, it's something we can work around. My expectations uh for this program is number one, maintain muscle at the very least. But I honestly think that I'm going to build muscle. When it comes to the actual Iron Man, my expectation is just to cross that finish line because when I look at Iron Man results and I see the long list that says DNF did not finish, I just think to myself, I don't want to be one of those people. So, uh, if I cross that line and be told that I'm an Iron Man, that's going to be my win. Follow me as I put my brain and body through hell. If you think you can do it, join me on this program.