My name is Vinnie Russo. I'm 24 years old. I had my first competition this last November. I entered the men's physique category placing second out of nine other competitors. Right now I'm a 2012 body space model finalist. I've always been involved in sports training with my father since I was little. You know, he trained me with basic power lifts and various techniques on speed for football per se. But what happened was I wcoming like this meat fridge. I really didn't know a lot about nutrition. So, like I said, I was like kind of like a meat fridge with all its power and speed, but not really that much definition. So, I took it upon myself to do a lot of reading and I found bodybuilding.com, which, you know, offered a lot of support through body space community and a lot of information on proper nutrition and exercise and I use that to my advantage. It was a mindset that was instilled in me when I at a young age by my father and I've been doing it for so long that it's just a part of me. So if I were to not train, you know, I feel like I'm cheating myself almost. So basically, that's why I stay with it. It's almost like a competitive nature is what drives me in and out every day. If you treat your body well, it'll treat you well in return. So by fueling it with proper nutrition and training it with regular exercise, you know, you're looking for basically overall better health, which will lead to longevity. And that's that's what I find, you know, that keeps me in this. I coach high school football, so I'm able to give back to the youth of today. I'm given the freedom to teach them, you know, proper nutrition and proper exercise. And there's an indescribable feeling that I get just knowing that I'm not only changing their body compositions through this proper nutrition and exercise, but I'm changing their mindsets. And maybe, you know, they could take with them that mindset and maybe pass it to the family or maybe don't eat as healthy or, you know, take certain risks and, you know, a domino effect could come out of this to where everybody starts living a healthier fit lifestyle. My mindset and philosophy on training is go in there with high intensity. Don't go in there to to politic and to talk around. You know, put your iPod in, throw your hood up, and do what you got to do. Go at it 110% and train your body the way you're supposed to train it. I like to take 45, you know, seconds to a minute in between sets. I like to keep it at 45 minutes long my workouts. So, I'm in and out and I, you know, went in there with a goal when I accomplished my goal. I usually train four to five days a week. You know, it depends on what I'm training for. And if I'm training for a competition, I keep it at five days a week. So like right now, I'm training five days a week and I do body part a day. I love doing legs on Monday. And the reason why is because it's starting new week. It's when I'm most amped about getting in there. And the leg day is most taxing. So I figure let me get it when I got my the most energy. So I do that Monday. Um I like to separate the push and pull so I don't overwork any muscles. So I'll do chest on Tuesday. Wednesday we'll be back. Thursday's off. Give my body a rest. I love rest days. Friday for this competition I'm working on my shoulder caps. So I wind up doing a little bit of shoulder cap work and and mainly shoulders and then Saturday would be arms and then Sunday I have well the sets mainly are from 3 to 4. My rep range stay from 8 to 12. That's where I feel like I get the most hypertrophy from my workouts. There's a lot of techniques in the way I train. I like to add, you know, drop sets, triple rise sets. It depends on what I feel like. If if I feel like my chest is looking a little soft, I'll add a couple drop sets just to uh build out the definition. or you know with arms I'll do triple rise sets. I'll do a lot of rest pauses you know just to keep variation just keep me excited to get back into the gym. I mean if you're new to this and you want to come in and you want to keep yourself motivated to get in there go in there bring out a workout partner. You guys motivate each other and just make sure that you're always adding different techniques. Do a lot of reading. Find, you know, different things that you can do just to add variation. Go from free weights to machines, you know, different weeks. On the offseason with cardio, I like to keep it around three to four times a week. You know, I'll keep it at low intensity. You know, I'll do maybe like an incin speed walk or I'll do an elliptical for about a half an hour to keep my heart rate in between a certain range, but when it's when I'm training for a competition, it's 5 days a week, four to five days a week, and it's it's interval training. So, I'll start off with like 2-minute walk, 2-minute jog, and I'll go back and forth for about 30 minutes. Then, like 2 weeks later, I'll do a minute walk, a minute jog, and I'll do that for about a week. And then I get into it where I'm doing a minute jog, a minute sprint, and that's very taxing. And I do it right in the morning. I do it on a fasted stomach. It It's what I feel works best for me. When it comes to rest days, I take full advantage of it. I sleep and eat. That's basically what I do and I love it. Especially when training for competitions. I mean, you're training your body to the max. So, your body needs that rest. I've reached many plateaus where, you know, you just go in there, you're like, I can't push any more weight or you feel like you're getting weaker. So, what I do to overcome those is I either add more variation or I usually work out by myself. I'll grab a training partner and I'll train past failure. And I'll do this for about 2 or 3 weeks, you know, and usually I'll get stronger from it and push myself past past that plateau. Now, if that doesn't work, then basically your body's telling you something. You need rest. So, you know, even though you might not want to, you got to take that week off, let your body heal, give it some time, fuel it the right way, and then get back to it. And usually you pass that plateau. I have absolutely zero calves. I have no calves, and I'm I'm upset about it. It's just I guess it is my genetics. I train them hard and I train them heavy. They just don't grow. And uh that that bothers me because I like having a big leg look, but I mean they just don't really develop on me. You could train with as much intensity as you want. You could train day in day out, but if you don't fuel your body with the proper nutrition, you're not going to get anywhere. You'll be stuck on a plateau day in and day out. You got to get an overall aspect of, you know, what works best for your body. I like to see it as 40% of my caloric intake should be carbohydrates. 40% of it should be protein and 20% should be fat. If being carb depleted, I like to add the fat up a little bit to maximum limit 30% just to give me that extra energy, you know, that I'm lacking from being carb depleted. Carbohydrates, I like to stick with complex carbohydrates, you know, they give you a sustained release of energy. I mean, I add my simple carbs in there too post-workout just because it's uh it's it's increasing insulin, and spiking insulin, which will help shuttle the nutrients after your uh after workout when you're glycogen depleted. But mainly stay with the complex carbohydrates. It's your brown rice. It's your uh multigrain rice cakes right here and there. But when training for the competition, I don't use wheat bread. As for fats, I take in nuts, seeds, uh, avocados. I like to do omegas. And this basically provides me with insulin-free energy. So, basically, uh, it doesn't affect your blood sugar, which is good cuz you evade the crashes, you evade the depression, evade the lethargic feelings, you know, as the blood sugar varies. proteins. I like to stay with complete proteins would be my tilapia, my salmon, my chicken breast, my ground turkey, my beef, you know, and they're complete because they provide all the body with the full set of uh your essential amino acids. Then I also have my incomplete proteins, which is like my rice, my vegetables, things of that nature that I also get in my diet. Meal frequency is very important. I eat about six to eight meals a day, depending on what time I throw myself out of bed or if I'm really hungry, you know, maybe I'll I'll I'll throw an extra meal in there. But I like to keep it between 2 and 1/2 to 3 hours. You got to look at your metabolism as a campfire. And the food that you fuel is the wood for the fire. So every time you put wood into your fire, your metabolism increases. Each meal is going to call for a different amount of calories. And you got to figure that out on your own. You know, like in your morning, you're going to have your fats, you're going to have your complex carbs, you're going to have your protein, which going to call for a lot of calories. But then, let's say when you're at night time, when it's before bed, you don't want to have all that fat or carbohydrates. So, it's going to consist of lower calories. as I get closer to competition. Um, I don't go out with with my friends. I stay away from the temptation. I mean, it's like seven weeks out, that's it. I'll see you guys later. You know, I don't want to be tempted to drink. I don't want to be tempted to eat bad foods late at night, you know? So, but that's just me. That's what I feel works best for me. I'm not a big believer in cheat meals. I mean, a lot of people use them for psychological effects. I don't believe in it. I see it as if I have a plan, I'm sticking to it. I don't gear off it. You know, I feel like cheat meals are kind of for the weak hearted. If I'm not training for a competition or a photo shoot, I mean, I have notches. I have wings, you know, I have a beer here and there. That to me isn't cheating because I don't have a set plan. Once my plan's set, I don't veer off that set plan. You need the creatine, you need the glutamine, you need your branch chain amino acids. You need your omegas. You definitely need your protein. When you're training your body with high intensity, your body becomes depleted of many of these branch chain amino acids or, you know, glycogen and protein and your cells are being broken down and they need the supplements to help enhance and repair. I like to take uh glutamine. I like to take it for its repair purposes and because you know it's it's it's involved in increasing protein synthesis throughout your body. I take five grams before and after workouts along as before bed. Creatine creatine I find is very important. I feel like it's deemed with the false reputation that it only floods your cells with water and you know you lose that after discontinued use but it has much more than just volumizing effects. Yeah. Think of it in terms of ATP which is denying triphosphate and that's the chemical energy for the body. And what it does is when you take in creatine, you load up your body with phosphocreatine. And what phosphreatine does is gets stored into your muscle fibers and it's there to uh donate a phosphate group to your ATP which becomes ADP after you know it releases energy. So it uses the phosphate group and it's restores your ATP levels. So basically the more creatine you supplement in your body, the more energy you'll have for maximum uh muscle performance. I also like to do conjugated lenolic acid. I use that for weight management purposes. It's said to uh decrease your appetite. I take omegas right in the morning. I use them for their uh insulin free energy, no blood sugar changes. I also supplement branch chain amino acids. Now uh branch chain amino acids are vitally important to have in your diet and they're very important to supplement with. I take them in the morning. I take uh before workouts. I take them my post-workout shake and I take them even before bed. Now, the reason why I take so many is because during an intense workout, your branch chain amino acids, they're profoundly broken down and your body can't produce branch chain amino acids. So, it's important that you supplement with them. So, your body has a sufficient amount. By supplementing with the branch chain amino acids, you protect your muscle tissue. Now, you protect your muscle tissue because the body will break down those branch chain amino acids before it breaks down your muscle tissue. So, by having enough, it protects it. Protein is vitally important. It's the cornerstone of all supplementation. I take that before and after workouts. I'll stick in the morning with my rolled oats. I prefer whey protein over any other type of protein. Now, the reason why I prefer whey protein is because it's fast absorbing. You get the most uh bang for your buck because 90% of it is pure protein. I don't change my supplements at all. I use supplements basically for the scientific purposes and what they offer my body. I don't really cycle on or off or taper on or off. I use, you know, the milligram set, you know, I read the bottle and whatever it says, that's usually how I take it. For uh all my nutritional information, for all my supplementation, for my workout programs, please check out the page below. Um, if you want to get in contact me, you can contact me through your body space. My bodyace name username is linebacker 1025. And for more content like that, please check out bodybuilding.com.