Hey guys, welcome to my shortcut to strength program in training protocol video. In this video, I'm going to cover what you can expect as far as strength gains and improvements by the end of the six week program. Then I'm going to teach you how the program is structured and why. And then we'll break down everything you're going to be doing in the gym, including how to do your one rep max protocol. Here we go. This program I designed not just to build overall one rep max strength, but to build athletic strength and power. And that's really what this program is about. It's building that strength that's going to allow you to then build more muscle, lose more fat, be more athletic, more explosive, and have a better quality of life. As far as the results that you can expect, that's going to vary from person to person for obvious reasons. But the average increases in strength that I've seen in this program with most athletes, somewhere around 30 lbs in the bench press, 30 to 40 lbs in the squat, and then similar to the squat on the deadlift as well with a good 30 to 50 lb increase. I've broken it all down for you right here. the bodybuilding.com shortcut to strength program. Follow it to a tea. The training, the nutrition, the supplementation, it's all designed for a purpose to deliver you the best results that you can expect. All right. Now, let's pull up exactly what you're going to be doing in the gym. My six week shook at the strength training program is broken down into three twoe phases. Each phase you'll be using a different rep range and a different percent of your one rep max on the three main lifts. The reason we're focusing on the three big lifts, the bench press, squat, and deadlift is because those are markers for our strength. In phase one, you'll be using 80% of your one rep max or a weight you can lift for about eight reps. In phase two, you increase the weight again to 85% of your one rep max and reps go down to around 5%. Then in the third and final phase of the program, you'll increase your weight to 95% of your one rep max and you'll be hitting two reps per set. This progression from lighter weight to heavier weight over the 6 week period has been found to produce phenomenal strength gain. Now, as far as the exercises that aren't the big three lifts, those exercises you're not going to be doing with a percentage of your one rep max, but you're going to be focusing on a rep range that I prescribe each week. That rep range is very similar to the rep range that you're going to be using on the three big lifts. So, for phase one, where you're using 80% of your one rep max on the bench press, the squat, and the deadlift, you're going to be doing eight reps. You're also going to be doing eight reps on those other adjunct or assistance exercises that I've included in the workout. Then, in phase two, you increase the weight on those assistance exercises to bring your rep range down somewhere in the five to six range. Then in phase three, when the weight increases again on those assistance exercises, you'll also increase the weight again, shooting for somewhere in the two to three rep range. Some exercises will be a little bit higher, but no more than six reps per set during this final phase. Now, on the fourth workout, which is your power day, where you're going to be doing those dynamic exercises with light weight and explosive reps, you'll be using a weight somewhere around 50% of your one rep max or less. So, it's extremely lightweight, but you're going to be doing low reps, but the reps will be done at a very fast and explosive pace. This is what builds power, and that power can lead to more development of strength. Now, the workouts for my shortcut to strength training program are broken down into four different workouts. The split is two on, one off, then one on, another day off, and then one on, and another day off. Workout one is your squat focus and legs. That day, you'll focus on squat as your first exercise, followed by those other adjunct exercises that I have for legs and also calves. Workout two is going to be your bench press day. Also, you're going to be focusing on those pushing muscles in the upper body, chest, shoulders, and triceps. Workout three is your pulling day. This is when you're going to focus on your deadlift first, followed by back, biceps, and even abs on that day. And then workout four is your power day. That's where we're going to be doing those dynamic explosive exercises. We're going to be doing jump squats, power push-ups. Everything here is going to be light but done very fast and explosive. Now, if you've never followed a true strength training program before, you may be surprised at just how taxing it is on the body. That's why I have those long rest periods. 3 minute minimum. You might feel fully recovered before you can get to that 3minut mark, but don't jump into your next set. Allow yourself to rest. That way, you'll get more reps on that next set. That's going to lead to greater strength gains and it'll be less taxing on your body. All right. To figure out how much weight you're going to be using during the shortcut to strength program, you need to figure out how to safely and effectively test your one rep max strength. So, let me pull that up now. All right. Now, let's discuss how to test your one rep max. We're not going to be taking a certain weight for a certain amount of reps and then multiplying. We're actually going to be testing our one rep max. True one rep max. It's the only way you're going to know how much weight to use and it's the only way to accurately measure your strength gains from beginning to the end. So, how do you find your starting weight if you've actually never done a one-up max test before? Well, you take a weight that you can do for 10 reps. So, let's say you can bench press 225 lbs for 10 reps. You multiply that by 1.33. That should come out to be about 300 lb. That means that's a good starting point for you to test your one rep max. You want to do several warm-ups, light warm-ups. Start with about 135 on the bar. Just do a couple reps. Do not fatigue yourself on the warm-up sets. Then increase maybe 185 uh for another three to five reps, 225, another three to five reps, maybe even 275 for another one or two reps before you get into your actual first test of your one rep max, which in this example is going to be 300 lb. Now, let's say you complete one rep with 300 lb. How do you know that that's your true one rep max? you need to test it again and a little heavier. So now what you're going to do is take a three to four minute rest. Add about 10 to 20 pounds to the bar and then test your one rep max again. You're going to continue until you fail on that next increase. But I highly recommend you have a spotter present. It's a lot of weight and if you fail, you're going to need someone there to help you lift that weight. So let's say you tried 310 lb but failed. you would know that the 300 lb is your true one rep max for the bench press and that's going to be the weight that you use and base your percentages for the rest of the program on. Now, although the shortcut to strength is a six week program, you're going to be testing your one rep max strength the week before and the week after. So, technically, if you consider those two weeks where you're testing your one rep max strength, it's really an 8week program. Now, during the weeks that you're testing your one rep back strength and the bench press, squat, and deadlift, I recommend splitting up those three lifts into three different testing days. You could do squat testing on a Monday, you can do your bench press testing on a Wednesday, and then you can do your deadlift testing on a Friday. So, I highly recommend doing three separate days. All right, so that's my shortcut to strength training protocol. I realize it's a lot of information, but don't worry. Below this video, I have it all broken down in more detail for you. Now, make sure you come back to bodybuilding.com every week while you're following the program because each week I'll have a new video that's specific to the training. And don't forget that once you test your one rep max to update that on your Body Space account and also consider putting those numbers out there on your social media. That way when you retest, everyone will know what your numbers are and it'll help you stick with the program and maximize your results. But you can't start the program yet. You have to watch the nutrition video. Nutrition is 50% of the program and that's 50% of your results. So don't halfass it.