Day 17, y'all. The damn day. Had a late one last night. Did my cardio close to midnight and now it's uh oh, what time did I get up this morning? 5 uh 4:45 and uh now it's 6:00 and I am on my way to the gym to hit cardio. Now it would have been very easy for me to say ah I can sleep in bed. I can get in some extra hours but uh even though I do work for myself I have work to do. Life doesn't stop. Winners get ahead and procrastination stays in bed. So that's the attitude that I get from working out. Whenever I work out, I have that time definite. I have that efficiency. I have that discipline. So if I can carry that to every other area of my life, then of course I'll succeed bit by bit, day by day, it all adds up. It's the little successes that give you the big success. Yeah. How do you like those angles? Okay, guys. Day 17. Back in the gym, meaning it's arms today. Biceps and triceps. Anyway, I like to hit arms in the middle of the week to split it up from the larger muscle groups such as the back, chest, legs, etc. It feels a little less daunting as opposed to smashing a larger body part day after day. So, it's a good kind of break to away from the norm during the week. The workout is going to consist of just straight sets for biceps, straight sets of triceps, meaning I'm not going to go antagonistic back and back superset. However, there will be a couple of drop sets in there. There will be some exercises that will be different. We'll be using machines, cables, free weights. We'll be swapping things up and shocking uh the biceps and triceps. So, the workout shouldn't take you really any longer than say, you know, if you're training by yourself, about 50 minutes. My preworkout has definitely kicked in. I'm ready to go smash this up. So, no more talking. Let's get it. Heat up here. Heat. up here. We begun with an overhead cable movement. So I used my elbows to be supported up against a bench and I did 10 repetitions and then I dropped it down to 10 repetitions again once I reached failure. So I was doing 20 repetitions per set there. Then on the second exercise there's a tricep machine here. Reach failure at around 10 repetitions. again, you know, select that weight that allow you to reach failure. Then when you cannot do anymore, you do another 10. Always be careful to have your elbows in very close together. Don't use your chest or your shoulders. And the third and final exercise for triceps here, I went over to like a chinning machine here. Again, I was pushing through the elbows and making sure my elbows were tucked in very, very tight. Resting for about 45 seconds between each set. And I did 10 repetitions there to absolute failure. Then I dropped the weight and did 10 repetitions there to absorb this barrier. Keeping it intense, keeping the blood within the muscle, keeping that pump, stretching the fascia, making sure there's nutrient rich and oxygen rich blood uh getting into the muscles. So now triceps are pretty much done. And then now we're going to go hit biceps. Heat. Heat. All right, that's our second exercise of biceps done. You'll notice that I put two attachments or fabric attachments, whatever you want to say, on the end of the bar. The reason being is that it just takes a little bit more pressure away from my wrists and my elbows. I selected a weight that allowed me to reach uh failure 10 repetitions in a stood up position. You'll notice that I was slightly back from the pulley because I find that all the load is really placed at the bottom of this movement. When I lay down, more tension is placed at the top of the movement. I dropped it down a weight. However, it is a little bit easier when you're lying down because of that plane of motion. So, I did 10 standing, 10 lying, and I did three sets in total. Again, 60 repetitions for that exercise. resting for about a minute between each set. And then the second exercise here, I laid down at the bottom of this pulley, grabbed hold of the easy bar, and I came down to my forehead and then back up. This puts a tremendous amount of strain on the peak contraction of the bicep. So once we done 10 repetitions there, I stood up and this time I came to the forehead and back up. Target is to break down as much tissue, muscle tissue in this session as possible. So, I did three sets there. Again, 10 on the floor, 10 up, 60 reps in total. And uh now we're going to go on to the final exercise, the biceps. Okay, final exercise was reverse curls on an easy bar. I find it easier, pardon the pun, just a little bit easier on my wrist. I start off with a reverse extension, overhand extension to make sure that I do work what's called the tario coro brachiialis there. And then once I reach failure there, I know that I'd be able to bring in more bicep assistance. So that's why I turned my hands underneath and got out another 10 repetitions. So I started 10 repetitions to failure with a reverse grip, flipped it round, another 10 repetitions. And that is all she wrote. I'm going to meet you over yonder with a nice little shake in hand. All right, kids. We are done with day 17. So, biceps and triceps done. You may be wondering or asking the question, well, is there going to be a crossover when I hit back next? But your arms are going to be straight, so they're going to be in a locked position. You will not have to worry about your biceps being sore. That is absolutely fine. You should be separating these muscle groups completely. So, there should not be any crossover. When we're hitting back, you should be focusing on the movement of the back and the retraction of your shoulder blades or your shoulder blades being pulled down, not the flexion in your biceps. Once you've got that down, you will feel you won't feel any crossover and you shouldn't be weaker on any of the larger muscle groups such as chest and back because of it. Remember, you should be recovering as well. So, get home, enjoy yourselves, eat clean food, and brush your teeth. And I'll see you tomorrow. Hey guys, I know it is the end of day 17, and I already wrapped up and said I'll see you tomorrow. However, I thought when I came back, I thought, God, I could do with something to munch on. And I thought, I know, I'll do my kale. So, I'm going to show you a little pro tip here on what you can do to if you want something to munch on and you're hungry and it's not time for meal. So, I have here a bowl of kale that I've cooked. What I did, I just got a load of fresh kale from Whole Foods and then I put it in the oven and I just sprayed a little thin layer of uh coconut oil over it. Just very thin spray. And then I put some salt on it. On half of it I put cinnamon and on the other half I put smoked paprika. And um yeah, it's pretty nice. Now, keep in mind, and I I put it on about 3 350 for about 20 minutes, but keep an eye on it just in case it burns. It will start off huge. So, you'll have to buy quite a lot because once um it's baked, it's cooked. It does shrink uh shrivel quite a lot. So, I had a lot and now I'm just left with this. But that's nice. There's a lot of iron in here, vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin uh what else is there? A lot of fiber in it, that's for sure. And it's very low in calories and no fat. So, it's a great little uh snack to chew on. Give it a shot.