Hey, what's up everybody? I'm Craig Capurso, Cellucor athlete, and today we're going to take you through "Ultimate Abs". Today's workout is going to be nine exercises. We're going to take you through four sets by 12 reps. Traditional type exercise. And it's something I'm calling combination Tabata. Alright, so let's get started. So we're going to kick it off today with four sets by 12 reps with a one minute rest. We're going to do standing cable crunch. And the way I explain this move is with your finger. Check this out, guys. So if this is your hip right here, this is your head. This is how it should look. You're going to bend at the hip. The hip shouldn't move, the leg shouldn't move, but the upper body is going to move down. So that's all you really want to do. That's how the motion's going to be. The weight that you can put on the bar is between 60 to 70 percent of your 1RM, because we're going for 12 reps. It should be heavy, but it shouldn't be too heavy so you can't perform all 12 reps. So now we're moving into our combination Tabata, and we're going to do planks with bicycle abs. The reason I like Tabata because it's 20 seconds of work, followed by 10 seconds of rest, repeated eight times. It actually totals four minutes, so you get a lot of work done in a small amount of time. The reason I like Tabata also is because it's shorting your rest and letting you know when you should start again. Elevating the intensity. The reason I bring in the combination Tabata is basically, alternating the exercises every other set. So you're doing one set of plank, then you're going to do 10 seconds of rest. Bring in the bicycle abs. So therefore you're alternating them in repeat so you have eight sets, four each. Alright, so the next exercise we're moving back to that traditional set, four sets, 12 reps, one minute rest. And we're going to do pike on a rower or some kind of ball. Basically, just having something that's going to be under our feet that's going to move, while our hands stay stagnant. Using a pike, thinking about the form. Basically you're again sucking that bellybutton into the backbone and isometrically squeezing as you come up to the top. Exhaling as well. Moving into our next combination set, we're going to have landmine twists with ball slams. Alright, so landmine twists here. We're really just focusing on the form keeping those arms straight, focusing on those obliques. Now for ball slams, think about this, how it's going to engage your core. A lot of times you could just throw the ball down but to make it effective for your ab you have to really mind-muscle connection. So when you bring it up, it's over the head, your arms are up, your abs are extended. Now bring it down, exhaling as you go down, and really thrust it down. Your abs have to use the torque momentum to get it down. This is how you're going to make this exercise really effective. OK we're back to that traditional set, four sets, 12 reps, one minute rest. We're going to do toes to bar. The important thing to take away on toes to bar is how to bring your hips up underneath. A lot of people use a leg raise where you're working too much hip flexor. Making sure your pelvic tilts, bringing your pubis bone into your bellybutton is going to be a surefire way to make sure you target the lower abs. So we're going to end this thing with torching our obliques. We have combination Tabata here. We're going to do slalom twists with oblique twists. So slalom twist, the takeaway here is basically we're going to keep our upper body straight. Even if we have to hold on to something. We're just trying to rotate our lower hips. Basically, having our feet land on one side to the other, just like you're a slalom skier. The opposite is true when you're doing oblique twists. We're going to have a weight in our hand and we're going to rotate our upper body, keeping our feet planted on the floor. Abs are something that gets trained with compound movements anyway, so if you have a good routine you're hitting abs. But an ab routine like this is high intensity, it's using some strength and resistance. You can hit this thing every week, a couple of times a week if you really want to make it effective. If you have any questions for me, make sure to reach out @craigcapurso on social media: Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube. So if you like this Ultimate Abs workout make sure you check all the other content we have in the Ultimate series at Bodybuilding.com. Alright guys, if you like this workout content make sure you subsribe below.