- [Interviewer] Rolling. - [Camera Man] Rolling. Speak. I'm Jason Wittrock, the athlete, the father, the life-changer, Athlete Profile, take one. (slide and clack) (soft music) - [Interviewer] What do you think are, you know, the top one or two events in your life that have most shaped who you are? If you-- - Yeah. - [Interviewer] Already mentioned them, that's fine, but - [Jason] No, yeah. The two events that definitely shaped who I am as a person today, the first one is when I was a senior in high school, my house burned down to the ground. Unfortunately, it was three days before Christmas, so that made things a little bit worse. I was spending the night at a friend's house and I got the phone call super early in the morning, "Hey, you need to come home." And as I was driving home, you know, I saw lots and lots of cars, lots of people, didn't know what was going on. Get up to my house and it's just completely inflamed. You know, I look around, there's the Red Cross, there's my friends watching my house burn down. I had a pair of clothes on. The shirt wasn't even mine, I was borrowing it from a friend, and a pair of sweatpants and I realized at that moment, this is all I have. It shook me to the core. You know, losing everything. How can it just, you don't know what you're going to do. You know? Screw Christmas, that's for sure. But I decided to turn shit into sugar. And I set off to, you know, from nothing, create myself. Victory belongs to those who persevere. When the persevering times come, when the hard times come, it's just you have to really be able to draw back and see the visualization of what you want to be. You know, you have to know clearly in your mind where you want to go, you know? You have to be able to see yourself standing at the top of the mountain. I have the ups and the downs, just like everybody else, man. I have my moments of doubt just like everybody else. I just know that I'm on this path. I'm on this journey. My destiny is to help people change their life. It's what I'm good at. It's what I was born to do. (soft music) The other most important thing that helped shape my life and really, to this day, has been absolutely critical to my success in this industry, and in my career, was the opportunity I got to work with mentally ill children. I was brought in as a trainer for kids who suffer from mental illness. All of these kids stayed at this big facility and they all suffered from things like schizophrenia, bi-polar, they were cutters, they would all try to commit suicide. These are 18 to 25 year old kids with their entire life ahead of them and they're suffering from the most, just the cruelest of diseases ever. And up to this point, you know, I was in the gym trying to get people to have bigger biceps, you know? People who wanted to look shredded and get, you know, look like me and all this crazy stuff. And then, now, here I am, training somebody that's got scars all over their arms, seeing numbers in the skies, talking to themselves. One guy just, you know, you come into the gym and the kid tried to kill himself two days before. That was a huge eye-opener for me. And I just went in and I train these kids just like I would anybody else. I push them hard, you know, and it was amazing to see. After every set, they were just elated. They didn't care how much weight they were lifting. They didn't care about how good their form was. They knew that after that set they felt amazing. They felt like they had a purpose that they were actually, it's just like when I was in sixth grade, and it's just the feeling of, you know, this can actually help change my life and they were addicted. It was the best thing ever. And I realized, in that moment, that fitness can absolutely change your life. That the end of the study, we saved an average of ten years off everybody's life, all the blood paneling proved. Not to mention the self-esteem, the self-worth, their confidence went through the roof, and it really, their success in the gym at that one small program actually improved their performance in the other rehabilitation programs that they were a part of at the facilities. We were saving lives, man, and I knew it, right when I get there. (soft music) I know what my destiny is, you know. I'm out to change as many lives as possible. That's it. When I face adversity, I think about that. Adversity is just part of the game. Nobody's immune to it.