It's supposed to be an easy ride today. But we've gone off track, being inexperienced townies. We really did go the wrong bloody way. That was a hell of a hill. Today's suppose to be an easy day. It's far from an easy day. I'm Kris Gethin. I'm going to be training to prepare for an Ironman. Most people give themselves two years. I'm giving myself six months. And we're going to do it. This is a bloody hard first session. Well good day to you. Welcome to another daily video trainer. Well, this won't be daily but it will be a video trainer. This time very much different to what I've done in the past. This is a man of iron video trainer. Where I will be preparing for an Ironman while still bodybuilding. Yeah. Smart move. The awesome part about it is that you can eat a lot. So this is what I'm cooking right now. I'm making healthy tacos. So the only thing that is possibly, slightly unhealthy is this right here taco shell. But I'll tell you what, I'm going to be burning off plenty of those taco shells. I don't know if you can see me cause it is so friggin early in the morning it's like 5:30 or something. I'm going to be prepping for this Ironman now. Six months baby. And we're headed straight to the gym for our first workout day. We need to target both these worlds within muscle building, performance, endurance, and strength. So we're going to be wanting our cake and eat it with this program. OK I'll go 35 this time. Actually no, no, no. Doctors orders. doctors orders, I'd better stick to 25s. I'll tell you what, I'm so tempted to go a little bit heavier but I don't want to damage my shoulder. Anymore. Now what you'll notice on this exercise, we're actually locking out. In other video series so you'll see I normally perform a three-quarter movement because I'm trying to adapt constant tension placed upon the muscle, for muscle building purposes. However, I'm using a more full range of motion now because when we go into the swim, and we're going to do a front crawl, we have to teach ourselves to reach forward as much as possible. So we need to lock out these joints, so as opposed to doing my usual three-quarters, I'm starting to lock out a lot more on all these exercises. So if you watch the other video series, the eight week hardcore trainer or some of the YouTube channels, you may recognize this beautiful woman here, Sunshine. So she's going to be joining me on this program because she is competing in a sprint tri. And a half Ironman as well. So if you are a female following this program, there's no reason why you can't do exactly the same because Sunshine's going to do that and she's going to get a friggin kick-ass results as well. Again, push. We're going to go straight into the pole now. As I explain to Sunshine here, as I'll explain to you guys as well, don't think of this as being a six month project, think it as being a day. You just gotta get through this day. Don't be late. Make sure you get all your reps out. Make sure you get all your sets in. Make sure that you get all your meals, in that you stay hydrated, just for today. If you are successful today and you can go to bed and go, I did absolutely fucking everything that I could today in order for me to be successful tomorrow, then you're going to get to the end of this six months and you're going to be successful in your goal that you're trying to reach. This is going to take a long time, this is a bloody hard first session. So I've just swam once, one way using my right arm, and then come back kicking, using my left as my lead arm. I'm absolutely shattered. This is supposed to be the first day? This is tough. It really is. And you know, it's funny cause swimming is one of those things especially where you'll be frustrated, you'll do 25 meters and feel exhausted and you just think how on earth am I ever going to do 2.4 miles of it. And then it's just going to start clicking and everything is going to feel smoother and you're going to be faster and faster and faster. All right. So based on my results that we got, is there anything from that, that you've thought of, that should be applied this week in particular? Well this week in particular, especially for the riding, what I want you to focus on is sustained low power output. I think one of the things that comes up obviously again and again is the short distance sprint work showed how much power you have, it shows how much power you can sustain over a short period of time. What's going to be absolutely critical is learning how to stay under that threshold and learning how to stay well under that threshold. And it's basically saying, it's like you know, a thousand horse-power engine with a small gas tank right now, you know, let's, let's use it as efficiently as possible and keep the effort level down so you don't leverage it. Okay so, I've got a question for you a little bit off topic, but this coming Saturday or Sunday, I believe it's Saturday, there's a five-mile Paddy's Day run, a charity run, that's going on here, and I thought it'd be a good idea to actually jump into that as a bit of fun. I think you can do the five mile. Let's use this as an opportunity to practice your running form, particularly when fatigued. So what I'm going to do is probably sends you just a list of drills you can do. They're going to be very simple. It's going to be basically chin up, chest out, hips under, arms up. Is there anything that you'd want to add to anybody else watching this, you know, you're there in the week, baby. want to advise the viewer? You know, everyone's got to start somewhere, the beginning part is so frustrating because it's new. Not because you're physically incapable of doing it, but because it's new. This is a program meant to take you from where you are now, to a full Ironman. So, you know, look at it, have faith in it, you know, be proactive with your feedback, but realize it's going to be, it's going to be frustrating there are going to be ups and downs, but you'll get there. God, it may look easy, you try it. Fuck, that is tough. 1 minute feels more like five. Damn. This is a wake-up call. Alright workout is done. Did the six fast cadence sprints with the 2-minute rest intervals, and now I'm just cooling down slightly. Just walking it off. Getting rid of built up, bit of built up lactic acid. You'll notice in this video series I'll probably talk a little bit faster. I've got more energy. My brain is functioning better because I've got more fats within this diet. I can get away with a little bit more. We can get away with it, because we will be burning off that many calories with our workouts and with the cardio sessions with the following intensity. It doesn't mean you can go out and eat burgers or fries or pizza or gummy bears or...candy, or shit. Every food, every calorie, every micronutrient, or macronutrient I should say, should have a purpose. Make sure every single calorie counts, don't just count the calories buddy. We started off with the dumbbell rows here. This is a great movement for thickening up your lats and your traps. But it's also good for the swimming technique as we're bringing our arms back. That is the first time I've done chins in God knows how long. I can't remember the last time I did it. I tell you what that was three times as hard as I thought it would be. Number one it's because we do it at the end of the workout when were at our weakest. Number two is because I'm at, close to, my heaviest at 220, 225 pounds. And just weak as shit. That was quite a shock. It's a kick in the balls. But it's good to do it like this. It's going to be hard. What's the fucking point of doing it if it's easy? Fuck! Do you feel that? What we're doing is a warm-up now to begin with. It's supposed to be a warm up, I've done 200 meters and I'm absolutely bloody shattered already. I'm at Sunshine's house now, making my breakfast. She's in the shower and she's going to probably have a pancake. I'm making mush here this morning and I call it my mass mush. So it's a very lite breakfast but it's got every nutrient in it, every calorie has a function. And obviously we're trying to improve our health, not just our performance, and our recovery during this program. Well I've done two and a half miles. 27 minutes. I'm going to walk this last half. I'm too knackered to run anymore. This is another wake-up call. Good morning. It is day, what is it, day five, six. Day six. Today is a non-weight training day, it's cardio. So I won't say active rest day, as I've done in other video trainers, cause it's far from a rest day. So it is dark outside. I've decided before we do our 5-mile run this morning, we're going to do a 90-minute bike ride first. So I'm just riding over to Sunshine's place. There's a loop that we're going to do, and then we're pretty much going to go straight to the start line. Thankfully it's lighter now. So we can actually see what, where we're going and people can actually see us. But what we're doing is just 90 minute, just very easy ride, getting used to the saddle. Getting used to being on a bike for this amount of time. Even on an easy ride like this I'm a little bit out of breathe. A slight change of scenery now. We went off the beaten track. And we've been hitting a few climbs now. Which should really prime our legs for the run we got later. Can't blame me I'm following the navigator up front here. Today's supposed to be an easy day. It's far from an easy day. There you go. Make sure you map out your route and check out the difficulty level of it. Before you embark on it. There's no way you can stop when you're starting up a hill. No way you can stop, you can't start again. I feel like I need five gears lower. We've got a banana on the floor, we've got Re-Kaged on the floor. It looks like snot. We just need to calm down. Were in a bit of a rush to get to the run. We got back in one hour and 26 minutes and now we've gotta race our asses down to the track. To the race. Right. We're at the start of the race. we made be on time with 10 minutes to spare. I should be stretching, but I'm not. Cause I'm nervous. Alright, we're at the halfway point. Closing in on two and a half miles. The field is definitely spread out now. Just over two and a half mile to go. It's to hard to hold you. We are done. We finished. We did it in like 39 minutes, something. Sunshine came past me like a sprinter, I had nothing left to even come anywhere near close. Breakfast has come. Sunshine got a first place little ribbon over there. Isn't that cute. Sneaking out of my purse right here. And then we stuck around, and guess who else got one? Bloody surprise.I got first place as well, couldn't believe it. They didn't expect a 225 pound fatty to get a first place, did they, when they passed me. So this is our victory breakfast. Good evening. It's probably about 9:30 now. I've been in bed for about half an hour just reading. It's time for me to switch off now, so I just wanted to kinda wrap up. But, right now I'm just submerging myself so much into this triathlon game, it's epic proportions when it comes to what a lot of these athletes do and accomplish. I'm just reading Triatholon 220 here, and reading this, and I've read so many of these stories now, and I'm reading another fantastic story called Operation Ironman by George Mahood. I don't know if he actually finished yet but he wrote a book about it, so I'm assuming he did. And obviously I want to learn absolutely everything just reading in this book right now. He's shared, you know, when you get gets the aid stations he said you know they'll hose you down if you want. You know, just to cool you down and I know it's going to be hot in Coeur d'Alene when I do my race. And he said, do not do that, do not accept that, because if your trainers get wet you can blister very easy when you're running, and things like that I would never thought of. So it's important for me to prepare because I've never done this, I don't have the experience I can't do this and not finish, and say, well, you know what, I should have done this. Then I would have finished. I have to make sure this happens, you know, so I'm doing everything I can to make every decision calculated and remove myself of any possible difficulties or mistakes or road bumps. Pardon the pun.