I think a weekend warrior is someone who works incredibly hard on their job and at their career. During the week, they're crunch for time. They're type A individuals who are competitive. They want to have optimal health. They enjoy competing in numerous sports. And they may want to train their bodies not only to look the part and feel good, but maybe for performance as well. Don't forget because they overachievers and they want to do the very best they can with their career and their career choice that time is of the essence and time efficiency is very important regarding their workouts. I'm Mark Magna. I'm a team Muscle Tech athlete and performance coach. I am also a strength and conditioning coach, personal trainer. I work with professional athletes as well as your everyday person. We're here today at the Dominate Your Game Facility in Las Vegas, Nevada. I'm going to show you what we put together and we like to call the weekend warrior workout. It's 11 exercises. This workout is designed to maximize workout time, make you efficient in the gym, and make sure that you're working all your body parts, trying to stay away from creating imbalances, strengthening the entire body as one, and making sure that you can improve your performance in your game, whatever you're playing, sports performance, or just living optimal health. Let's begin with our first activity, the close grip incline barbell press. So, there'll be four total working sets, three warm-up sets. We're going to start off, we're going to do three sets. We're going to do a warm-up set of 10 with the bar. Then, we're going to add a little bit of weight. We're going to do a set of eight. It's going to be a second warm-up set. My third warmup set is going to be a set of five. I'm going to add a little bit more weight. After that, I'll start my actual work sets. It'll be two sets of 10 and two sets of eight. I'm give a minute 30 rest in between each set. And I like to increase weight. And don't forget, I only increase weight if the uh form is wonderful and I have great control of the movement. Well, the workout I put together today is along the mindset of less is more. I don't believe in doing things uh reinventing the wheel or being too fancy or incredibly unique, but rather being quite simple and making sure that we hit all the body parts and try to maximize their end result in regards to performance. Making sure that we don't neglect anything and we don't create any imbalances. It's time efficient and I think we do a good job of covering the entire body. So, now we've completed our three warm-up sets. And now we're going to start with our actual work sets. Two sets of 10, two sets of eight. This is my first set of 10. Don't forget, it's close grip. So my hand placement is going to be right outside the framework of my body, inside the chest. My elbow's going to remain close to the inside. Basically, in the past training athletes, I've used the close grip bench press and flat bench. I just wanted to change it up. So we isolate a little bit of the triceps and work some of the upper chest as well. It's a push dominant activity, obviously. So, we'll help you with anything in regards to moving another individual out of your way, a chest pass as well. Maybe would assist a basketball player or a lineman in regards to a moving or push. It's a great sagittal plane movement. I think it's incredibly beneficial for an upper body strength activity. If you want to, you know, improve your physique, if you want, you know, optimal health, performance goals, some some guys want to pick up basketball, they don't play pickup football. I believe there is some transfer and carryover that's going to help you excel in those sports if you do these activities correctly. So, we've completed our two sets of 10. Now, I'm going to start my first set of eight. Don't forget, I've already taken a minute 30 rests. Still doing the same hand placement. I'm controlling my reps. For the person who's the weekend warrior, they are, you know, show stress with work and they're overachievers and they're trying to hustle and trying to do the very best they can for themselves and for their families. It's important that they have that therapeutic kind of getaway. And mo for most people it is exercise. It creates like an environment where they can kind of release those endorphins and they can feel better about themselves. It can promote healthy blood flow just feeling good about yourself and boosting self-confidence in your self-esteem. So now we've completed our first exercise. Now we're going to move on to our second activity. So our next exercise is dumbbell extended alternating press. I'm going to do two sets of 10, two sets of eight. This is going to be my first set of 10. I'm already warmed up so I don't need to warm up. I'm gonna go right into it. At the conclusion of this set, I'm gonna rest for a minute 30. Okay. Double extended alternating press creates a little bit of stabilization in the shoulders because you have to maintain one arm out and steady. And then a little bit of dynamic motion with the other arm flexing and extending. Also for a chest dominant pushing activity, chest pass, single arm strength, holding someone off, uh maybe a stiff arm in a game or, you know, posting someone up, just creating that shoulder stabilization or even blocking a ball, knocking a ball down, but also a great sagittal plane movement and great for power push. So now I'm going to rest for a minute 30. You know, I I work with some people who have incredibly demanding schedules, some of the busiest people in the world. when they come in, they have to be in and out. You know, I have to lead with direction and making sure I give them as much detail as possible. Making sure I keep them safe. Make sure they get the most out of their workouts and they have a very clear understanding of what they're doing on that day. So, I've completed my second activity. Now, we're on to our third activity, the wide grip tempo pull-up. So, here we're going to do four sets of eight. We're going to take a minute 30 rest in between. The tempo is 1 to five, which means we're going to do 1 second on the way up. I'm going to try to get 5 seconds on the way down. Think fast up, a little bit slower on the way down. You're going to do eight repetitions. Then you're going to get a minute 30 rest. 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5. Wide grip tempo pull is a obviously a pulling activity. You know, isolating the lats and getting some of the biceps involved, but also we're going to try to change the tempo up. We're going to create more time with tension by having you up there for about 5 seconds or 5 seconds on the eccentric motion when you're lowering. just great for any pulling activity. We have to complement all our pushes. We want to create any imbalances. So, we actually have to work with the posterior chain. I believe the posterior chain isn't actually used to be neglected very much. So, I'm trying to balance it out and make sure that we have superior strength in the posterior chain spot. So, in regard to my hand placement, I want to keep my hands as wide as possible. Get where you're comfortable. The only thing is I don't want to be too narrow. I don't want to be inside the framework or inside my shoulder girdle. Aim for the chin. Pull straight up. Drive your elbow straight down. Another form tip, when I'm pulling down, I don't want to have any trap elevation, okay? I want to keep everything down and I don't want to have any elevation. So, I finished my fourth set. Now, we're going to transition into our hanging leg raise. Four sets of 10 to failure, 130 rest in between. Control it on the way down. You can use a little bit of momentum on the way up. Control the eccentric motion. Obviously, there's a lot of strength in your shoulders involved just to stabilize yourself just to hang up there. Isolating the front part of your body, the interior plane of motion where lifting my legs. I'm working my lower abdomen, building some lower ab strength, and just trying to create some activity with my hip flexors, lower abdomen, and shoulder stabilization, but also a great activity for anyone who needs core strength, core development. So, I'm done with my fourth set. I'm going to rest for a minute 30. And now we move on to prone row. I'm going to do two sets of 12 and two sets of 10 with a minute 30 in between. Okay. I'm going to lie down on the bench, pelvis down, pull my shoulders back. I'm going to hold the weights here. I'm going to turn and row. So, it's important that I have my pelvis down and my shoulders back. There's no flexion in my spine. I'm not rounding my back. Okay. Prone row is a great posterior chain movement. I add uh a little bit of a turn to it to make sure that I create a little bit more time under tension. But once again, trying to develop posterior chain, specifically the romboids, making sure that we have a lot of strength in your back to make sure there's no imbalances created with the pressing. I like that movement creates a little bit of stabilization. Keeping your shoulders back, working on posture as well. Minute 30 rest. Now, it's important to remember, keep my hips pushed into the bench, my shoulders back. I'm looking down so there's no cervical extension in my neck. So, I want to be here as opposed to here. So, now we're on to our sixth activity, the W press. We're going to do two sets of 12, two sets of 10. Don't forget, we're already warmed up. We've been doing pressing activities, so we don't need to go through an entire warm-up again. My grip is neutral. I don't want to drive straight up. I start in the framework of my body and I just want to extend from the girdle of my shoulder to the outside of my shoulder as I come up out and back in. I don't even need to get full extension all the way with my arms. It's about 3/4 of the range and back down. I'm going to rest for a minute 30. W is just a standing military press with dumbbells with a little spin. I just make sure that I extend the arms out. When the arms come extended, they actually come away from your shoulders a little bit. So any weight closer to your body is a specific load. When you take it further away from your body, that load in general is going to weigh a little bit more away from your senolial joints. So it's a deltoid activity and developer and a shoulder stabilizer as well. That's our sixth activity. We're going to move on to our seventh activity, which is assisted shoulder complex. I want to go relatively lighter with this activity. It's going to start with a lateral raise, go to a front raise, hold position, back to a lateral, back down with great control. I'm just going to do four sets of 12 repetitions. Okay. So, I'm going to separate my feet, bend my legs, up with control, hold, front, back, down. Practice control, shoulders back. I want to be in retraction here as avoid protraction. assisted shoulder complex is to get the front anterior delt, lateral delt, and try to work the rear as well. It's one movement. I like it as a complement to my pressing activities. So, I usually do a military press and follow it with an assisted activity. Sometimes I do them individually, three separately. Sometimes, if once again, it's the weekend warrior in the crunch for time, I create a multi-movement. People seem to respond very well to it. control. I'm done with my seventh activity. I'm going to move on to the eighth activity, which is Simmons press for triceps. We're going to do four sets of 12 repetitions. Okay, rest a minute 30 in between. When I'm down, I come straight down. My elbows are tight to my sides. Okay, I'm going to roll all the way back by my ears and then drive straight up. So straight down to the ears, straight up. Simmons press is actually a press with basically a dynamic action where I'm actually rolling my triceps from my chin to my forehead and pressing it back up. I actually learned that from some powerlifters. I enjoy it very much. I think it's great for function. It actually helps me develop my triceps. weekend warrior is going to get tricep development and they're also going to have more power with their push after they do this activity. We finished with our fourth set of 12. Now we're going to move on to prone bicep curl. We're going to do four sets of 12. Keep our elbows tight to our side. Elbows in front of our body. Control it on the way up. Control it all the way down. prone dumbbell curl. What we do is we lay someone down in the interior part of their body on an incline bench. Their hips are in the bench, their shoulders are pulled back, so they're actually working an optimal posture position. They're working their biceps. Basically lay them down so we can take their lower body out of the movement so they're not manipulating other synovial joints to perform that activity. Make sure the elbows in the front part of their body and not floating back. So we increase the moment of the actual movement, the actual chain of the resistance. I'm going to rest for a minute 30. I encourage everyone to up the weight so they're being challenged and they put themselves in a position to be successful in regards to upping their performance. So I don't want someone going through the workout and making sure that you know, hey, that wasn't too hard. If that wasn't that hard, it's on you. So we can manipulate the time, the speed, make sure that you're doing these with great form and you're not manipulating a bunch of different joints. And we're using the joints that we're intending on using for that specific movement. Done with our fourth set of 12. Now done with the upper body. We're going to move on to the lower body activities. We're going to move on to our lower body activities. So, which means we have to warm up our lower body. We're going to do alternating reverse lunges. Five in the right, five on the left, and then we'll do five in the right, five on the left with the bar. Then we'll actually be able to go into our work set, which is two sets of 10 and two sets of eight with a minute 30 rest in between. Okay. One of the most prescribed things United States of America is force and resistance. Be it training with weights or yoga or Pilates or whatever it may be. Force is a wonderful thing for the body. creating specific movements and blood flow going through the muscle fibers and accessing different joints keeps you healthy. Now I'm going to go on to my first work set. Put 135 lbs in the bar. I like reverse lunge because it takes the stress away from the patella. Some people who have chronic knee pain can tolerate the reverse lunge. There's a lot of efficiency in it. I can get a little bit of activation in my hip flexors. Also stabilizing with your hips. More bang for your buck, so to speak. I'm done with my last set. I'm going to move on to single arm, single leg deadlift. We're going to do four sets of 10. A minute 30 rest in between. Okay. Small bend in my left leg. My right leg is going to be in the air. My left hand's on my hip. I'm going to look down. I don't want my right leg to float behind me. I'm going to look straight down. Maintain a flat back. It's important to note if I have rounding in my back flexion in the spine, I'm going to modify this. Okay. Keep my shoulders back. I'm going to go as low as my body allows me to go as long as I maintain a flat back position. Single leg dumbbell deadlift working your glutes and getting some lengthening in the hamstring. I don't think you can squat efficiently unless you have strong hamstrings. Obviously, there's some balancing involved. I don't believe you can actually just work on balance. I believe the strength carries over to balance and improves your balance. This is a great hip stabilizer, glute developer, and hamstring lengthener. Done with my fourth set. done with the workout. So, you finished with the weekend warrior workout. I recommend doing that workout twice a week. You can help you enhance your performance with your sports that you play in the weekends and also help you have better health in life. For more videos and content like this, make sure you come back. Check us out at bodybuilding.com. The NFL combine is the elite benchmark of football performance. This all or nothing event can shatter dreams or make them come true. Just six tests stand between you and greatness. This is where the elite train. State-of-the-art facilities, a full-time staff of coaches, trainers, and medical personnel. I'm Pete Bon Marrio, and I make champions. Today you're working out in my house. Two-time all-American athlete, former linebacker from the New England Patriots, certified strength and conditioning coach. I'm Mark Magna and I make champions. We're giving you complete workouts designed for you to increase your performance for each of the main NFL combine tests. 40-yard dash, 225 bench press, vertical jump, pro shuttle, broad jump, and three cone drill. Plus, we're hooking you up with nutrition and supplementation plans used by the pros. Train, eat, and supplement just like the top athletes at Bomarto Performance Systems. Be stronger. Be faster. Be better than anyone else.