What's up everybody? Chassity Smothers team bodybuilding.com athlete here to welcome you to week one of the still in it challenge. First and foremost, congratulations. Congratulations. I'm so dog on proud of you for signing up. I knew you would. I'm just saying. I knew you would. But nonetheless, I'm super duper proud of you. So, it's week one. Let's talk about motivation. Um, what is motivation? Motivation is the means to get to a goal. Um, so right now our goal is to get through the still in it challenge, right? Maybe our goal is um particularly the money, the $50,000, you know, that you can possibly share in whatever your goal is, motivation is the means to achieving that. Now, it is important for you to figure out your motivation uh for several reasons. Number one is because there's going to be a time where this gets hard. This is going to be a time where you say, "Why am I doing this? What is the point?" Um it doesn't matter if you're a beginner, intermediate, triple advance. I made that up, but I mean, maybe you're a triple advance. I'm just saying. But it doesn't matter what level you are. Um it's going to get hard. There's going to be a time where you question why you're doing this. Should you still be doing this? Um, you could be doing something else. You could be doing something better. I should eat those nachos because they're going to make me feel good. That's when you need to dig in deep and and really use that motivation. Motivation could be many, many different things. Um, such as money, like I want to share in $50,000, so I'm motivated by the money. I'm I'm going to complete this cuz those dollar signs. Think about my bank account. You know, that is my motivation. Maybe your motivation is your children. Um maybe your motivation is a rocking pair of jeans that you want to fit into. Maybe your motivation is to inspire other people. I remember when I my very very very first time even lifting the weight. I had a pair of Nike Pro sports shorts that I wanted to get into and that was my very first goal. like I just want to get into these shorts. It it sounds a little vain, but that was my motivation. That was it. As I progressed, it changed. Um my husband went into bodybuilding and I knew I wanted to be supportive of him bodybuilding. So, I was like, you know what? I'm going to do this along with him because my motivation right now is him. My motivation is to keep him going. And now, you know, my motivation is to just, you know, look amazing during the summertime. Okay, it's coming up, you know. So whatever your motivation is, whatever it is, you need to figure it out. Find it. Harness it. It's okay if it changes, but you need to figure out what it is. Harness it and remember it. When things get tough, you think about that motivation. If you got to write it all over everything, maybe not everything. Hang it. There you go. If you need to hang it on something, hang it on something. Do whatever you have to do to keep reminding yourself, I can do this. got a little aggressive right there with the pounds, but you know that I'm serious. I'm so serious. Find that motivation and let's do this. So, talking about motivation, let's just jump right into week one's challenge. So, for your very first challenge, I want you to share with us what your motivation is. Now, this is your chance to win some awesome muscle farm prizes. So, share on your social media what your motivation is. This is week one, people. I want you to kick week one's butt. I am so dog on proud of you again for signing up. Let's hit this strong and I will see you in week two.