Hello everyone and welcome. It is February 2019 and this is Brain Games, the show brought to you live from bodybuilding.com headquarters. My name is Tyler. This is my good friend Alec. How you doing, man? Dude, I'm feeling good. Uh, you know, today's a special episode. So, we got some cool things happen. Very special today. Why is that? Well, fun fact, these things in front of us, usually props. In this case, they are more than that. But we are giving away 10 stacks to people that are liveing in that are with us in the stream. With that in mind, uh flavor size will vary, but we are giving away a gainer the whey cine and isolate to 10 people. That's right. If you saw our post yesterday on Instagram or on YouTube, you know that we're giving away 10 stacks of protein, all different kinds. So, you can uh enter to win those today. Uh like I said, it's going to be 10 stacks. Uh there's going to be a link in the description below as well as in chat to find the survey that you'll need to fill out in order to enter the competition. Uh however, it is currently blocked. There is a password that is required. We will be uh showing you that password a little bit later in the show. So stay tuned. But until then, uh kind one of the reasons we wanted to give away protein today is cuz protein is actually the topic of discussion. We put out another poll on YouTube a couple weeks back just to see what people were interested in. Protein was the answer. So today we're going to talk about that. uh best uses, what the different kinds are, uh you know, what what's the best way to go about consuming your protein and strategies and stuff like that. So, anyway, we'll get there. Like I said, the password for the survey to enter to win one of the 10 stacks uh will come a little bit later. So, look forward to that. Thank you so much for being here. Let's jump right into it. So, Alec protein, a lot of people have a lot of questions about it. We've been we've been kind of gathering questions from you, the people. We've also been also been kind of making our own questions as well to answer. So, we just wanted to dive in, kind of get a general uh how-to for protein and then uh hopefully get you the information that you need in order to make the best decision. So, let's do this. Alec, tell me about whey. Well, whey is the whey. It is you it's the it's the most common protein you're going to see out there. Um by that it's milk derived, hence the whey. Um in this one, it's it comes in various um percentages of like whey protein. You have either like 80%, you have 60 sometimes or concentrate higher than that. So gets closer to an isolate which is whey isolate. That's right. Um which we have obviously here's a here's a way which has um we isolate as well in it. But then this is a straight whey isolate over here. Yeah. But um they are great. They're um usually the standard across um sports nutrition cross dietary supplements whether or not you want to use that. Why do we gravitate towards whey generally for sport nutrition? Well, it's uh that shown the most data behind it and it being a complete protein having all the essential amino acids that you need for muscle building. That's right. Uh whey is also really high in the amino acid leucine. Uh we always talk about leucine because it's very important for activating the biochemical processes necessary to build muscle uh after you're done exercising. So is really high. It's like three grams per serving per serving sorry. So that's really good. Um there you know lucine is in other proteins as well but as far as uh cost and taste and then also lucine content it's the way. So uh you will see a couple of different types of whey protein available to you. Uh Alec alluded to this just a minute ago but I wanted to go over a little more thoroughly. Uh we have a couple of different kinds in front of us right now. We have the 100% whey protein but we also have the whey isolate protein. So what does that mean? So whey concentrate means that they've taken the protein out of the milk and they've concentrated it into a powder. Now they've only concentrated it to a certain percentage. Uh you can sometimes see that percentage on the label, sometimes not. But what it means is that the powder is is x% protein and x% you know y% other stuff. And it can be anywhere from 60% protein all the way up to like 80. Whereas a isolate can be much higher percentage. They've isolated the protein even even further. They've you know done a couple other process usually about it's usually what 90% 90 95% they can get pretty they can get a lot higher. So what are the what are those gaps made of in the concentrate? It can be fat. It can be some extra sugar or carbs from the milk. Whereas isolate is a lot lower in those things. Unfortunately, taking out carbs and or sorry, taking out carbs and fat uh it takes out a lot of what makes uh a product taste really good. So unfortunately isolates tend to not taste quite as tasty as the concentrates. But uh for that sacrifice, you are getting usually a lower cal calorie count with the isolate, which is really good. And that's that's why you're going to see a cost be a little higher when it comes to an isolate just because more manufacturing work goes into actually making the product. So there you go. Uh okay. So before we jump into the next kind of topic, let's take a couple of questions already from YouTube. We got them popping up which is awesome. Uh should beginners use whey concentrate or isolate? This is from Safe07. Um I I think whatever you have available to you, I think in the very beginning cost should probably be a little bit more of your focus getting your total total daily protein intake and then just make sure you're exercising well and watching your calories. So, I mean, yeah, you can go with an isolate if you find it at a good price and you think it tastes good and that's something that you feel like you can enjoy for a while, great. But usually concentrates are a little bit cheaper and so it might be a good place to start and then once you start getting a little bit more elite, a little bit more experienced, then maybe you can think about the isolate uh and the calories that it does not provide. So, well, and it's it's something important to note that the difference between a concentrate or just like a whey blend and an isolate is maybe 30 to 40 calories if there's a huge spectator. So, it's it depends if you're being really nitty-gritty with your food tracking. Yes, it may make a difference with that, but overall it comes down to like taste and preference primary. At least for me, that's how it was at the beginning. But um yeah, it whatever your wallet allows you to do for that kind of a choice, roll with it. Um product reviews are also a huge help when it comes to protein products. Yeah, thankfully. Uh we got another question here. What is your advice on taking a protein shake before or after going to the gym? So thankfully we had our our good friend Jim Sapani here a couple weeks back and he gave a really really great talk on uh protein timing and and the best uh strategies there. So if you haven't watched that talk, make sure you go I think it's on Facebook I think is where that one was. It was it was what middle of last week. Yeah. But anyway, go check out Jim Sapan's talk. Very good talk. But I think the general consensus was if you can take it immediately after you're done exercising, awesome. If you can't take it after you're done exercising and you can only take it before, cool. If you can't take it until a couple hours later, it's not optimal, but it's also fine. Get your protein intake for the day. Get your total protein for the day. That's most important. But if you if there's a couple hours here and there, you you're going to be okay. But uh if you want a lot more on that topic, make sure you go check out Jim's video. It's very thorough. And we've also addressed kind of the um protein window, the anabolic window in a previous episode as well. So yeah, it's it's not the half hour, 45 minute mark that a lot of people are alluded to believe in. It's much closer to that 24-hour window, right? I mean, you're not going to you're not going to, you know, lose the ability to gain muscles if you if you don't touch any food for a long time. You know, that's the window that you're talking about. Now, obviously, people aren't going to exercise and then consume nothing for 24 hours. So, I mean, that's that's not really what we're saying, but if you can't if you can't consume your your pre your protein shake, you know, immediately after you're done exercising and it takes a little while, it's okay. Like, you're still going to you're still going to be all right. So, don't worry about it. There's one more I wanted to address real quick before we hop into the next one. Um, let's see here. Uh, where'd it go? Where' it go? Um, okay. Michael and YouTube, I'm trying to cut weight. Will protein make me gain weight? That one's a great question. So, it really varies on your total caloric intake. If protein is being monitored uh into kind of the overall picture of your calories per day, then you'll be fine. And it's even been shown that, you know, that some data that's going to be published here very soon that protein kind of acts a little differently with the body anyway. So, actually increasing protein may in fact help you improve body composition. Protein is a weird weird macronutrient and how it works in the body. Even even how the calories from protein work, there's still a lot we don't know. Like, yeah, we have an idea. Yeah, we've looked at it. Uh, if you want to look at research from Jose Antonio from ISSN, uh, please do because there's some very interesting data about increasing your calories, but actually being able to lose weight if those calories are made up entirely of protein, which is Bill Campbell come up. Yeah, Bill Campbell helped as well. So, yeah, thank you to those guys. Uh just to make sure you guys don't forget if you're interested in winning one of the 10 stacks that we have here. Uh and when I say 10 stacks, I mean 10 people will win every one of these things, like $150, $170 worth of protein. All you got to do is hold on for just a little bit longer. We're going to be sharing the password for the survey that we have that you need to fill out in order to enter. Uh the survey link is available either down in the description below or over in chat. Uh but stick with us and uh hopefully you guys can get your hands on some cool stuff. So uh moving on, let's talk about casein. So how is cin different from whey protein? So the story is is how it is absorbed and digested when within the body. So whey generally speaking is a pretty quick hit the bloodstream quick to actually assisting in muscle protein synthesis whereas casein is kind of a slow digesttor. That's right. It'll kind of think better gas mileage. Right. So in your car it's not getting burnt as quick. It's the economy option. Yes. There we go. That's right. So a lot of people take case right before bed so that they they keep their blood levels of amino acids a little bit higher throughout the night. you know, you can't really snack while you're sleeping and so you take case before you go to bed and then you have uh protein in your system for for many many hours after you're done. So whey has a very high absorption rate. So the amount of protein in your blood goes way up very quickly but then also drops down very quickly. Whereas casein does not go up nearly as quickly. It's much more slow but then it maintains a a much, you know, straighter curve, right? So uh that's why you would take case. Uh we have a lot of products um I believe that um you know our our ProGim product has a mix. You'll see a couple really good proteins. They'll have whey protein, but then they'll also have casein protein so that you can get kind of both. You best of both worlds, right? You get a big bump, but then you also get a little bump and everything in between. So, that's very cool. Uh, I know that casein sometimes tends to be a little bit higher in calories. I mean, like 10 or 20 calories just because it comes with a little bit of fat in it. And it's that fat that actually helps with slowing down the absorption. Also, fun fact, casein is much more fun to bake with or make any sort of protein for it and actually has a really good texture for baking. Yes, it does. Um, so for our uh viewers out there that like to get more creative with things, uh, utilize casing. Um, blends work really well with it too, but um, whether regards to some some fun food activities in terms of uh, for the gram or anything like that, if you want to get creative with your your food onto it. Exactly. Uh, I got a question here that I wanted to address from Adam on YouTube. Thank you, Adam. What about hydrolysate? I actually forgot to write this one down, so my bad on that one. Hydrolysate is basically a a a a way to process one of these proteins. So we're going to usually you see whey protein hydrolysis. Basically it means that they've they've added some enzymes to it and they've already started the process of breaking the proteins down into smaller pieces. So if you think of a protein as a long chain of amino acids they've uh put it through some processing to basically cut those chains into smaller pieces. Not necessarily all the way down to the amino acids, but they've started the process for you so that you can absorb it just a little bit quicker. So, this would be, you know, that that steeped curb that we have from whey protein. It would be a more amped up version of that, be even steeper. Uh, I have found that sometimes hydraate tends to have a negative effect on taste. It's really bitter. It can be very bitter. So, watch out on that. Uh, I would definitely get samples of hydrolysate before you jumped in on the 10 lb tub. Uh, but just be aware that that's a possibility. Uh, I'd like to think that we have found a really great way to integrate hydrolysate into our whey product without it affecting it because we've mixed it with a couple other different types of things. So, uh, if you want to check it out, that might be a good way to do it as well. So, Mhm. anyway, Adam, thank you for that great question. Uh, I apologize for not touching on that just a little bit earlier. So, oh, you know what? I'm going to do this one more because this is fun. This is fun. Is it that one? So, Zach from Facebook, thank you. This is a very relevant question. Alec, what about protein farts, man? This is a real issue. So, the question in poll is any pro tips on the reduction of protein farts? Mine is embracing them. you should cons consider the fact that maybe you're just not digesting something properly. Um, gas is normal in terms of digestion, but sometimes if it gets a little too, you know, if it's if it's getting out of hand, that means that there's probably something in the product that your body's not reacting to properly. Um, sometimes it can be, you know, low levels of lactose intolerance, which is, you know, something you have to watch out for. And so maybe a strategy for you is to switch your protein source. So, if whey protein is really giving you the gurgles, maybe try switching to something that is made from uh either egg albamin or uh maybe even a veggie protein and see if you're having the same reaction. If you are having the same reaction after switching up the source, that might be time to go talk to someone who does it a little bit more professionally. Yeah, there's yeah, people with some letters on the end of their name that we don't necessarily have, which is a nice segue actually into our next topic. So, um a lot of the time we touch on milk-based products and our our vegan or plant-based friends don't get enough love on this one. So, we really wanted to address this because frankly, there are a a ton of veggie protein sources out there, a lot and that's why we really wanted to talk about it right here. So, Ty, hop into it. All right. So, veggie protein is a little bit more challenging, but you can definitely achieve your goals with proteins that are based on vegetable sources. So, remember we talked a little bit earlier about leucine. So, leucine is a very important amino acid. It activates the body's, you know, muscle building processes. Unfortunately, leucine is not nearly as common in the protein sources that are sourced from plants. So, if you see rice protein or pea protein or hemp protein or or any one of those things, yes, they contain leucine, but remember I said whey protein is like three grams per plant proteins can be as low as one gram or even less. Uh, and so you may want to be looking at those amino acid profiles to make sure you're getting the amount of lucine that you need so that you can uh really ramp up the muscle building. Another issue that we have with plant proteins is that a single plant source cannot provide you with a complete protein. And what I mean by a complete protein is one that provides all the amino acids, not just leucine, but all 20 and and especially the nine essential amino acids. That's why a lot of times you'll see veggie proteins uh in blends, right? So we see rice protein and pea protein all the time because the two of those together can make a complete protein. Um so there you go. Uh another uh thing to think about with plant proteins, generally they're not as dense. The percentage of protein per scoop is a little bit lower, right? So for a single serving of whey protein, you can have a 30 gram scoop that's like 25 grams of whey protein. And so you don't have to have this big massive scoop. But unfortunately with plant proteins, you need to either have, you know, a much bigger scoop or do multiple scoops in order to get uh to that 25 20 25 grams that we usually look for post-workout. Uh so just be aware of of protein content within a single serving of plant protein. It's also it's also worth noting that texture is definitely going to be different. Those that have tried the two uh plant proteins have definitely come a long way from where they were. uh kind of how whey was back in the day would just clump up if you just touched water. So now it's getting a lot better. I know that brands left and right companies are just popping into the plant protein space. Um yeah, there innovations coming along way with that. Uh something is like watermelon seed protein. Yeah. Pumpkin seed. Pumpkin seed for your basic peeps. And then um there's even uh like mung bean uh even all beans all over the place. Yeah. It's it's ridiculous. So it's very cool space for those that have decided to take that dietary approach. Yeah. So lots of innovation in the space. So so really people who are focused on plant proteins have a lot to look forward to. Uh let's see. I was going to touch on one more thing with plant protein. I can't remember what it was. Oh uh oh actually uh Vishnu from YouTube asked a good question. Um whey milk or sorry oh whey with milk. Oh I'm sorry I asked the wrong question. Sorry Vishnu. Uh Dina what about soy and whey protein? Good or bad? So we we get this a lot. People asking is soy going to you know make my body explode with estrogen? Uh because there are some similar compounds in soy that can translate over to estrogens. Yes, that is it is it is there is a relationship between those molecules. They are very similar in structure but the data does not suggest that consuming soy protein is going to lead to any major changes in hormonal balance. Do not be afraid of soy protein. But if you are if you maintain that that is something that you want to stay away from like we just mentioned there are many many other options for you now. and the number of options besides soy is growing like every month. It's pretty It's worth noting that if you do see soy protein in like a bar or even some powders, it's used as emulsifier. So, it's a thickening agent. So, it's not even used as a protein source itself. What's an emulsifier? Emulsifier is just kind of a binding. It just allows it to thickness for texture. So, it doesn't just displace itself. Oh, okay. I remember what I was going to say. So, a lot of people go into plant protein thinking it's going to taste and feel a lot like whey protein, but don't forget that whey protein is made from milk. And we use milk to make things smooth and delicious. We don't use peas for that. Uh, and so make sure you know that if you expect a whey protein like level of of deliciousness like a big cup of chocolate milk, please don't expect that from your pea and rice protein. So just just be aware we can make it taste pretty good. We can't make it taste like chocolate milk. So anyway, uh, and if you have any more questions about veggie proteins or whey proteins or casein proteins or anything else, please feel free to throw them in chat. We have a moderator throwing them uh right to us. So please let us know what we can answer for you because as we just learned, I don't remember everything when I'm making my outlines. So there you go. And it's also worth noting if you're just joining the stream right now, we are giving away 10 stacks of these at the end of the episode. Good one. Stay with us and we're going to give away a secret code that you have to use on a survey to be able to get access to entry. That's right. Okay. Uh this is a question we get a lot. Uh is protein a meal replacement. Ooh. So this is fun. So this gets down to the nitty-gritty rags on it. So it's a percentage based thing. So, if a product is 50% more calorie-wise that's from a protein source, technically it's not a meal replacement. But if you include um carbohydrates, fats into the mix, yeah, it could be used as a meal replacement. And again, every size may vary in terms of a human being. So, what may be filling for one person may be filling for somebody much smaller and bigger, yada yada. I would keep an eye on the micronutrient profile. Absolutely. So, um there's there's absolutely a difference between a protein shake and a meal replacement shake. Uh you know, there are brands that really focus on on actually being a meal replacement shake. Uh even ones that uh would expect you to only consume their product throughout the day. So, Soilent's a good example of that. Like if you wanted to only consume this product forever, you could because they have provided you all the micronutrients, all the macronutrients, everything. So, uh make sure you look at at what micros are being provided. Are you getting your RDIs for all your vitamins and minerals? And then check your macronutrients as well. So, if you were to decide, I want to use protein shakes to replace my meals, make sure you're also getting the carbs that you need, make sure you're also getting the fats that you need, because yeah, protein's great, but if you're not getting fats, especially, cuz they are they are an essential nutrient. If you're not getting any fats, then you're going to struggle. So, make sure to please check those labels. And if you have questions about that, again, please feel free to ask us. I didn't mention it before, but we are always available to answer questions via our email, which is brain.gs@bodybuilding.com. We answer that all the time, so please feel free to use that. Uh, gains with a Z with a Z. That's right. Brain.Agains vitamin.com. And okay, we actually talked about timing earlier. I wrote this question down. Uh the amount of protein per day. This is a huge question. Actually, a lot of people have asked this question already, but amount of protein per day. What's what's your go-to answer for that? So, again, it depends on the individual. What are your fitness goals? How active are you? What are you uh striving for? What how big of a human are you? Um, myself being 190 lb and I run 35 mi plus a week and I lift, I need like a lot of protein. A lot of protein. So, I'm anywhere. So, I I try to hit the 220 mark for myself personally. So, I'm above the 1 g per pound of body weight. And that's usually the recommendation uh for what you want to call just athletic people. A gram per pound of body weight. It's a really safe start. It's a very safe start. And then you see the FDA's um kind of push forward as 50 grams a day, which is for general public. And I would hope down the road that ends up changing. It's based on a lot of averages, but it still feels a little bit low compared to It's low. But um so shooting for 75 to 1 g is a good start. Yeah, there you go. Cool. Uh here's a good question from YouTube. Who are mass gainers for? Those are for people who one don't like eating a lot of food and don't have enough time and have a lot of trouble gaining weight. So another answer I would give is people who want to go into like heavy duty powerlifting and and such. So when you're in a position where you're training to be a powerlifter and you want to lift as much weight as possible, you need to have the the biggest muscles possible. You need to have the most meat on you as possible so that you have more tissue available to exert force. Yes. Now, if you are not there yet and you are struggling to gain that weight, it could be for a couple of reasons, but one of the big reasons that we see when people ask us why they're not gaining weight is you're simply not consuming enough calories. Your protein may be high, your diet may be clean, but you just aren't giving your body the tools necessary to build the tissue that it needs to build. And so if you're in a position where you want to get stronger, you want to gain a little bit of bulk and you want to do it in a in a proper way with a good macronutrient profile, that's why we made the mass gainer because it has a really good mix of high quality protein. It's got good carbs in it and then it's also got um actually it's got like ours has a whole list of like recipes and stuff you can make with it as well. So hopefully uh the mass gainer can be a good tool for you to help gain weight kind of the right way, right? Cuz you we don't want you gaining your your calories through like cheeseburgers and and chicken nuggets and stuff like that. Think of it this way. You can't build a house with just a little tool kit. Yeah, exactly. That's right. You need as much as much as you can get. So, good question. Uh, okay. So, we we we asked the public a couple days back what they wanted to know about protein, and we got some really good questions back. Um, I wanted to put my favorite up first cuz a it's relevant, but b uh I've never been asked this one before, but it's a good question. So, Jake B uh from YouTube asked the question, "Why does protein make my shaker bottle smell so bad?" And I think we've all kind of experienced this before, right? You have your protein shake, but then you don't have time to clean it right now. So, you just throw it in your bag, but then you forget about it and then all of a sudden it's been in there for like 4 days and you don't want to open it. So, you wait a little bit longer, but then now you've waited like 6 days and then you open it finally and it's like the smell of death on the inside and you're like, "Why does it smell like death on the inside?" But it's just protein that was in there. It was chocolate before. But anyway, so we can answer this question. So, think about what's in a protein shake, right? You've got uh proteins, you got a little bit of carbs, you got a little bit of fats. Mhm. Uh, think about what a bacteria likes to eat. All those things, little bit of protein, little bit of carbs, a little bit of fats. And what you've done is you've given that bacteria a dark, moist place to live where he has basically an infinite amount of food. And so, you've basically created the perfect breeding ground for bacteria that like to generate really stinky smells uh uh for an indefinite period of time. And so, you've you've created your own little ecosystem there. Now, as awful and as horrible as that sounds, you you are definitely capable of cleaning it out. uh soap, hot water, like you can do all that. It's fine. But if you want to know why it stinks, it's because you have created, you know, a happy little home for our little bug friends. So anyway, that's that's what's going on. Uh if you if you do let your protein shaker bottle sit for for too long, I do recommend, you know, run through the dishwasher, put really hot water in it, scrub it really good soap, like make sure it's safe and and then move forward. But if it still stinks after that, you may consider, you know, heading on to the next one. It happens. But good question. I know cuz everyone deals with that. No, my wife is notorious for living in her car. So, anyway, it makes sense. Anyway, so here's another good question we had from from uh YouTube the other day when we were kind of just trying to gather some questions. Isolate or concentrate? Which one do you prefer? This is Tom from YouTube. Again, this is a preference thing. So, thankfully where we work, we kind of have the you want to say the in-n-outs of knowing what kind of flavors are coming out with with certain get the inside scoop. So, pun intended. Uh, so when it comes to say if it's a concentrate is a really cool flavor, maybe they licensed it from a big brand. I'm going to try that because in the grand scheme of things, I'm not afraid of a little extra calories. But if if I'm getting nitty-gritty with um like prepping for anything, I'm going to have probably prefer more of an isolate just because you're, you know, if you want to be super careful with anything you're consuming, do that. But in the grand scheme of things, I would I prefer like a way Yeah. Uh when people ask about this kind of stuff, I always refer to kind of the the standard answer. You know, consume the product that you know you're going to consume regularly, right? And so if you if you feel like uh you're really really watching your calories, but you really hate the isolate, maybe you just don't like the taste, then it might be worth consuming 20 less calories somewhere else so that you can enjoy drinking your protein a little bit later, right? So, uh consume what you like. Make sure you try different things. You know, we were talking about innovation in the plant protein space a little bit earlier, but companies are doing an excellent excellent job of creating flavors and products that are good in just about every category. So, make sure you keep trying new things. If you're if you're really married to a brand, I would definitely recommend trying, you know, just at least dabbling into some of the smaller sizes of other flavors just to see what you got and maybe you'll find something that you love and then or maybe you'll confirm why you love the brand that you love in the first place. Anyway, great great question. Do proteins affect kidneys? Frenzy Osmani from YouTube. They affect the kidneys. So, we actually have data on this and it's great. Uh I mentioned Jose Antonio from ISSN earlier. He actually did another study previously that was looking exactly at this. Uh he gave um you know, one of the groups a normal diet, right? Regular amounts of protein, one gram per pound of body weight over the course of like 6 months. And then he gave the second group double that, two grams, I believe, per pound of body weight, which for a guy like me is a lot of protein. You want to talk about protein farts? Crazy amount. So, we're cube based, by the way. Right. We spent too much time together. Anyway, uh we looked at at the biochemical markers between those two groups. People who are consuming regular protein, the people who are consuming a lot of protein, and we basically found that there were no differences between the two, right? There were no differences in uh markers for kidney health, markers for liver health, markers for pancreatic health. Like, everyone was was fine. There were no negative adverse events. Everyone did really well. And so for the best that we know right for you know taking you know being very consistent uh tracking all the all the protein intake and such over the course of 6 months there was zero change that's that's pretty good data for us 6 months is a long time especially in in a controlled setting. So very cool. Uh yeah anyway um let's answer a couple more questions and then we'll talk a little bit more about the proteins here. Don't forget in just a little bit we're going to give you the password necessary to enter to win one of these stacks. We have 10 stacks of protein and one stack equals four products. Uh let's see. This is the casing, the isolate, the whey protein, and the mass scanner. 10 people today are going to walk away with all of these uh for for themselves. So, very cool. In just a moment, we're going to we're going to hand off that password. So, be ready. The link is available down below in the description. Also in chat, so check that out. Just a couple more questions and then we'll move on to that. So, um uh let's see. Alec, here's a good one. And I think this applies pretty broadly. Uh I'm a female who wants to gain lean muscle. How do I know which protein is right for me and how much do I take daily? Right? So, we get the we get the question, is there a difference between our female lifters and our male lifters? So, what do you think? And the difference is none when it comes to the grand scheme of things. You're going to digest it the same way as we would. Um, comes down to it, a lot of it is cuz there is a lot of parody in the sports nutrition space. That's just it goes without saying. Um, find a brand that you feel like you can identify with. Um, thankfully there are some up andcoming brands that are more female focused that is really fantastic that they're going after that type of lifter. Um because man, you can almost it's one and two. It's 50/50 whether or not um guy to girl ratio in terms of just activity now, right? It's outstanding. Um so how do you know which one's right for you? Find a brand brand you like it. If it happens to be a price point that you dig, hop on it. That's right. Um maybe you know if if she's one they ask this question and lucky enough if you put in for the stacks today you might get to try ours and there go who knows you might fall in love with it and the rest is history but I know a lot of female lifters are really afraid of of getting like really whole huge and bulky if they start taking protein powder or they start lifting weight. I assure you that the vast vast majority of women don't contain enough testosterone in their body to really bulk up like a lot of guys do. Uh, I I really encourage women to continue with their lifting goals. Uh, take your protein to support the lean muscle gains. Um, you're following the same guidelines, one gram of protein per pound of body weight a day. Uh, and just see what happens. I I definitely don't don't think that uh people are going to really start like Arnolding up a little. No, I'm friends with plenty of female competitors that that have embraced it and they frankly they don't look like She-Hulk, so it's okay. There you go. Uh, one more question here. Does more protein equal faster muscle gains? I mean, that makes sense, right? If you add protein, you just you just get more muscle, right? And you do they take that even further, right? Yeah. Unfortunately, no. No. So, you want to you want to hit your your muscle, sorry, your protein intake. We were talking about it before, a gram uh of protein per pound of body weight per day. If you want to bump it up to 1.5, that's totally fine. Uh but the the rate of muscle gain a is going to be unique to every person because everyone's got different stuff going on inside of them biochemically, but b it's also going to depend on a number of other factors like your diet outside of the gym and also the the type of training program that you're working on. Um you obviously we have programs on our all access that are you know focused on gaining muscle size. uh you know, think Jim supani shortcut to size, but then we also have ones that are very focused on leaning out or ones that are very focused on cardio or ones that are focused on specific goals or such like that. And and those different programs absolutely play a role in the speed at which your muscle gains size because your your your exercise style really determines that very very strongly. So take a look in there, see what you find. But is there a direct correlation between amount of protein beyond what is recommended and muscle size growth? I I wouldn't count on it. Don't don't hold your breath for And one more question I wanted to answer before we hop into the nitty-gritty of why hopefully you are all still here today. So Raul on Facebook asked for participating participating in endurance events, do we need to drastically cut down on protein and increase fats? I don't think you need I think you should probably increase them both. That's just me. One running um like like myself, I've picked up endurance running over the last 6 months. uh increase your fats because your joints, that's actually what helps lubricate your knees and everything along down in there in your hips. Uh you need fats increased, you need carbs increased, you need protein increased, all of it to maintain muscle mass. So, uh you're burning more than the average individual. So, you need to consume all the above. That's right. Now, it's obvious we have literally dozens and dozens of questions here that we're not going to be able to get to today. And I do apologize for that. If you'd like to follow up with us, we do have that email available. Don't forget brain.gsvitabillion.com. So, if we didn't get to your question, cuz I think that's wrapping it up for questions for the day, please feel free to email us and we can get back to you, maybe even with a little bit more answer that we can give you now. But it is time, ladies and gentlemen. If you are here and you are interested in the giveaway of 10 of these bodybuilding.com stacks, now is the time. Remember, we have a link to a survey down below in the description, but also in chat. Make sure you click on that. But it's going to ask you for a password. Make sure you enter the word gains. Lowercase gains with a g i n z all lowercase. That will get you into the survey. If you are interested in winning one of these stacks, we'll be randomly choosing winners from people who fill out that survey and enter the password gains. So, head over to that survey, enter that in, and you can walk away with over $150 worth of protein for free on us, which is very cool. So, any we're very excited about that. Before we go, though, we do wanted to address a couple of the new things we have on site. Uh, some very exciting new brands that we have on bodybuilding.com. Uh, we have Primeval is joining us on bodybuilding.com. If you didn't hear, Primeval is is getting onboarded with a lot of products. EA Max, Mega Pre, EAAsSleep, Isolit, Vasog Gorge, EAAsMax Energy, Intraascell, Neanderthal, uh, Hurricane, Hurricane Hurricane, hurricane, uh, and Primabal. And then also America Labs is going to be joining us on site, which is very exciting, uh, with their Patriots away, the Red, White, and Boom, the Stars and Pipes, and the America Aminos, which is very cool. And then we also have the EVL fiber probiotic. Uh, EVL are good friends of ours as well, so it's good to see them as well. So, and we have new flavors. Yeah, we have we have some new flavors with some products as well. So, if you guys have been paying attention, we launched our new flavor of our signature protein crunch bar, chocolate cookie dough. It's really really good. It's solid. And um as well as our friends over at Gym, they launched a chocolate peanut butter pro Jim. And Finnoflex Stimulate has come out with yummy gummy bear and blue raspberry. And then our friends down in Texas, Diamondiz came out with a jolly green apple, sour berry burst, juicy blue ras, and tangy orange for their liquid liquid lcarnitine. M m. And finally, we got some deals this week for you. We only have a few hours left in the Swollate sale, so make sure you head over to BBOM. Lots of bo, lots of 50% off. BOGO, I mean, buy one get one. Uh 50% off stuff as well. Uh and we have some other sales on pre-workouts, fat burners. We have also some deals on Primeville and America Labs to celebrate. They're getting onboarded. So, please go check out the site. Uh we got some really great stuff for you there. I'm sure uh our mods are throwing those links into the chat. Finally, don't forget, uh this is your last chance. This is our last time we're going to say this, but if you want to get a chance to win some of these stacks today, make sure you follow the link in the description or in chat and go fill out the survey, but you're going to need a password. Use the password gains. G AI N Z all lowercase. And best of luck to you. Anyway guys, thank you so much for being here. We had a wonderful time. We'll see you next time on Brain Gains. But until then, keep on lifting. You have a goal, we have a plan. bodybuilding.com all access premium fitness plans to achieve your weight loss goal. Jumpst start your results with shortcut to shred or 30 days out. Get shredded with Chisel or go hardcore with Chris Gin. Each plan includes daily workouts, training tips, nutrition and supplement guides and more. Everything you need all in one place at bodybuilding.com. All access.