Bring that intensity. Come on. This is your workout. Bring me what you got. Hit it. We're going to be super seting biceps, triceps, and forearms and getting the most out of each one of these workouts. Welcome back to Homebody. This is our core workout. Strong kicks, strong core. You can recover, you can grow, you can prevent pain and injury. We've got three, two, and one. The next time you grab some protein, you may want to grab your passport. Cuz every time you spend $75 or more at bodybuilding.com, you're automatically entered for a chance to win a trip to Mexico. We're talking sand, water, new friends, and old traditions. It's our way of saying thank you. Get the details at bodybuilding.com/swepstakes. Freaking love that song. Everyone, hello and welcome. My name is Tyler. This is my colleague Alec and we're here for episode four four of Brain Games. Uh so today we've got a lot of great stuff for you. We've uh been kind of working behind the scenes trying to figure out how we can make this show a little bit more fun, a little bit more interactive. And so we're going to be trying some stuff. And so hopefully you you watch and enjoy. And so uh come along with us and we're going to we're going to have some fun today. Uh but before we get started, we figured we would uh talk a little bit about who we are. We're four episodes in and uh I feel like people have no have not been given a good reason to to listen to us, right? So we're just two dudes standing in front of a camera. Uh anyway, so my name is Tyler Mclasson. Uh I work with the compliance department here at bodybuilding.com. Uh and I specialize in ingredient research and understanding all the claims and science behind the ingredients that we uh use for products and other other companies use as well. So I do the research into all the scientific papers that we use for substantiation and uh you know it's a lot of fun. Alec, what do you what do you do here? Well, um, if you see a product on the site, a couple of fellow compliance specialists and myself, we will, uh, be reviewing the products, their labels, their content, um, their ingredients, all the whole nine yards for that, as well as, um, our private label. Uh, I handle a lot of our testing initiatives, practically every testing initiative company, whether it be having a product tested for, uh, label claim, uh, stability testing, gluten-free, soyf free, so that we know that everybody out there that really, uh, depends on those, um, dietary restrictions to be met for their products. Um, along You've got experience in the industry though, right? Not just behind a desk, but like you're you do you're doing this stuff. Yeah. No, I would say that I like to practice what I preach here. Um whether it be tracking my food, competing as well for fun, um taking Halloween far too seriously when it comes to making the costumes look solid. Um besides that, um but yeah, I would say that Tyler and I are a pretty good representation of those who want to kind of live live what we we preach. Yeah. So, I mean, if you if anyone has questions about what it is that we're talking today, please feel free to put those into chat. Uh, also we have created an email address that you can send uh, questions to that we can potentially answer on future shows. So, please feel free to use that. That is brain.gsbodybuilding.com. Send those to us. Uh, I'll have access to that. Alec will have access to that and a couple of others and we can uh, kind of put together some questions that we think would be most relevant. Uh, and hopefully we can uh, answer those for you on stream. So, that'll be really cool. Remember that is brain.gs at bodybuilding.com. So, come check us out. Emphasis on the Z. Yeah, definitely Z. Brain gains. Uh, wait. Is there another way to spell it? I mean, no. Yeah, that's what I thought I'd see you spell, right? Yeah. No. Uh, slide into our DMs, whatever you need to do with that. And, uh, we we'll do our best to get back to you on that one. Nice. So, today we're, uh, instead of just doing a quick intro and then blabbing at you for 15 minutes, we figured we'd do a little bit of a news segment and then we'll blab at you for a little while. So, today uh, I I brought a couple of, uh, you know, science things, science pieces of news that I thought were interesting for you. Alec brought a couple of things. We haven't really talked to each other about what they are just so uh we can keep it fresh, keep it interesting, but go off today. Go for it. So, we got a we got I I have I have access to two new scientific studies here that that I wanted to kind of bring to your attention. I felt like they were you a little pertinent to the to the BBcom conversation. So a new study has been released uh in ISSN which is the international society for sport nutrition and it is called the acute effects of a multi-ingredient pre-workout supplement on resting energy expenditure and exercise performance in recre recreationally active females. So what they did is they uh they wanted to to get some really hard data behind uh if pre-workout if pre-workouts work you know how do they how are they how are they helping you. So, uh, they want to they they took 15 recre recreationally I'm having trouble with that word, recreationally active females and they did what's called a crossover study, meaning that they had them do, uh, one version of the study with, uh, the product and one version of study with a placebo. Uh, so they can compare the results. Mhm. Uh, they they did um, you know, one rep max, they did uh, repetitions to failure. So, at a particular weight, I believe it was 85% of their five repetition maximum. And they said, you know, how many reps at that at that weight could they do? Uh and then they also looked at, you know, subjective measures. How tired do you feel? How focused do you feel? How energized do you feel? Uh and it was pretty cool. So the after having taken uh the the pre-workout and not the placebo, so after having taken the pre-workout, a significant main effect for condition was observed for resting energy expenditure. I didn't catch that one a little bit earlier, but resting energy expenditure did increase in those who took the product. So, uh, even before they started exercising, their metabolic rate did increase thanks to the ingredients in this pre-workout. Uh, a greater number of bench press repetitions was completed to failure and total work completed during a treadmill test that they completed as well. So, they put them on on a on a treadmill that requires you to input some force and those who took the pre-workout were able to output a little bit more power over time. Uh and then finally uh from the subjective measures they uh those who took the pre-workout actually saw improved focus at 80 minutes after having taken it. So looks like the neutropics in this product uh increase their focus as well. So that's very very cool. They could taste colors. Yeah. Well almost they're getting there. They're definitely getting on their focus. But I mean it's kind of cool that we're getting they we're getting science that's like legitimately backing up some of the claims that we see on these products. And uh they didn't list the name of this in the abstract. Uh I I need to read through the full study, but in the abstract they just said uh they they called it a MIPS or a multi-ingredient preworkout supplement. Uh but with the MIPS, uh they were able to increase these variables and I think that's really cool. So that's awesome that we're seeing uh science really back up uh what it is we're saying. We're not just a bunch of dudes saying drink this powder, get wool, right? So that's pretty cool. Drink this phantom powder. Yeah. So, my fun one with this one, I don't know uh how many people of our viewers paid attention to the current US Open that we were streaming this past weekend, but it's a powerlifting meet rather large in the US in the West Coast. And um one uh I would say competitor that stands out the most with this one, I'm not sure how many people are familiar with her, but Stephie Cohen, real badass. She's she weighed in at 119 for this and she pulled a world record 518 lb deadlift. Are you serious? Yeah, dude. So, just throw it out there. She can uh she can beat up your dad. Wait, what was the number five? 518. 518, dude. And she squatted 441, bench 215. Four times your body weight. Yeah. Yeah. She's like an ant. Wow. That's super impressive. Yeah. You should, for anybody who hasn't seen it, you should watch her clips of the Arnold. How many plates is that on each side? All of them. All Yeah. I mean, did they get So, yeah. So, that's pretty phenomenal. Stephie is uh if you don't follow her on on any of the social platforms, I highly recommend you do. She's a stud. And then uh yeah, that's all I really had for that one. It's just it's fun to see uh the female domination of powerlifting that is out there. Most people aren't familiar with it as much, but yeah, the the community is there and it's fun to see, you know, literally powerful uplifting. Yeah. I mean, you think of of world's strongest person and it always goes to a big dude pulling a truck with a rope in his teeth, right? like it's just this very clear idea of what that looks like. But uh you know uh hearing about a woman being able to pull significantly more than I can pull is absolutely outstanding. I think that's super super cool. So good for her. Congratulations. And fun fact, she I think if I remember correctly, last year she pulled 440 undeads and she pulled 518 this year. Wow. Huge improvement. Yeah. So anyway, that's pretty cool. All right, cool. Round number two for me. And I think this one uh I I actually find this one even a little bit more interesting than the than the first study that we looked at. Mips. So it is it is an ingredient commonly found in our friend the MYIPS. Uh but I I'm sure many of you have heard of beta-alanine before. And we know uh for those who don't know beta-alanine is uh an amino acid and you consume it and it combines with histadine to make carnosine. And this carnosine uh is used in your body to buffer the lactic acid that's created during exercise. Uh it doesn't do that right away. It it takes some time to supplement with it. you have to supplement with them for two or three weeks um pretty consistently before you start seeing these results. But I mean I this is a really common ingredient. We see it in just about every pre-workout these days. Uh but we haven't looked at uh beta-alanine very much in any other realm besides buffering the lactic acid. And so this study was looking at consuming beta-alanine uh through the lens of helping you increase strength uh and power output. Uh and so that's what they did. Uh they gave uh 30 healthy guys and they split them in half. So we had 15 on each side. This was not a crossover study. Uh but those who were consuming beta-alanine uh took 6.4 grams per day for 5 weeks while doing a really intensive exercise program uh for uh I think it was back squats and uh jump split squats and uh let's see where is it? Uh back squats, barbell step-ups, and loaded jumping lunges. If you've never done loaded jumping lunges, wow, those are really hard. So, uh they they tested their strength and the velocity of their lifts to measure power both before and after uh the 5 weeks of this training. And wouldn't you know it, the guys that were taking beta-alanine actually not only improved their one rep maximums, but also the velocity of those lifts. So, they're increasing their power as well thanks to the beta-alanine, which is really, really cool. So, I mean, there's a couple of explanations here. you know, you could say like maybe the lactic acid uh negation that they had going on was allowing them to get, you know, one extra rep every day during that time. And so maybe that that helped them out. Uh but it's really cool. You we can we can start thinking about beta-alanine through through a different lens, not just as an an endurance enhancer, but also as a strength enhancer if you take it over time. It's not something, again, remember, it's not something you just take today and and feel better today. You'll feel the tingles, that's for sure. M uh but uh over time we can see cool stuff. Uh one other thing to note about this one. Uh remember I said they were taking 6.4 g of beta-alanine a day. I don't know how many of you taken 6.4 g of beta-alanine at once. It's not very comfortable. Alec is a weirdo but he does it every day. Uh but you know that beta-alanine gives you the tingles, makes your face flush, feels kind of weird. So in order to avoid that, cuz remember we want people to not know they're taking beta-alanine. So, in order to avoid that, they were taking 800 milligrams eight times a day in like a little pill. It's tedious. It's It was kind of annoying, but I I'm impressed that they were able to do it. They said they said that adherence to this was actually really really good. So, um that's super cool. Uh if so, if you're interested in seeing strength gains to your beta-alanine, 6.4 g is the dose to look for. Uh but you don't have to take it all at once. So, maybe there's three grams in your pre-workout and you can take three grams later in the day or or a gram and a half twice more during the day. You can spread it out. That's okay. It's not something that has to be taken all at once. So anyway, that's uh that's my news. I thought it was pretty cool now. So now you know your beta-alanine is doing more for you than just lactic acid. Absolutely. And there's a question from uh on Facebook from Steven Cooper. Yeah. Says uh so we're so were these studies done over and over again. Are there are there other studies that confirm this? Because if not, they may be good studies, but there's nothing else to back up the claim. So to go with that, Stephen, uh to kind of go back to the Tyler said, it was it's a new study. So when it when it's published, it's peer-reviewed. So it's not just it's ran through again by other people as well and they're highly critical of the research in which they're putting it out. So it's not just hey I found it on Wikipedia was a sentence and said it right. So uh this this article was actually again through uh the ISSN the international society of sport nutrition and I don't know if you've been following our website over the past 6 months or so but we've actually been releasing content from members of that society uh whether it's Dr. Jose Antonio or Dr. Doug Calman or many many more. And so it's it's it's these researchers job to read through these studies before they get released through this through this journal. And so they're really approving of the methods and really saying like this may be the only study that we have about beta-alanine uh in regard to strength right now. It's a pretty good study. So you know I can't say like we know this now like we know it for sure but they did a really good job on creating the study on designing it and so that's about as as good as we can do for now. uh and we can look forward to more confirmations in the future. So, uh there you go, Stephen. Hopefully, that is a satisfactory one for you. Uh I I think it's I think we can be optimistic, right? So, that's that's mine. And on that note, I have a fun one that is a study that was also completed last month um late it was published, not completed, but it was published at the end of April. So, it uh long story short, the they were studying why kids can outrun their parents. What it was. So wait, what? Yeah, I know, right? So fun fact. So it was measuring power output um to see why children's endurance is so high where they can just run around all day and not get tired. So they ran it was three study groups. So they had kids, trained athletes, and then untrained adults. Nice. And they did sprint tests with them. So imagine making a little kid run on a treadmill, right? So they're uh they did two seven uh second uh sprints, okay? And then for all study groups and then measured the degree of exertion, how it decreased over the second second sprint. And then they also did it on wing gate. So they make kids do wing. Yeah. Isn't that funny? Uh so what is a a wing gate test if those who are the uninitiated is a on a spin bike? Imagine going as hard as you can for 7 seconds or 7 to 30 as long as 30. You can go 30 depending upon how they want to do it. I want to say that they actually did so they did uh they did uh again two 7-second uh resistance sprints with 30 second rest. Okay. So short break. These are quick ones. That's okay. Yes. Yes. So they uh results on this was uh the untrained adults power up decreased by 51.8%. So they really dropped off the second one. Okay. Uh the athletes dropped off 41.8%. children 35.2. Oh, champions. So, long story short, the reason why they can run around all day and you uh are so tired trying to catch up to them is because they're younger, their bounce back time is literally faster than yours. So, okay. So, did they go into any discussion about what it is kids have going on that allows them to recover so quickly? Because I'm sure there's like a bajillion Olympic athletes that want to know all about this. Oh, absolutely. It's called being young. Oh, tight. There you go. Simple. Just get younger. You're good to go. Well, that's super cool. Uh, so yeah. Anyway, so that one's fun and uh looks like we already have a hoorde of questions popping into, but we will get to that. We're about to hop into some the meat and potatoes of the purpose of being here. So, yeah, it's actually kind of nice. All these uh all these questions are focused on pre-workouts. And wouldn't you know it, that's what we're talking about today, ladies and gentlemen. So, we're we're getting into close to summer. I know we've been talking about summer a lot over the past couple months. Uh because I mean, everyone's everyone wants to get ready for it. Everyone wants to look good. They want to feel good. They want to be out and energetic. And so one of the best ways uh that you can help yourself with the exercise, help with motivation, help with your your strength in the gym is with a pre-workout product. Uh but it can be a little scary. I know I I see a lot of questions in here that are asking which one of these pre-workouts is right for me. Uh and that's a really good question because pre-workouts come in so many different shapes and sizes and formulations and scoop sizes and ingredients and it it's scary. Mhm. Well, there's it's it's a to get to be blunt about it. It is an oversaturated market, so it's hard to figure out which one is necessarily right for you. And thankfully, it's not just one of So, yes, there's the umbrella pre-work workouts, but you can totally categorize the different types of where you throw into the mix of maybe based upon your fitness goals or uh your tolerance for certain uh ingredients. Like for instance, Tyler can't handle anything with Yohimi in it. No. Um my poor tummy. No, he has to go home early whenever he has to do that. So, um, we're going to kind of give our kind of basic summary of what we would kind of lump some products into and have, mind you, these are not, so we're going to give ingredient, excuse me, uh, product examples, but these are not all the products that fit in these categories. These are just the ones that come to mind first and just kind of, I would say, are pretty solid sellers on the website. Solid sellers. Uh, you know, we've looked at most of these, we looked at all these formulations and generally the ingredients in these are good. There's nothing in here that's going to be harmful to to people. Mhm. Uh the only thing I would say is just don't ever try and overdo it. Uh but beyond that, these are all these are all good, solid ingredients from reputable uh companies. And so there we go. So uh we're going to start out with with what we consider kind of entry level pre-workouts. So um we all know that pre-workouts are really known for having uh stimulants in them and blood flow enhancers and beta-alanine. Like we talked about a little earlier, the entry level preh pre-workouts are known for having a little bit less uh caffeine. Maybe uh good for people who are new to the category. Maybe they're really sensitive to caffeine or coffee or tea or stuff like that or they've never had beta-alanine before or they've never had beta-alanine. They don't know what the tingles feel like. And so uh these uh products, I mean, we're thinking C4 from Cellor. We're thinking the uh bodybuilding.com signature pre uh what's another Oh, Dr. Jackekal Nitro X from uh from Prosp. These are all really good examples of of uh a category that is great for people who are new to the to the category, right? So um we see generally 200 milligs of caffeine or less. And for those who don't know, that's about two cups of coffee, maybe two and a half. Uh, but they still have good solid doses of some of the other ingredients like citrine that's going to help with blood flow or uh, you know, good solid dose of beta-alanine. Not not a huge one, not like a 3.2 like we see in some of the big ones, but uh, you know, it has the ingredients in it that will improve your workout that will allow you to make better gains uh, for you for the time that you're using it uh, without going too overboard, without being too powerful for people who are new. So, no. Exactly. And like you know, you're going to you're going to test out your tolerance on it. Sometimes you're going to take a scoop, scoop and a half. I would say like for for me, I would say once you get to the point where you're taking like a scoop and a half, maybe consider looking at a higher stimulated stimulant filled product just so that you are kind of letting your product last longer so you're not burning through the product. But Oh yeah, you get used to the 200 MIGs pretty quickly and then you don't want to be taking scoop and a half every time and then two scoops every time. So that's when you might want to start graduating to the next round. Child's play. I know, right? Yep. But let's see. You're the guy that takes 500 milligrams in a day without sweating. I mean, you shouldn't judge, but maybe. Judge, judge not. I just wanted to say, you know, there's definitely a spectrum of caffeine ability. We'll call that cuz that's my new word. Caffeine ability. That's my my secret. I'm always caffeinated. That's the truth, though. All right. So, what's the next one? Uh, next one would be kind of what uh I think I would like to call more the bougier pre or a performance pre. So, it's usually going to it's going to have more of the uh ingredients that are kind of clinically studied or they're going to be based around the performance of the athlete that's taking it. So, in this one, I kind of lump them in together. And some again, some products that are performance freeze can also uh kind of graduate into like the higher stem product depending upon the ingredients that they choose in it. So, I'm not just saying that this is this alone, but some examples that come to mind, diamondizes pre-WO, uh, pre- gym, pre-caged, uh, Optimum Nutrition's Pro Pre, and, uh, Neutribio's pre-workout as well. So, all those, uh, this is kind of a starting to get a larger category because companies are understanding that they should be giving the consumer that is really needing the performance kind of benefits from these products. So, uh, for instance, Diamond Tise was here doing a presentation for us earlier this week. It's good to talk to those guys. Pre-Wow, I took that the other day. Um, hadn't taken it for a minute and it was great. It, uh, it everything you need for that particular thing. And all the other products by chance happen to fall in that same realm. And at that point, it's more of what you prefer brandwise or tastewise or some might have a little bit more st than others. But um yeah, this is more of the the you're an athlete that you want to take your your performance to the next level by um ingesting a product that will Yeah. And and these products really uh the ones we spoke about in particular have done a really incredible job of doing their research, right? So um we we were going over a beta-alanine study earlier and they were looking at 6.4 grams and that's that's kind of a lot, but there have been a lot of studies looking at uh beta-alanine from a 3.2 gram standpoint. uh and we're looking at citrine. It's generally 4 to six grams of citrine. Uh that is the research dose. And so these these uh these companies have been doing a really good job of looking at the available literature for the ingredients that they're including in their products and saying we want to use the dose that has been studied because that's the dose that we know that has been shown to be effective. Um generally these doses are a little bit higher than you see in some of the entry- level products. Uh and so the scoop sizes can be a little intimidating. I know I know the Neutra Bau for example, it's like 32 gram. It's it's a big cup. Uh but they have done a really great job of including a lot of ingredients at the doses that are considered scientifically studied and and shown to be effective. So uh if you feel like you have been using an entry level for a while and you may feel like you're ready for the next step, don't be put off by the size. Uh get excited about, you know, what these products have in store for you. Absolutely. Uh so next one. Next one. So, segue into the high stim category. So, in this one, it's kind of think of the old old school bodybuilding mentality. It's I just need to get jacked up so I can go move as much weight as possible. Everybody has those. Leg day primarily I would say that is probably the best for that. Um, so examples of this, uh, Proups, Mr. Hyde, um, Animals Fury and EVP extreme. So all those are 350 and up in uh caffeine as well as some have additional kind of stem boosters in there. Yeah, a lot of them over 400 in some cases. And yeah, they have other stems as well. The OIMBI, they have I think I see trine in some of them and and even more. Um so what's interesting about about high stem products is is a lot of them are actually getting significantly closer to what is kind of considered the studied dose of caffeine. Uh a lot of people don't know, but there's a great deal of research on caffeine uh in the in the in the range of 5 to six gram per kilogram of body weight. Uh as a larger man, uh my kilograms are, you know, I'm I'm right at about 100 105 kg of body weight. Uh let's do the math there. And all of a sudden, I'm at 5 to 600 millig of caffeine uh taking for a single dose. That's it. That's no that's uh that's way too much for me. That would be sweats and and shivers and way over the top. That would be a yohimi experience for me. That would be that'd be bad. My poor tummy I think could handle it. Uh but so these high stems when they're doing 400 450 uh they're getting a lot closer to uh what would be the study dose of caffeine for someone who is of average human size which is which is what 75 kgish 60 k. Yeah. So they're they're doing a great job there. So good for them. They're doing the study dose of caffeine. That's awesome. Uh not everyone is ready for that much caffeine. I know there are people who uh are are great with 200 milligs of caffeine and that's all they need to feel energized and getting double of that would be way over the top. Uh but uh there is a place for these for these products. There is a place for for products who are uh great for people who are uh have moved beyond needing 200 milligs. They've moved beyond three and they're ready for something. They've evolved. That's right. They have adapted. Their adrenals are not so pleased but not so much. Adrenal healthiness is not it's whatever. So okay. So, we get kind of kind of finally to the the last category here. Uh, which is very different from the other three categories. We're getting into products that do not contain any stimulants. Uh, and these are products that are great for blood flow enhancement. They've got beta-alanine in them. They might have some no tropics in them that are, you know, not stimulant based. Uh, but they're really great for, uh, people who, uh, maybe they work out at night. Maybe you are extremely or overly sensitive to caffeine. Maybe there's a heart condition that we don't know about. These are the products that we like to recommend for people who just who just can't handle the caffeine. Um well, and you know, not everybody's schedule's the same. Like for instance, we're both morning lifters. So yeah, caffeine based products are going to be best for us. But there's plenty of uh viewers out there that I'm sure you guys have a busy life where you happen to work like a later shift in the day and you the only time you can get a lift is at 10 p.m. I don't think you should take like hide it. That's a rough time to take 300 g caffeine. But like if you or say if you're you've already had coffee in the beginning of the day, you need to get a lunch lift in. You need just a little bit of a pickme up. Uh non- stem pre like Neutribio's non- stem pre um PES is high volume and Vasop Sport by Muscle Farm. Those are just some great examples. Even you can have pump mode by EVL. Toss that into the mix as well, which um again for a pump. Um, but a lot of the time it's it's whatever works for you and your time because again, not one sizefits-all for all these categories. That's right. So, yeah. Uh, okay. So, we've we've got some really great questions about pre-workouts here. So, I think we can go through some of those. We have a few minutes here at the end. Uh, so thank you for everyone for submitting questions. And again, if we don't get to your questions or you want us to talk about them a little bit later, make sure you email them to us. Uh, brain.gs with a Zbodybuilding.com. Nailed it. Okay. So, uh, Himmanu from YouTube is asking, "When should I take a pre-workout if I train in the morning?" And this is a really good question. When when like even you're training morning or at lunch, when do you take it? Uh, it depends again that like for instance, we both live what 20 minutes of work. So, um, I wake up in the morning, I down a giant bowl of cereal and then I have my pre shortly after, but my stomach can handle doing that. A lot of people might not be able to do that. So, uh, giving you if you lift in the morning, take your pre 20 like 15 to 20 minutes before you're you're planning on getting, you know, slanging some weights. Yeah, that's good. Yeah. And and you'll feel what what actually is a really good indicator of when you're probably good to start working out. Wait for that beta-alanine tingle. Wait for it to start doing cuz actually, as as simple as that sounds, it's it's actually a pretty good time indicator on when the product has had a had a moment to really soak in and get flowing around. Uh, and so usually, yeah, like Alex said, 15 to 20 minutes, you'll start feeling it. Uh, and you just jump right in. Um, what a lot of people don't capture is the fact that pre-workouts contain a lot of ingredients that take multiple days to start working. And so, timing isn't quite as important with some of those ingredients, but things like caffeine and the experiential effect of beta-alanine, 15, 20 minutes, easy peasy. Or if you start singing to yourself in the car, that's another good indicator. That is the real the real deal. When I start singing the radio, I know we're good to go. favorite favorite radio song to sing to. That changes, man. I fluctuate. All right. Well, but having said that, I've got secrets that I don't want to say. Okay. All right. But, um, we got a question from Dan. Are y'all saying that Balan is the best amino acid? We're not saying it's the best, but it's one of the best. It is the best. If you want to mix an amino acid with histadine to make carnosine to buffer your lactic acid, is number one for that, actually. Now, if we're talking about muscle building, leucine is probably the answer for that one, but we're not talking about that. we're talking about career workouts, right? So, when whenever you're talking about the best for any category, you have to define what your goal is. Uh, and if your goal is to buffer lactic acid, then beta-alanine is great. But beta-alanine isn't a structural amino acid. It's non- essential. It's not used in the building of protein. And so, if you're looking for muscle protein synthesis, beta-alanine is not going to do jack. So, just make sure you define your goals and then we can figure out which one is is is best for you. Um, okay. So, here's a great one from Joseph on Facebook. Um, what do you think about BCAAs containing caffeine? Like EVL Nutrition, and this is a huge category. We see, uh, EVL, uh, BBOM Signatures making one, Optimum makes them, uh, Muscle Tech, Muscle Tech, Caged. Yeah. I mean, just name a brand. This is a really popular category for good reason. These are great products and they're really versatile. Uh, I would say that again this kind of when we were going over what we wanted to talk about the other day about this, um, it got brought up like I would say a a caffeinated BCA product would fall into the line of like an entry-le pre. So, it's not going to be the thing that just again for me it's not going to be the one that gets me going. But for some people that have like a higher tolerance to caffeine to caffeine, excuse me, yeah, for sure. Um, if you are going to use it for cardio, that's more likely what I would use it for. But um if you're going to use it for for your main purpose, by all means. Sure. I mean it's I mean there's there's not much in there. It's caffeine and and branching amino acids. So lucine isolucine veining. Uh and you can take that before you start jogging on the treadmill and it'll it'll give you some energy. It's not a ton of caffeine. Usually about 100 milligrams, which is equivalent to about a cup of coffee. Uh it's pronounced jogging, by the way. Oh, jogging. Yes. Soft j. Uh but uh you know, you're missing out on some of the ingredients that you get with other pre-workouts like the blood flow enhancers. uh and such. So, um can you use it a pre-work as a pre-workout? For sure. Uh are you getting the full benefit of of of a pre-workout by using a BCA energy? Maybe not. Uh but if you feel like uh having a little bit lower caffeine and just keeping it simple uh and delicious, uh that might not be a bad choice. And then we got another good YouTube question. Is citrine malate good while cutting along creatine monohydrate? So I would say with this to kind of piggyback previous episodes, creatine can be taken with any fitness goal, any of them and citruline is fantastic. So if you like a good blood flow um enhancing ingredient, it's a fantastic amino acid. Uh you can look for citruline malate, you can do citruline itself. Uh it's going to be based on the ratio that the brand decided to go with a 2:1, a 3:1, 1:1. Um, the best in my opinion, I look for products that have citruline, like just straight L citruline by itself. But, um, or you can just buy a citrine product like caged. BBOM now has one that you can just add your pre. Oh, and and just to piggyback, there's a question on what is a 2:1 3:1. So, it's the ratio of citrine to malic acid. So, malate, it would be the bond with citrine and malic acid. So 1 one would be the best. So say if you have a or actually no it depends a 3 to1 would probably be the best in this case. So say if you just want a lot of citruline you want the more citrine the better. So the higher the ratio away from the malic acid is what what you should be looking for. Now that's not to say malic acid is bad. No no and it has its uses. I mean malic acid is one of the intermediates in the uh the citric acid cycle which is you know one of the main parts of your of your metabolism. We we have a use for it but citrilline out of that ingredient citrine is really what we're looking Absolutely. Uh okay. Uh let's see. Well, we had another good Oh, one thing I wanted to add to this. Um, there was the question about citruline and creatine while cutting. Neither of those have any calories to them. So, neither of them are used uh for energy. Uh you you wouldn't be you wouldn't count them in your calorie counts. They're not going to affect fat storage. Uh they're not going to affect fat loss really. They play a role in a completely different set of systems. And so, don't worry about including those in your pre-workout or in your macro count or your calorie count. They are separate. Go for the creatine. If it's going to help you um with your strength during your exercise, go with the uh the citrine mallet. It's going to make you feel more pumped up. It's going to help your muscles recover uh in between sets. Go for it because neither of those are going to affect cutting in any way, shape, or form. Exactly. Uh Graeme on YouTube actually just asked that question. Can you use creatine on a cut? 100%. Yep. 100%. It's not going to affect it in any way. And let's see here. What's another good one? So, um it's a good question. I'm going to answer it. Go for it. YouTube. Yam, why does pregim make me poop? So, caffeine is a It's actually a really good question. It's a great question because um you know it things happen with the body when you consume a product. Now, if it's not normal to you, I would highly advise that you reach out to our customer service team to fill out an adverse event report. Um if if it's violent, if what's violent? What would be considered violent? Like your your body's yelling at you. I mean, relative to normal. I think that's the only way we can define it. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Anyway, so we got to talk about poop on a a work thing. So cool. Or maybe maybe more later. I mean, describe why why. All right. Alons from YouTube, we're going to we're I'm just going to sidestep that one completely. Uh Alphons from YouTube is asking uh what are the studies on arginine alpha ketoglutarate or is citrine better? Uh so that's a good question. I actually looked I spent a lot of time looking around for arginine alpha ketoglutarate. Uh the theory behind having the AKG group on the arginine is to help arginine get through your gut into your bloodstream without getting broken down. Uh when you take arginine by itself, uh it has a tendency to get broken down by a group of enzymes called arginases. And they're like their job is to take arginine and to render it useless for for what we wanted for which is for blood flow. And so they add the AKG group on there to make it so that these enzymes don't quite recognize it and they don't work as well. So they don't break it down quite as much. and the arginine can move on through and then hopefully the AKG breaks off a little bit later and the arginine can act as arginine. Uh whereas citrine you put into your system, citrine goes in, it moves into your bloodstream, it goes into the endothelial cells around uh your blood vessels and then it goes through uh the arginine creation cycle creates arginine at the spot and then arginine can can carry out its action to to cause blood flow enhancement. So is one better? Is one more effective? Where are the studies at? There are not a lot of studies that look at the AKG unfortunately. Like it's a really great theory and I like the idea of adding just a little group on there to make it so that it's more effective. Uh but when it comes to like what ingredient has been studied most, it's so much easier to find research on citrine. A lot of work has been done uh uh you know dozens of studies have looked at if if citruline is effective. Uh el citrine citrine malate does it work? We know that it does because we've seen it in lots of different studies that have been repeated over and over. AKG I found significantly harder to find uh information on. Uh I'm not saying that it doesn't work. I'm not saying that the theory isn't good. Uh I just I can say it with a much more firm heart that citrilline is uh where it's at. Uh at least from the research perspective. Let's see here. Um you comment from uh YouTube. Jorge. Is pre-workout bad for you in the long run? Well, well, let's see here. So, let's look at the ingredients that are in pre-workout. Number one, are you taking pre-workouts that have any ingredients on them that haven't been looked at and approved by the FDA? Uh, and if the answer is no, I don't use any of that nonsense. Uh, then you're taking a step in the right direction. Uh, if you're taking a pre-workout and all it has is caffeine and maybe some uh some beta-alanine and some citrine and a couple of other little nutropics, there's no long-term data that I've seen uh that shows that that taking a pre-workout over a long period of time would cause any sort of harm. Uh, they've done long-term studies on creatine. And they've done long term long-term studies on protein. Uh and they they'll give uh uh subjects of these tests, you know, lots of this product over a long period of time and show no biochemical changes in kidney markers and liver markers. And these are these are what we look at to consider consider health. And we haven't really found anything that says that these these products are dangerous in the long run, which is which is important. And the FDA has looked at this sort of thing and said, "Okay, we agree that that these ingredients are safe if taken uh according to the directions of the product over a long period of time. So go for it. There you go. No, that's great answer with that. And uh we had a question here asking uh black coffee versus a pre-workout. If you prefer to just down it, a cup of coffee at home, do it to it. That you're going to get the caffeine benefit from that. But a lot of these different products we're talking about have additional ingredients that are supporting uh muscle building, uh endurance, strength, all the whole nine yards. So, it's more of just a So, it's kind of like the BCA energy question. Yep. Really? Cuz you're getting the caffeine, you're getting a little bit of antioxidant. So, it's a little bit of stem, but you're kind of missing out on some of the other ingredients that we like to include in pre-workouts uh by by skipping with coffee. All right, I think we got room. We got time for one more question. I'm going to go back to YouTube here and say hello to FitHouse, thank you for the question. Fit House, can I take citrine malate after a workout for bulking? Now, I think this is a good question for you. Having bulked, I mean, I would say, do you like good blood flow all the time? Do you like gains? Do you like gains? Well, if anything, it's going to open up your veins a little bit. You're going to get better blood flow. You're gonna, if you want to think about how like nutrients be being transported through the body, it's probably doesn't won't hurt you. Won't hurt you. Is it is it going to make a huge difference in your gains in bulks? Probably not. Yeah. But for for feeling like you're kind of just getting more vascular by sitting there, sure. Well, I mean, it'll it'll help your recovery between sets. Maybe maybe you'll be able to hit one more rep that next time. And you know, if you're always if you're always hitting one more than than last time or than the set before or one more than you would have without it, you might you might bulk just a little better. And if it's more of a confidence thing and you feel like you're feeling yourself, you get the Arnold pump going on that I mean that's a good place to be. Do you? Yeah. So anyway, that's all we got for pre-workouts today or that's all we have time for. Thank you everyone. We had a ton of really really great questions today. So, thank you YouTube, Facebook, Twitch, and all the other mediums that we are streaming to today. Again, if you have more questions or you want your questions answered next time on a on a FAQ day, or if you just want to say hello and tell us uh uh you know, how great or how much you like the show, hit us up. Uh brain.gsbodybuilding.com, we would love to hear from you. But otherwise, I think that's all we got. Oh, and one more thing. What's that? One more thing. So, this week, one of the reasons why we talk about pre-workouts, it just happens to be that there's there's a bit of a sale going on for uh and if you look, there's a link on the video right now that'll take you to the products that are being associated with said sale. Some pretty dope pre-workout sales. Mhm. Yeah. And so, we got the Optimum, Muscle Farm, EVL, Muscle Tech, Cellcore, Endor Rush, more EVL. There's a lot of good stuff there. Pretty sweet stuff. Anyway, thank you so much everyone. This has been a blast. Hopefully, we can look forward to seeing you again uh next month. I think is probably when our next show is going to be. So, we'll look forward to that. Uh, but otherwise, thank you. Have a wonderful afternoon. Thank you, Alec. It has been a joy always. All right, you guys have a solid afternoon and we'll see you later. The next time you grab some protein, you may want to grab your passport cuz every time you spend $75 or more at bodybuilding.com, you're automatically entered for a chance to win a trip to Mexico. We're talking sand, water, new friends, and old traditions. It's our way of saying thank you. Get the details at bodybuilding.com/swepstakes.