So we started off uh to begin with on the leg extension. So did quite a few warm-up sets and then stacked the weights on there which allowed me to reach failure at 10 repetitions and then I rested for about a minute and then did again 10 repetitions and then I stripped the weight and after 10 second rest I did 20 repetitions. Then the third set was the 10 rested for 10 20 rested for 20 and then finished with 30 repetitions. But remember that repetition range is your guide. Um, and then I rested for a couple of minutes before moving on to the next exercise, which was that freestanding hack squat machine, uh, they call it. But if you don't have one of those, uh, machines in your gym, then you can do the squat. You can do the Smith machine squat. That's absolutely fine. Just make sure that you go down to parallel before coming back up. Don't go any deeper than that. I'll find you find that you'll get a lot of glute involvement. Um and uh you know you can put a little bit more unnecessary strain on your lower back. So I just find parallel is absolutely fine. Um making sure that you don't lock out at the top unless you feel that you have to rest pause because you've reached fatigue to get out the required repetitions. So we did the same sort of reps there and a little bit higher in repetitions today to other body parts such as back we did earlier in the week uh because I find the legs work a little bit uh better and a high repetition uh principle. So that's why we did that. So we did uh the the three sets on there, same protocol, same protocol on every exercise today. And then we went on to the hamstring curls because that exercise just takes so much out of you doing the drop sets working not only your isolating uh quads or your you know you're doing compound movement you're doing your quads your hamstrings your glutes and your core stabilizers so your cardiovascular capacity is smashed against the wall. So, for that reason, I do recommend a little longer rest periods, maybe two, maybe three minutes, just to make sure that you get your oxygen back in, your ATP is replenished, and you could smash it again. Um, so, you know, we did that back and forth, did one leg uh before moving on to the other. And same when we did the drop sets, you know, I made sure I did all the drop sets on one leg uh before doing the drop sets on the other. I try to hold each stretch for a minimum of 10 seconds. So, it'll take about that time at least for the muscle to start to relax so you can stretch it out. And then we went back onto uh another compound movement which was a hack squat. And uh we did the same sort of principle there. And you know at this time I was really fighting against it. You know fatigue had set in mentally more than anything. You know I was like god I want to do another exercise like this which is a little bit easier. But I went on to the hacks where I did a couple of warmups and I was like man I really don't want to do this. So I'm going to have to do it. There's going to be times that you're going to feel down, fatigued, and I don't know why. When I came in, I felt motivated, felt strong, but then fatigue just set in. Felt absolutely knackered, and doubt started uh gnoring at me and uh showing me its teeth. So, I had to bear my teeth back at it and just go after it. You know, when the doubt is there, turn the other way and just, you know, pull it out of the hat because we only have four of these workouts. So, after today, it's only going to be three. So, we better freaking do it. So, we did it. And we did it hard and heavy. You know, I didn't allow doubts to allow me to go lighter either. So, we did the three sets there and that was it. Done. Only seems like a few exercises, but when you're hitting a larger body part like this, you know, it takes it out of you. You know, having my post-workout shake now and I just want to get the cardio done so I can get home, have a shower, get some more meals in, and uh psych myself up for the cardio that we've got this evening as well. So, we're going to punch out 30 minutes now and 30 minutes later. But remember, you've got to do your twists, too, every single day. 300 twists. Twisting as fast as you possibly can. Uh making sure that your hips are straight. Uh just to really bring that skin in tight, activate the collagen, and uh making sure that we hit the obliques as well without an assistant weight.