Okay, so today we're doing full body 15minute M wrap, which means that your goal is to complete as many total reps as possible during the 15minute countdown. And we're doing some basic but very effective body weightight exercises. The goal of this workout is to really raise up your heart rate and target nearly every muscle in your body. So today we're doing jump squat, push-up, competition burpee, jump lunge, and mountain climber. Get ready and let's do this. We're starting with the jump squat to target the major muscle groups in your body, the biggest ones, raise up your heart rate, and prepare you for the rest of the circuit. You're going to be doing 20 reps as fast as you can. For the jump squat, I want you to be pushing the weight on your heels as you go down, keeping your back straight, and then really power up. Jump as high as you can. Land softly on the balls of your feet. The second exercise is push-up and you're doing 10 reps as fast as you can. When you're in the plank position, make sure that you're not pushing your hips too high or dropping them down. And if you cannot do a regular pushup, you can always do it off of your knees. Don't give up on an exercise just because it's challenging. You can always modify anything. The third exercise is competition burpees and we're doing 20 reps as fast as you can. You're going to drop down on the floor. As soon as your belly hits the floor, you're going to power up and jump up as high as you can. At this point of the workout, your entire body is already warmed up and your heart rate is increasing. You're going to start sweating and you're going to be getting out of breath and that's what we want. You shouldn't be able to put together a whole sentence. The fourth exercise is jump lunge. And we're doing 10 reps alternating. You're going to complete them as fast as you can. We're working our legs and glutes and also our abs. All of the power goes from your hips and you're always landing first on the balls of your feet. Keep your chest up without rounding your shoulders. The last exercise in the circuit is mountain climbers. We're doing 20 reps alternating. And it's a great way to finish out this round because you're going to be again working on your cardio and working on your abs. Remember, this is just one round. You have to keep going until the 15minute countdown is up. So, do not stop. Try to not take any breaks. Go through the circuits as many times as you can. And your goal is to complete as many reps as possible. Write down your score. Next time you do this workout, you're going to beat your score. Remember, this is just one workout out of my entire workout program. So, if you want more details about the program, it's right below this video. And remember, you can always do these workouts, these body weight, highintensity workouts on a daily basis. If you guys have any questions for me, you can find me on my website, zuskalite.com, or on my social media, Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. I'm happy to reply to any questions you have. And for more free articles and videos like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.