! L-carnitie, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes undergoes, undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergo drtina.com. All right, you guys. So for this episode, I have brought on a very special guest. This is my best friend in the entire world, Mia Fessmeyer. I want to call you Mia Allerheim because that's your maiden name. And it's my birthday today and I'm 52. And so Mia came to visit me and we decided we were going to drink champagne and talk shit. Yes, of course. It's going to be amazing. Thank you for coming. Well, happy birthday. Thank you. Yes. And you look fabulous. Thank you. So do you. Thank you. Trying our best, right? All we can do. We've been best friends since sixth grade. That was 1986. So that was 40 years ago. Oh my gosh. I know. That's hard to say. I know. I'm going to cry. 40 years. And you've been my best friend all these years. I love you like a sister. Seriously. No, don't cry. You're going to mess up my makeup if I start crying. Don't do it. So I have to tell the story of how we became friends. This is where we're going to start. We don't actually have any script. Can I grab my drink really quick? Yeah, we're drinking champagne. I went to cheers. Oh, okay. Here. I was like, okay. Cheers. This isn't my usual content, but I don't care because it's my podcast. Yes. I decided that you were going to be my first guest that we published the episode in my new space. So you will be the, this will be the debut of this set with. Well, it's amazing and I've never done a podcast. So this is weird for me, but that's good. That's okay. We're having a conversation. You're my friend. So I'll do whatever. You actually helped me buy these chairs. We walked into our house and I was like, I need podcast chairs for the new studio. And we both sat down right away in these and we were like, this is them. Yeah. They do have amazing furniture. So yeah, I took you down that hole. Plug for our house. Yes. Okay. So how did we meet? We were in sixth grade. I had just moved to your elementary school for the listeners who don't know, and probably nobody knows this. I moved a million times in my life and my parents were not in the military, but they were both military derived themselves from, they were children of military parents. My dad was in the military, but not when I was a child. And I think I had like, gosh, by the time I got to you, I had moved, I want to say like 10 times by the time I'd gotten to that part of town, Mission Viejo. Because you were in a different part of Mission Viejo and then you moved to my part of Mission Viejo. Yeah. My parents liked to do that. They would move me to one part of a town and then we would move houses and they would move me to a whole new school. That's hard. Yeah. And so I'm in sixth grade. I know now looking back that I had hypothyroidism set in and I started getting kind of chunky, you know, like when you turn into a little potato at that age. I was in my little potato phase and I was really depressed. Like, I was suicidally depressed in sixth grade. I was thinking about it in sixth grade and I was so devastated that I had to move and I had no friends and I was so tired of moving. And you live two streets away and my mom was a hairstylist and she did your mom's hair. Yes, she did. And our mom set us up. You were like the super popular, super pretty. You were a dancer. You always had guest clothes and like really cute outfits that matched. Oh. That's not the version of me I remember, but you know, other people have different versions, but thank you. Yeah. You were always super cute and pretty. And my mom set us up on a date and a play date and I was like, Mia's going to play, like hang out with me. I just thought it was the craziest thing. I feel like your mom probably like, probably had to threaten you to make you come. No, no, not at all. She's like, you know, my hairstylist, she, her daughter, they just moved here. She doesn't have any friends. I'm like, yeah, of course. And I didn't have any friends to the point where when I go hype, just a little pearl for the audience listening, because this is usually a health podcast. When you're hypothyroid, you become antisocial. Oh, I didn't know that. That's a big symptom of hypothyroidism is you become very reclusive. And so that's how I usually know that my hypothyroidism is not well controlled is because I don't want to go out. And that was the first time that I felt that way as a person, as a human. And I just remember not wanting to meet anybody. My mom's like, why don't you go out and play? Why don't you? And I would sit outside my house. And remember we had Mike and all the kids on the street. Lots of kids. I would turn my back. I would, like, how weird was that? I would go sit out there and turn my back to them and be out there because she forced me to go outside, but I refused to play. It was just a weird kid. And we had the best time. We walked down to the stores. Didn't we walk all that way? Always. From Newhart, junior high? We would. Yeah. We'd walk down to the stores after school. That was our first play date that we walked. That was where the roller skating rink was. And we walked down there and we went to Burger King and then we went to Safeway. Was there Burger King on one side and Carl's Jr. on the other? We bought those little, you put the quarter in and you get those little octopus that are sticky. Yes. And you'd throw them against the wall. But we were throwing them against the window of the grocery store. Yes. Yes. And then I think we got in trouble. Probably. I think my mom... Yeah. If you're with me, you probably got in trouble. But my mom's salon was in that shopping center. It was. It was right next to Ralph's. Yes. Right there on... I always say, like, what is that? The right side of the... Yeah. Yeah. And my mom heard about it. My mom somehow heard about it because she was working down the way of the grocery store we were throwing the sticky octopus at. We... Years later, when... When I was being forced to move out of Mishaviejo to move to Beaverton, Oregon, much to my dismay, my mom still tells this story. What did we do? What did we do when the guys... We hid in the closet. Yep. We hid in the closet because we didn't think anyone would see us there. Couldn't find... Couldn't find you. The packers and movers were moving everything out. Yeah. And you and I went and hid in the closet because we thought we would be somehow... Safe. Yeah. Yeah. And they... That was so sad. That was a hard day. I know. Mm-hmm. And then what happened right before that? What happened... What did we do the last day, my last day of school? We did... We did school. We got taken back into the police car. We totally did. Which... You were kind of a bad kid at times. I was. But I was like a stellar... Oh, my gosh. You were like... I was... In the gifted program. It was... It was... It was like something that... Okay, yeah, I could see that happening to Mia. Okay. But taking Tina down with Mia, that was fun, though. So we skipped school. We went down to those stores. We called them the stores. Yeah. There was a skateway down at the end, and we decided to, like, ride around in shopping carts. Yeah. And in the middle of the day when it was a school day, and then the police rolled up, and they were like, whoop, whoop. What are you doing here? I was horrified. And they put us all in the back of the police car. Who else was with us? There was a couple other people, right? I think, like, Erica and Toby, which were also, like... Yeah, but were also two people that were not... Yeah, all the... I was... It was like you and all the AP students. And we all got brought back in the cop cars. And all the school kids were like, they're getting out of the cop cars. That was funny. Oh, my gosh. That's so crazy. But you know what? One thing is that, you know, we were way before all the social media, all the cell phones, all the things, and we still kept in contact. When I came up to visit you in Oregon, do you want to talk about that? My first time there. Well, first, we have to talk about sixth grade. Back to sixth grade. Okay, back to sixth grade. Then we'll go back to that? Yeah, because we did our... We did our... We were, like, hanging out, and we became besties. And then I was still living in Mission Beach, and we went to outdoor school. And do you remember the creek? Do you remember what happened in the creek at outdoor school? Yeah, it was... We were walking across the creek, and I fell... Did you flip? Did you fall in? Like, I know we fell in, but your memory's better than mine. I slipped on the rock and fell in, and you started laughing hysterically and pointing at me. And then... And you were cracking up, and then you slipped and fell in. You fell in, yes. That's, like, instant... So we both were soaking wet, and then we were, like, best friends after that. Yeah. Because we had a... We trauma-bonded. Yes, that was so fun. Yeah. And we went and saw... I think we went and saw Bon Jovi. Oh, yes. At Irvine. That was at Irvine Meadows. That was my first concert ever. And I wore... I remember what I wore, because I planned out my outfit so bad. It was, like, this guest shirt, like, T-shirt that was kind of tight, and it had, like, the, you know, the triangle right here that said guest in, like, red with my guest jeans. I remember this outfit. And I was, like, I got this. I was, what, was it seventh grade? Was it seventh grade? Oh, my gosh. 1987. Who opened that show? I forget. I don't remember. All I remember is Bon Jovi, and I don't even like Bon Jovi that much. I feel like somebody opened it was really important. Somebody in the audience listening will remember. They probably went to the same tour. I saw it the other day. I actually saw something from that tour, and somebody opened that was a big deal, but I can't remember who. So, anyway. And then, we've gone to a lot of concerts after that. Yeah. A lot of concerts. But going back to that, I don't know if you... I remember one of, like, one of our biggest influence of music when I purchased our first cassette tape. Was it a cassette tape, or was it a CD? I can't remember. It had to be in a cassette tape. Of who? Which one was it? It was Guns N' Roses. Oh, my God. It was a cassette tape. It was a cassette. Do you remember that? Yeah. And I... Okay, I put that... I remember going to Tower Records. Your mom didn't know. No, my dad took me to Tower Records, and I was like, I'm getting this. He has no clue. And I put it in the car, and he goes, what the hell is this? And I was like, this is the best music ever! And... Well, you... I burned that... Or I recorded that off of you. So I had the recorded version, and my mom was horrified as well. I'll tell you what, though. You are notorious. You changed the entire Pacific Northwest. You... So I moved. We might jump around here. I moved in 1988 in eighth grade, and we were friends. So sixth grade to eighth grade. And then I moved, and my mom would fly me back for two weeks every summer to stay with you. And then I would fly. And you'd come see me, like, usually once a year. And I was like, was it spring break or during your school? I came when you were still at school one time. Yeah. What was that? I just had my wisdoms out. It was right after spring break. Was it right after? It was my spring break. Yeah. We didn't care. I was like, I'm coming. But one summer, I came down to see you when I was 16, and you popped in Nine Inch Nails, pretty hate machine. Oh. And I burned that off of you, or I recorded it off of you, I guess, because this was before CDs. I brought it back to Oregon. And like, I kid you not, there are people to this day that come up to me, and they're like, you changed my life with that. Like, I showed up to Beaverton High School that year with Nine Inch Nails. I had a Nine Inch Nails sticker on my truck. I had the tape, and I made all my friends listen to it. And these were all little rocker kids. These were like the kids that we were listening to, you know, Iron Maiden and Metallica in their basement. And so now I have Nine Inch Nails. I brought Nine Inch Nails to the Pacific Northwest because of you. And there's all these people to this day that are like grown adults that are, you know, whenever I see them, they're like, this girl introduced me to Nine Inch Nails. Like, it's somehow notorious. And I was like, no, Mia. It was all because of Mia. I love Nine Inch Nails. I mean, they're, I mean, they're early music. I have to say, I don't listen to them anymore. Sorry. But their early music is phenomenal. It like shaped my teenage years. So very influential. And I had a little crush on Trent Rose. I had a lot of crushes on a lot of... Well, we were, we thought we were going to be in somehow, I think our goal in seventh and eighth grade was to be in like a Motley Crue or rap video. Oh my gosh. Steven Piercy. I'm sorry. If you're out there, Steven Piercy, you were my, like, my biggest crush ever. He was just on Billy Corgan's podcast. Oh, I saw that. I saw that podcast. It was, it was, yeah, it was really interesting. So did I ever tell you about, we're like, I'm like, scroll. That's okay. We're going all over. All over. So my son used to play lacrosse and we were up in Agora or somewhere. And this guy looked exactly like Steven Piercy. I go, I think I called you. I go, I think it's Steven Piercy. I go, I think it's Steven Piercy. And so I went up to him. I go, I know you're Steven Piercy. He goes, no, I'm not Steven Piercy. I was like, he's totally Steven Piercy and telling me he's not. I'm still convinced. You would always call me and be like, this guy, I think one of the Backstreet Boys was in at the field. Like, no, he did. He played with Max's flag football team. He did. That was real. Wasn't there like a drummer of Nine Inch Nails in there somewhere too? I think so. Yeah. You somehow, you always had some, because you were in LA. Yeah. So I always ran across people, but I'm the worst. Like, I don't know who anyone, like. No, we don't know anyone. I don't know anyone, anyone. I can't recognize people. I don't. Yeah. Yeah. He could, the real Steven Piercy could walk across like my path and I'd be like, no clue. Steven Piercy's old now. I know. But we all are. I'm like, we all are. We're all aging. We were going to be in some kind of like hair metal bands video. That was our goal in life. And we also were going to learn instruments and start our own band. Do you remember that? Oh, yes. I've always wanted to play the drums. So that was what I wanted to do. Yeah. I wanted to play the drums too, though. So that was not going to get us very far. No. Because I can't sing. We used to make, we used to make our own band t-shirts. We used to like draw, we had like rat t-shirts that we drew in with Sharpie. And we would, gosh, I still to this day find so many little things that you, little notes you wrote me and little, I have them all. Well, like Christmas, I had that little. I can't believe it. Yeah. I have everything. Yeah. I've kept it all. Well, I just went through and purged my life and threw a lot of shit away, but I kept everything that was from you, I kept. So I have, I have stuff going way back. Yeah. So back to that trip, when you came to visit me, I just had my wisdoms out. What? That was like my senior year? No. No. You were younger. Sophomore year? I don't remember what year it is, but yeah, I came and caused a little bit of chaos. Yeah. I forget what happened. I had to go to class. You smoke, they would let you smoke cigarettes at that time. And I smoked cigarettes at that time. And we chain smoked. We chain smoked. And there was like a smoking section. Yeah. In the high school. At the high school. Yeah. It was called the pit. Was that what it was called? Yeah. So, and I'm out there. Tina's in class. I'm just roaming the campus. With all the boys. With all the boys smoking cigarettes, making friends. Yeah. And I had a crush on a boy. Yes. And he wasn't sure if he had a crush on me back. And you were somehow hanging out with him and his friends. Yeah. And I was like, how did she, like, I couldn't even get them to hang out with me. But you show up because you were always the pretty one. And you show up and they were like, oh, we'll hang out with Mia. So then you come back and you're like, I've been hanging out with Mike and Clint all day. And I was like, what? How? How did this happen? But you all became friends later. I was going to say, didn't you date him for a while? Yeah. So, yeah. Sorry. I don't know. He's nice, right? Yeah. He was a nice kid. Okay. He was tall. He had long hair. I remember. He was cute. He was cute. Yeah. He would draw really cool pictures of like Eddie from Iron Maiden. Yeah. Is that the one where I got really sick? And yes. Yeah. You threw up. I threw up all in that restaurant. I thought you were pregnant. Oh, yeah. You went to lunch with them. And you went out to breakfast with them and I was in class and then you threw up. Yeah. Good job, Mia. Oh, my God. I have so many stories. I'm not sure what we should tell them. No, exactly. We might have to cut that one, right? I don't know. I don't know what YouTube allows. Okay. So, I moved and we had remained friends successfully ever since. And I feel like it was because maybe, and I always wonder, is it because we didn't live in the same town? Could have been. You know, you always have like a fondness for someone when they're not there. When they're not there. Yeah. I always wondered what. But we always made an effort too, because it's always an effort in friendship. Like you can just kind of let things go. But it didn't matter. Like if I didn't talk to you for a few months and we connected, it felt like it had been a day since I talked to you. So, I feel like there's always a person in your life that is that person. And you're my person for that, you know, for sure. Like you've gone through so much with me, good and bad. And I appreciate that. Hannah, make me cry again. No, I'm not going to make you. Don't. No. So, I have a sister. For those who don't know, I have an older sister who I haven't spoken to in 25 years. Do you want to talk about that one? No. Well, I will say that you're the only one, I think, in the whole world who really got to see why I don't talk to her without slandering her by any means. But you were the one who got to witness most of it. My parents didn't even see, I think, what you saw. So, I always just, my dad was always on, he's still to this day on me about it. And I'm like, I have a sister. Her name's Mia. Like, Mia is my sister. And then you were adopted and you found your sister, your half-sister, your real half-sister sometime in college. And I was like, I honestly was a little jealous because I was like, wait, she has a sister? Because you were an only child before that. I grew up as an only child. Like, I met my sister when I was, and my birth mom, when I was 25 years old. Yeah. Oh, was it that long? Yeah. I feel like you were younger. No, I was 25. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, then you had a half-sister. And then I was like, oh no, I'm not the sister anymore. But all these years have passed, I'm still... You're the sister. I'm still it. Yeah. You're still it. For sure. So, Mia comes and visits me. And this is the first time that she didn't have to... Well, you've been here before to Carefree, Arizona, where I live. But you usually would fly into Oregon and it would just be rainy and crappy and you'd still come. I'd still come. Well, it's different weather, I guess. I'm born and raised in Southern California. I don't live there anymore. She escaped early. Yeah, I escaped. Thank you, Jesus. Got out. She got out early. She saw the signs. Now I live in Texas, which is the best state in the Union, but we won't... Arizona's pretty good, too. Arizona's pretty good. Yeah, it's good. But yeah, they always come and see you in the rain. It was... I'd have to prepare for it. But I feel like I never came when it was super bad. No. No. It was always like spring. Yeah. So, me and Tina, I don't know if you know, just reminded me, we have matching tattoos. Yeah. Where we... That's a whole other story. It looks like this. Oh, yeah. Tina has it on... Except it's on her butt. Yes. Mine is like... What do you call that? The tramp stamp stamp? Somewhere near there. Yeah. But that's my only tattoo. So... I just remember your daughter, when she was about six, she walked by and she looked at my ankle and she goes... She was like, is that the same tattoo as my mom? And I said, yeah, they're matching. And she's like, my mom's does not look like that. I'm like, well, your mom has had... You hadn't had MACs yet, I don't think. But I was like, your mom's had children and it's in an area that changes. Changes. Yes. Yes, it does. It does change a lot. So, yeah. It didn't... That did not age well. I got that tattoo. I got... We got those tattoos and then we went to a concert, a dirty outdoor dusty concert. Yes, we did. It was live and Baruch Assault. Yes, it was a... In Oregon. You came to visit me and we got tattoos. Yeah, it was so good. And then during that... Portland was so cool then though. Like, you'd come visit and it would be... Oh my gosh, it was great food. It was so safe. Great music. Do you remember that we would go out in the city and the city was super clean. It felt safe in like downtown going to the different... As teenagers. Yes, as teenagers. What was that place where your dad... Oh, the starry night. The starry... Oh. And your dad came and... He was... We took him to pick us up. We took some substances that night and we went to see Beauty Stab. Yes. At the starry night. Or was that... Oh, that was the Beauty Stab. Because we've seen a couple concerts there. We saw... What's his name? Sebastian Bach. Sebastian Bach. That was my bachelor party. Yes, and he was trying to get us to come back to... I was like, oh yeah. I got up on time. I got up on stage and made out of Sebastian Bach. Yes, but I was like, that time just passed, you know? Well, we didn't know. So we consumed some alcohol that night and we saw Sebastian Bach. This is years later. This is... Yeah. My bachelorette party. Oh my gosh. And we saw Sebastian Bach and I got up on stage and made out with Sebastian Bach. Only we went home. You flew home the next day, hungover. And then I called you because a video... MTV was on then. And I was living at my parents' house. And he came on the screen on MTV and he had aged dramatically and changed. He just didn't look anything like he used to. He's still actually... I think he's cleaned up his act. No, he looks great now. I actually saw a picture of him yesterday and he looks really good. Yeah. But he was having sort of a hypothyroid alcohol phase there. And I remember calling you and I'm like, Mia? And you said, yeah. And I said, I made out with Sebastian Bach last night, right? And you're like, yeah. And I'm like, he doesn't look like he used to. He looks terrible. Why didn't you tell me? You were like, you were hellbent, Tina. You were... That was like, he was one of like the... We did... He was like the idols when we were, you know... Oh, he was beautiful. He was so... Yeah. When we were young. Yeah. We had a scavenger hunt for the bachelorette party. We had to do like a whole list of crazy things. Yeah. So anyway, it was crazy. Yeah. That was really fun. You got some cute gay boy at the gay bar to like strip down to his boxers and give me a laugh dance. That doesn't surprise me. I don't remember that. And you took my shoes away from me because I had some giant silver platforms that kept stumbling because I was... Oh. Yeah. You and your shoes. I know. Yes. Yes. Had to do at least the platforms. I could walk in stilettos for days. I don't know how. I can't do it anymore. Down that hill. You lived in Laguna Beach and your apartment was on this really steep hill and we would go out and you would just hike up that thing and down that thing in those stilettos. And I'm over there. I was just used to combat boots. I'm over there clunking around and my... You actually were the first person to introduce me to Doc Martens too. Like you had to... You were the first person to have a pair of docs. You were the first person to listen to Nine Inch Nails. You introduced me. You went to work one day. Through a lot of phases. You went to work one day and I was getting ready at your house to meet you when you got off. And I... Every summer I'd be like, what did Mia buy this year for music? Like, what does she have? And I'd always go through... You know, ruffle through your CD stack and you had Jeff Buckley Grace, which I had never heard it before. And if people have not heard Jeff Buckley Grace, that album Grace, I put it on and it is like angel singing. It is such an incredibly beautiful... The other day, I had it on full blast in my house the other day and my husband's like, what is this? And I'm like, this is the sound of angel singing. Just be quiet and enjoy it. But I still remember sitting in your bedroom, putting my makeup on and blasting that album over and over and over and just like, what? Like, how did you find this music? I have no idea. You must have had some cool friends. Yeah. I just... I always loved music. Like, music was such an outlet. Like, you know, just... Especially things that like connected. I felt like it connected with my soul. You know, had so much influence over like how you're feeling in this. And it's funny because I still feel like music does have some influence, but not as much like nowadays. So... Well, you became Christian. It's just how you go. Yeah. You can't. It's really hard. It's really hard. I listen to a lot of Christian music now. So I drive my husband nuts with it, but I do still listen to other things. I still love music, but it's hard to listen to some of the things, you know? I can't listen to Nine Inch Nails anymore. There's a lot of bands I can't listen to anymore. I didn't get it. When you converted to Christianity pretty hard at one point, and I like didn't get it. Yeah. But I was kind of harsh. I wasn't like a great like, oh, hey, loving and grace. So I'm really... You were like, you're going to go to hell. Yes. You told me that all the hype once, and I was like, are you what? So I'm still working on it, fruits of the spirit. So I just say to myself, be gentle, be kind, because sometimes I'm not gentle and kind. I'm very... I just say it as it is. And sometimes people can take it, and sometimes people can't. And I have to really be aware of my... audience, I guess, like who I'm around. But like the people that know me. But yeah, I probably should not have said, yes, you're going to hell, because it's not the great way to convert people. It didn't warm me. It didn't warm you, but it took years. But you know what? Behind the scenes, I've been praying for years for you. I know. And praying and praying for years, because it's transformed my life. You know? Well, you got much more gentle about it. Yeah. And then I met Hannah, who was my assistant for 10 years, and she is like super devout Christian. She's amazing. She said hi, by the way. She's amazing. She texted me, good morning, happy birthday today, because I love her. She's just had her third baby, who's three months old. So cute. Just saw a picture. And then Ryan is a devout Christian. Yes. And so I realized I had all these people around. You know who it was, though? It was Brian Welch from Korn. I don't know if you know. I know his story. Right. He, I was never even a big Korn fan at all, but he talks about this unity with Christ and how it's a personal relationship. And he just says it so beautifully and non-judgmentally. Right. And I always kind of listen to him in the background, and he's just, he's a great speaker. I need to get him on the podcast. He lives here. Oh, that would be amazing. Yeah. So. He really, like his testimony is what? His testimony is amazing. Was huge for me. And that, and then I realized that like God had put all of you around me to protect me. Right. And there wasn't a single person in my life who wasn't a believer. Truly, there wasn't a single person. And all the people who were believers were the most honest people to work with. Like the people I actually trust my business with or trust aspects of my business too. Predominantly, not all of them. I have some, I have some gems in my, on my team who are not, but. That's okay. But like truly, God put all of you in place for me. And you just, when you converted, I think you were about, you were, you were having some troubles in a marriage and you were, you just were in a, you know, you were having a particular time in your life. And so you were just a little excited. It was okay. Cause I, I mean, I, here's my favorite memory. I'm 19, I'm living in my apartment. Oh, great. And I'm like, I just come out of a very deep depression. You remember, I like, I had a pretty hard time that year and you send me, and I wasn't eating. I was super anorexic and I wasn't eating. And I get this big box in the mail. You always had money cause you always worked your ass off. So you always had a good job. I had jobs, but like you had, you were working makeup counter and doing bridal parties and like you always had good money. So we would go out and you would always be so generous. And, and anyway, you buy me gifts and I just couldn't ever afford to like reciprocate at that time. And I get this big box and I open it and it's a walk and it is a little sticky note. And you, and I was a vegetarian at the time and it said, for your yucky tofu, love Mia, heart Mia. Everything is heart Mia for your yucky tofu. And I was like, she bought me a walk. Cause I was like on my bed. Cause I was on a bender about it. And I was on, and I, I remember you weren't eating at all. Like you smoke cigarettes, took a chimney and you would, I remember your mom calling me cause we didn't have texts at that time. And she's like, I'm so worried about Tina. And I think I came to visit you. Um, but you had like, she's like, she has ashtrays full of cigarettes and she's not eating. I'm like, maybe that's when I sent you the, you did the walk. You sent me the walk. That time. Cause you came and the only thing I was eating, I was trying to do stir fry or something. And cause I had, I had a friend, I had a, I had many concerned friends and I had a concerned friend who was trying to teach me how to cook and he would come over and he'd cook for me and he would teach me what he was doing. And he would try to teach me really simple recipes. And he was such a kind, he wasn't, it was never trying to hit on me. Right. Like it was never like that. He's a nice guy. Yeah. And, um, his name is Sean Seidel. He's still my friend actually on Instagram, I think, or Facebook. I still see him. But anyway, he, it was trying to tell me the benefits of stir fry. Cause it was easy. It's really easy. So you bought it for your yucky tofu. That was a rough patch. Well, I had been dating a guy that was in a band that was a pretty big band at the time. And he, he, I remember that he wasn't great to me. And I went sideways. Like I just fell apart. He was much older. That's the creepy part. He was much older. Yeah. And I remember we went to see him. Oh yeah. We went to see him and then you ended up dating him. Yeah. Oh God. You were there at the mayor's ball. I was there. Yes. At the mayor's ball. I was going to say it was at that big convention center. Yes. Things are just clicking now. So the mayor's ball, we had, we had some great mayors in, in Portland and the mayor's ball was Bud Clark. And he would have this huge concert every year at the Memorial Coliseum. And all these bands would play upstairs, downstairs in the dungeons of the Memorial Coliseum. Yes. And you could see all kinds, it was literally like a, a, a buffet of all the Portland bands. Yes. Different genres. And Dharma Bums played. And I went up to him, I was 17. I went up to him and gave him my phone number. I was like, you should do it. I was like, he's so cute. You should do it. Of course I did. He was though. You told me to go up on stage and make out with Sebastian Bach too. Oh gosh. Yeah. That was bad advice. But no, it was fun. Right. Crazy. You were there for that. Yes. I forgot. That was a pinnacle moment. It was. I'm sorry. Oh, it's okay. No. He was a nice fellow. He just was a little, he was having a rough time. You know, you got to remember that people always have. Yeah. Their own shit. Their own stuff that they're going through. And it's, um, you know, but it's hard when you're still trying to figure out when you're so young. Like, it's so nice now. Like we're, I don't, I don't by any means have everything figured out, but I at least have like a pulse of like, okay, you know, this is where that person's coming from. Or this is where that, you know, where, when you're that young, you just, it's not, you're just wrapped up in your emotions and their emotions and it's all kind of taking you down. So you're always the voice. You're like the diplomat. Every time I call you and I'm unwinding, you're like, Tina, now remember. And you always kind of deescalate the situation for me in my head and help me navigate it with a little more grace. Cause I get fired up. Yeah, you do. I've calmed down. That's good. A lot. A lot. A lot. You do. I love it. I calm down. Well, you know, you take enough shit and you get through enough grief and you, it humbles you and you can't help it. But we've both gone through a lot. And one thing is it's, it's come full circle and God has like really blessed us in our lives. Really. You know, everything might not be perfect, but he's giving a, given us a way to be able to navigate through the things and be able to just kind of see. I just, I really try and see there's so much around this world. Like I see those memes with like the world, you know, blowing up and then the Barbie doll. Like, I'm like, you know, like my, you know, life is still, there is still a lot of positive and that's what you got to think of, you know? So be gentle, be kind. That's all like, I always go through like the fruits of the spirit, like be gentle, be kind, have patience, you know, forbearance, which, you know, all the, all the things. So I have to run through that through my mind a lot. I think of how many times we should have been dead. Oh, for sure. How many, how like together. So true. So many times together. And then to think that we were living that way, not together. Yeah. So many times. Yeah. God, we were crazy. Yes. God really had his arms. We were doing crazy shit. Yeah. Things that should have gotten us. I remember being. Unalived. I just remember so many times you were so, you still are, but you were, I mean, you were such a beautiful young girl and like this whole Epstein files thing coming out has been really triggering for me because we were both really beautiful young girls and we got a lot of attention and not always the best kind, but I can't tell you the number of times you or I together and separately, I'm sure. Like I'd come visit you and you'd be like, oh, I can get us in because of this guy. Or I would get us into bar. Like I was getting us into bars at 16 in Portland because of this guy. And it was always some fricking creepy older guy that I had no right. And nothing ever escalated in a way that was dangerous for us. But I think of all the times we were just like adjacent to probably some pretty bad situations. And we were, you know, it's like you're young and you're just being sort of courted by, they're grooming you. Yeah. Really? And we were, we were completely, I mean, we, but we both, I remember one time I was, was it Scott? I want, I was, we were at a bar and Scott, Scott was not old. He was a little bit older, but Scott was just a cute guy that I was talking to. And you walked up to him and you're like, if you fuck with my friend, I will kill you. And he looked at you like, who is this girl? I'm like, she's not kidding. Like you were not kidding. You were like, I, if you as so much, like touch a hair on her head tonight. And I, that's how we have been. And I, I think that helps like that level of tenacity, but also like stick togetherness, you know, like I always knew I had you in my back pocket. If the world was on fire, I could call you and you would be there. So, so there's only one time in my life that I remember where it's really creepy. And it was, I was in my twenties in Hollywood. You weren't there at the time. I was with some of my other girlfriends and this, your friends at that time were a little sus. No, these were good friends. They were good people. Yeah. This was, um, these were some of my good friends. Um, like, and they, there was this girl that came up to us and she's like, oh, you know, and looking back at it now, I'm like, that's part of that whole ring thing. Like, they're like, we have these guys, they would love you. You could make like all this money and do all this stuff. And I was like, well, what does that stuff entail? You know? And she was like, my, one of my friends was like, oh, that would be, and I'm like, well, excuse me, what would that stuff entail? Yeah. And then they were kind of like, oh no, let's not talk to this one. Let's, let's talk to this one. That's a little bit more, um, open to it, but I'm like, that was really weird. Well, multiple times that we've been together, we'd be at concerts. We'd be, I mean, we have spent a lot of time together for us. The fact that we've never lived in the same state since 1988. No, seriously. And multiple times we would just be in a situation and just both, we, we have a sixth sense. Like we can finish each other's sentences. There's never skipping a beat. Like, like you said, when I, like last night we, you flew in, we sat down for dinner and like, you know, we helped each other figure out what we wanted to eat. And like, we just have a thing that nobody else can, my daughter understands, my daughter sees it. Zoe sees it. Zoe's like, dude, you two together are wild. You either read each other's minds or you just giggle incessantly and nobody knows what's funny. Like just you two think it's funny. Like those memes of those girls falling down drunk in the bushes laughing or just laughing in the snow. That's, yeah. So we're not, but multiple times we've been together where danger presented itself and we both just immediately were like, nope, like in unison, just in unison. We both just were like, nope, we're not, we're not, we're not falling for that. Yeah. And it really helps to have a, like, I do think God sent you to me a long time ago to keep me alive because. Well, same for you. Keep me alive. I've done a lot of stupid stuff and you're, you call me out. Oh, don't. We do call each other out. Yeah. That's, you can't let, you know. That's the beauty of, I think that's a beauty of friends. Like what if. People hear this part because if you have a best friend, that is your job. Yeah. Like who would you be if you didn't call your friend out? Right. You have to hold them responsible. And if they're not going to be your friend because you're going to call them out on something, then they're not really your friends. Yeah. No, that's critical. Just like you call out my bullshit in a heartbeat or even just my mood. Like Tina, you're being a bit bitch. Yeah. Stop it. And I'm like, okay. Somebody else would say that and I'd get all fired, you know. Be a little nicer. Yeah. Yeah. And so you could say the same thing to me and I'm like, okay, put myself in a check. Sometimes I think that I am being nice and I'm maybe not being so nice. So I'm nicer though. I really am. I know we both are. We both calmed down a lot. So we went, so years ago, we have to tell this story. Years ago, a couple of years ago, what, like, how long ago was that? Like 2018, 2017, 16? You were, you won a trip because you were like the top salesman in your company. And you, we won a trip to, you won a trip to bring a family member to Australia. Yes. And you lied and said I was your sister. No, I didn't have to lie. You could bring whoever I wanted. Okay, good. Yeah. So I was your sister and we went and I had pneumonia. I'd, I'd had, had walking pneumonia for months. I, those pictures, I looked phenomenal in my bikini, but I was sick as a dog. And- I do have a good picture of you walking towards the beach with your butt. Yeah. You had a good butt. I had a great butt. I was like working out incessantly and I had pneumonia. So it was, yeah. The only time I've ever had a really great six pack, I had pneumonia. So I, I'm not a six pack girl. But you were really, you were pretty thin then. I was really thin. I was just sick and stressed out. But we were in Australia and I mean, I was so sick. I remember one night sleeping in the bathtub because I was coughing up blood and I didn't want to wake you up. But we had some crazy adventures we were reminiscing about last night. We, we went on that slide. I have to tell them about this slide. Oh gosh. So the, the death slide? Where were we? We were in, we were in Sydney. We're in Sydney somewhere. And there was a amusement park near there. I forget what it's called. It's like a creepy one. It's like a hundred something years old. Really creepy. Really creepy. And very old timey. I went on some crazy ride. I thought I was going to die on by myself. I wasn't going on. I was like, I'm not going on that. You're on your own. I really thought I was going to die during that ride. And then we went into some, like, it was like an indoor, um, Oh, like a arcade. Like there was like a whole bunch of fun things inside this huge building. Like a fun house kind of, but not really. It was like an arcade. If you see movies where it's the 1800s and people are going into a giant room and there's like slides and there's ski ball and all sorts of stuff. It's like an arcade, like an old timey arcade. That's like an old time Chuck E. Cheese. And yes. And there were these two metal slides, except they both dropped off a cliff. Like this. Like, yeah. And one was shorter than the other. And you and I somehow were like, we're going on this because we're crazy. We are crazy people together. And we're like, we're going on the slides. We could do anything. We have the same level of risk tolerance. I think that's a good match. Like drink your drink already. I did. Sorry. Squirrel. We have a good, I got to start. Okay. I'm going to pound this. We have a good, we have a good match of our risk tolerance. So we go on the small slide as well. It was not small, but it was smaller. And we successfully, yes, that was fun. We didn't, we were like 40 something and we didn't fall apart. We're like, okay. And then you were like, we're going on the big one. And I'm looking at it and I'm thinking of all the orthopedic injuries that I take care of in my clinical practice. And all the people that have had one, I'll tell you guys, it takes one slip up. It takes one, you know, the movies and the show ridiculousness show all these terrible injuries and everyone's like, oh, it's fine. No, it takes one slip on the ice or one trip or one little thing. I was going to say, it's usually something little, right? It's not like that massive. No. And specifically for middle-aged women, because as our estrogen leaves the building, our tendons and ligaments get much less elastic and we rip and tear. And it's like life changing injuries. And so you're like, we're going. And I'm thinking of all the cases I've been treating of women that were my current age, but I was, you know, 10 years younger. And I'm like, no, we're not going. And so we get up there and I'm thinking, I'll follow you to the ends of the earth. So I'll go. And we get up there and we're sitting on the slides and I'm thinking, I'm going to fricking die. Like I'm going to, I'm going to bust something or I'm going to die. It's literally straight down, like 30. It's crazy. It should have been a water slide. Yeah. It was like one of the scariest things I've ever seen in my life. And then all of a sudden he's like, okay, you ready? And you, water shoots out of your eyeballs, like tears shoot out of your eyes. And you're like, I'm not doing this. And you start cracking up and you just completely melt down. You're like, I can't do it. I can't do it. I'm not doing it. I'm thinking, thank God. We're like crawling back down that rickety ass staircase. It was like a scary staircase that went up the wall. And that alone was like scary. We shouldn't have known. I did know. It was one lane. And so we had to push by all these people. I'm like, sorry, sorry. And I'm pulling you down. I'm like, I'm sorry, sorry, sorry. And everyone's looking at us like, why are you, you know? Well, they know once you get up there, you probably walk in and down. Yeah. That was a good call. We decided not to do that. Oh my gosh. That was fun. That was really fun. So, and then another memory I have that I have to tell that I'm trying to think of the list I made in my head was, so we had this plan, right? When we were in seventh grade, we were going to be in like white snake videos. Oh. And then I had this plan in my head for us that somehow in our 40s, we were going to be making good money and we were going to travel the world. Because you had traveled pretty extensively, like as a child, your parents are Swedish, your adoptive parents. And so you had been all over and I'm like, we're going to travel. And in my head, we had this grand plan of like being in our 40s. And because we both had kids, my daughter and your son are almost the same age. And then you had your daughter who's now, she's 17, almost 18. And so I thought, okay, she'll be free to travel. And then you call me, it's my 40th birthday. I'm in Hawaii. You're due to fly in to visit. And you call me and you're like, Tina, I'm pregnant. And I was like, fuck, she just ruined the whole plan. I started over. So you had a baby at 40, 41? No, 39. 39, okay. Yes, I was 39. Oh, yeah. So that was like, there went our plan to travel the world. It did. But you know what? We can do it now, maybe. Oh, my gosh. No, he's, but he's so amazing. He's such a good kid. He was your like. He's amazing. I mean, you love all your children. All my kids are so good. Don't get me wrong. But like, oh, great girl. She's a great girl. They're all good kids. He's got his life like super dialed in, super happy for him. But he was like, he's like my little, he's my little buddy now. Yeah. Yeah. He's your little guy. Yeah. He's going to be a famous quarterback. Yeah, hopefully. God's put that into him and he's, that's what he's training for. What is it like to be, I cannot imagine having, what is he, 12? 12. I could, like, I don't have the energy. How do you, how was it? How is it being an older mom? Oh, it's great. Yeah. I feel like, unfortunately, got the version of me growing up. You know, me still trying to figure myself out. I probably wasn't the best mom, but I did the best I could. And then got a better version of me, like a little bit better version. And then got, like, probably the best version of me. So, you know, but now I get to go back, like last week I saw, and, you know, we get to have a nice time. Like, we share a love for good food. Like, not just like. It's your oldest son. Yes, my oldest son. So my, we have like a love for, I call it fancy food. You know, like, we love, we love that. So, to be able to share that. And then my, you know, she's my, my ride or die. She's with me all the time. Well, she's like a mini me. She's, she's my little mini me. Like, I just, she's going, she's coming to, she's coming to be living near you soon for college. So I'm like, I don't know what I'm going to do. I really kind of. You're going to come visit more often. I will, but I've kind of blocked that off for now until it's like real, but it's soon. Yeah. It's less, what, like six months? Yeah. And then, and then, and then my life is, like you said, he's a quarterback. So it's a lot of football all the time. And you flew in yesterday in the middle of the Super Bowl and you didn't, I was like, it's okay. It's not my team. Mia missed the Super Bowl. It's okay. It's not my team. I'm a Rams fan. So we're good. Texans are my second favorite. So it's okay. Okay. I adopted them in. I know nothing. Since I moved to Houston. So it's all good. I don't know anything about football. Yeah. It's all, it's, you know, it is, it's good. It's fun. Keeps me, keeps me young, but it is weird to see some of the moms that are like early thirties, you know, with their kids. And I'm like, that could be my daughter or son and my grandchild. So that's weird. I bet. It's, it's good. I am in full grandma mode. Like I want. Oh, I would love to have grandkids. I want the grandbabies. I still, but I still, I still work full time. I have a corporate job. I travel a lot for my work. So I still have a lot of responsibility that, that, that way. So, you know, I'm hoping I'll get some grandbabies soon, not from any of my younger children, but from, you know, we'll see. I hope he meets a nice girl. I pray about it. God's got it. He's going to meet someone when it's his time. And I'm excited for that. And I'm excited for Zoe because I'll be like, I'm like your, like your auntie. So it's, yeah. So I can't, it's like my child too, you know, like my grand, it would be like my grandbaby too. So my dad is adamant that I somehow get my relationship settled with my sister while he's still alive. And that's not going to happen. I was going to say, do you hear me? I was like, I don't, you forgive, you know, it's like, yeah, that's, but you don't need to, the boundaries. That's a whole nother conversation. Yeah. But I remember one time my dad was going on and on about it. And Zoe was, Zoe knows, she knows what I've shared with her. And she, this is my daughter. And I just remember her like yelling at my dad to leave me alone about it because he was just going on. And she's like, she has a sister. Her name is Mia. Oh, I love that. She, your aunt Mia. She never even just calls you Mia. It's always aunt Mia. So she's really, it's like, yeah, sister Mia. Like, I guess it's her aunt. Oh, that is your aunt. But she, yeah, she's, that's, and she was so jealous today that you were not, she, she, I mean, I don't think jealous, but you know, she sent me a message. She's like, is Mia there? I wish I, you know, I hope you have a good day. So. I'll be back often. I know. Yeah. We could, so you're going to have to come. Going to have to come. Yeah. Yeah. It'll be good. Well, we have so many stories that we can't tell. Told a lot. There's, there's a lot in there. There was a brush event. Oh, gosh. We can't bring that one up. The Orange County Fair. Oh, no. You're going to bring it up. I'm not. You were detained by police for a minute. I was let go. Yeah. It's true. I walked out on my own accord. It's true. It's true. I know. Mia has a hot temper. We both have hot temper. That wasn't my fault. No, no, no. That was not, I just got dragged into it. Yeah, some girl was messing with you and you don't take to that. No, it wasn't with me. It was with. Yeah. Yeah. A boy. It was with, yeah. And I just decided to jump in. It was probably not the best decision, but, you know. Because you're a little scrapper. I am a little scrapper. It's the only reason I bring it up. I will. You'll defend your loved ones. I will. To the death. I have not scrapped in a while, but I see those memes. They're like, is it my healed version or my hood version? Yeah. Because I'm sure I could go there again, but God is working on me every day. I was the outwardly troubled one. And you were like, inwardly, I'm like, dude, that girl gets herself into some trouble. But we always get out of it, right? Yeah. Like we, it was just a different time. Completely different time. It was a time, like you said, we weren't on cell phones. Like there was a time when you could sort of navigate the world honestly and not performatively and not with concern that somebody was going to see it, you know? Yeah. Thank you, Jesus. Yeah. The only thing we had to worry about was like that hellfire that came down from our parents. Yeah. That was not fun to be grounded. Oh. Yeah. I would sneak out though. See, I wouldn't. Yeah. That's the difference. I wouldn't. And everybody was so worried about me. And I'm like, I don't think I'm the one that we should be so worried about all the time. Your mom knew. Yeah. Britta knew. Britta knew I was a good girl. Yeah. She loved you. Yeah. She probably loved you more than me. What happened last year? You sent me a picture. Oh my gosh. So. Okay. This is too funny. We'll end with this. We'll end with this because it's getting long. Yeah. Because we could go on forever. Yeah. So my dad is like, oh, I have your graduation from high school or, you know, I don't know if I had my college stuff, but I think I had high school stuff. So I open up the front page and it's Tina's stuff. It's my graduation announcement. It's your graduation announcement. It's pictures of you. I'm going to like the first page and then I'm like on the second and third page. I go, she loved you way more than she loved me. I was like, she's like, well, Tina wouldn't do that. Tina wouldn't. I was like, well, I'm not Tina. So that's what you got. But that, but you know, I love Tina. So, but yeah. We love Britta. Yeah. We lost Britta right after I lost Rick. So that was rough. Yeah. It was, it was, it's been a long time. She never got to meet and she would have really loved. She was a good mom. Which is my youngest. She was like my second mom. Yeah. She was a, she was a great, she's a great lady. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Well, thank you. That's our podcast. That was fun. I love you. I hope everyone enjoyed that. That was a little insights, a little inside look into my life that you'll probably never get again. So thank you for coming on. Thank you for having me. Yes. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina show. This is a wellness loud production produced by Drake Peterson. Theme song is by John the guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcast at drtina.com. That's D R T Y N A. And if you like this episode, please rate review and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time. And thanks for listening. This podcast is for general informational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthcare services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have. And they should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions. Talk about like foreshadowing. Talk about visioning. That girl was wearing colors and light colors and had long silver hair. So I started growing my hair out. Like talk about intention, right? I'm like, okay, I'm going to grow my hair out. The Tina you met in 2020 had short hair because she had just chopped it all off so she could let her silver grow out. So many of you men and women, but women in particular, we are having hair loss in middle age and it's awful. And I will tell you a lot of the women that you see that are middle-aged that have big followings. They're using For more information, visit www.fema.gov