There's nothing magical in a syringe, you guys. There's nothing magical in a pill. There's nothing magical in a supplement. The magic is in the gym. The magic is the work that you're willing to put in. And I'm going to explain to you in a minute why you have to go to the gym and why this part's non-negotiable. And I'm even going to do it in a way that isn't this, you know, muscle first that I normally preach. I want you to understand why you have to have the spark. The spark. The spark is what makes everything that you're taking go. And you can be on the HRT, which I absolutely think is essential. You can be on the peptides, which I think are wonderful adjunctive tools and they are powerful. None of them work worth a damn and in fact might go down the wrong pathways and be doing damage to you if you don't have the spark. Right? If we're putting things into a system and that system isn't prepared to manage those things, we bonk. And bonking sucks. I bonked myself a million times. I you somebody asked me the other day, "What does that mean? What do you think it means?" It means you hit the wall. It means you were flying. Everything was great. You felt great. All the therapeutics you were using were everything was awesome. And then all of a sudden you just hit a wall and it all stops working. And it doesn't just stop working. Sometimes it backfires on you. And all of a sudden you're gaining weight and you feel awful and you don't know what's happening and you're swelling and you can't sleep and and on and on and on, right? I've seen this so many times in my patient base. I've had experienced it myself personally. I've seen it with people I love. Um, I just recently, funny story, last summer, my husband, I was I was putting a ton of peptides in the boy. And finally, I just got pissed. I was like, "You are not working out. You are not upholding your end of this deal. You are not eating as well as you should. You're not doing the things that I need you to do in order for these very expensive peptides that I'm purchasing in order for them to work." And he was like, "Oh my gosh, you're right. You're right." So, we just quit giving him any and all peptides until he decided to get a [\h__\h] together, which he did. And guess what? When you apply peptides or hormones or anything else to somebody who's got their [\h__\h] together and are doing all the things, you can use way lower doses and you get much better outcomes. And it's so awesome. That's how it's supposed to work. That's why we do it, right? So, none of this is a lecture. It's just a warning because you guys are getting sold a bill of goods that I think in many cases maybe the intentions are really noble in these online influencers who are trying to sell you these stacks of peptides, but they're not they they understand the tip of the iceberg. Not all of them. I mean, we got guys like Jay Campbell who've been out there forever. I don't agree on his dosing. I don't I think it's, you know, for the average person, the average person is pretty sensitive. He his dosing is for the oxen and I say this with all due respect. The guy is a genius and and puts out great content. Um I love Dr. Seeds. I have found his dosing to be a bit aggressive as well. Um but you know he's teaching when when when when we're learning from people who are teaching they're teaching kind of standard algorithmic, right? We have to give you something to go on. And so I don't I don't diss any of these folks. I just have I really have found in my practice that everybody is so individualized. Everyone's so such their own entity that we really can't take algorithms or standard dosing to heart too much. We have to go by that person. What their short-term goals are, what their long-term goals are. What's their muscle mass like? What's their age? What's their gender? What's their nutrition level? what co-orbidities they're rocking, how did they come to me, what's their backstory all the way back. What's the backstory? How did they get here? What are their short-term goals and long-term goals? What are our plans once we get them going? Where do you go next? Right? And so, you're taking advice from in many cases people who have absolutely no health credentials. And that's okay because you know there's the argument that we don't trust people with health credentials. We don't trust doctors. And shoot, after 2020 through 2023, I don't blame you. I never trusted doctors. That's why I became one because I was certainly wasn't going to leave my loved ones to the system. There's no version of that where I wasn't going to come in as as informed as I possibly could be. But on the other hand, you've got doctors giving you hormone doses online, which is illegal, but they are anyway, and they're giving you generalities, right? And then you've got like bro science guys who are super jacked and they're giving you different doses which is not illegal because they don't have any lensure. So they don't they're not held to any standards. They can tell you whatever they want. But it's super confusing because you're sitting in the middle and maybe you're a 120 pound woman with you know an overactive immune system and maybe you're underweight and or maybe you're overweight and you're eating only a thousand calories a day. You know I mean there's so many variables here. Maybe you're coming into this with severe hypothyroidism. Maybe you have severe adrenal fatigue. Maybe you have a severe testosterone deficiency. And what you really need is to have that hormone replaced. Right? So, there's variables here. And what I have found with the peptides is if you apply them too heavy-handed, it's like putting on too much makeup. Your skin literally starts looking bad. Like, you just start looking weird. You don't feel right. Um, I've even seen it induce internal swelling like deep swelling. So, pain increases, all kinds of symptomology, blood pressure goes up, pulsations in the head and in the base of the the skull. I mean things that are concerning because people are taking the advice of somebody online and doing dosing according to some big jack jock who by all means in his community that's probably appropriate. But for us pmenopausal menopausal girlies it's a whole different bag. And so I say this with warning and I know I' I've beaten this drum, but I just felt really inclined to talk about it again today because I've had multiple conversations with several online influencers and and health professionals who are also very concerned and we're all kind of like, what the [\h__\h] is going on? Like what is going on? There's these GLP-1 coaches who have absolutely no health credentials except that they have spent a lot of time in the gym and they have rock and bods and they're trying to convince you to micro dose GLP ones for inflammation while meanwhile and then they tell you they're in a cut and they start showing themselves in a bikini and you're just like it just gets confusing and I can see how it's confusing to the average woman and then they want me to give them the dose and then actually after I put out that podcast episode I got a lot of people yelling at me. A lot of people were super mad telling me it was my fault that this whole thing has happened this way. And no, no, no. It is not my fault. I've been very clear from the start. I can't give you guys specific dosing because that's asinine. That's simply asinine. Giving you a standard estrogen patch dose is asinine. I would absolutely 1,000% need to meet you, do an extensive health history on you, look at your labs, look at your past labs, and then we have to sit there and nudge things along. And we certainly don't start all the hormones at once. That's crazy town. Like, if imagine you start a bunch of peptides and a bunch of hormones all at once, which is what a lot of these tele medicine companies are doing, by the way. You get on a bunch of stuff all at once. You start having side effects and feeling terrible and you have no idea what's causing it. You have no idea. You have no idea what the side effect is from. And it might just be that you're taking a tiny little bit too much of the whatever peptide it is or maybe it's the estrogen or maybe it's the testosterone or maybe it's the progesterone. We just don't know. And so there has to be an approach, a hierarchy if you will. I go through this in my course in depth and I explain each tier of the hierarchy in depth so that you fully understand so that you can go in if you're a practitioner you will understand things much better you will understand your approach much better if you are the general public you will absolutely be better educated so you can have an intentional and educated conversation with your doctor and maybe you'll find the skills necessary and the gumption to find a new doctor who can really help you because a lot of doctors don't understand this And I can't I've tried to teach them. I try. This is what the course is for. This is Go get the course.