So let's talk about let's talk about life preGLP1s as a practicing obesity specialist and life post. Yeah. So I I went to med school uh late 2000 so 2007 that's right when these drugs started coming out. You know Bayetta was the first one. Exenitide but it was for type two diabetes. It it wasn't on the radar to use these for weight loss. At the time people were really focusing on basically fentamine. Yeah. A noradronic sympathy drug. It has empetamine like properties but not addictive. Um little bit of an upper but yeah nor adrenaline nor adinuric and that was like basically what people used. I started going early on to obesity medicine conferences and it was it was they were there was some weird stuff that they were promoting and you know they you got HCG and all sorts of stuff that people are trying to use HCG diets but a lot of fentamine and if people remember fenfen fentamine was one of the components in fenfen but it was not the bad component. Fenflloramine was the one that caused heart valve issues and so they took that one off the market but kept fentramine around. had been around since the 1950s. So once I got to residency which was 2011 right in 2012 cucmia was uh approved and that is a combination of fentamine and topyramate uh topamate works in in GABA. They think that's part of why it works for for uh appetite suppression. But different think about different receptors lower doses of each so you get fewer side effects. The fentamine can cause people to be have insomnia, dry mouth, heart palpitation. So you try to use lower doses and then add it to something else that has a little bit of a appetite suppression which is topamate doesn't work in the same pathway. So that was approved and that was for chronic weight and that was that got you know the highest dose gets around 10% total body weight loss. So not bad but side effects. The other one was, if you remember, luric belv um it is actually similar to fenflloramine, but it had the it had a different uh serotonin receptor. Um more specific actually got taken off because of we don't know why exactly, but some concerns for cancer. Very mild weight loss effect though around like five or something percent total body weight loss. There was contra that came out in 2014. buproprian nrexone combination not that great still out right now 6% maybe five six% total body weight loss and you think about like good diet and exercise intensive coaching you're going to get around five or six% total body weight loss on average that people are like listening going I lost 100 pounds and it's like yeah yeah like I'm saying on a population average we're looking at that that number so contra bupropran nrexone wasn't that great so it was very frust you know in residency I'm like oh I'm going to be an obesity doctor. I'm trying, you know, trying to trying to do my thing. And those are the drugs that I had. It was 2014, I believe it was Saxenda, Liraaglutide, if people remember, Vtosa. So, Luraglutide was a was the second GLP-1 receptor agonist that came out uh in like whatever it was 2009 or something for type 2 diabetes, but 2014, they cranked the dose up to 3 milligrams. Now luraglutide is a once daily injection and that that highdosese luraglutide in 2014 they promoted as sexunda was around like seven or eight% total body weight loss. So like it's okay but it's like a $1,200 you know $1,000 drug for more side effects daily injections and overall not that great amount of weight loss. So that was like the you know we went from lifestyle trying behavior behavior behavior with some high side effect drugs that some of them some people responded to and then you jump all the way from that to beriatric surgery that you know do you get 30 to 40% or more total body weight loss pretty drastic people are like oh god I got to get surgery it's like great so that's why in 2021 when simaglletide uh wiggoi was approved moved and at that 15% total body weight loss things changed so much. That's why everybody's like it's a game changer because like we we were really limited in how we helped people. It was like resources for intensive coaching. It's it that takes a lot to get people and then it's it's very frustrating because everybody says they know what they do. I mean my patients aren't idiots. Some people are, you know, like they're some people are idiots. They don't know what to eat. I I remember a patient I was like, "Here, let's try to eat more protein." Whatever. And they came back and they're like, "I don't know. I'm eating more protein, but but I can't lose weight." And I was like, "Well, well, tell me what you're eating." And they were eating a bunch of spare ribs. And I'm not saying this person is idiot, but it was it was um it was clear even though I gave a list of the foods like spare ribs, that was what they were eating for for protein, and it was, you know, along with a bunch of other things. Most people understand that, hey, I should probably eat more broccoli instead of French fries. Like, it's just very like basics very very most people have that and and a lot of these people have been trying for their whole life. And so like for them to come to a weight loss doctor, specialist, obesity specialist, and and me basically going, "Okay, here's what we need to do. I got these other drugs that maybe you're not going to tolerate, but like let's really focus on these behaviors. They're like, I already know these things. It's it's it was very frustrating from a a doctor's standpoint, a clinician standpoint, and then also from a patient standpoint. It's like, so that's why they go and get the $300 a month detox from someone online or whatever that promises to rid them of their fat and then they lose all their money doing that and then it's just very frustrating. So that was that was what it looked like before these drugs. Yeah. So complete game changer. Yeah. Because this these these peptides put the onus of control back in the driver's seat and they induce neuroplasticity.