I've gotten thousands of stories from people of the incredible impacts that GLP1s are having on their life at various doses. So, we know it's impacting these systems. So, if I can get these impacts in patients on tiny little doses, then you bet I'm going to do it. It's less expensive, less uh side effects, less risk for poor outcomes, right? So, I don't understand why people are hung up on this like whatever. I think it's because they hate compounding pharmacists. So, we'll leave it at that. But that said, why not? Why not utilize the tools that we have available to us to help our patients and meet them where they're at? And I realize not everybody can access this. And I realize not everybody can afford it at the end of the day. There there is a cost issue. I'm not talking about any of that right now because I can't do anything about that, you guys. All I can do is educate you and hope that you can find the resources that you need based on being empowered through education. And if you want to believe me or you want to believe them, I don't care. I'm not trying to convince anybody. I just want to let the world know that GLP1s in a micro dose form are not a weight loss strategy. I think it's a scam. And I think they're onboarding you and they're bringing you in in under the guise of like, oh, there's no stigma because you're micro doing it. You're using it for let's use it for your brain health. and then they're giving you standard starting dose or they're giving you just below to kind of bring you in and nudge you in, but they're ending you up on a standard dose. It it feels scammy to me. So, I'll leave it at that. There's probably a million other things I want to say to you, but I've got a podcast. I can do that anytime. I hope this was helpful. I don't have great answers for you if you are one of those people who are a patient in that situation. If what's working for you is working for you, great. I would say great. There's no reason to go on a lower dose. There's no reason to I mean I see no reason to change anything. Absolutely do not change anything without talking to your doctor because none of this is medical advice. This is just me talking to you, educating you. Your doctor is who is in charge of your dose. So if you want to change that, you need to have a conversation with your doctor. I would say have an educated conversation. And that is why I make this content. You can do with it what you want. I don't really care if the internet is melting down. I don't care if people are coming at me about it. It doesn't matter at the end of the day because I know what's working in my life and in my patient population and with the folks that I consult with. I have several folks I consult with who have actually been through a myriad of different programs. And in many of these programs, they're being given standard doses of GLP1s for body composition because when we get body composition dialed in, a lot of the other health issues fall away. So if you are on a standard dose and you have had favorable body composition changes, that's fantastic. You are now going to have improved cardiovascular health. You're going to have improved muscularkeeletal um relief. Usually most people losing who lose weight or have their insulin resistance get dialed in. Their pain goes down, right? Because insulin and inflammatory molecules get into the joints, get into the discs. It's a whole mess, right? And so if we can get all of that dialed in, all the better. That, you know, all that to say, if you're on a standard dose, like I see no reason for you to go onto a micro dose so long as it's working for you and you are doing all the things. I'm not trying to compete with big pharma. I'm not trying to say that their pens or their, you know, access to their versions is bad at all because they now have the vials, which I think is super cool. So now that more personalized dosing strategy can be utilized by doctors who are in the no because they can access the vial. So I think that's very cool. And no, I'm not a paid shell. If I were this would be I wouldn't be even trying to defend this conversation. But I'm tired of you guys getting prayed upon by a message that I brought out to the world. So I will bid you a do with that. I wish you well. If you guys have questions for the podcast, hit us up at podcastdtina.com. Please go rate, review, and subscribe wherever you listen to podcasts. All of them help us get the message out further. I'm trying to bring you guys the truth. I'm trying to bring you nuance, which is not popular online, and it's certainly not popular on social media. So, this is where I get to have a nuance conversation. I get to actually express myself and not deal with the droves of crazy people over on social uh because they ruin it for everyone, right? So, please support the podcast by doing that. That's the best we can do. Share this with a friend. Share this out. Again, no stigma, no shame. If you're whatever dose you're on, whatever is working for you, fantastic. If you think you're on a really high dose, that's something we didn't address. It does stop working eventually. I've seen that time and time again with folks. I've talked to compounding pharmacists who say it's happening. When we've got folks really dealing with the disease of obesity, but they're not doing all the other lifestyle pieces. They're just utilizing the GLP-1. It does eventually seem to stop working. And so, they're looking at opening up FDA approval of higher and higher doses. I think that is a disaster waiting to happen. I think at the end of the day the that's a conversation for another podcast, but I think driving AMPK pathways hardcore without supporting mTor is a recipe for wasting and for metabolic collapse. I am concerned about that and that's something we're going to have to wait and see. I think in the next five years we're going to see a whole cohort of people who took really high doses of these GLP1s. They didn't do all the things. They didn't heed my advice or my warning. Even on the tiny micro doses, you I it happened to me. I started wasting. I had a bad back injury. I stopped working out for several months. I kept micro doing and I started wasting. So, does it eat up your muscle? Not necessarily directly. It's uh I I believe it's a it's thempk being revved too high. That's what I believe. And people I I would be happy to hear from other people. I think AMPK is really favorable when optimized, but in the unoptimized in the underfed and in fact there is some data showing that we might actually be pushing this was in mouse studies right in mice but we could potentially with GLP-1 in an undernourished body we could be potentially pushing fallout of the hormones. That's not good. Like we do not need a middle-aged woman on a GLP-1, even a micro dose, who's being not really micro doing with appetite suppression. She's not eating and her hormones are already falling out and then we've now potentially worsen that situation because we didn't get proper peptin signaling. Like that's a whole other thing, not to nerd out, but I have my concerns and I think we're going to see a real mess here in a few years if people aren't doing it right. I talk about how to do it right in the GLP-1 done right university and I teach you all the tools you need to go ahead and do that right. I give you the strength corner and the strength vault I'm going to add in there soon. It's a whole library of exercises and workout plans and programs. Um I give you the metabolic revamp toolkit so you know what that means and how to get started there. I give you all the tools that you need and I give you all the tools that you need to understand as a clinician so that you can do this right with your patients. So that's at drtina.com. right up at the top banner, GLP-1 Uncovered. Click it. I'll make sure it's in the show notes, too. You guys can check it out. You can get to my course, my paid course from there with a discount, or you can head straight to drtton.com, click on courses, and the course will be there for you.