This is risk tolerance. This all comes down to risk tolerance. And I had a colleague who was talking to me about a patient and she said this poor woman, this is just an example so people understand this poor woman, her vaginal tissue was so severely atrophied. She was not sleeping. She's estrogen positive breast cancer history. She was not sleeping. She hadn't slept in a decade. She was in hell. Her marriage was in hell. Her husband and she were starting to consider living apart. I mean, everything was falling apart for her. I hear these stories all the time. Her muscularkeeletal situation was a wreck and she was like everything was tearing constantly and I said, "Hey, you know what? Here's some data." I sent her every study I could get my hands on. I said, "Talk to her doc and just see if he would consider." And after it was all said and done, her doctor agreed to give her a little bit of estrogen and she was sleep. And it was a risk to it was just risk tolerance like like you said, shared decision-making. She knew the risks, but the risk of not being able to exercise, having your joints fall apart, running the risk of getting, you know, I mean, we can talk about what happens to the poor vagina and the risk that they run with UTI and with death. Um, all the things, right? And she's back sleeping in the bed with her husband again. And like the risk of obesity, not exercising, not sleeping, like what does that do to your cancer risk, right? Like these are huge factors when it comes to huge factors. I love that point. It's so important. We know that metabolic health in terms of insulin resistance, um metabolic syndrome, the risk of diabetes, um you know, the the risk of visceral fat accumulation, um the risk of chronic insomnia. I will tell you personally, one of the hardest things for me during my abrupt prolonged premature menopause was the lack of sleep. Okay? I don't think I slept well for over 20 years and it really impacted me. Right. Luckily, I think I was doing enough healthy behaviors that I somehow muddled through it. But it was not easy. And it wasn't until many years later, and I'm very open about this. I I made the decision and it took me a long long time to make this decision that I I decided, you know, a number of years ago to start the lowest amount of a transdermal estrogen patch and some progesterone at bedtime. And I became consistent. I took my own advice and became consistent with vaginal estrogen. And it changed my life. And I feel much better. And I've learned how to um you know talk to patients about that, but also sometimes offer parts of that for patients, right? Um getting to the point of like, all right, we're going to we're going to pick one thing and we're going to work on it. Okay? And some people have a lower risk tolerance. Some people have a higher risk tolerance. Some people psychologically can't even consider the thought of ever considering it. And you know what? That's okay because I promise her I can help her. You know, we can man we're lucky there are non hormonals out there and we don't have to get all into them but the menopause society has a really beautiful practice statement on all of the evidence-based non hormonal medications and it's not just SSRI now oxybutin gapentin we've got fezylinian there's a new one coming out on the market right so those can be useful right are they perfect absolutely not can they be useful absolutely um uh nutrition and exercise as medicine I honestly look back and it is actually shameful that our medical system, but I don't blame the doctors. It's really the way the system is. The prescription for exercise and nutrition should have been as important as my prescription for my temoxifen. But I had no support on that. And yes, I'm a doctor. I could have figured it out. When I look back, I didn't do the right things or I didn't even have the support around the right things. They seem like extras that are hard to like figure out, but that should have been part of it. Um, and so, you know, I think I I'm always like very careful about wanting to make sure we we always bring that back in because I don't want any breast cancer survivor to think if they choose not to ever consider hormone therapy after breast cancer or if they're really not a good candidate for it because they've got to stay on their aromatase inhibitor or they're at very high risk of recurrence and we're not we we're concerned about that. You know, I don't want them to feel that all is lost. So, patients say to me, but Dr. Man, what about my cardiovascular risk and my dementia risk? I said, "Well, yes, of course estrogen can be helpful when we start it earlier for that, right? And we know that can be beneficial, but I don't want any men to ever think that if they can't take systemic estrogen, it means that it's all lost." And I say heart health is brain health, right? So, whatever we can do to keep your cardiovascular system healthy, you know, and sleep health, right, is overall health, right? So, we have to focus on that, right? Um and this is why sometimes you know when I present to patients and even a medical oncologist like this concept of hormone therapy like I think people think that it's like high doses of hormones right and when I say okay let's just think about this a 025 patch raises an estrogen level in the serum if you look at the package insert from the pharmaceutical company right a 025 patch will get your serum level up to about 25 maybe 30 if we're lucky poggrams per ml all right when you have your normal menstrual cycles, your estrogen levels goes all the way up to 400, 500, even higher every single month. So, we're not talking about re and for many women who have been estrogen deprived for a long time, giving them back like very small amounts, just a touch relieves a little bit of suffering. Um, sometimes, you know, we'll consider just progesterone only. You know, a nightly dose of progesterone can the, you know, we have some data that it can help with night sweats and some hot flashes and it does help with anxiety and sleep. So sometimes that's something kind of that we can start with um if we've you know tried other things that are not helping with sleep because you know sleep if you don't sleep I don't care what else we tell a woman to do it it's just impossible like you can't exercise or do you know or or or function in a relationship or function at work right so those are like yeah it's hell so like low low doses and then kind of really you know really hammering home how important local vaginal estrogen is and then the testosterone questions the other question I always get asked and I think you know we have way less data on testosterone after breast cancer but we can also take like logic and available data that's out there and you know testosterone when given in physiologic levels to get a woman within the rough the higher range of a physiologic level for a woman there's no data out there on earth that suggests that it raises breast cancer risk we don't have much data studying testosterone and breast cancer survivors. Um, but we also know that lowering it to sub levels isn't a targeted treatment. So, do I think it's an option for breast cancer patients? Yeah, I think with shared decision-making it is. Um, and we have to remember a lot of breast cancer patients have lost their ovaries. So, their their testosterone levels are already in the tank because, you know, your ovaries produce about 50% of testosterone. We desperately need more data in all of these things. Um, but when a patient is told we can't do it because we don't have perfect data, I say she doesn't have time because that data is not going to be here in the next 20 years because no one's doing it. There are no ongoing randomized controlled studies looking at this question unfortunately except and I want to talk about duov with you because I think this is really exciting and interesting news for breast cancer patients out there. Um, so if you want to we can we can talk about that. So the American Society clinical oncology annual meeting just presented the preliminary reports from um the promise trial. So the promise trial was it's a multic-enter um trial in um northwestern other other major centers throughout the US and basically the promise trial was looking at newly diagnosed DCIS er positive DCIS patients. Okay. And they were given DUI. Duv is the brand name of conjugated ecoin estrogen and basodoxifine. All right. So um it's a combination hormone therapy that has been FDA approved for well over a decade and it's FDA approved for hot flashes, night sweats and preventing osteoporosis. So standard fair hormone therapy, right? But researchers knew that basodoxifene in DUI functions. It's a serum. It's elective estrogen receptor modulator. I like to tell patients it's a fancy cousin of tmoxifin. So it blocks the estrogen receptors in the breast tissue and it blocks estrogen receptors in the uterine tissue and it also degrades the estrogen receptor in breast and uterine tissue. So it's very profound the impact