Is it because you have prolapse? Is it because your muscles are non-reing? Is it because of the posture you have on the toilet that's not allowing things to empty completely? So, you want to have an understanding as of why so that you can then choose the right path to fix it. You are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I'm sitting down with my friend Kim Bopney. You may know her as the vagina coach. She is the author of Your Pelvic floor. She is a personal trainer. She's a restorative exercise specialist. She is the pelvic floor guru. And I absolutely love her content. I love her approach to things. And I thought it was critically important that I bring her on the show because many of you have reached out to me and said, "Dr. Tina, I'm trying to start strength training, but I keep peeing my pants every time I do. And I take this seriously. Although I was joking with Kim, you know, I've got 99 problems, but pelvic floor dysfunction is not one of them. I feel for you. My heart goes out to you, especially those of you who have mult have had multiple children. I understand this is a real concern, and there is hope. So, we're going to dive in with Kim today. We're going to talk all things vagina, vagina health, pelvic floor health, strength training, how it goes with it, the steps you need to take, and more. So, without further ado, let's jump in. Kim, thank you so much for coming on the Dr. Tina show today. I am very excited to have you here. You are a pelvic floor specialist in the uh the vagina whisperer as I think of you. And so we're going to have a really fun and colorful conversation today. We are. Thank you very much for having me. I'm excited to be here with you. Yeah. So tell me about your background. H what do you do? How did you get into this? And why does it matter? I'm a personal trainer and I grew up always with a fascination of health and wellness and when I saw my mom stop exercising I was asking why and she said it's because of your brother and you. So of course then she kind of elaborated and basically she developed stress incontinence after child birth. She had chronic back pain. She had a tummy that wouldn't flatten. And so witnessing this coupled with a child birth video that I saw in sixth grade, this was just not something I really wanted to participate in. So I grew up very adamant that I was never going to have children, but always had this fascination with health and wellness. So fast forward, I uh meet my now husband and his sister-in-law allowed us to brother and sister-in-law allowed us to witness their birth and that was the first time I had seen anything different than what we see in the media. the people with the knees at their ears, somebody telling them to hold their breath for 10 seconds, but you know, that whole thing, screaming, yelling, the drama. And this was the complete opposite to that. And so that was a really uh it sort of planted a seed cuz I I wanted a family, but I just didn't want the the effects that my mom had dealt with. So I thought, okay, maybe I'll maybe I'll be become pregnant. Maybe I'll have a cesarian. Maybe that'll protect my pelvic floor. I didn't even know the term pelvic floor at the I just kind of thought of it as my vagina and I didn't want my vagina to break and that was that was that right? And so then the following year I'm pregnant now I'm thinking okay now I really have to be thinking how is this babe going to come out of me. My midwives had recommended a BOF feedback device to me called the Epino which is from Germany and this was designed by a German physician who was in Africa and he was using gourds sorry he wasn't he was witnessing women using gourds of increasing size to prepare their pelvic floor for birth and so he thought well that's a great idea but that's not going to fly in North America so how can I make this more mainstream and he worked with physios and midwives and other physicians and created a medical device epino stands for no epziottomy so the intention was can we reduce tearing? Can we reduce epziottoies with the intention of that's not going to prevent all pelvic floor dysfunction, but it it would be playing a role in helping people connect with their pelvic floor before birth. So used one, had a great experience. I didn't have any tearing and I thought, well, I'm good. I didn't tear so I'm fine. And then I still I used it for my second and after my second, I developed stress urinary in unconscious and I thought, well, how's that happening? because I I didn't tear and that was my limited knowledge at the time. And then I started to learn about pelvic floor physical therapy and a lot of what I was seeing them do was very fitnessoriented. So being a personal trainer I was saying okay well can I apply fitness principles to this group of muscles called the pelvic floor and that's how things started and initially it actually was I started selling that device. I became a Canadian distributor for that product. I started an e-commerce store. Then I started to look at, you know, I was I was working with mainly pregnant women wanting them to get this device and I wanted them to have the information ahead of time. So I created a program called prepare to push and it was all about training for birth. How can you reduce likelihood of tearing? Then I saw okay well I'm doing all this work but now we don't give any regard in North America to postpartum recovery. So then it was investigating what other cultures do around the world. Then I ended up forming a second business with two other women. One was a pelvic floor physical therapist that was called Belly Inc. And we manufactured our own postpartum wrap because a lot of cultures use uh abdominal wrapping or abdominal binding as a way to help heal or they say close the body after birth. So we wanted to make that a bit more mainstream. We wanted to couple it with exercise. That was the second business. Then started to go through my own pmenopause menopause, you know, [\h__\h] show. And uh that was then a whole other chapter of pelvic floor that was that I was learning again. So it was kind of this business has really followed my journey with pelvic health as well. Uh all of it surrounding fitness to the pelvic floor and how we can optimize not just the movement we do but the food, the building blocks that we consume, the sleep, the rest, the anxiety, the postures, the all the other things that also influence the pelvic floor. So that's kind of how it started and how it has evolved to where we are now. I love it. I love it. So it's it's your story as we go along here. And I mean that's how so much of our work is, right? Like it's it's the the challenges and the hurdles that we have and we face. And then uh I think God always gives us the work that we're supposed to be doing. It's whether we choose to listen or not. You know, it gets sort of it gets put in front of us until we hear it. Um I was I was joking before we got on here. I I was thinking cuz I so I ran up to go to the bathroom and you said tell me how many seconds that you pee and then I'll tell you what it means. And I was thinking on the way up I was like I got 99 problems but a pelvic floor issue ain't one. Thank god my I I will say like I am graced. Knock on wood cuz I am just stepping from pmenopause into I'm like right at that weird spot, you know, but uh still cycling. But uh don't don't wish that upon my worst enemy because I've as a chiropractor myself, I've seen a lot of it and I've tried to help treat it. I've worked with a lot of pelvic floor therapists in Portland. We seem to have a plethora of them. At least we did for a minute there when I was back in my big practice and did a lot of injections actually because I was the token injection therapist. So I was doing a lot of injections in that area to try to deal with um you know just hypertonic muscles, trigger points, things like that. all kinds of tools I've gotten in there with and and like the the wand and different things to try to work some of the musculature, but it's a real pain in the bottom for these women and they suffer and it's not fun and it does hinder not just regular activity but especially the very active women who like to throw the big weights around like that's it becomes quite problematic. So why is my the the uh seconds it takes me to pee what does that mean? So a lot of people will who especially people who have started dealing with pelvic floor dysfunction will start to kind of unknowingly develop habits that they think are being protective or compensatory but they end up creating other issues. And one of which is peeing before they really have to. So they're like, "Well, I'm going to go in the car. I might as well pee. I'm going to go shopping. I'm going to pee. I'm going to leave my house. I'm going to pee. I'm going to go to my exercise class. I'm going to pee before my class." and and you start to pee preemptively and then that trains the bladder to signal before it's actually full. So if you're peeing a good steady stream for 10 15ish seconds, not saying you couldn't pee longer than that, but that's pretty indicative of a full bladder. So it's about a cup and a half of urine that would be indicative of a full bladder. The bladder can hold more than that if you really, you know, sometimes you can't and you you need to keep holding and it can it has the capacity to hold. But that would be an appropriate amount of urine to come out um when when you're going to the bathroom. But if you're going pee and it's like 3, five, 7 seconds, sometimes stop and start flow, that's an indication of people preemptively voiding. You're getting a signal inappropriately. You're getting a signal when it's not actually full. And that is what is going to then train your bladder to just keep doing that and it'll start to do it at night and you'll be waking up multiple times a night. So yeah, that's not good. No. So I'm the opposite. I tease people who have a bladder like a chipmunk like my husband and I no he he's pretty good. I actually and maybe I'm wrong on this. I try to hold it as long as I can. not not like pathologically so not in a way that's you know going to cause me backup issues or problems but I definitely try to go to like full bladder and then void but just instinctively thinking I've done that since I was a kid just because I want to well AI wanted to be able to get through a class like sometimes there were kids that always had to pee during class they would get nervous and then they had to pee so I always try to override the nervous feeling and I think that's it for a lot of people they get kind of like a little nervous something and then they instinctually feel like they have to pee, but more so just because I wanted to have control of my pelvic floor. I just want to be able to control it. And then I think a big problem that I saw in clinic, I'd love your thoughts on is the and I I saw this more often with women who had pelvic floors that weren't really in good shape. You know, they weren't they weren't in good shape in general is and it happened to me when I was in really bad shape. I was really skinny and out of shape. Um they don't void completely. So they do like what they think is a full void, but then they don't completely void. And then those women end up with a lot of urinary tract infections. And I actually I was it was happening to me in medical school and I had the lab tech, the head of the lab at the clinic. She said, "You have to do the the final pee." And I said, "What's the final P?" She goes, "You sit there and you relax and there will be a final pee. You have to get that out because it'll sit there in your bladder and and get infected." So, I've learned to get that little bit out too with intention, but I'd love to hear your thoughts because maybe I'm doing this all wrong. Yeah, it's a great point. So, normal voiding would be every two and a half to four hours. And when we sit down to pee and poo, technically, we need the pelvic floor muscles to relax in order for the bladder to contract or the rectum to void. And if we are not relaxing completely, then it can hinder that. And there could be there's always going to be a small residual like the bladder is constantly filling. So there's always going to be considered normal amount of of residual. Not a huge amount, but um not not enough to signal that you would need to go anymore. But so we we should sit down, relax the pelvic floor, bladder contracts, pee comes out, and it comes to an end, and we're done. That's what should happen in people who have tight pelvic floors that aren't relaxing. there. It may be difficult to empty completely. The bladder is kind of is trying to contract, but the pelvic floor is not relaxing enough. There could be residual that's then kept and some people notice that they feel like it's empty and then they stand up and then there's a little bit more that dribbles out. So, that could be tight muscles. It can also be pelvic organ prolapse. So, especially if the bladder has shifted out of its optimal position, it starts to bulge in the vagina, creates a little pocket where urine can get trapped. So that can make for that sensation of incomplete voiding or that you know stand up and then a little bit more comes out because the bladder then shifts now that it's empty and you stand up and and move around. So double voiding is not what I say that everybody should be doing. However, if you notice that you feel like you have to push to pee, you shouldn't have to push to pee. You should not push to pee. If you notice that there's that postvoid dribble, if you notice that you pee, but it doesn't feel like it's completely empty, you can do a second void, like a double voiding strategy where you sit and empty, and then you stand up, do a few little hip circles, tuck, untuck, sit back down, take a breath in, relax the pelvic floor, and see what else comes out. So, that's kind of like that last P that that you were told about. So, not a strategy I would say everybody should adopt, but it's something that if you notice some of those things, then you can do that. But I would also then go figure out why that's happening. So, go see a pelvic floor PT. Is it because you have prolapse? Is it because your muscles are non-reing? Is it because of the posture you have on the toilet that's not allowing things to empty completely? So, you want to have an understanding as of why so that you can then choose the right path to fix it. and holding my bladder for I I guess it's two to four hours. That's I would say yeah it's reasonable. I just I I try to override if I do if I have just urinated and I feel the need to urinate I I try to override that. I try to hang on because I think that I I think of it as a nervous bladder and I don't want a nervous bladder. I want a bladder that I control. Yeah. Absolutely. And it could be nerves, it could be anxiety, it could be tightness, it could be constipation, it could be low estrogen, it could be dehydration, could be bladder irritants. Like there's so many things that could create that inappropriate symptom. And the strategy you have is, and a lot of people I have go through a bladder diary where they're tracking what they're eating, what they're drinking, how much water they're drinking, how much fiber they're eating, when they poop, when they pee, what the volume is, because they can start to then notice the habits. They start to notice the foods that are triggers for them. they start to notice, you know, I don't drink in as much water as I thought I did. So, dehydration is going to come and play a role and holding like you're not using a bladder diary. You just have this awareness. But some people don't. So, they use the bladder diary and it says, "Well, I just went an hour ago. I haven't had any bladder irritants. I haven't had a huge volume of liquid. This is an inappropriate signal." So, then you step in and you do you can do selft talk to the bladder. You can use distraction techniques like curling your toes or doing calf raises, doing some pelvic floor activation or relaxation to help calm that signal and within, you know, 10 to 30ish seconds it should ideally be gone and then you just carry it on with your day. How much of that is interstitial cyitis? like how much of that is just because I know that that's a common autoimmune condition and I know that a lot of women have sort of a low-key version of it. I've seen a lot of that in my clinic and in my training as well. I I just happen to one of my mentors in medicine is like the vagina queen. Like that's her wheelhouse. You know, mine's mine's regenerative injection therapies and that and peptides and hers is like vaginas. And so she really helped me become hyper aware of how many women might be struggling with this and it I do have a touch of it myself. I've I've struggled with it in the past. It does make you think you have to pee all the time and it's it's a really irritable little bladder. Talk to me about that. Yeah, it's the the autoimmune condition interstitial cyitis painful bladder syndrome is is also another uh name that's may be associated with it. And the challenge is it can present like UTI. It can present because like if if you have overactive muscles, it can present from bladder irritants, from low estrogen. So, a lot of the symptoms are the same. And so, it's kind of like, you know, hypothyroidism versus Hashimoto's. You have to kind of distinguish, is it the autoimmune side or is it something different? And that's where that root root cause investigation comes with pelvic floor PT, with a bladder diary, with diet changes, lifestyle changes. And if with all of that, nothing is changing, it like it takes a little while to do to go through the it's like a process of elimination, a diagnosis of elimination for IC. So you want to address all of the other things first. And if it improves, not likely that it is the autoimmune form. If it's not and you've tried everything and you've given it kind of that good college try, then possibly an IC diagnosis would happen. Yes, it is frustrating. It's really frustrating when it goes full boore and it becomes because sometimes I'll see a cocktail of true UTI chronically with a a woman aggravating an underlying interial interstitial cyitis and then to say I know and and then it sort of loops and feeds forward and so they'll get on a regimen of antibiotics that they feel like they constantly need and honestly The thing that breaks the loop the best is getting their nutrition dialed in and getting some estriol up on the vag like that seems to even in young women I will put this out there and I don't know if you've seen that too but even in women in their 30s especially women who've lost a lot of weight and have gotten very lean all of a sudden and start complaining of you I've seen that so many times women in their 20s I've seen that in they have a tremendous weight drop off usually because of some kind of unremitting stress and then they or like a relationship ends or they get they're nervous they're nervous their bladders are irritated and they're constantly getting UTI and it becomes a vicious cycle and the more infections they get the more the interstitial sticitis acts up and it's a mess. So talk to me about that. Yeah, estrogen can play a role. It's usually I I shouldn't say I don't know the statistics wise, but from the younger generation, it's typically not the low estrogen per se, but it could be the an improper uh well a nonoptimal vaginal microbiome for whatever reason. Uh so that could be diet related as well. That could be clothing related. That could be all sorts of things. But if we have a microbiome especially that's lacking lactobacillus which is the main uh bacteria we want like in in the gut microbiome we hear the conversation of diversity. We want all sorts of different and there's millions and trillions of bacteria. In the vaginal microbiome it's not so much about the diversity. It's about the about having lactobacillus in abundance and low estrogen can create a a low lactobacillus state, but not not always just that. So, there's vaginal probiotics that can be taken orally or inserted vaginally that can sometimes help. There's supplements like uh boric acid, also used intravaginally, that can be helpful for some people. But again, you don't want to just throw those in and hope. You kind of want to go through that process, that diagnosis of elimination with addressing the lifestyle factors first. So, releasing tension, get evaluated. Is it some sort of um muscle tension or is it pelvic organ prolapse? Is it constipation? Is it dehydration? Is it bladder irritants or other things that you are consuming? Um, you can do there's companies now offering vaginal microbiome testing. So you can get an idea of the the presence and the abundance of lactobacillus and see if that's something that you would want to address. But I wouldn't want to just send somebody and just, you know, just throw darts at the wall and hope something's going to help. You want to go through and make the lifestyle changes first. For sure. 100%. Because if you don't, it'll keep coming back. Yeah. So what my one-two punch is a little oral methylene blue and a little topical estrial. And again, you're right. I mean, estriel is more predominant in women as they get older for sure. I've just seen it when I mention the thin women, it's because when you get super thin, your estrogen drops off usually precipitously. You know that. But just for the audience who doesn't know that getting a six-pack abs, when you're not usually a six-pack carrier, um can jump your hormones off the cliff. And uh that will work, but it sure will come back if all the things you didn't just mention aren't addressed. Like that's and I and I look at people I have people pay attention to their menstrual cycle as well if they're having one. So that's another worry with that population that they may lose their menstrual cycle. But if if somebody is cycling and if they notice that they have certain symptoms, they feel more urgency, they feel more frequency, they feel a sense of heaviness. Now the uterus itself is more is fuller, is heavier, it will be managing a greater load just before our menstrual cycle, but that doesn't mean that everybody should feel like they have an urgent need to pee or that they have heaviness and pressure. But people with pelvic floor challenges usually say the week or the days just before my period things are worse. And that is that declining and low estrogen state. And that's sort of mimicking and giving us a glimpse into menopause where we are unfortunately not going to rise back up like we do when we're cycling and get back to a high estrogen state. We will be forever in that low estrogen state. And that's where the role of vaginal estrogen, systemic estrogen can come in. and and play a role there as well. 100%. And how about partners? I feel like you can be allergic to your partner and it can cause all kinds of disruption down there. Yeah. Yeah, that is I I haven't seen a lot of that in my in my community. There hasn't been a lot of people talking about that. Some not something that comes up very often, but I do know that that is absolutely something that can happen. Um and infection can be passed back and forth between partners as well. So uh so and and if you're you know if one person's being treated then the other partner should be treated as well for something. And also from an estrogen piece a lot of people say well what if you know is it okay for me to pass my estrogen to my partner? And I always say put your estrogen in and on on your vulva in your vagina after like after all the activity has happened just before you go to bed. Not that it's dangerous for your partner but you want it you want it for yourself. You don't want it to be rubbing off on your partner. And so with vaginal estrogen, it's so low dose, it's not like little to none is absorbed systemically. And the same would go for your partner as well. And so it's not not from a safety perspective. We want the benefits of the estrogen. So keep it for yourself. Yes. Yes. I love that. I think the vagina knows. I think that when the vagina is rejecting a partner, I've seen this in marriages. I've seen marriages that were have completely fallen apart and the vagina starts rejecting the whole thing. The vagina starts that poor woman starts ending up with frequent infections or she ends up with vaginitis that isn't, you know, it might even be just an overgrowth of her normal flora. It's not even a pathic infection, you know, and it's it's like the or atrophy. I've seen at vaginal atrophy in plenty of women in their 30s, which is shocking. You know, we we could throw some estrial at it. It's probably some systemic low estrogen from chronic stress or whatnot. Or maybe it's usually transient. But I just always wonder like why is the vagina rejecting the the partner? Maybe this is not to be. And I I don't know. I tell my lady patients, if your vagina is chronically an issue with a partner, there's probably an issue. like maybe this isn't the partner. Yeah. The body is the body is so wise and we have to listen to those symptoms and I think and and signs and signals, you know, and and we're so we live in this world of distraction and we don't always pay attention to what's going on and we have these annoyances and and uh and we don't we don't look also for the deeper meaning in those signals, right? I think it's so true. The vagina knows. Yeah. If the vagina says no, then something's going on there. And if the poor woman is really struggling consistently, I just stop to wonder like what's going on, not just systemically with a woman, but like in her is does she hate her job? Does she hate her husband? Like what's going on? I it's it's a tough conversation to have with folks. Yeah. And those those sensations like the sensations or uh the emotions with anxiety and stress and overwhelm will absolutely can bring on pelvic floor challenges, signs and symptoms can exacerbate. So if you have an existing issue, a lot of people will notice like when they don't sleep well, when they've had a stressful day, their symptoms are worse. And so again, it's it's taking it's removing us from what is creating that stress, that overwhelm, those anxious thoughts where a woman today on my call was saying, you know, I was on vacation and I could I could go for hours and I didn't have any senses of urgency and as soon as I'm back home, I'm back here. What's what's going on? And it's sort of like I know we can't be on vacation all the time, but what there there is a drastic need of change. There's a drastic difference between this sort of sympasympathetic state you're in on your vacation with this constant sympathetic state you're in in your day-to-day living. So where how can you blend and and get more into that more of not not living in parasympathetic but get more of that in your life so we can have some sense of balance. Yes. And I will just add here because I know there's probably men who listen to this show who've either signed off by now or thinking why am I listening to this episode. A, if you have a female partner, you should understand this. And B, this stuff happens to men, too. I've had many men in my practice with all kinds of bladder dysfunction, very similar presentations to what we're talking about. They're dealing with the same stuff, erectile dysfunction. It's there's something, you know, it's a it's almost like a different brain for real. And it's got its own little stress response, its own little stress barometers. And it, you know, the the gonads know. Yeah. And I just did a a it's not I haven't posted it yet, but I was filming a video today talking about how, you know, I I see Viagra ads in subways on TV. It like everywhere you you're hearing about Viagra and it is handed out like candy for men with erectile dysfunction. Where are the ads for vaginal estrogen? Yeah. So the men who maybe don't have pelvic floor challenges right now, but erectile dysfunction is a pelvic floor challenge. they are getting erectile dysfunction and then they think everything's solved and everything's fine and they are now looking many of them for vaginas and those vaginas are dry and irritated and it hurts to have sex. So there's this huge disconnect here and when you were talking about marriages breaking down marriages can break down because of pelvic floor dysfunction because of genital urinary syndrome of menopause. So, we need to level the playing field here. And we need to have access, equal access, and informed, be informed of what's available for us, not just hearing about all the glorious things that are available for men. I didn't even realize, honestly, I've been practicing in a bubble in Portland for a decade plus, having no clue. Like, I didn't realize that other doctors weren't giving out HRT the past 20ome years. I didn't realize that that women's health initiative scared the majority of doctors off and that our entire generation and the one ahead of us just got completely screwed. Like I didn't realize that. And so to me it was like common knowledge that you just use I use estriol but there's estradiol that's available that's FDA approved for vaginal use. And I use testosterone vaginally. I use DHEA vaginally. I put progesterone up the vag. I mean I I I the vagina is great. It absorbs all kinds of things and it's it's very efficient. And I had no idea that this wasn't sort of standard. I mean, I knew it wasn't standard standard medicine, but I did not realize until I went online and grew my platform how completely clueless women were about this because the doctors were clueless or they just weren't using it. And it's like, ladies, I'm here to tell you 100%. You can believe me or not, go research it further. vaginal estrogen. Even if you've had breast cancer, vaginal estrogen has been shown to be safe and effective for this condition for the atrophy, the dryness, the pain, the chronic UTI. And the worst thing was my elderly patients. I had these wonderful women in their 70s, 80s, and 90s who would get chronic UTI. And unfortunately in that population, they don't always notice symptomology. So they may not have pain. Like when I get a UTI, the world is ending within 30 minutes. It's it's pretty aggressively painful for them. They may not even feel anything until it's manifested into a kidney infection. And even then, they don't feel anything. They just get sepsis and and they're coming into my clinic to get their knee injected. I run a UT a urinary uh you know, uralysis on them with a dipstick. Their lucasytes are skyhigh and I'm sending them off to the hospital because they're delirious and it's crazy. And I just think if if they just would use the estrial cream and they don't want to, but I've given it to them. I had a woman the other day on Instagram tell me her husband died. She's in her 60s. Since her husband died, um she hasn't been having, you know, it's kind of a use it or lose it area and she hasn't been using it. And so now she's got chronic UTI and she's just beside herself. And I said, "Have you asked your doctor for vaginal estrogen?" And she said, "I didn't know about that." And she went in and asked and then reported back to me months later. She's like, "Thank God for you. I had life-changing. No more UTI. No more chronic UTI." So, it should be like I I jokingly say it's an essential nutrient like from from the start of your menopause for the rest of your life. I really believe that pretty much every single woman would benefit from vaginal estrogen. And there are people who don't know. There are people who ask like who know and ask, but their doctors deny it because they are not informed still on the updated evidence. And that just so bad boggles my mind. It boggles my mind. They can hand out birth control pills. They can hand out anti-depressants that all have side effects, but bioenical hormone therapy. No. No danger. Well, I don't. And that's just not true. I had a doc the other day write to one of my clients and say, "I'm for HRT. I'm just not for BHRT." And I'm like, "Dude, tell me you show me you don't understand hormones because the stuff that's available from the regular pharmacy is bio identical. Anything that says estradiol on it is bio identical. So, it's fine. Uh, you don't have to get this stuff compounded. You can get it right over the counter. You put it on your face, too. It's great. Y, but I would even be so bold as to say we should be screening women. I mean, the reason I keep bringing this up is we should be screening women sometimes in their 20s, definitely in their 30s, especially after child birth or major stressors. I see women going through divorces, whatever it is, in in those years in the 40s. There's just these moments where you need estrogen sometimes. So, you might use it for even a few weeks and then not need it again for a few years. But if you don't use it when you need it and your doctor's not educated on this or identifying it, I'm not blaming the doctors and I'm not blaming the patients. I'm just trying to let everyone know there's these blips of time where especially if you lose a lot of weight really quick, you might need a little help that through that. If you don't, you can get into these chronic cycles we're talking about. Yeah. And they're hard to break sometimes cuz once that nervous bladder gets nervous Yes. And that interstitial societitis get gets kicked on. This is a tough thing to unwind. Yeah. And that the I'd mentioned earlier genital urinary syndrome of menopause. There's now another term genital urinary syndrome of lactation. Again, that low estrogen state where postpartum we are estrogen plummets and there's the hair loss and that like we all know and and vaginal estrogen. It's another prime time for the use of vaginal estrogen. And I I kind of want to also add to that is estrogen is one component. So we we benefit from estrogen. We benefit from moisturizer like a like we moisturize our face. We can use vaginal moisturizer and also lubricant for sexual activity with or without a partner. And all of them play a unique role. Estrogen is not necessarily a moisturizer. Moisturizer is not going to replace your estrogen. Neither of those are going to act like a lubricant. So we we need all three for different different things. Moisturizer is more you know daily. You can use it multiple times a day. Hyaluronic acid is a very uh wellestablished ingredient but there are other ingredients as well like shea butter, olive oil. Um some people use coconut oil as a as a moisturizer but it's more like AI would consider it more like a lubricant. It's more like a reducing friction as opposed to being a true moisturizer. But but taking care of the skin in our ulvas, taking care of our vaginas is so so important. And when when everything is working optimally, we don't think about it and life is great. But as soon as there is something not working optimally because it influences so many things, our continents, our sexual response, our organ support, our core control, our ability to work out, everything is influenced by our pelvic floor. And so if we want kind of that freedom of not being distracted and worried and anxious about is there a bathroom? Can my partner see it? Am I leaking? Did you know all these things? Uh we really need to pay attention to our pelvic floor and sooner than later. Don't wait for there to be an issue to then go and take action. Intervene early, start early so that you can avoid the suffering. 100%. That's Yes. Yes. If it your vagina is going to be your first telltale sign that something's wrong with your hormones. And something I argue for is go get your hormones intervened on earlier than later. Find somebody who's willing to work with you because there are there have been multiple points in my life since my mid-30s where I needed some hormonal systemically and locally some support. And I don't mess around with a vagina. Like I really enjoy having a healthy sex life. And I have a healthy husband and that's an important part of our marriage. And uh that if that went, I think our marriage would go. Yeah. And I know it's not as important for some couples and that's okay, too. But for us, it really is. And so I can't afford to have my vagina offline. Yeah. And I I can't afford to have my back in pain. So I mean, I this is another reason I take really good care of my body. It's a promise to my husband, not that I'll to serve him that way. It's a promise that I won't be a hindrance or burden and the parts of our marriage that are, you know, what whatever the person's love language is, right? Like I I get I give him sex in the morning, he makes me coffee. If I don't if I don't get the coffee, I get cranky. That's part of the deal. But it's a promise to yourself, too, right? Like we when we show up for ourselves, it's it's a it's a very powerful message to put ourselves first. And so many women do not. Uh and and everybody else's needs come first. And a lot of the people who come to me in my community are now sometimes their marriages have broken down, maybe not, but they're finally it's like, oh, the kids have left the house or some people have never even had kids, but now they're retired. And so now that they've they've had all of these years of suffering, maybe they've sought some help. They've probably been offered drugs and surgery. Some of them have gone down that path and the problem is still there or they have a new problem because nobody has told them about how to functionally train and the muscles and how to like constipation is a major one. So many people are struggling with constipation and that sometimes it's pelvic floor dysfunction that's creating your constipation but a lot of times it's constipation that's now creating your pelvic floor dysfunction, your urgent need to pee, the frequency, the pelvic organ prolapse. So there's so much more than just what people have heard of Keele exercises uh which we know work but they need to be done correctly and consistently and most people don't do them correctly because they've never been taught. So there's this disconnect of again women just kind of being left to well go figure it out and and we're going to gatekeep all of these things until you really absolutely it's so bad then we'll maybe let you have a little bit. I just think that is crazy. Um we we we deserve this information much earlier in life. We deserve access to all things that can help us maintain the tissue integrity, the muscle strength, the the everything so that we can have a healthy sex life so that we can run, jump lift for our bones, for our hearts, for our brains, like do do all the things. Pelvic floor dysfunction is a major contributor to people stopping exercise. One in two like just under 50% of women stop exercising because of their pelvic floor. Oh, so if we think about the rates of in of uh osteoporosis, the rates of heart disease, the rates of diabetes, dementia, especially in that post-menopause phase, knowing that that could have been somebody who's just starting to develop pelvic floor dysfunction in that penmenopause transition. It could be somebody who's started 10 years prior and they've still been suffering and that's years without reaching peak bone mass and and all the things. And I just it it's breaking my heart how many people are now osteoporotic. They're afraid to move. They're afraid to do anything and their life is this small cocoon where they're afraid to leave their home and they're usually being denied systemic estrogen and HRT. So they're we have done such a disservice to women in medicine. It breaks my heart. Yeah. It makes me crazy mad, too. And it's frustrating. And it's it's ruining men's lives as well. It's ruining thousand% it's ruining their partners because what something I was thinking while you were talking about you know these women are just kind of like struggling through it as they raise their children and this and that. Well then they get to our age their kids have left the nest and they should be having the time of their lives. Like the kids aren't around, right? Like let's have all the sex. Let's go traveling. Let's have fun. Let's be, you know, spontaneous and promiscuous with our partner and with our partner, you know, like let's have fun. Or maybe they're single and they want to go have dating and fun. Who? I'm not judging. But but they can't because their vaginas are broken. Yeah. And it's it's heart-wrenching. So I something I want to share that I was just thinking about. I had a patient so I did a lot of stem cells in my practice and I had a patient come in and she wanted this was years ago probably 10 years ago. She wanted vaginal stem cells because she had read that there was a doctor in LA who was doing them for lyan sclerosis and she had low-grade lyan sclerosis. So I did it for her. She had great success. We had to follow it up with some PRP. I can't remember how many treatments of stem cells we had to do. But it really comes down in that case to like are we getting the lychen sclerosis under control because that's an autoimmune condition. And then lychen usually comes with some secondary infections which is usually coming from the gut. So we've got candida. We've got some other things to deal with. So we fixed her up and she was she was a naturopathic doctor herself. So she had kind of all the things in line. So it was a real easy cut and dry case. Anyway, uh it gets out on a forum that I'm offering this. So, I start getting women flying in from all over the world. Wow. To have their vaginas treated with stem cells and Kim, it was heartbreaking. Yeah. Because the lychen sclerosis was so severe in some of these women and their stories were heartbreaking in many cases. extreme abuse, you know, I won't say the words, but you know, they were attacked or they were mistreated when they were young and terrible things. And I would leave the room in tears and they often had horrendous autoimmune disease raging elsewhere when I would finally get into their health history and do a comprehensive intake on them. And they had no idea like no one had ever talked to them about this. No one had even ever suggested like they clearly have candida in the area. No one had even suggested using a topical antifungal to see if we couldn't calm that down. So that might calm the lykan down because the lykan's responding secondarily to the immune onslaught of the candida and just in circles, right? And so I couldn't treat all these people from afar because I wasn't licensed in all the states they lived in. So we couldn't do comprehensive gut analysis and treatment. I couldn't do what I needed to do to get the vagina to calm down. So, it didn't feel ethical to continue to charge them for these not only expensive but painful and invasive treatments, right? Like needling someone's vagina is not fun for them. I've had it done. Oh, and I'm good with a needle, but man, so that re I quit. I quit doing it. I quit offering it and people were devastated and they were yelling at me and they were like, "Well, there's no one else who will offer this." And I was like, "I can't do it. It's breaking my heart. This is not like I did joints. I did people's muscularkeeletal system which had its own set of grief and dis there but it generally was pretty straightforward. So I just share that because there's so much that can go wrong and it was these are a lot of these women were young or they were women our age and they just weren't having any fun with their husbands anymore and their marriages were dissolving and so I'm sure you hear similar stories every day but this is real. Yeah. And that's another kind of like the interstatial cyitis where it can so many of the symptoms not so much the visible presentation but not a lot of people look at their vulvas. So they may be experiencing itching burning pain with sex bleeding which can be genital urinary syndrome and menopause as well. And if there's if you're not working with a practitioner who is looking deeper and I don't mean just like deeper into the vagina, but just look unraveling all of the layers, it could be missed like in sclerosis can be missed because again it presents similarly and it's not something that people are being screened for. Yeah. And the the adhesions that I would see sometimes were so severe and women had no idea. Yeah. Yeah. It's heartbreaking. And the other piece kind of on the same tangent is is hysterctomy. So the the population who's going through the permenopause transition maybe postmenopause uh well more so before who are dealing with heavy bleeding some are dealing with fibroids the the three main reasons for a hysterctomy are heavy bleeding fibroids and pelvic organ prolapse. So if if in so many of these women 600,000 in the states alone every year and nine out of 10 are for benign conditions prolapse fibroids heavy bleeding. So, has anybody looked at the contributing factors to the prolapse, to the heavy bleeding, to the right? And so, then they get their hysterctomy and they think, "Well, my problem solved not having been told that you're increased, you have an increased risk now of incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse of what's left, the bladder, the rectum, the intestines." And all those people should be seeing, I think all women in general should see a pelvic floor physical therapist at least once a year. But especially if you are going for surgery or you've had surgery, see a pelvic floor physical therapist first. See them as part of your recovery around 6 to 8 weeks posttop. And your need for all of the things we do, all of the lifestyle, all of the exercise to protect that group of muscles is now even more important because we have the influence of scar tissue and adhesions. similar to like a different reason why you would have adhesions, but scar tissue and and adhesed skin and tissue can interfere with optimal function. And so I just that that one really drives me crazy. Th those numbers are just bonkers. And you're that risk of organ prolapse after hyctomy is even further increased if the reason you had the hyctomy was for prolapse because again so often that root cause is not investigated. So part of the reason that person developed prolapse is from a constipation or from chronic heavy lifting with poor strategy. If we haven't addressed that, of course it's going to happen again and potentially even a greater risk because we now changed the landscape and we have scar tissue and we've hindered muscle function. No retraining has happened. So that one breaks my heart too. That one makes me crazy angry because I rarely rarely rarely have met a woman who's had a hyctomy where it was actually necessary because they didn't look deeper. They just didn't look under the hood. They didn't try progesterone. Like [\h__\h] duh. Like seriously, that that one alone like oh you couldn't just write a script for some micronized progesterone to see if you could stop the bleeding, reduce inflammation, get better sleep. topical you like everyone listening topical progesterone is available over the counter in nearly every state it's in your health food store so is topical estrogen in many cases you can buy topical estrogen off the internet estradile estriol I'm not saying go and get it but it's very readily available it's in a lot of skincare like this stuff is if it's that safe to be over the counter I don't understand why a doctor is so lazy you know why we know why because there's money in it and then guess what they take an ovary or two with them and they slam you into surgical menopause and don't tell you. So you're 35, you've just been slammed into surgical menopause. Your life goes topsyturvy and then you gain 30 or 40 pounds because you just were slammed into surgical menopause and that adds to the prolapse and everything just gets AI've seen this story so many times. I can't see straight. And I they would come to me because I did regenerative injection therapies hoping I could tighten something up or fix it, you know, and it's just like infuriating is the word because it's barbaric. It it's it's medieval medicine. It's it's so unnecessary in so many in so many ways. There are times I have a friend right now who she has cancer. She needs to have it removed. And there's no shame in that. That that is absolutely a necessary intervention. Yes, but having the awareness of pelvic floor PT ahead of time, pelvic floor PT is part of your rehab, the ongoing pelvic floor maintenance, and also speaking with a surgeon and asking them if you're taking especially my cervix out, how are you resuspending the top of my vagina? Because that again should be standard of care and gold standard that if especially if a if your uterus and the cervix is being removed, we need to resuspend that part of the role of the uterus and the cervix is to hold the vagina up. So if we're taking it out, how are they doing it? One pro procedure is called MCL's coloplasty which as far as my knowledge is at this current time that is gold standard but I studies have shown it's not universally accepted as everybody doing that. So make sure if you are scheduled for hyerectomy talk to your surgeon and ask them how are they resuspending the top of your vagina. Yes, I've I've had to do injections on those surgical sites intravaginally posts surgery and it's literally just there's it's just a canal that tapers like when you're looking at it from the inside it's just a canal that tapers into nothingness and it just kind of falls down. Yeah. Bad. And they're literally like shoving it's infuriating. I have I have no words. I didn't even think I hadn't even thought of any of this when I was getting on the call with you, but there's there's been a lot of my life in practice where I'm just like what the you know, like what on earth is going and I'm not pretending to have all the answers and I understand. I mean, I' I've had friends with horrendous fibroids who did opt for hyctomy and they did everything. They tried everything and it just wasn't working. And um I get it there. Again, there's no shame, but let's just try the obvious. like let's rule out the obvious first and then I would say obviously pelvic floor PT or thousand% your program buff muff like get get in there and try if it if prolapse is an issue you know we we can overcome a lot and I treated a lot of women postpartum with pelvic issues and you're right their estrogen falls off another phenomenon I saw happen a lot just to bring it back to the vagina was these women went into their relationships and their marriages is on birth control and birth control sort of messes up your sniffer. It we have data to show this. I've been saying this for well over a decade and I used to take a lot of heat for saying it but it it confus we're supposed to sniff out a partner with the opposite immune system of ours so that we can counterbalance our immune system. And when you're on the birth control pill that doesn't happen. So you might sniff out somebody with a very similar immune system and you might pass on that issue those issues to your children. And I always wonder like the implications on the human race, the whole species, like what what have we done, right, with the advent of birth control in that case. But that's a side note. So these women would get pregnant, they get off their pill, they'd get pregnant, they would have their baby, they didn't want to go back on birth control afterwards because it made them feel bad. And then they realized they hated their husbands. They picked the wrong person because they picked them while they were on the pill. I know this is a controversial hot take, but I saw this over and over again. And then we would couple that with the low estrogen that they were having postpartum and it was a disaster and these marriages would just fall apart with these in tiny infants and I kept seeing it. And then these women were always coming in because they had so much muscular skeletal pain because they were so stressed out and they were so low estrogen. And then just as we were getting them dialed in and getting their vaginal I I would see a gluten intolerance contributing often like all kinds of food issues contributing to the vaginal issues. But we would get them all dialed in with the work of the PT uh the pelvic floor PT and the chiropractor that I worked with in the clinic. And I kid you not, the second we get them dialed in, they'd be like, "I want to have another baby. I'm pregnant." And you're just going, "What?" But it's a real thing. All of these things, I'm just I'm just throwing out variables here because I want women to understand they're not alone. And if they're going through this experience, like there's a lot of women going through this type of experience and a lot of it manifests in your vagina. Yeah. And the pill can can create contribute to vaginal dryness. And the pill is offered to women with hot flashes and postmenopausal women. I know. And and they're denied biioidentical hormone replacement therapy and they're offered the pill. that that one drives me crazy. And they're already going to be dealing with a dry vagina and now you're giving them something that's going to dry it out even more. And and then the pads that they wear are also going to dry the vagina out more. And it just Anyway, this is why I became a doctor. I kid you not. I became a doctor because I knew the entire alipathic system was effed and I didn't want I wanted to protect myself and my family from it. So I learned as much as I could about the things that really matter. Like I can stitch up people. I can rehab their joints with regenerative injection therapies. I can adjust them. I could pull weeds out of the ground and cure, you know, not cure them, but help them out with herbal medicine. I just And this was like, you got to know the vagina a bit because it's really a source of grief. Yeah. Um, let's talk about let's talk about strength training and because that's my favorite topic. Let's talk about the good stuff. So, how tell me about because I know you have the Buffmuff program. What's the premise of this? like how do women exercise who have vaginal prolapse uh leakage etc. Mhm. We we need to apply the same principles we do to any other part of the body. If we want to strengthen a muscle, we need to impart a load and we need to the stimulus needs to be such that it's it's hard. So then when we go back and we rest and we nourish our body, it have has the building blocks to improve and get stronger for next time. The pelvic floor is the same as we have type one and type two muscle fibers. It's like the rest of the body. And so when my my philosophy is we need to first of all connect, we need to understand what the pelvic floor is, where it is, how it works, how it works in synergy with our breath, with our diaphragm. Connect with that. go through some queuing, some imagery to to be able to voluntarily voluntarily contract and relax the pelvic floor and then we need to layer that into movement. So Dr. Arnold Keigle, we've if we've heard of something about the pelvic floor, it's usually do your Keeles and a lot of people say do them at every red light or do them while you brush your teeth or you have to do 300 a day. And evidence, gold standard evidence would say three sets of 10 10-second holds done three times a day. And I don't know about you and I don't know very many people who will take three separate times in a day to exercise their pelvic floor. So compliance is low. And also we know that the majority of people do them incorrectly because they've never been taught. They've never seen a pelvic floor PT. No one's evaluated their pelvic floor to see if they're doing them correctly. So we we have these keigull that work when they're done correctly consistently. No one's doing them. No one's doing them correctly. And they're also if you even if you are doing them correctly and consistently, it doesn't translate into when you're at the gym and you do a deadlift and you leak or when you're running you leak. Sitting in a chair or lying down in bed or sitting at at a red light and doing your kele exercises will only take you so far. It's we need to train the pelvic floor with movement, being upright against gravity, under load, with impact. We don't just start there. We have to, like anything else, we have to progressively overload and and get ourselves there. The pelvic floor is, as I said, so many women stop exercising because of their pelvic floor, either because their symptoms are they notice their symptoms more, they think they're making it worse. Some people are even told, "Oh, you you can't lift anything over 10 pounds because you have a prolapse," which is horseshit really. Like that that is bonkers to me. So in the and there's no evidence to say that and there there never will be because 10 lb to one person is light as a feather. 10 lb to another person is hard. And so there's never going to be a weight, one specific weight that is too much for a pelvic floor because it's really dependent on that person and that person's execution and that person's training and history and so many different variables. So that is bonkers to me. And also in the effort of trying to preserve the pelvic floor now we are putting this person at risk of sarcopenia, osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease, diabetes because we're not exercising, we're not moving. So fundamentally we need to first have the knowledge of the pelvic floor. Understand what the contributing factors are. What are the root causes of why you're struggling with incontinence or urgency or prolapse or back pain or pelvic pain, painful sex, whatever it is, and change those variables and then start the exercise appropriate for you. And a lot of what I begin with is releasing tension. So many people have tight pelvic floors and and they think, well, how could I leak if my pelvic floor is tight or how could I have lack lack of organ support if my pelvic floor is too tight? It doesn't make logical sense. But any muscle that is too tight, doesn't have good blood flow, doesn't have uh there's no circulation, it doesn't can't generate as much power as it can because it's in a shortened tight state. It gets fatigued very easily. So when called upon its reaction time is delayed and it can't generate the the force to meet that cough, sneeze, laugh, jump, whatever it is. So releasing tension is a really integral and and always the first place to start. And a lot of people who, you know, they've never even tried that. They've tried some of the exercises and they think, "Oh my gosh, I can't believe how much tension I have been holding in in that part of the body when they've never even paid paid attention." So we release tension, connect with the breath. We use visualization and imagery because it's part of the body we can't see. We can't go to the mirror and flex our pubo coxyas muscle and and there's multiple layers of pelvic floor mus musculature. We see our external genitalia but not the inside. So we need imagery and queuing to help us connect with one of the most popular cues is imagine picking up a blueberry with your vagina and your anus and then putting the blueberry back down. And and I often will cue people to put the blueberry down as a as a whole blueberry and not as juice because again people think like because I'm leaking and because I'm quoteunquote weak, I need to do like the hardest keull I've ever done in my life. So they think of max contraction all the time. Some people will benefit from that strategy and it can sometimes elicit a greater relaxation response. But the blueberry is intentional. It just needs to be a gentle you got to grab it. Yeah. And lift it up. That's the other thing. Like it's like come together and bring it up. It's I tell them a walnut. I tell them y I tell them whatever you want. Grab the walnut and suck it up. And the and the the up is is important because most people interpret keigull as a squeeze. And they will often squeeze their butt cheeks. They will squeeze their inner thighs. They will sometimes even bear down and hold their breath. And they think they're doing it correctly. But that pressure downwards or not accessing the pelvic floor is that's the reason why keigull don't work. Right. Right. So um so you pick something up, you put it back down, you repeat that. Then we need to layer it into movement. So we start with something simple like a pelvic tilt or a bridge. Then we're going to get more upright into a kneel, tall kneel, squats, lunges. Then we're going to start to load that. So we're going to do some loaded squats. We're going to do some jump squats. We're going to do some barbell bench press. Incorporating I call it the core breath. So when we when we're learning how to activate and relax the pelvic floor in synergy with the diaphragm with the breath, pelvic floor is part of the core. We're using our breath. So I call it the the core breath. We bring that into movement. And now once we get to like I do a 28 day challenge which within that period of time within two to four weeks we've retrained the pelvic floor to react at the right time with the right amount of force and people can be symptom free. That doesn't mean we're cured and okay I never have to pay attention to my pelvic floor ever again. That's the first step. Now we need to add a little bit more resistance. We need to apply the principles of progressive overload like we do with with anything else and keep doing it for the rest of our life. And people are like, "Oh my god, I have to do this for the rest of my life." Yeah, you do. Unless you want to suffer. You choose. Like, choose your heart. Is it harder to show up for yourself 10 to 15 minutes a day and pay attention to your pelvic floor? Or is it harder to be in diapers, not able to participate in life, not enjoying sex, leaking in diapers in a nursing home? Yes. Yes. I will I want no diapers. Same. I want hot sex and no diapers. Yeah, there's a good quote title. Hot sex with no diapers. I think about these things. Oh, that's why I have a hot husband. His job is to stay hot. Yeah. Well, I'm watching my parents' age right now. And that is me too. Very powerful motivation. Very, very powerful motivation. It's brutal. It It really is. I I I love my parents so much, but to see them Yeah. weak could become living in a weakened state just overall and refusing to exercise, refusing to go to the gym. I will fight it every step of the way. Yeah. It's not I mean I'm so glad that we're seeing doctors like you know Dr. Vonda, right? And I, you know, I've been beating this drum forever, as I know you have, and I'm I'm glad that people are finally with some bigger accounts making the the the argument for strength training, but it's still too little too late. And a lot of it revolves around this conversation around hip fractures, which I think is a great thing to scare the be Jesus out of people with because it's real. Like, it is really the kiss of death. However, I think that most people don't see themselves as getting a hip fracture. That seems so extreme, but when you're 35, 40 and you're sneezing and you're peeing a little bit, that's the beginning. That's telling you something. And the standard of care is to allow that pelvic floor to become even more deconditioned. This 10 pound [\h__\h] like it is such it is horshit. You said it. And it's you become more and more and more deconditioned in this traditional alopathic system. And I'm over here telling you the same thing that Kim is telling you, which is you have to fight like hell. Yes. I'm just fighting like hell to stay into the same machine. Yes. Yes. Like it's not This is the the hip fracture is the end of the story because you're probably not going to make it through that. If you do, you're not going to come out well. But there's this whole in between that you have to live, right? Yeah. And advanced prolapse is a is a an independent risk factor for hip fracture. I did not know that. There you go. Yeah. It's for real. My I have to tell you a story. My friend, he he grew up in Kenya and he said that his grandma like literally would sneeze and her uterus would fall out and she'd have to she had like eight or 10 kids. She had to shove it back up and he would tell I hear that all the time. I hear it all the time. He would tell this story like it was so funny and I just remember I'm like oh my gosh that sounds it was a medical school. He's a colleague and I was like that well and there are some people who just there's a generation of people who just who just did that. They're just like well let's shove it back up and carry on. And I I've I've experienced prolapse and I definitely found it very challenging to just carry on. And again, there are options for situations like that. There are pelvic um uh there are peseries, there is potentially surgery. Not everybody wants to go down surgery. And I don't want to like I want to take the shame away from surgery as well because it can play a very positive role. It just shouldn't be the first line of defense that people are are sent down the path right away. We have to look at all of the other conservative things like peseries, like vaginal estrogen, like PRP, stem cell therapy, like hypopressives, that's an exercise technique, very powerful for prolapse, like pelvic floor muscle training, pelvic floor physical therapy, avoiding constipation, all of these things. And then if you've done all that and you get to the point where it's interfering with the quality of your life and maybe for this woman it wasn't, I could tell you very if that was happening to me and I had tried all the things, I I would choose surgery at that point to to change that because I'm not prepared to suffer like that. But I'm I'm making an assumption that she was suffering. Maybe she wasn't. Um but yeah, there's a lot of people that that deal with that and put it put it back up. And and I think I hope somebody's offering you estrogen. I hope somebody's offering you peseries. I hope you know how to do pelvic floor muscle training and and you can make improvements. I people have had very advanced prolapse. Never completely reverse it. Once it gets to that stage, you're not reversing that. But you can improve it for sure. And even if you are going to choose surgery, you have to prehab. You have to do all that work ahead of time anyway. So, you might as well try it and see what happens. Well, I love your approach because you start them in a very reasonable, conservative rehab plan and then you advance them to heavy lifting, which is I mean, everybody can. I get I get that a lot from, well, I've had this. I can't lift heavy. I'm like, yes, you can. Just not right now. And we all start somewhere and we all start with little tiny barbells and we all we all have to I I I couldn't even I could not do a Turkish get up with a weight for months. I couldn't do a kettle bell swing for months. And now that's how I keep my pelvic floor tight and high is with kettle bell swings. They're magical. But I had to spend a lot of time building up to that, you know. So I have back issues. I don't have pelvic floor issues, but you know, same same region, same same sisterhood. 95% of women with low back pain have some form of pelvic floor. Yes, I'm sure it's driving the back pain. I do believe that because I can work the muscles out with a Theero and get some back pain relief. But yes, that SI joint like it's all the same wheelhouse. You know, the other thing with the kettle bell swings is is the is training for power because that's another thing like we lose speed and and and we lose more type two muscle fibers, the quick contract relax fibers postmenopause. And so whenever we can train explosively, jump squats or kettle bell swings, like that's a really good way to add power training for your pelvic floor as well. Yeah. And it makes your butt tight and high. Mhm. It's the other thing. Everything's getting flat and wide. I'm like, "No, this cannot happen. I'm trying, Kim. I'm trying." Yeah. My daughter said yesterday cuz I lost my butt with COVID and then I gained some weight and then my hormones went off the cliff. It's been a long story, but she my butt's coming back. I've been working on it, doing a lot of hip thrusts and a lot of kettle bell swings. And my daughter yesterday goes, "Mom, I" She's 25. She's like, "I don't think you're ever going to have that juicy booty you had 10 years ago." And I was like, "Oh, yes I am. Just because you said that. We'll get there." She got she got me into strength training because I was going to give a lecture at the chiropractor college and it's all men there. I was single and it's all men there and I was like in a pretty dress and I was looking hot and she was I had probably 12 and she's like mom you can't you can't wear that dress you have lady butt. I was like what's a lady butt? She's like you know when it gets flat you need to put those Spanx on. And I was like oh hell no I am not putting Spanx on. I'm not wearing Spanx. So I started strength training and I started building a butt and then I realized the opportunity for your metabolic health with building a butt, right? And and every like train the glutes is my motto. So to hell yeah to hell with everything else like worry about your glutes and you everything will start to fall in line much more quickly. And so anyway, that's the story and now I'm back to ladyb. So we shall see. Project booty underway. Yes, it is. Well, I just love you lady and it was so fun to talk to you and I hope that my followers found this intriguing and interesting. You have such a great platform. Um, you've got the vagina coach on Instagram and huge following. You've got YouTube, you've got Tell them where to find all the things. Yeah, thank you. This was a fun chat. Um, vagina coach.com is my website. All of my social media channels are vagina coach and uh yeah, Instagram is where I hang out the most. Me, too. And we we should inter I don't see your stuff that often so we should interact more on there. Yeah, I think our audiences are probably very similar and would could I I really hope they find value in this talk because I know that a lot of my audience have been asking for this. So you were the one to bring on. Awesome. All right. Well, thanks for coming on the Dr. Tina show and I will have you back. We're gonna after my operation butt. We'll see. Yeah, glute building. We'll see how I do. We'll reconvene. Awesome. Thanks, lady. Thank you. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcastdtina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthc care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have, and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.