I was so ravenously hungry and craving and what my patients described was kind of that. So I could imagine them being, you know, in a 300 pound or 250 pound body with a lot of excess atapost tissue trying to lose weight and feeling that way just that, you know, I was already really lean, but like they're feeling that way at a higher body fat. That's what made me go like, "Oh man, I think I missed the mark." You are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I'm so excited to bring on Dr. Spencer Nadulski. Dr. Nadulski is someone I've been following for a long time on Instagram. He's an obesity specialist. He's a lipidologist. He also is the owner and founder of Vineyard, which is an online direct care model. He specializes in GLP1s. And we are going to have the obesity conversation that you all have been asking me for. You know, I've been talking about these peptides for a long time outside of weight loss, outside of type two diabetes. Although, my message has been skewed over the past few years. I've been trying to talk about them in relation to all of the other benefits throughout the body that they may or may not have in the clinical data. That said, this is an important conversation to have. We need to talk about obesity as a disease, and I need folks to really understand what that means, and I can't think of a better person for the job than Dr. Nadulski. So without further ado, let's jump in. Dr. Spencer Nadulski, I'm so excited to have you on the Dr. Tina show today and we are going to talk all things obesity, GLP1s. This is a conversation I've wanted to have because I've been trying to sing the praises of GLP-1 agonists outside of obesity and weight loss and type two diabetes, just more in a metabolic health, cardiovascular, uh, you know, neuroprotective way. and everybody's been begging me to bring on an obesity doctor and a specialist like yourself. So, here we are. Thank you for coming. We're doing it. Yes. I'm excited. I'm excited. So, I've been following you for years and I'm a huge fan of your work and I see more often than not these days you sort of playing uh pickle ball with all the GLP-1 misinformation and nonsense that comes constantly into our inboxes. I don't even get into it. I just let you do it at this point. It's exhausting. It's exhausting like a a game of pickle ball could be, I suppose. Yes. Yes. And then you have really created this awesome innovative um direct care platform called Vineyard. So, we're going to talk about that too because I think what you're doing is exciting. I think you and I agree on a lot of things. One is that these tele companies for the most part and I have heard good feedback from a few of them for really uncomplicated cases for people who really just needed a little something something. But in the case of most people and most patients, especially those dealing with at least a moderate to more excessive amount of obesity and or type two diabetes, I think that docs or patients need a much better care system. And I see you talking about that online. Can you extrapolate on that a bit more? Yeah, you know, these medicines are amazing. I would call them miracle medicines, but they there's no there's never a free lunch. And you may be one of the people um that do just fine on a little dose and go through your journey just fine, no issues. And that that does happen. However, I would say it's not rare. It's still uncommon but common enough to when you have hundreds of patients that you see some of these side effects especially at the higher doses that get brushed off by someone if they don't listen. For example, the the one that I'm seeing more recently and I've made some videos on is is anhidonia just kind of feeling meh blah. And it actually happened quickly in 2022 when Mangaro came out. We were all using it off label. Everybody's like, "Oh, how dare you use that drug off label." I'm like, "Well, the surmount trial was out. It just wasn't available as bound yet. It wasn't approved yet, but we the phase three trial was out. So, we're using it for obesity a lot." And uh people were feeling tired. And you see it with we go too, the simaglletide, but we were we were seeing it and people were like, "Well, it's got to be from the calorie deficit." And that makes sense that people would feel tired from a calorie deficit. However, there were people that weren't losing weight any weight. They didn't feel like any appetite suppression, but they were feeling tired. And so, it's kind of like, okay, if they're not losing weight, they're not in a calorie deficit, they don't even feel the appetite suppression, but they're feeling tired, it's probably something beyond the the calorie deficit that's making people feel tired. And when you talk to them, is it like, do you just want to go to sleep tired? For some people, it is. But what I'm seeing is just kind of like a lack of motivation. So before they were going to the gym, they were trying to be healthy, doing all the physical activity stuff, and now all of a sudden they're just kind of like, h I don't feel like eating, but I also don't feel like working out anymore. And that defeats the whole purpose. We're trying to get people healthier, you know? So like despite their atapost tissue or whatever, wait, physical activity has many I mean, I know you've talked about this all time. Yeah, we're going to get into that. We're going to we're going to talk about the strength training because that's the other thing that we definitely jive on. Yeah, physical physical activity is super important regardless of the number on the scale. So like that that's like okay that started it just I saw it so many times and then I made a video recently about it and then all of a sudden I got tons of messages from patients cuz they they didn't report it. They didn't they didn't even know it was a thing. But some other people did when they come from other places and and their doctors or nurse practitioners or whoever was saying like, "Oh, I think you just have seasonal effective disorder. I think you just need to go see a therapist." And they're like, "What are you talking about? I I never have seasonal effective disorder. I usually love the winter. This doesn't make any sense." And I'm like, "No, this is the medicine. You're on a high dose." and you and you pull them back and they go, "Oh, now I I still have the suppression and appetite, but now I, you know, I'm going back to the gym and now all of a sudden like a bunch of them are starting to break plast past their plateaus despite being on a lower dose." So, a lot of that type of stuff that I see that's personalized medicine. That's everyone's always like, "What's the dose?" I'm like it depend totally depends on the individual in front of you and so many variables and factors and a little bit too much can be a lot too much and it throws them into that just the blas I call it they don't want anything all their dopamine pathways are just kind of like like food's not that interesting dark chocolate's not that interesting maybe sex isn't that interesting nothing nothing is interesting uh and I think too the other conversation is for people who show love through food who show passion through food, who show that's how they um find their community, that's how they spend their time is through love of food. Foodies, you know, we have a lot of them here in the Pacific Northwest. And you can dose them into losing that. And so I hear it from my girlfriends all the time. They're like all the ones using it for vanity weight are no longer going out for drinks or food anymore. or their social lives are crumbling and they're, you know, they're walking headlong into osteoporosis and I'm like, "What are you guys doing?" You know? Yeah. That that Yeah. If you're not enjoying life anymore, what's the point? Yeah. And I think that that's a real issue. I I heard some young gals talking about just complete lack and luster of libido. And these were women in their 30s. And I was like, "Yeah, I think that your dose is probably too high." That's right. I I I see that not infrequently. I've actually uh surveyed on my Instagram and other places, you know, thousands of people taking the survey and it was like some people noticed increases, but around like I don't know if it was like a third to a half of people said and now I noticed a decrease despite losing a lot of weight and wanting to have they want to have that desire and of course their husbands are looking at them and going like oh god you you lost weight. I'm I'm kind of getting interested. But now the the the wife didn't, you know, doesn't feel And I see it in guys, too, though. I've seen a few few where they're like, "No, I they're getting erections because they they their testosterone has increased, but their libido, their drive has decreased." And it's the motivation factor. It is. Yeah. They don't want to chase their dopamine dragons. And they I've heard people say they stop doom scrolling on social media. They they broke the habit of online shopping. It's all the different types of dopamine dragons, but um yeah, we don't want to we don't want to dose people into oblivion. That's no fun. You shared a really interesting story the other day about a younger woman who you reduced her dose significantly. Like she was not losing weight and then you reduced her dose and she started losing weight and started feeling much better. And I I think that that story if you want to share a little bit about that case really Yeah. woman in her mid-30s. She had been on 15 milligrams of Trueepatide Zepbound for multiple months and had plateaued completely for the past like 3 or 4 months. And I was like, you know what I and she she kind of described like I don't feel like going to the gym anymore. And I was like, you know what? Let's pull back on your dose. Like when you look at the surmount trials, if you've ever pulled them up on your podcast, but the five milligram trozepatide is similar to the highest dose of simaglletide we go the 2.4 milligrams. It looks around like 15% or so u uh percent total body weight loss. When you look at 10 millig versus 15 milligs of turepide though, there's like a very sliver difference of weight loss between the two. So that means that they're probably getting very similar appetite reduction between the 10 milligs and 15 milligs. Some people do better on that 15 milligrams, but like a a lot of times you start going up from that 10 to 15 milligs, you don't really see much of a difference. And if you don't see much of a difference with the weight, the only thing that can happen, I mean, it's kind of logical that you could potentially see more side effects. And so what we did, we brought brought her down to the 10 milligrams and she felt so much better. She started going to the gym, broke through a plateau, lost 10 pounds even though she'd been plateaued for months on the highest dose. And it, you know, it's not it's this doesn't break the laws of thermodynamics. People are like, "Oh, it's all calories in, calories out." Yeah, she wasn't, she didn't feel like moving anymore, right? because the because the drug was and now I always talk about the drug facilitating behavior change, but once it gets past that point and now all of a sudden the behavior change isn't occurring because they're so damn their dopamine so dampened down. That's that's not good either. So yeah, it was pretty cool. It was really interesting. I was like, "Please can I share your story?" And that's what I did. And then tons of people started messaging me going, "I think that's me." And I'm like, "Holy cow, this might be a bigger problem than people understand." I think it is. I think there's a sweet spot for each individual and I think it depends on factors at least what I and I know you've dealt with this a lot more in the obesity realm and probably with way more patients but the factors that I see impacting it are how active are they how what's that sweet spot where you can get appetite suppression but not crushing it you know more of appetite control we just want appetite control not I guess in some cases we would want some suppression But generally speaking, I just want people to feel in control of what's happening with what they're choosing to put in their mouth. And then past that, you get into this the blas and then they they do stop moving. And so you lose the you you lose thermogenesis because they're just like this on the couch. You know, you're not getting any of that neat. You're not get you're not getting any of the even people who I really do believe that a lot of folks stay lean just because they're fidgeters. like I'm a fidgeter. It keeps me, you know, that's that's how I keep going. And when you lose that desire to get up and go and bustle around um and you can dose people into that place and I think that that's probably happening. And I I really my biggest concern at this point is this these medicas and like what the actual hell is going on there. And then a lot of the tele medicine companies, I think some of them again are doing are are trying to do a better job and really do care, but there's others that are just like fly by night. And then they're what I don't think people understand is they're giving kickbacks to influencers. Yeah. And so a lot of money, a lot of these influencers are using my name and putting my name as like a stamp of approval onto and like giving out specific dos. It's crazy. And I whenever I see it, I message them and I'm like, "Take that down." Like I did not this has nothing to do with me and this is the tele medicine companies like the whole micro doing for weight loss conversation that that was never intended. I never ever intended for that. You became famous for that. But I was never trying to say that. You know what it was? It was every single time I went on a podcast the host couldn't get away from the weight loss conversation. That's right. They just couldn't stop with the weight loss conversation. And you know how people are. They hear what they want to hear. Yeah. And so it got twisted into something that I never intended. I mean, sure, if you take someone like me who's sitting, you know, right on the edge of menopause and they've they're metabolically optimized, they're lifting weights, they're eating sound, they're hitting their protein macros, they're doing their HRT, all the things, and there's a little fluff, a little insulin resistance, a little metabolic dysfunction. Yeah, it tends to melt off, but it's not a weight loss strategy. It's not there to get that like 5 10 pounds. And then the mainstream media ran with it. Never bothered to interview me. And then all these doctors started to claim to be doing it. Oh, really? Oh, that's funny. So, what you have probably seen out there is never at all what I started talking about. It got twisted along the way. And I am glad that the conversation opened about a more personalized dosing strategy, which is really what I was trying to say is like if you are going to use it for weight loss or type two diabetes, could we potentially start people at a dose that doesn't make them vomit profusely for two weeks while they adapt? Like could we on board more gently? That seems reasonable. Very reasonable. And and honestly, it's it's needed sometimes. Uh, in other countries they have clickable pens that you can do. Well, Ozmpic actually has a clickable pen and that's here in the United States, but Wikovi doesn't have it. Zetbound doesn't have it. Mangaro doesn't have it. So, you see a lot of people going to the compounding route which is kind of going by the wayside now. But like in other countries there are quick pens that use you can do tzepide in between doses and it really is needed. It's more for simagotide's not as well tolerated. So it's it's nice to have that for simaglletide. But even tzepide like if the the starting dose is 2.5 and sometimes I'm like I really wish I could do like a 1 milligram because like this person's like a high responder to this stuff. They are clear they're losing weight too quickly even on the lowest dose. It would be nice to just go a little bit lower even half of that. Well, you can't. You'd have to you have to get the vials and and and the vials are are a single-use vial or you'd have to inject the pen into and and make your own bacteriaatic vials. Like it's ridiculous. And then it starts getting a little bit uh potentially dangerous there. So yeah, it would be nice if and that comes down to you and we can get into the corporate greed, the pharmaceutical greed, but they they don't want people splitting them up because otherwise we could just prescribe 15 milligrams of Zeppbound or Monaro and just have them split up into the smaller doses and have it last longer. They don't want that. It's so dumb because every other pharmaceutical on the planet, we can generally alter the dose to fit the patient. Yes. if we need to cut a tablet in half. That's I mean that's how I've always understood understood compoundingies and what I've used them for was when the dose needed to be something different or maybe they didn't handle they didn't want the dyes that were on the medication or that there was filler or there was corn additives or whatever, you know. So yeah, it's it's gotten it's gotten way out of control. And anyway, just to my point earlier, my conversation that I was trying to have originally was like, hey, look at the I originally was looking at it for the reduction in neuroinflammation and its potential for pain. And then I was looking at it for more of like a metabolic rehab because sometimes you'll get patients like myself, they're in their early 50s, they're going through menopause and as that transition is happening, they're lean. I mean, I shoot, I have some patients with six-pack abs, and all of a sudden, out of nowhere, even with HRT on board, we start to see insulin resistance, we start to see a little bit of the the lipids starting to shift. We start to see some cardiovascular markers, and I'm sure it'll quiet down in 10 years when Pmenopause is over or whatever, but in the interim, something is shifting. And you give them the tiniest little bit of GLP-1, and it calms it all down, and their labs get really beautiful. And that was something I was trying to talk about and it didn't matter who whose podcast I went on. I had some great hosts ask me some really great interview questions but for the most part Cali Means was making the rounds at the time. Oh, and he was blasting I don't know what his agenda is on that, but he was blasting GLP1s. And so everybody had to and he had already made that podcast, you know, visit prior to me. So they all had to ask me, what do you think about this and what about obesity and children and what about all these things and I'm like, this is not the conversation I came here to have like bring on Spencer to talk about JP1 and obesity. I was trying to have a different combo. So anyway, it got very twisted. So that's why you're here today. Um, enough about me. So let's talk about let's talk about life preGLP1s as a practicing obesity specialist and life post. Yeah. So I I went to med school uh late 2000 so 2007 that's right when these drugs started coming out. You know Bayetta was the first one. Exenitide but it was for type two diabetes. It it wasn't on the radar to use these for weight loss at the time. People were really focusing on basically fentamine. Yeah. A noradronic sympath sympathomeimetic drug. It has empetamine like properties but not addictive. Um little bit of an upper but yeah nor adrenaline nor adinuric and that was like basically what people used. I started going early on to obesity medicine conferences and it was it was they were there was some weird stuff that they were promoting and you know they you got HCG and all sorts of stuff that people are trying to use HCG diets but a lot of fentamine and if people remember fenfen fentamine was one of the components in fenfen but it was not the bad component. Fenflloramine was the one that caused heart valve issues and so they took that one off the market but kept fentramine around. had been around since the 1950s. So once I got to residency which was 2011, right in 2012, Cuccemia was uh approved and that is a combination of fentamine and topyramate. Uh topamate works in in GABA. They think that's part of why it works for for uh appetite suppression. But different think about different receptors, lower doses of each so you get fewer side effects. The fentamine can cause people to be have insomnia, dry mouth, heart palpitation. So you try to use lower doses and then add it to something else that has a little bit of a appetite suppression which is topamate doesn't work in the same pathway. So that was approved and that was for chronic weight and that was that got you know the highest dose gets around 10% total body weight loss. So not bad but side effects. The other one was, if you remember, luric belv um it is actually similar to fenflloramine, but it had the it had a different uh serotonin receptor. Um more specific actually got taken off because of we don't know why exactly, but some concerns for cancer. Very mild weight loss effect though around like five or something percent total body weight loss. There was contra that came out in 2014. bupropriion nrexone combination not that great still out right now 6% maybe five six% total body weight loss and you think about like good diet and exercise intensive coaching you're going to get around five or six% total body weight loss on average people are like listening going I lost 100 pounds and it's like yeah yeah like I'm saying on a population average we're looking at that that number so contra or buproprion nrexone wasn't that great so it was very frust you know in residency I'm like oh I'm going to be an obesity doctor. I'm trying, you know, trying to trying to do my thing. And those are the drugs that I had. It was 2014, I believe it was Saxenda, Liraaglutide, if people remember, Vtosa. So, Luraglutide was a was the second GLP-1 receptor agonist that came out uh in like whatever it was 2009 or something for type 2 diabetes, but 2014, they cranked the dose up to 3 milligrams. Now luraglutide is a once daily injection and that that highdosese luraglutide in 2014 they promoted as sexunda was around like seven or eight% total body weight loss. So like it's okay but it's like a $1,200 you know $1,000 drug for more side effects daily injections and overall not that great amount of weight loss. So that was like the you know we went from lifestyle trying behavior behavior behavior with some high side effect drugs that some of them some people responded to and then you jump all the way from that to beriatric surgery that you know do you get 30 to 40% or more total body weight loss pretty drastic people are like oh god I got to get surgery it's like great so that's why in 2021 when saglletide uh wiggoi was approved moved and at that 15% total body weight loss things changed so much. That's why everybody's like it's a game changer because like we we were really limited in how we helped people. It was like resources for intensive coaching. It's it that takes a lot to get people and then it's it's very frustrating because everybody says they know what to do. I mean my patients aren't idiots. Some people are, you know, like they're some people are idiots. They don't know what to eat. I I remember a patient I was like, "Here, let's try to eat more protein." Whatever. And they came back and they're like, "I don't know. I'm eating more protein, but but I can't lose weight." And I was like, "Well, well, tell me what you're eating." And they were eating a bunch of spare ribs. And I'm not saying this person is idiot, but it was it was um it was clear even though I gave a list of the foods, like spare ribs, that was what they were eating for for protein, and it was, you know, along with a bunch of other things. But most people understand that, hey, I should probably eat more broccoli instead of French fries. Like, it's just like basics very very most people have that and and a lot of these people have been trying for their whole life. And so like for them to come to a weight loss doctor, specialist, obesity specialist, and and me basically going, "Okay, here's what we need to do. I got these other drugs that maybe you're not going to tolerate, but like let's really focus on these behaviors. They're like, I already know these things. It's it's it was very frustrating from a a doctor's standpoint, a clinician standpoint, and then also from a patient standpoint. It's like, so that's why they go and get the $300 a month detox from someone online or whatever that promises to rid them of their fat and then they lose all their money doing that and then it's just very frustrating. So that was that was what it looked like before these drugs. Yeah. So complete game changer. Yeah. Because this these these peptides put the onus of control back in the driver's seat and they induce neuroplasticity. So while these people are making the good healthy lifestyle changes, their brain is rewiring in real time as as it happens. So, they're laying down tracks of good behavior if that's happening, if they're being managed correctly, which goes back to what we were saying earlier of like get out of the med spas and get with somebody who actually knows what they're doing because there's so much opportunity there in that time frame to have really wonderful lifestyle habits. And that's and it's it so my background was helping I helped a lot of people lose weight. It was not the main focus of my practice. My practice was regenerative medicine, but I helped a lot of people lose weight. And they often, even with best intentions, they eventually would swing back and have substantial weight regain following the same dietary habits, right? Eventually, their body would catch up. And so, can we talk about that? The the disease of obesity. I don't think my listeners or some of them really appreciate this for what it is. And I have to be honest, I did not appreciate it for what it was until recent years. But I come from a long line of obese folks. And I think Oprah said it in a way that made the most sense to me. She said, "Not everyone who's obese has the disease of obesity." And not everybody with a disease of obesity ends up being obese because of just really strict willpower. They somehow they sheer sheer willpower through it. But I think that uh I think we're missing the mark for folks who really do have the disease. And I think that's what we're battling online. I think that's the stigma around these peptides. Has nothing to do with the peptide. People are just, you said it in a post. You said, "You just have obesity bias." And I was like, "Yep, that's that's pretty much it." And I, you know, I don't even blame I was just on another podcast. I don't even get mad at these people cuz I I had it myself. Like I was a young wrestler, pretty jacked dude and been like why why aren't these people just like eating better and exercising? Why? It seems like it's just a they're lazy and gluttonous or something like that. It wasn't until, you know, going through med school and then going to conferences, talking to very smart neurobiology experts and researchers and other obesity doctors and then talking to patients and really seeing the pattern where I started to understand it. And actually, it was when I did a bodybuilding competition and got brought my calories just the 20 trying to eat 2200 calories, which is probably what most people be like that seems like a lot. I was starving on 2,200 calories and I was I I couldn't stop myself from eating Pringles and and like I like started kind of having disordered eating like I couldn't I couldn't stop. I was like I was so ravenously hungry and craving and I and what my patients described was kind of that. So I could imagine them being, you know, in a 300 lb or 250 lb body with a lot of excess atapost tissue trying to lose weight and feeling that way just at, you know, I was already really lean, but like they're feeling that way at a higher body fat. That's what made me go like, "Oh man, I think I missed the mark." And so, um, there's two different things because there's the dis there people think of the disease in two different ways. the disease, the way the AMA kind of described it back in in 2013, the criteria of like certain signs and symptoms, certain uh uh associated with morbidity, mortality, those types of things like definition of a disease versus the pathofysiology of what drives it. So right now if you there's the Lancet Commission just came out with their whole um definition of obesity and they tried to describe basically preclinical obesity. So basically people that don't have this those those squella or issues from their excess atapost tissue they're healthy basically other than just a lot of atapost tissue. Then they they talk about clinical obesity and that that those are people with say like type two diabetes or pre-diabetes hypertension some issues arising from the excess atapost tissue. So that's how some people talk about the disease of obesity. But what I think you're getting at and what I I like to talk about is that the pathofysiology of what drives that atapose gain. Why is it that some people, you know, they just change their habits a little bit and lose the weight and never gain it back versus other people, they try to lose the weight and their body fights them tooth and nail and and and they essentially just cannot lose the weight or keep it off without some extra tool despite their best efforts and all the the amount of effort that they put into it. So, it's that it's that pathophysiology that I think is really what people need to understand because otherwise they just think it's a choice. You just think it they're just like I don't understand. It's just a calorie deficit. Well, like it can't be a disease. And it's like well I always I always choice even if it were a choice that doesn't that doesn't mean that this person doesn't have a disease. I always, you know, for the bros out there, I'm always like, let's say if you knew that this woman out there had ganorrhea. Let's make it really true. And you choose to still have intercourse with her and you and you get gorrhea. Do you not have a disease because you cho chose that? No, that doesn't even make sense. You got to think of that that good point. And then I, you know, I always talk about like what about type two diabetes? We don't think of it that way. Do we say people choose to have type two diabetes? No. So the choice thing doesn't have anything to do with it. But um going into the pathophysiology though, it's like how if it truly even if it like it's not a choice though. It's it's not a choice because like people would never choose to have obesity and people like well it's it's they're choosing the habits. They clearly chose uh an extra serving an extra helping at dinner when they didn't have to. It's like no they're it's the underlying appetite dysregulation or derangement that's driving it. The biology drives the behavior and of course the environment. So like you know a Cali means and and all these other people will say like no we we don't need drugs. We need to change our environment. We do need to change the environment. The environment will help prevent the obesity from occurring in the first place. But once that obesity develops their brain is changed. Yes. And like their genes are changed. They're they're changed at the genetic level. I don't know if you saw that study. I'm sure you did last week. Like like actual genetic changes. I mean, it's like the train has left the station. Yeah. I I describe it as like think about the circuits in our brain. And the circuits in our brain control a lot of our processes in our body. One of them being appetite. In a normal brain, uh that's someone that doesn't have obesity or or struggles with their appetite. All the circuits are are working well. But think about like someone that struggles with obesity and losing uh that weight and keeping it off. They're short circuits. They're frayed and fried. And that's why these GLP-1 medicines are so cool because they seem to recircuit the brain in a way that um and again it's not necessarily permanent. They recircuits it as long as you're taking the medicines, but it hits the receptors to basically stop the short circuiting of the brain. So that's so that's the pathophysiology of of it's it's really related to appetite. Uh and and people are like but it's just energy balance. I'm like yeah the appetite drives the energy balance and so that's the gist. There's insulin resistance as a extra added variable and and I've seen I mean I've seen people develop type two thin well this happens a lot actually as people age. You know it's it's just inflammaging. I've seen patients that my mentor before me took care of and then I inherited them when I took over his practice and I took care of them for a long time and I would watch them age into diabetes thin rail thin individuals farm you know people who worked on farms like these were not people lacking they weren't buff but they were like farm strong like they're but like my husband my husband's just really and strong afre yeah it's crazy So these that's how these guys were and yet they would still develop diabetes and so there's there's all kinds of variables and then when getting back to the appetite you know there's leptin and grein and are they producing enough is their receptors hearing it is there you know is there resistance like an insulin resistance I mean there's there's things we don't even understand that we're just only starting to understand and I I look at them all as playing together like an orchestra and GLP-1 is an important part of that orchestra and if it's not there the leptin and grein signaling get off and and the insulin signaling gets off and you know everything I don't know it's frustrating when people say oh it's just you know eat less and move more. I'm like yes and like and there's everybody's an individual and we're looking at a different maybe somebody's just stressed out beyond belief and their chronic cortisol is destroying their metabolism. Who knows? I'm not there to judge. I'm trying to figure out what tools I need to bring on board to give them a leg up so they can start making because like you said, most people are pretty smart and they just need a little help. Yeah. I I always like showing the other side of the coin. What there there are thin people that do not try to be thin. They're just thin. Are they choosing to be thin? No, they're just thin. They're eating crap. And people are like, "Yeah, but they can eat. They just must have a faster metabolism." Well, you know, if you actually look at them, instead of eating five pieces or a whole pizza, piece of pizza, whole pizza pie, they're maybe eating a slice or two and they're good and they'll go and smoke their cigarettes and whatever. They're fine. They and and they'll drink some soda, it doesn't matter. They're not choosing to be thin. So I think when you start thinking about it in in terms of like how biology works and how it drives our behavior and of course yes the environment is super important because the environment is what changed over the past however many decades. It's not you know our biology didn't change but the the environment then changed our biology. Yes. Once we gained the weight and that's I think that's what people don't understand and I don't think they just haven't been able to put themselves in those shoes. And again, the only reason that I kind of understand is cuz I did that bodybuilding thing and I was like, man, I was ravenous at just like a pretty high amount of calories. Yeah. And the biology, the environment did change the biology and it wasn't just the generation of the person struggling like epigenetically. And if you are in uterro and your mother is insulin resistant and you are bathed I we have the data, you're bathing in insulin, you come out with a much higher propensity for insulin resistance, metabolic dysfunction, and obesity. like you're pegged for it. So, and this didn't just happen in our generation. This is happening has been happening for decades. Whatever the toxicity levels in the environment, everything, whatever the microplastics, we could go on and on. We now have tools to deal with the current situation. So, why aren't we using them? And why are we vilifying them? And why are we making people feel bad for wanting to use them? That's what I don't get. It's like it took us several generations to get into this mess and we now have this miraculous tool to help people potentially get out of this mess. I don't know if you saw yesterday. You probably did. Um, A that that uh is it life insurance company? They were looking at, let me pull it up. I This is really cool. Um, GLP1s can help employers lower medical costs in two years. A new study finds AON researchers found that within two years, improved health outcomes for patients who were taking GLP-1 drugs lower lowers the growth rate of medical care costs. Initially, that first year, it was an added expense, but then over time, like significant drop off of all kinds of morbidity. Yeah. So, here's here's what they're going to claim. They I don't they have some data that shows people stay at a certain job for however many years. What these places don't want to do is go, "All right, we'll put in all the the amount of uh of money only for the next insurance to to benefit from from that medicine." So this is these are the games these insuranceances play. If we can figure that out, I mean, I don't know. I have all sorts of different thoughts that because some some of me feels like why don't we just make the drugs so cheap that like people just pay cash. Yes. And like don't even worry about insurance. Like just Yes. They can figure it out. I know they can. Yes. That's where the PBMs come in. That's where the pharmacy benefits managers screw everything up because Cali and RFK are over here saying it would bankrupt America if we cover this drug for obesity with Medicare. And Trump's over here saying we we need to get the drug companies to bring the price down. And I'm in the middle like, "Hey PBMs, yeah, you're actually the problem. Why why does this drug cost, you know, $100 or less in other countries in Europe?" Doesn't make any sense. No. I hate it. makes me so mad. I'm like, "All right, well, I guess we're all just going to fly to to the UK just to get these drugs." Just so ridiculous. Yeah, it's really It's really really messed up. And I do think that there's room for these to be incredibly helpful long term and bring down morbidity and mortality. I it in I mean, gosh, we are really in a we're in a pickle here in the US and we've exported it out, but we are between the rates of obesity plus overweight. It's pretty high. So, yeah, because here's what I see in the future, and people have asked like, could could everybody be on these? I I think it's possible. And again, I'm not advocating that everybody should be on these. What I'm saying though is like imagine a world where we're getting so good at like precision medicine and being able to predict um things. So, like sure, person that has the indication of obesity, we got to put them on and help them lose the weight. But what if we see that person's child and they're starting to go in that trajectory towards that same diseased obesity state? You could then target that person, put a little low dose and prevent the obesity in for occurring in the first place and all the squella that comes with it and ideally at a low price. Um, so I do think and the other thing is you you said why not use this technology? It's it's the same thing of like is anybody using a a horse and carriage? Sure. In like Pennsylvania, Amish country and things like that, but like are you're using your iPhone, are you using a a telegram? You know, we're using technology. Let's let's as long as it's safe, of course, that's what we got to make sure. But I I like to embrace it as long as it's good. You know, obviously we've been burned in the past. Uh and you got to be careful there. But I say embrace it. I say I say the same. And my argument to the folks who are so against it, like some of these big influencers who are just so so against it, I know these folks are on compounded hormones. They're on all sorts of stuff. I know they're on other peptides. So, I'm like, hm, this is interesting. I could make a pretty sound argument that a 40-year-old woman who needs a compounded or even a just a low dose of thyroid medication, yes, give it to her. Fine. That's great. for subclinical hypothyroidism like subclinical hypothyroidism untreated we have data to show like significant increased risk for hyper lipidmia heart attack I mean all kinds of problems but that said I could also say that that woman's that woman's me right when I was in my early 40s on it my life of chronic stress chronic undereating chronic whatever I was doing in my teenage years being a bad kid not eating well not taking good care of myself I blew out. I I I blew out my immune system and I ended up with Hashimoto's. So, it's like I could make a sound argument that most of the medications that people are on are start out as a lifestyle issue. Start out as a choice that they made a bad choice somewhere along the line and they ended up where they are now. And nobody says boo. They're fine. They take their they take whatever they take to make themselves feel better. I am not judging. I don't care. Whatever anybody needs to take to feel better is fine by me. But yet this one thing, this one particular medication, everybody has to have some moral compass with it. It's weight bias. I I I think if people really like they really have to think deeply and it doesn't feel good to to feel like, oh god, do I do I not like, you know, fat people type of thing. It's but that's it's it's it's a weight obesity bias. Like if you really dig deeper, like why not help them? I don't know. There's no reason not to. Yeah. No, I I get you. Okay. So, let's let's spin this into a more positive note. Let's talk about strength training. I really am at the point where I don't think that unless I know it takes some people time. I know it takes the folks that I've treated with true obesity on these, it takes them about three to four months before they really start feeling like they want to move because sometimes they're just in such terrible pain and in such a bad spot that it's hard to get them going. But I really firmly believe that if you're not strength training regularly while you're taking GLP ones, you just don't have you shouldn't be on them. Like that's where I'm at. So the the way that I approach is basically I I strongly recommend I I give my I have a program called Lift RX. I'm like like anything. I don't care if it's one day a week. I don't care if it's 10. You start off at like 5 to 10 minutes once a week, please. And I I will say most people most people like they they want to they want to and again like you said there's some people they just the knee pain they never felt like they could they were just feeling miserable but after you get them going it just it takes some nudging they start getting more physical activity like you know at least walking and things like that but ideally ideally if they're losing a large amount of of weight it's it would be ideal to to weight train. Now, I don't gatekeep cuz I'm like I can't force anybody to lose weight. And I do think the clinical benefits um of losing the atapost uh outweigh not losing the atapost if they're not going to strength train, but like strongly encourage strongly um push it, you know. So, it's if if if I if I could, you know, be very paternal and make sure everybody does Yeah. Everybody would be weight training at least two, three times a week, if not more. But uh two three times a week. Yeah. Yeah. And it's not just cuz we're trying to hold on to lean mass. There's lots of other benefits. Yeah. So function, you know, functionality, uh physical function, just living, activities of daily living, making sure that hey, you know, can you get up the stairs? Hey, maybe you got to pick up your bag of groceries and bring it up the stairs. All those all those types of things are so important. It goes back to the the the quality of life thing and if you're not going to enjoy life, it's not worth it. I mean, at least in my opinion. I don't know, maybe other people feel differently, but it's not fun to live a a a not fun life. No. And especially when folks are dealing with extreme obesity and they're trapped in their homes and they're I don't Did you see that movie The Whale with uh No, I need to see it because it was it was it was supposed to be really good about obesity and everything. Man, it's such a good movie. I just love Brendan Frasier and his story, you know? I mean, he was like he played Tarzan. I I don't know how old you are, but Oh, yeah. No, I watched that. He was such a super babe to my generation. Like, we were so crushed out on him. And then he did get quite heavy and you could just see he's like I I think he's got some thyroid issues going on. But anyway, for him to play that role and then uh gosh, it was really compelling because it shows you the inside of life, which is he can't even get to the first floor. He's stuck in a second floor apartment for until he dies and some they have to pull him out. You know what I mean? And it's like I don't think people realize how bad it can get for some folks. And I think there's there's such gray areas in medicine and everybody wants it all to be so black and white and so simplistic and I that's just that most patients fall somewhere in the gray zone, right? And so yeah, how do we get folks motivated to do the things they need to do to work out, to lift the weights, to eat the right foods? Well, we have a tool. We have this awesome tool called GLP-1 receptor agonist that give people all of those things and a window of opportunity to hardwire those things in if they're given that full support spectrum. And I think the problem though is a lot of docs themselves are just super unhealthy and they are not they don't strength train. They don't know the value of it. They when I was trying to talk about strength training a decade over a decade ago with I would go to medical conferences and try to talk about it I get heckled by MDs you know there'd be these guys in the back like whatever and they're you know chronic cardio cyclist guys and I was like okay I'm I'm sure I'm right about this but I'm glad the data is caught up now but and I took a lot of [\h__\h] back then yeah it's it's you'll still see it right now like I'll get patients that they'll their doctors will be like, "No, no, no. You just need to go running." And they're like, "But I don't feel like running. It's miserable if you got a lot of weight." Now, some I do have some marathoning patients with obesity, but it's not common. And the last thing they want to do is go for a run. That's uncomfortable for them. So, you get them strength training and it's something they feel comfortable doing like and and to get discouraged by a doctor to do that, especially when there's great data uh for it, it's just it's very frustrating. Yeah. Thankfully, there's there's a lot more data and actually the guidelines say try to strength train a couple couple days a week. So, that's good. But, yeah, it's it's not it's still it's still being pushed out there. Yeah. Yeah. That's okay. I think the new guard I have hope with there's so many great young doctors coming up that are fit themselves. You know, I always say like that's a great parameter. Find a fit doctor. They usually end up getting it. AI is gonna take over anyway. AI will AI will tell everybody lies, I'm pretty sure. Isn't that crazy? I just crazy. I I've been watch I I use AI a lot and I really like it and I really think the people who cannot the humans who cannot figure out how to work with AI are going to be the ones left in the dust. It's not I love AI. I talk to it all day all day long and try because I'll I'll use I use claw chat GPT and Grock and I cross reference and then reference my other things and make sure that like and it it it helps me learn it and it it's so smart but it it hallucinates sometimes when you cross reference but it's it's it's it's the future. I know it. Yeah. Yep. And I never in a million years thought that it would replace doctors first but I think it's going to be the bluecollar guys that stay afloat. And I think the doctors are going to be, especially the mediocre ones, the ones that aren't staying with it, you know. Yeah. Who the hell's gonna The AI is not going to come fix my toilet, you know, or my electricity. I know my husband's an electrician, so they're big blue collar family and they're they're good. I think they're actually just going to make more and more money. I think the trades are gonna I agree. I think that's unless they get robots, I suppose. But that's future future. Future. Oh, yeah. But they're coming, too. And I think they're coming in medicine. You know, you I just think about like radiologists and what an incredibly difficult job that is to hone that skill and how many years it takes to be able to see those discrepancies on images and to know that AI can see it like that. It's it's wild. So yes, I hope that uh and you know, you can't you can't trade out bedside manner, good bedside manner and just good hearttoheart. But I think we'll see. Yeah, we'll see some of these some of these things are beating. I mean, and I and I could see it. I've talked to, you know, Claude and these things and it's like, "Oh man, this thing's very like compassionate when talking to me." I'm like, "Oh, man. This thing's better than me. I'm going to I'm I'm done. I'm done." No, no, no, no, no, you're not. Um, okay. So, so we covered I wanted to make sure we covered all the things. So, strength training, you got to do it, guys. It's not the peptide causing you the muscle loss. It's Yeah. So, we're we're publishing some case studies. Um, we're have a prospective trial or I should say a prospective study, not a trial. We're not doing a randomized trial. We're first we actually will be doing a randomized trial, but like we're showing minimal fat-free mass loss. So, for people listening, you can follow my chief science officer, Grant, Dr. Grant Tinsley, who's a big- time body composition expert, but he goes into how DEXA scans don't look at muscle directly, but it's it's a fat-free mass loss. And we when people lift weights and eat adequate amounts of protein, not even overdoing it, but lifting weights, it's minimal. It's it's minimal. It it's it's some 10% or less or sometimes zero or even they gain uh fat-free mass. It's amazing. Yes, I'm with you. I heard you say somewhere and I completely agree with you that strength training may actually be more important than the protein intake. Yes, by far. share share some thoughts on that because I'm with you. Yeah. Because I mean you look this is like kind of standard sports medicine uh literature where you know the bodybuilders the athletes and when you look at that data it's you need to send the signal to the muscle. You can give the muscle building blocks but if you don't have the signal to build it's not going to build anymore. it kind of maybe a little bit. Um, but it's if you're not sending that signal to the muscle to grow to to or or even just stick around, it's gone. So the it's magnitudes higher of importance. Um, and if anybody wants so people like Brad Shfeld, Stu Phillips, those guys are kind of pioneers in that uh stuff, but it it actually crosses over to obesity with these medicines. Actually, I was at obesity conference and I we did a debate. I was going against a guy John Jacisik, brilliant exercise researcher, and we we had to take pick sides of resistance training versus aerobic training when it comes to obesity. And back then it was 2022 or 2023. Yeah, 2022 it was had to have been or 20 Yeah, 2022 maybe. And I picked uh Resistance Raining, of course. I went through all of it. And back then like these drugs were just kind of coming out and and people weren't talking about as much. But I made the argument that like look these medicines will get people walking around and being physical activity. Nothing can replace resistance training. You just can't you can't replace it with anything. You have to do it. You can't take more protein just to try to make up for it. It won't do it. You have to send send the signal. Now there are actually review papers out that basically I can tell some of these people were in the audience cuz I'm like that's that was almost verbatim of what I said at the at the debate and people were kind of like you know they they kind of agreed with me but um it at the time it wasn't like you said like even 10 years ago for you at these conferences people like no whatever just do aerobic training. Uh but now people like yeah no you we don't have drugs yet. They're actually looking for drugs that try to spare uh muscle mass. And quite frankly, I don't think they're going to be super successful because you you actually have to look at the functional component of it. Sure, we can make people, you know, block their myostatin and all these different things that they're looking at and and prevent them from losing muscle or maybe even make them gain muscle, but you actually still have to use it to make it functional. Yes. So, I don't think anything's going to replace Not anytime soon. Maybe in the future. I can't say never. Maybe there'll be some drug where it's going to make you super strong and and jacked, you know, beyond obviously some testosterone derivative of some sort without the metabolic effects. But I don't think so because you think about in the advancements in bone. You know, we had Fossamax trying to replace bone, trying to grow good healthy bone. It just makes chalky powdery bone. And in the regenerative medicine space, we've had a multitude of things that they thought they could inject into or near like say, you know, vertebrae that have been crushed to try to regenerate them. And it just causes all kinds of oius outgrowths and problems. So I what people don't get is that like you said it, you have to send the signal. It's this balance in the body. It's this orchestra. It's like thempk mtor balancing act. It's the myostatin. It's all of these things that that's a big lesson, but and I don't want, you know, we don't need to get into it here, but it's this orchestrated balance. And if these are nudged appropriately through your nutrition, through your strength training, through through the all the the GLP1s, we can modulate it. And I think some people's systems just get whacked. And in that being completely whacked, that's why I say if we're going to stimulate this side, if we're going to stimulate AMPK with a GLP-1, we have to stimulate mTor to balance it out through going to the gym. Like you have to go to the gym. You have to go to the gym. And yes, we got to we got to hit our protein macros. I don't think they are as important as actually hitting the gym consistently and getting that signal to send consistently, right? And we don't want to we don't want to overdrive any pathway with a medication too hard. That's why I think the people who are like hellbent on the metformin for longevity and the people who are hellbent on the rapamyosin for longevity it's just like or you could just go to the gym consistently get some sunlight and we're trying to take a shortcut and like we you know we're not talking about GLP1s being a shortcut but when it comes to exercise and building I I don't think there isn't a shortcut. You got to send the signal like you said it beautifully. I think that's exactly it because that signal is it sets off a whole complicated orchestra on the body that makes things better and without it you don't get the signal and you don't get the better and I do think strength is a superpower and if you don't have strength and you don't know the value of strength and strength training you don't appreciate it. So, a lot of these doctors out there, they might go cycling. I can't tell you how many cyclists I treated in my practice because they'd have like bung knees or bum backs, but they were all these guys in their 50s with they would go ride a 100 miles on a weekend or run 12, 15 miles a night, but they all had pot bellies and they all were sitting on the edge of diabetes. And I was like, that's kind of interesting. Yeah. Super. I was like, well, you can eventually you will run yourself into low testosterone and diabetes if you don't balance things out right. So, you got to go to the gym. I mean, the other thing that I've noticed is that people have this number on the scale that they want to see because they they think they're going to feel good about their body. And they get to it and they're like, you know what? I don't feel good about my body. I'm like, well, you know, I think you're focusing on the number too much. What you really wanted to do was shape it in a certain way. And they're like, yeah, I think so. I'm like, and they kind of point out some people or whatever. I'm like, yeah, they're they're lifting weights. They're shaping it. And it's so whether it's for metabolic purposes or for aesthetic purposes. I just it's just it's just so important. I don't I just it's hard though. You got to start and figure it out and whatever and try not to overdo it, annihilate your body and feel crappy and think of it as punishment. It's like no, you got to learn to enjoy it and have good programming and all that. I think it's the best money spent. I have had countless patients come to me and they want injections for their shoulders or for their knees. And I'm like, well, you have no muscle surrounding these joints and there's no activation of anything happening properly. So, I'm going to send you to my favorite strength and conditioning coach. You're going to spend the money you would have spent in here there and call me in 90 days. And then I would see them at the gym and they'd be like, "Hey, I feel great. How you doing?" And their shoulders good. But you put a ultrasound probe down and there's no muscle there and the woman's complaining of, you know, she's got limited range of motion, she's got pain. I'm like, yeah, we've got some frozen shoulder happening, but you're still never going to get through that. All the injections aside, you're never going to get through it if you don't start using it. You know, that's right. Yeah. So, use it or lose it. And I think that in harmony with a program that involves a GLP-1 agonist in there as part of a toolkit, I think it's just a really beautiful I think it's I think the two together are so synergistic is what I'm trying to get at. Perfect. Yeah, it's like peanut butter and chocolate. That is yummy. Yes. Okay. Well, Dr. Spencer, I don't want to keep you all day. It's so fun to talk to you and I'm glad we got to have this conversation and I hope this has been eye opening for my audience to hear. Obesity is a disease, you guys. It's for real. This is not a shortcoming of an individual. Um, and where can they find you? Tell me more about Vineyard and what you're doing there. Yeah. Yeah. So, Vineyard is basically a direct care model for online obesity and metabolic care. We remove all the barriers between the doctor and the patient. You also get your your own dietitian. Our dietitians lift weights, by the way. They're very like they're they're GLP-1 expert dietitians, but they lift weights. We have strength coaches, uh, community group events. We go much more beyond the GLP-1. That's what we focus on because that's what people want. But, you know, side effect management lab, cardio metatabolic management. I'm a lipidologist, so we do a lot of lipids and that type of thing. Even things like hair loss, um, you need some minoxidil to help with that. That all sorts of stuff to basically um, really facilitate and help people. But the big thing is it's a direct care model. There's we have small patient panels so that you get to talk directly to the doctor as opposed to some team member that then relays and you play this game of telephone. So that's that's joinvineyard.com. That's my uh new online clinic. And then uh Instagram, you can see me make funny memes and stuff there. I'm on threads and Twitter. Threads. I just basically talk crap uh to people all the time and basically respond. I I just it's such a weird platform, but I'm on TikTok as well. I'm all I'm all over the place. We have a podcast called Docs Who Lift uh with me and my brother and we just, you know, kind of banter back and forth about stuff and and promote actually exercise, literally lifting weights as medicine and try to promote the idea of lifting weights really for for purposes of getting healthier. It's a great podcast. I think I heard Grant Tinsley on there. I think did you have him on recently about the muscle loss, the lean mass, and he broke it down really granularly, but he's way he's he's much more of an expert in that realm than I am. So, if you ever want to listen, he's he'll go in uh into detail about how DEXA scans and how the compartments work and how they how they test. It's pretty cool. Yeah, it's good stuff. Okay. Well, I will make sure everything's in the show notes for everybody to come follow you and find you. I love your Instagram. That's where I follow you most. And uh you guys, he's a wealth of information and just you're you're a you're just a level head in this scene and I applaud you because you get a lot of push back, I'm sure, every day and this conversation is re really polarizing for people for some odd reason that I think Oh, yeah. They think I'm paid by by Eli Lilly and Novo. I'm like, "No, I don't pay. I I I purposely do not take money from them just to be able to say this." My brother and I were just talking like, "Maybe we should take it. Do people care?" I'm like I I like to just be all, you know, holier than thou and be like, "Nope, I don't take money. See, I don't take money." But I get accused of it, too. And I'm like, "Honey, they deplatform." I'm pretty sure Eli Liy deplatform me at 232,000. I I'm not thinking I'm getting any checks for I haven't seen any checks. They're not coming in. They're coming in. So, we're just trying to talk about this because we actually believe in it that it's it's in our heart. So, anyway, so fun to connect. Thank you for being here and sharing your wisdom with us. Yes. Thank you. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcasttina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have, and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.