The oncology world does not really value choice, shared decision, decision-making, and nuance when it comes to menopause and sexual wellness and intimacy and her concerns about chronic disease risks from long-term estrogen deprivation. You are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina show. I'm diving into a heated topic that I've been asked about from so many of you and that is can breast cancer survivors utilize HRT? To answer that question, I brought on a world expert on the subject and that is Dr. Karen Men. Dr. Men is a board-certified OBGYn and Menopause Society certified practitioner as well as a fellow of the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology. She's also a 23-year survivor of breast cancer herself and premature menopause. She's a broa carrier and she uses this experience to help educate women all over the world and help them navigate these unique health challenges. She has dedicated her entire medical practice to menopause management, the unique health care needs of female cancer survivors and those at high risk for breast cancer. So to answer the question, can breast cancer survivors utilize HRT? The answer is as always, it depends. This is for educational purposes only and should not be construed as medical advice. We had a great and informative conversation that I know you're going to benefit from. So without further ado, let's jump in. Dr. Karine Men, thank you so much for coming on the Dr. Tina Show today and I'm very excited to have you. We have a very important subject to discuss and it is the safety and efficacy of estrogen in all kinds of different situations. And you're the expert. I've been following you for some length of time on Instagram and I love your work. I love how you just throw down. You you do not apologize for it. you bring the science, you review it so well, and you're obviously a woman on a mission. So, thanks for coming on today. Thanks for having me. Yeah. Yeah. This should be super fun. So, would you share just your a bit of your backstory because I it matters here in context. Oh, yeah. It sure does. So, I always like to let people know that, you know, my experience as a patient, as a breast cancer patient, um, diagnosed young at the age of 28 has really informed my medical practice. And in many ways, it made me a better doctor. And there's a lot of silver linings to that, right? So, um, my perspective on what I really care about and my mission now is to really help other women navigate challenging, you know, um, health situations, particularly around the issues of pmenopause, premature menopause, um, menopause, not only um, after cancer of any sort, particularly of course breast cancer, and we'll get into all of that, um, but also women in general who are the most overlooked or dismissed in this menopause movement, right? Because as we know on social media and in the press, there's a lot of talk about like normalizing, destigmatizing menopause and talking about how all clinicians need to really level up, you know, their their knowledge in menopause care. And that's great, right? But at any event I speak at, and I know your listeners probably are like, they hear all this great information about estrogen and menopausal hormone therapy and the new guidance and all of these things, but they're like, "But wait, I don't think I'm part of that." Like, I can't have it. And sometimes that is true. And we'll review where we would not use it. Um, but we'll also review areas of where we can have shared decision- making and we can have hard discussions like that's okay. Yes. Yes. I'm grateful for you being here to have this conversation because it's it's wild. You know, I as a naturopathic physician in Oregon, I have licensed to prescribe and I was never scared away from that women's health initiative and I was trained to prescribe hormones by a very savvy hormone doc. She was always this whole time, the last several decades, she's been prescribing two specific groups of patients who've had breast cancer. And so, she manages them very well and she's not been afraid to do it. and she's always followed the literature and I would refer whenever I had a patient come in who was in that category I would say you know what I'm going to send you over to Dr. Peterson, that's her wheelhouse. I'm gonna I'm gonna let her manage that just because I wasn't entirely comfortable doing so. I wish that I had had the knowledge that you share out because it it's just that gray line of like, you know, you've really got to know your stuff to know when and where. And I think that you've done such a spectacular job of keeping up on that literature and I'm sure your patients are so grateful to you for it because not only are most doctors just completely they there's like a whole generation of doctors that have been scared away from prescribing hormones period and so they don't even know how you know SSRIs are like their first line defense and that's what they go to and I'm so glad that it's changing with doctors like you and Dr. Mary Cla and every Dr. Casperson out there, you know, spreading the news. But that said, you're right. There's I get it all the time. I get hundreds of messages a month from women saying, "But what about me?" Like, "What what can I do?" What about me? And I send them to you. I send them to your page to go get educated or I send them um to the book Estrogen Matters. Like, go get educated. Go, you know, get up on it. But not everybody wants that. They still want my opinion. So, here's my opinion. I'm punting to you. I'm grateful to have you here. Yes. So I hear from patients on Instagram emailing me, you know, coming up to me at conferences that they feel really left out of the conversation. And I think before we get into kind of this big, like I call it the pink elephant in the room of like, can people who have had breast cancer ever consider menopausal hormone therapy? I think it's really important for us to just kind of recognize that, you know, the the the first problem is that the collateral damages of menopause of estrogen deprivation during breast cancer treatment or after a breast cancer treatment, just that just recognizing the full extent of the the symptoms and the impact of adgivant endocrine therapy, right, which is ovarian suppression, medications like tmoxin and arerobitase inhibitors. What I find is the general medical community doesn't even recognize the symptoms, right? So like we are starting from a place where women and doctors don't know, they're not counseling women on the full extent of what's happening, right? That it's more than just hot flashes and night sweats and maybe a little vaginal dryness, right? But that's what a lot of people are told, right? They don't understand the full extent. And so a lot of times we've got to start from you know kind of this like first step of being like okay let's get a hold of like one what is actually happening when you have you know that estrogen deprivation for a period of time um and and understand that it's worse for women who are younger. So the younger premenopausal women who are thrown into abrupt surgical menopause or medically induced menopause, how that is different than a natural menopause and that um we also then also have to um you know kind of break out the different stages of survivorship, right? So like how we might manage your menopause when you're first diagnosed um or you're in the middle of active treatment for estrogen receptor positive breast cancer. that might look a little bit different than how we're going to manage it once you're done with kind of any of these hormonally driven treatments. Um, and then it will also depend on what type of breast cancer you had, right? Because this idea that we're lumping everyone who's been touched by a breast cancer diagnosis in the same putting them all in the same bucket and managing them the same is totally crazy because breast cancer is heterogeneous. meaning it's each breast cancer is actually quite different between the stage, the node status, um the estrogen receptor positive or negative, her two positive or negative, other factors, right? And so it's not a one-sizefits-all approach. So like we have to start with that, right? And anybody out there saying a hell yes or a hell no to anything is not giving you nuanced care, right? And and so I think I always like to kind of like start out with that framework. Does that make sense? Yeah, absolutely. No, absolutely. So yeah, can we talk a little bit about just the standard of care in breast cancer and how it goes down? Because I've seen several girlfriends go through this now and basically they they have their breasts removed, they get put on tmoxifen, they I have watched that just devastate them because they're thrust into this medicallyinduced menopause, I guess, in that situation. or like you said um perhaps a surgically induced menopause where women are having ovaries removed and you know full hyctomies and I've seen young women surgically induced menopause absolutely no support given no discussion no conversation 6 months later they're 30 40 lbs overweight they can't tell their head from their butt they feel awful and it's it's like hell and it's so bewildering to me because I'm thinking if you remove a male's testicle, I'm pretty sure they probably have a conversation about that. Or if you remove a thyroid, there's a conversation about replacement, but for some reason in our cohort, that doesn't happen. It doesn't. And you know, the American Society of Clinical Oncology, the Menopause Society, there are practice guidelines on this. You know, there are standards of care of what we should be talking about. But just like that, the average physician out there doesn't have much training in general menopause um and the um current medical system where people are kind of being seen in these insurance based models where they're being seen in like 15 minutes. Frankly, the doctors don't have the training and they literally don't have the time to even deliver this care in a way, you know, and so that's a part of the problem as well, right? Um, and then we always have to remember that the Women's Health Initiative, which we learned a lot of good things from, I never want to like throw that study out, but there's a lot of misinformation from that study and a lot of fear that was generated. So, that's always living in the back of people's mind. So, when they hear the words breast cancer and estrogen, like their eyes just glaze over and they're like, "Yeah, we're not, you know, we're not talking about this." Right? So, you know, what in terms of like what is the basic standard of care for anybody like kind of listening to it? It really depends on your breast cancer. But to kind of keep it simple, about 80% of breast cancers are estrogen receptor positive. And so the vast majority of breast cancer patients are going to be offered some sort of what we call adgiant endocrine therapy of some sort um because targeting these estrogen receptors. And like we should just set the record straight that if you have estrogen receptor positive breast cancer, it does not mean that estrogen caused your breast cancer. Okay, that is very very important to understand. Every tissue in your body has estrogen receptors. Normal healthy breast tissue in babies and in girls at puberty and in women in their reproductive ages and their 20s and 30s and beyond, their breast cells have estrogen receptors. Healthy breast cells have estrogen receptors. Your bladder has estrogen receptors, your gut, your skin, etc. Your brain, right? So if you have a breast cell and it's become cancerous right and it's an estrogen receptor positive breast cancer it means th that breast cancer cell as it's you know changed into cancer has retained and it's sometimes overexpressing the estrogen receptor. Um whereas triple negative breast cancer it doesn't express receptors anymore to estrogen progesterone right or to what we call you know her too. So, um, and so what women have to first understand is that when your oncologist is talking to you about how are we going to target your cancer cells so that your cancer is less likely to come back, well, if you're estrogen receptor positive, we have a way to target those cells. Okay? But that's a very different thing than saying that estrogen caused your breast cancer, right? So, that's an important thing to understand. And so that if you can understand that then you can say okay I've had er positive breast cancer I've maybe I've needed chemo maybe not and that depends on the type of cancer and you know your risks and stuff but at some point if you're er positive they're going to say okay now we're going to offer some type of you know hormonal therapy with either tmoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor. Tmoxifin blocks estrogen receptors on breast cells and it blocks but also promotes receptors in different parts of the body. So it's kind of a mixed package. So it's selective estrogen receptor modulator. So it's selectively blocking some receptors some places and other receptors. It's promoting that like temoxin's not negative on the bone in a menopausal woman. Whereas aromatase inhibitors only work if you're already menopausal. So that's why a woman who is using an aromatase inhibitor either has to already be in menopause naturally or she has to surgically remove her ovaries or she has to have a medication that induces menopause like you alluded to called ovarian suppression right um medications like Lupron or Zolex those are the brand names um and so when we're talking about premenopausal breast cancer there are studies that have like helped oncologists decide who gets what like who can just get tmmoxifen and still have estrogen in her body, right? Like she's premenopausal. And then there's some people who are recommended to have ovarian suppression with tmoxifen. And then the most quote unquote extreme version of adgivant endocrine therapy would be to have ovarian suppression and an aromatase inhibitor. And just at the American Society of Clinical Oncology annual scientific meeting, the 15-year data on those three basic arms um was was presented and it and it showed that yes, there is some um recurrence risk and overall survival benefit at 15 years for some women for some women who are at much who are at higher risk of having recurrence. Whereas in other lower risk women who were maybe over the age of 35 who didn't have a lot of positive lymph nodes who had a lower grade tumor or you know like you know a better overall progn prognosis those women didn't really gain much benefit for having the more extreme um but there are some women who did have benefit right and so again it must be individualized and I think you probably see this that and I I have seen this personally that there's been a trend to extreme for everybody that I see women who are really struggling on aromatase inhibitors and ovarian suppression. I'm like, okay, you've done this for four years. Has anybody actually told you you're such a low stage and grade that actually you're probably getting minimal additional benefit from this more extreme measure, right? And so, let's talk about that. So, that's why we like these are the baby steps of approaching this menopause and breast cancer because for some of these women, part of their solution is to just deescalate their treatment a little bit. Like I say, you can have your cake and eat it too, right? That's step one. Now, for the people who really we've decided that there is a great benefit of this this time with this, you know, ovarian suppression and aromatase inhibitors, well, we better lean into our toolbox and beyond an SSRI to help her menopause, right? But what I see is that patients don't get much support at all. They're not given vaginal estrogen, which we can talk about is safe for all these patients, and they're not they they're not given the full supportive picture of the lifestyle, the nutrition, the exercise, as well as pharmaceutical and other things that we can do outside of hormones, right? And we can certainly talk about that, but I know you want to get into hormones. Um, and then we also have patients who are already menopausal, and those those patients are not given ovarian suppression. They're already in menopause. So the the um the knee-jerk is to put them on an aromatase inhibitor, but those women could also consider tmoxifen and they're very often not offered that, right? And there's pros and cons to aromatase inhibitors and tmoxifen. My point is if you're in the middle of treatment and suffering, you have to know that there is nuances between these treatments, right? Um, and what I see particularly when I I talk to a breast cancer patient dealing with a lot of collateral damages, I say, "Okay, time out. We're going to do a systemsbased approach, and we're going to go through your symptoms, and we're going to separate them out. I want to hear about your joint pain. I want to hear about your sleep. I want to hear about your hot flashes and night sweats, but I also want to hear about your sexual health, your urinary health, um, you know, pain with sex, etc. because we might be able to treat some things with local lowdose non-sistic hormones. Um, and it's really amazing when you've got somebody who is struggling with hot flashes, the night sweats and the joint pains and some brain fog in this, but they also then have no sex drive. Sex feels like the Sahara or like knives, right? They've lost intimacy. They're getting up multiple times to pee at night because they have urinary frequency and urgency. And I say, "If I could just fix this one aspect, do you think the other things would be more tolerable?" And they're like, "Yeah, because I've lost control of all parts of my life and no one has helped me with any of them." So, this is where I think for breast cancer survivors, because we're going to talk about how the data is not crystal clear on what's safe and what's not hormone therapy, but that we do have data and we can lean into that, but what we have really clear data on is local vaginal hormones. And that is not even being addressed. And you know why? Because I think that like it's written off as just some vaginal dryness when it can have profound implications. And I've had patients tell me, "Dr. Now that sex doesn't hurt, my bladder health is better. You know, I I'm able to, you know, kind of get control of that part of my body back. Now I'm feeling a little bit more resilient and now I'm ready to now let's like tackle the next part, right? So like that's one way of breaking it down because it can be overwhelming and sometimes it's not a home run like let's prescribe you HRT, but then we get to a point where patients want to have that discussion. They're like, "Okay, I've done my duty. I've done my temoxifenant. I've completed my aromatase inhibitor or I've done it for as long as I can and I've made the decision that, you know, I've I'm stopping it and now I'm moving on to this next phase of survivorship and I've got the rest of my life ahead of me and I'm in this menopause and I have all these symptoms. Is hormone therapy an option for me?" And so, I think that, you know, this is a pink elephant that we we can't avoid. We've got more than four million survivors out there. And so what I say is let's look at the data that we have. And so you alluded to Estrogen Matters, a wonderful book, and Dr. Avin Blooming and Carol Tavvers, you know, kind of reviewed the literature particularly on what does the science actually say? Um, and so if we want to get into that now, let's get into it. Do you want Yeah. Because he's written he's written a few different publications and broken it down. I mean, his history is that he was a oncologist, right? Like a breast cancer oncologist. So I yeah I'm blown away every time I get my hands on anything he's produced because it's not the story we've been told. So this is what I think I you know I think we have a body of literature that has gaps in it. It's not perfect data but you know women right now dealing with menopause after breast cancer. We don't have time to wait around for another 20 years for randomized controlled studies and to get perfect data. And as a as a breast cancer survivor myself, I know that through many times in my my treatment, I had to make hard decisions about what's the next best course, right? And you know, and we made decisions based on the data that was at hand at the time, right? And so we're big girls. We can we can we can make hard decisions, right? And I'm gonna before we even get into the HRT after breast cancer, I like to use this um illustration about pregnancy after breast cancer as a really really good example of shared decision-making and taking observational data and presenting it to the patient and saying all right this is how we can proceed. So back in 2002 when I was um 2001 into 2002 when I was in the middle of my treatment there was a lot of observational data so not randomized controlled studies suggesting that pregnancy after an estrogen receptor positive breast cancer seemed to be safe right and that it didn't seem to increase the risk of recurrence in the short term or long term or the risk of death but we didn't know we didn't know exactly um but at the time I was really lucky I was living in New York City and I had access to lots of doctors and I was referred to the leading expert um Dr. Octay. He was at Cornell at the time and he was doing studies and research on fertility preservation for cancer survivors. And my breast oncologist as well as many of the breast surgeons I saw said throughout my whole while I was trying to decide on even before I even had chemo or um surgery, they said, "Well, maybe you want to just start with a lumpctomy because you might want to get pregnant one day." And so I remember that was stuck in my mind. So we way back then they were already planting the seed that at some point I might be able to actually have pregnancy. Now what does that mean hormonally? That would mean not being on estrogen blockers. It would mean having very high levels of estrogen for over, you know, 9 months, right? Um and then maybe even after because they're talking about breastfeeding and then you know and so that always kind of stuck with me, right? And so they said, "Yeah, because the observational data suggests that." So this is shared decisionmaking. And so I was lucky and a lot of women back at the time did not get that same care and access to fertility preservation. And it still can be a problem. But in general, the oncology community has embraced, supported, researched, studied, and written guidelines on how to counsel women. And that breast cancer survivors can be offered pregnancy after their breast cancer. to the point that they made a randomized controlled study and it was released a few years ago in the New England Journal of Medicine. It's called the positive trial and they looked at patients who were exactly me. I always say I was the positive trial but only 24 years ago, right? So back when I was, you know, finished my chemotherapy, I was on tmoxif for a few years and I said, "Okay, I really want to get pregnant." They says, "You can pause your tmoxifen, get pregnant, and then you'll go back on." I said, "Okay, deal." All right. They said based on observational data, right? Not perfect data. And I did that and it's good. And my daughter's now almost 21, right? Yeah. Which is great. And so that was shared decision-m without perfect data. Now, we've come a long way. We've accumulated more data. And then there was a randomized control study that looked at this very question. And what I found is that it does not appear that there is any increased risk of recurrence and that women can do this. So I so I said to myself, I says, "Wow, we value a woman's choice on how she's going to live her life after cancer and allow her fertility treatments, IVF, pausing aromatase inhibitors, getting pregnant, maybe even breastfeeding if they still have breasts." But a woman who is, you know, maybe a number of years, five years more after her breast cancer treatment ended, maybe she had triple negative breast cancer and she never even had hormonal suppression. Uh, you know, maybe she just had DCIS and a a bilateral mastctomy and she had normal periods for seven years, right? High estrogen levels. Then suddenly she goes through natural menopause and god we can't have a conversation with her about using the lowest amount of a FDA approved estrogen patch and a little bit of progesterone to ease suffering and protect her against osteoporosis and other benefits that we know exist and we can't even have that conversation. They're shut down. I said, so I've come to the conclusion that we value choice and shared decision-making when it comes to our reproductive capacity. But when our questions extend beyond maintaining our fertility, we do not value in general. I value it, but in general, the oncology world does not really value choice, share, decision-m and nuance when it comes to menopause and sexual wellness and intimacy and her concerns about chronic disease risks from long-term estrogen deprivation. So, I find it almost um I I I find it puzzling and actually really I just find it absurd that we would have one conversation about letting you have a baby, but we won't let you have any conversations about using the lowest, you know, kind of needed dose, you know, to help you with symptoms as one option. Like, what's that about? Yeah. Well, it's the, you know, it's interesting. Middle-aged women are just forgotten, period. You know, I mean, I it's I think we're the first generation to really fight back on that. And, you know, back when we were young, women our age look like the Golden Girls. Yes. I don't look like I don't think I look like the Golden Girls. No, neither of us do. And every single woman I remember my mom when I was a teenager, my mom fighting tooth and nail just to keep her ovaries and uterus because everybody just got a hyctomy. And then I saw and I thought, you know, I really thought that brutality had ended. And I saw a stat the other day on uh another Instagram showing a study that 45% of women end up with a hysterctomy and 90% of them don't actually end up needing it. Something like that. And I was like what the hell is going on? Like we are still butchering women for the sake of the old guard. I don't get it. But all that to say so my practice was predominantly when I was running my big clinic was regenerative injection therapies. And so I was taking care of people who had chronic muscular skeletal pain. And the amount of middle-aged women that came through my door, I was predominantly middle-aged folks in general. But for certain people, and this is what I always try to express to my followers, we're not all the same. We don't all have the same engine. We don't all have the same Yeah. receptors. And so for some of us, losing estrogen equates to psychosis. And we have the stats on that. And the suicide rates that happen in middle-aged women. I mean, one day you're fine and the next day you are off your rocker and you're morbidly depressed and you can't move. And then couple that with debilitating, crushing pain for many of us and it's like somebody flipped a switch and you are now in hell and now now your knees are going, now your hips are going, and your these women are getting bilateral orthopedic surgeries, and orthopedic surgery begets more orthopedic surgery. just the spinal contribution, the the actual breakdown of the spinal column that happens when you lose estrogen and you lose your hormones, it's unbelievable. And to think that these women are just like, "Oh, sorry, you had cancer. You're screwed. You have to live with this." I mean, that just seems like hell on top of hell and it seems quite unnecessary. Yeah. So, so, so make it a 28-year-old who then, you know, has been told it's 10 years of this. Now listen, I work with breast cancer patients all the time who I say, listen, you need to have this treatment and we are going to help you get through it. Um because we can't expect that we want women to benefit from these treatment but then not be able to exercise because their pain is so bad, right? We have to balance these things. So, you know, interesting also data coming out of ASCO was that it was a study and I won't have the details exactly right, but it was um people with more advanced colon cancer and it showed that exercise was improving recurrence rates even more than the drugs they were on. Right? So, I guess my point is we always have to balance it. So, if I say to a woman, listen, if you really if life is so bad for you and you're feeling so bad on this and you can't do these other things, well, something's got to give and something's got to change. We have to look at the big picture, right? And so, when we get to the hormone question, you know, menopausal hormone therapy after breast cancer diagnosis, you know, I think the way I like to approach it is we need to look at what is your baseline risk of recurrence. Um, number one, right? And it's different for different people. So you know when we talk about you know and we're diagnosing patients at an earlier earlier age but also earlier stages which is great right earlier stage they have a better prognosis. So when I see a DCIS patient who's had a bilateral masectomy and never needed tmoxif she's a very different person than someone who had a stage three er positive breast cancer who has multiple positive lymph nodes right those are different people as is the triple negative patient and so we have to think baseline recurrence risk we also have to talk about recurrence patterns so for instance a triple negative say an early stage triple negative breast cancer patient we know triple negative breast cancer most likely to recur if it's going to recur in the first two to five years. It peaks around year four. So if you've got a triple negative patient who comes to me and they're like at six years out, five years out and they're likely like if they were going to recur, the data is pretty clear that they would have probably recurred and estrogen deprivation was not part of their treatment plan, right? Um I use example of my friend who's public and she's been on, you know, Instagram lives with me, my friend Jamie who um had triple negative breast cancer in her late 20s. She had her chemotherapy. She went on to have many years of normal hormones being produced. She had twin pregnancy. And then right before the age of 40, because she was a broa carrier, she had her ovaries out only to lower her risk of ovarian cancer. And if she wasn't broken, they would have just like let her have her her hormones being naturally produced from her ovaries. But the ovaries came out and there was no discussion. No vaginal estrogen, no estrogen, no progesterone, no testosterone, nothing. So then she suffered for a bunch of years and then she finally was like and so I saw her and I said okay you know let's be common sense about this right and so we worked with her oncologist and they're like oh yeah you you could go on it and I said but did anybody ever discuss this with you like they she didn't even have much of a push back right now so that's like an example of like nuanced care like we're looking at her as an individual breast cancer patient unfortunately when we look at what data do we have to support us in our decision-m about this. So basically and you know if anybody wants to look at um you know a great summary of this you know the book estrogen matters has a whole chapter on this which really he explains where we are with the state of data but basically we have a lot of observational studies and we have a few randomized controlled studies that were stopped short um because of a number of things. one because of the background of the women's health initiative, but they were all being done around the same time, but these were randomized controlled studies of breast cancer survivors taking hormone therapy, but we're talking about these were studies that were done in the early 2000s, right? So, it's been over 20 years since we've had any new randomized controlled studies. So, we're leaning on these old RCTs, one of which showed an increased risk of local recurrence, not distant recurrence or mortality. That was the Hobbits trial. And then at the same time, it was another study going on called the Stockholm trial which showed the opposite that um there didn't appear to be an increased risk of recurrence um in the short term or at the followup. I believe it was around 10 years when they look looked back at the data. The problem is both of the studies were stopped short. They never got their full um recruitment that they were looking for to power the results, right? And so we're left with those very imperfect studies which basically negate each other. Um and then the um observational data was all leaning towards that it didn't appear to increase recurrence that it was either neutral or even an improved rate. Now the improvement may be because in observational data you're looking back you're not randomizing these people. It could be the healthy woman effect meaning that people who were less likely to recur were the ones who were more likely to use hormone therapy. Hence they had overall a better prognosis. Right? But to say that we have no data on this and shut the conversation down is not being honest. We have over 25 studies. They are far from perfect. Some are old, some are small, some are larger. Um, but the other thing I also point out is because this data is so old. We also have to recognize that the people who were in these studies were treated substandard to today's standards. Right? So the studies included women that you know were treated in the 80s and in the 90s before we ever had things like aotypes or or deciding who got chemotherapy and who didn't. So many of these women maybe needed chemo but didn't get it and vice versa. This was before her septin before we even knew about her too. So I try to tell patients like we've got a lot of observational data and a couple of randomized controlled studies both that suggest that there was no increased risk of mortality or recurrence distant recurrence. Um, and these people were treated substandard compared to what you were treated. So, you know, kind of like thinking logically like you're treated even better than these people were. So, at baseline, your recurrence risk was lower to begin with. So, we can have these intelligent conversations with women and I say and then we can look back at what um so these were original studies, you know, whether observational, randomized, but then there's over 20 metaanalysis where they kind of rehash that data and Dr. Blooming and Dr. Tabers present that in estrogen matters and other publications and a recent one which was published in the menopause society I think in 2023 out of Spain. They looked at a number of studies and then they tried to like separate it out estrogen negative versus estrogen positive. And what they said is what they found again with the limited data is that there is no data to suggest that people who are estrogen receptor negative who used hormone therapy after breast cancer had any increased risk of recurrence. Right? So again, we can start to, you know, that gives us a little bit more reassurance. And then the newest thing that was published was the menopause society just published a practice pearl on how we should approach this. And they basically kind of the bottom line is we've got millions of women suffering. This question is not going away. We have imperfect data, but we can do individualized care and shared decision-making. And we can start with lifestyle. We can start with non hormonal treatments. We can start with, you know, tailoring adgivant endocrine therapy to make it more tolerable. But when push comes to shove, we can have these discussions with informed consent, right? And I think that is where we're at now. But what is happening is that part doesn't happen. No, the shared decision to make informed consent. No, that's key. It this is risk tolerance. This all comes down to risk tolerance. And I had a colleague who was talking to me about a patient and she said this poor woman and this is just an example so people understand this poor woman her vaginal tissue was so severely atrophied. She was not sleeping. She's estrogen positive breast cancer history. She was not sleeping. She hadn't slept in a decade. She was in hell. Her marriage was in hell. Her husband and she were starting to consider living apart. I mean everything was falling apart for her. I hear these stories all the time. her muscularkeeletal situation was a wreck and she was like everything was tearing constantly and I said, "Hey, you know what? Here's some data." I sent her every study I could get my hands on. I said, "Talk to her doc and just see if he would consider." And after it was all said and done, her doctor agreed to give her a little bit of estrogen and she was sleep. And it was a risk to it was just risk tolerance like like you said, shared decision-making. She knew the risks, but the risk of not being able to exercise, having your joints fall apart, running the risk of getting, you know, I mean, we can talk about what happens to the poor vagina and the risk that they run with UTI and with death. Um, all the things, right? And she's back sleeping in the bed with her husband again. And like the risk of obesity, not exercising, not sleeping, like what does that do to your cancer risk, right? Like these are huge factors when it comes to cancer risk. huge factors. I love that point. It's so important. We know that metabolic health in terms of insulin resistance, um metabolic syndrome, the risk of diabetes, um you know, the the risk of visceral fat accumulation, um the risk of chronic insomnia. I will tell you personally, one of the hardest things for me during my abrupt prolonged premature menopause was the lack of sleep. Okay? I don't think I slept well for over 20 years and it really impacted me. Right. Luckily, I think I was doing enough healthy behaviors that I somehow muddled through it. But it was not easy. And it wasn't until many years later, and I'm very open about this. I I made the decision and it took me a long long time to make this decision that I I decided, you know, a number of years ago to start the lowest amount of a transdermal estrogen patch and some progesterone at bedtime. And I became consistent. I took my own advice and became consistent with vaginal estrogen. And it changed my life and I feel much better. And I've learned how to um you know talk to patients about that, but also sometimes offer parts of that for patients, right? Um getting to the point of like, all right, we're going to we're going to pick one thing and we're going to work on it. Okay? And some people have a lower risk tolerance. Some people have a higher risk tolerance. Some people psychologically can't even consider the thought of ever considering it. And you know what? That's okay because I promise her I can help her. You know, we can man. We're lucky. There are non hormonals out there and we don't have to get all into them but the menopause society has a really beautiful practice statement on all of the evidence-based on hormonal medications and it's not just SSRI now oxybutin gapentin we've got fezolinian there's a new one coming out on the market right so those can be useful right are they perfect absolutely not can they be useful absolutely um uh nutrition and exercise as medicine I honestly look back and it is actually shameful that our system, but I don't blame the doctors. It's really the way the system is. The prescription for exercise and nutrition should have been as important as my prescription for my tmoxifen. But I had no support on that. And yes, I'm a doctor. I could have figured it out. When I look back, I didn't do the right things or I didn't even have the support around the right things. They seem like extras that are hard to like figure out, but that should have been part of it. Um, and so, you know, I think I I'm always like very careful about wanting to make sure we we always bring that back in because I don't want any breast cancer survivor to think if they choose not to ever consider hormone therapy after breast cancer or if they're really not a good candidate for it because they've got to stay on their aromatase inhibitor or they're at very high risk of recurrence and we're not we we're concerned about that. You know, I don't want them to feel that all is lost. So, patients say to me, "But Dr. Man, what about my cardiovascular risk and my dementia risk?" I said, 'Well, yes, of course estrogen can be helpful when we start it earlier for that, right? And we know that can be beneficial, but I don't want anyone to ever think that if they can't take systemic estrogen, it means that it's all lost. And I say heart health is brain health, right? So, whatever we can do to keep your cardiovascular system healthy, you know, and sleep health, right, is overall health, right? So, we have to focus on that, right? Um and this is why sometimes you know when I present to patients and even a medical oncologist like this concept of hormone therapy like I think people think that it's like high doses of hormones right and when I say okay let's just think about this a 0.025 025 patch raises an estrogen level in the serum. If you look at the package insert from the pharmaceutical company, right, a 0.025 patch will get your serum level up to about 25, maybe 30 if we're lucky, picoggrams per ml. All right? When you have your normal menstrual cycles, your estrogen levels goes all the way up to 400, 500, even higher every single month. So we're not talking about re and for many women who have been estrogen deprived for a long time giving them back like very small amount just a touch relieves a little bit of suffering. Um sometimes you know we'll consider just progesterone only you know a nightly dose of progesterone can the you know we have some data that it can help with night sweats and some hot flashes and it does help with anxiety and sleep. So sometimes that's something kind of that we can start with um if we've you know tried other things that are not helping with sleep because you know sleep if you don't sleep I don't care what else we tell a woman to do it it's just impossible like you can't exercise or do you know or or or function in a relationship or function at work right so those are like yeah it's hell so like low low doses and then kind of really you know really hammering home how important local vaginal estrogen is and then the testosterone questions the other question I always get asked and I think you know we have way less data on testosterone after breast cancer but we can also take like logic and available data that's out there and you know testosterone when given in physiologic levels to get a woman within the rough the higher range of a physiologic level for a woman there's no data out there on earth that suggests that it raises breast cancer risk we don't have much data studying testosterone and breast cancer survivors. Um, but we also know that lowering it to sub levels isn't a targeted treatment. So, do I think it's an option for breast cancer patients? Yeah, I think with shared decision-m it is. Um, and we have to remember a lot of breast cancer patients have lost their ovaries. So, their their testosterone levels are already in the tank because, you know, your ovaries produce about 50% of testosterone. We desperately need more data in all of these things. Um, but when a patient is told we can't do it because we don't have perfect data, I say she doesn't have time because that data is not going to be here in the next 20 years because no one's doing it. There are no ongoing randomized controlled studies looking at this question unfortunately except and I want to talk about DUV with you because I think this is really exciting and interesting news for breast cancer patients out there. Um, so if you want to we can we can talk about that. So the American Society clinical oncology annual meeting just presented the preliminary reports from um the promise trial. So the promise trial was it's a multic-enter um trial in um northwestern other other major centers throughout the US and basically the promise trial was looking at newly diagnosed DCIS er positive DCIS patients. Okay. And they were given doue. Duv is the brand name of conjugated ecoin estrogen and basodoxifene. All right. So, um it's a combination hormone therapy that has been FDA approved for well over a decade and it's FDA approved for hot flashes, night sweats, and preventing osteoporosis. So, standard fair hormone therapy, right? But researchers knew that basodoxifene in due functions. It's a serum. It's elective estrogen receptor modulator. I like to tell patients it's a fancy cousin of tmoxifin. So it blocks the estrogen receptors in the breast tissue and it blocks estrogen receptors in the uterine tissue and it also degrades the estrogen receptor in breast and uterine tissue. So it's very profound the impact um but it's very selective meaning it's not messing around with the estrogen receptors other places. It's very very selective. So it's a special SERM so more selective than tmoxifen. And so researchers years ago found well if we pair it with just the right amount of conjugated ecoinestrogen which was prearran and the whi right we get a nice complex um medication um that they marketed as due and it works great for hot flashes for night sweats. It prevents the bone loss, you get the sleep, all these benefits and it seems to be really protective on the breast tissue. Interesting. So they says, "What if we give it to patients who have DCIS at diagnosis? What happens to that DCIS?" So we finally got the preliminary data at the abstract. And what it showed was that what they were looking at was a marker called KI67, which anybody who's had breast cancer probably has heard of this. KI67 is kind of like a rough estimate of how aggressive or how rapidly I should say um cells the that breast cancer cell is dividing right and so when the KI67 goes up it means things are growing and when it goes down it's in control so that they were looking at a marker of this because they wanted to do a short opport window of opportunity trial what they mean is they gave the duvie in the four weeks between being diagnosed and having their um DCIS removed with with surgery. All right. And then they saw on the final biopsy like what happened you know what what changed with K67 and the K67 went down right so duav estrogen right with this basodoxifene cut it down. And there's other research that supported this showing that when we give women due we don't see proliferation of breast cells. We don't see breast tenderness. We we we think it's quite protective. So, I'm very excited about this as an option for current breast cancer patients who are considering hormone therapy. We don't have the data in it yet. No. But if someone is going to when push comes to shove and we're saying like what are the options for this woman for hormone therapy? We've got this new data out of this study and I'm like this is an interesting option. Do we know that it's better than a transdermal estrogen and progesterone? No, we don't. This is a data-free zone. But it's interesting and I want women to know about this. This is also an interesting option for somebody who doesn't have breast cancer, but maybe they had something like LCIS or a typical ductal hyperplasia or they have a very strong family history of breast cancer, a very dense breast or they had a lot of breast tenderness when they tried, you know, an estradile patch or, you know, pill or something. So, do a V. They don't get any breast tenderness. There's no changes in breast density. It seems really great. And there's preliminary data suggesting that this may lower your risk of breast cancer. So what I tell patients, what we know is we look standard FDA approved hormone therapy I don't believe is further increasing your risk of breast cancer, but this may go a step further and might in the future be a way to lower. So there is this very promising option on the horizon and I'm excited to see um these results are going to set the stage for more studies in this medication and others like it. So that's one little glimmer I think for patients to like be excited about for the future. That's awesome. No, that's that's great. And it I mean at least it shows that somebody's thinking about studying it. Yes. Yes. And I think because Yeah. No, because there's Listen, there's plenty of breast oncologist and breast surgeons out there. They know this is the problem. They're seeing it every day that these women are are, you know, not tolerating their treatments and afterwards they're really suffering. And you know the numbers are stark. I you know it's all over the map but up to 40 50% of people don't even complete their tmoxifen or their roman taste inhibitors because they can't handle it and no because no one's addressing the collateral damage. Right? And so this is why an interesting study that was also just published showed that women who were breast cancer survivors who used vaginal estrogen had a better prognosis and a lower mortality than those who didn't. Now, some of that could be bias of healthier women who were less likely to recur, were more open to using vaginal estrogen. So, we can't draw hard conclusions. But there is an idea that perhaps some women would actually stay on their tmoxifen. They'd finish out their aromatase inhibitor and get whatever benefit they're getting from it from lowering their recurrence if someone actually treated their genital urinary syndrome and menopause effectively. Because I'm sorry, hyaluronic acid doesn't stop UTI. It will not prevent clitorol atrophy and that is what is happening. Let's call it what it is. It doesn't it doesn't change vulvar atrophy. Hyaluronic acid moisturizers, coconut oil, it's a comfort measure. There's nothing wrong with that. It will help protect the tissue and make it, you know, moisturize and better, but it's not going to reverse what's what's happening. And when you're talking about um aromatase inhibitors, make no mistake about it. This is clitorol atrophy, vaginal stenosis and it's profound impacts and we don't tell patients that. No. And it also and it's wrong. It's very wrong. And something I so I did a lot of stem cell therapies and I had a oddly I had a following of women who came from all over the world to get PRP and stem cells in their vaginal tissue and there was a group of them who were on demoxifen and they it sets you up for that scenario where lychen sclerosis takes hold like just just the atrophy and the dryness and then you get microbiome disruption that's significant and the whole thing can snowball and further aggravate You know, most most middle-aged women hopefully listening to this show understand that the risk of autoimmune conditions goes up in middle age and it's everything to do with the hormonal fluxes. And so 100%. It's all of these things that are just not looked at. And I'll just add another for women who have whose you know intimacy with their partners is very important. This is devastating to marriages. This can be absolutely devastating and culture at large, even several women. It's interesting whenever I mention anything on my Instagram about having sex every day. I get women angry at me, like just actually angry at me. How dare I say something? And I'm like, hey, this is part of vitality for some women. And it's very important. It's very important to their partners in some cases. And it's not a doing a duty. It's like this is part of some relationships. And I it can be just absolutely devastating and send everything sideways for the whole family, right? So I think of it as I think of it as like micro doing estrogen, you know, can we because we can even cut these patches in half. We can cut them down. We can give I've done that. Yeah. You give a little bit just to get the symptomology and and my patient base, like I said, it's predominantly pain we're trying to address and it's migraines. It's, you know, all kinds of different things, brain fog, but I'm not I don't give a damn about standard dosing. I care if I'm getting symptom relief and whatever that dose is is that dose, right? Especially in parmenopause when like I'm it's funny, my daughter, she said because I overdosed myself on estrogen. I got I was on a standard patch and after a while my tissue, you know, I titrated myself up and I was just having too much in my system and my labs look great. Perfect. My labs were perfect, almost even low. But my symptoms said different. My symptoms were everything to do with like way too much estrogen. And my daughter was like, I think you just need estrogen sometimes, mom. And I said, it's so astute that you said that because that so true in the permenopausal years. It's all over the map. Yeah. It's like sometimes I need more estrogen and sometimes I need less or none because my ovaries are kind of petering out, but they're still doing something, you know? And so anyway, I I think of um some of these interventions probably causing that similar scenario. You would know better. you're seeing more patients on it, but like it's almost like these poor women are going through pmenopause at at a different fa, you know, younger times if they're going through treatment at a younger age. And it's what a what a crazy hellish experience it is. I I'm almost excited for my ovaries to go offline just so I can have indogenous control. Well, yeah. Yeah. You know, pmenopause is really really tricky because it's so erratic, right? But the reality is for most cancer patients, they never get that. It it's it's abrupt, right? It's abrupt. And the sexual symptoms I I just think we can't understate like I was 28 years old. I was only married one year to my college sweetheart. He's still here with me. He's the best partner ever, you know, but it was devastating to us, right? And to think that there was no support. And to anybody who thinks that they're going to tell a woman who's 28 or 30 years old and they're going to be in estrogen deprivation for 10 years to use some moisturizer, you know what happens? Four years later, and I see it all the time, four years later, they come back and they're like, "I've tried it all. I've done the hyaluronic acid. I've tried the lubes. I've done all that. And at this point, we're dealing with a stenotic atrophied where the muscle now in the pelvic floor has become reactive to any touching. So then they get pelvic floor dysfunction. And I say this is cruel and inhumane. And honestly, we could have easily prevented all of this from happening by using at the start of the estrogen deprivation before everything goes downhill, preventive preventive care. So, I use the analogy they gave me preventative medications so I could tolerate chemo. I got steroids. I got anti-nausea medications, right? Anti-anxiety medications so I can get through six months of chemo. And it helped me. Those extra meds helped me. when we know we are setting up a young woman for a decade or more of let's just be honest we know what's going to happen and I'm sorry lube doesn't prevent that why would we not give her at the same time a prescription for lowd dose vaginal estradiol use it twice three times a week and prevent the downward decline now if this is you're listening to this and this has happened to you we can get it back the vaginal tissue and all that we it can be we can get it back with even just using local vaginal hormones It's going to take longer and it doesn't, you know, it's not going to fix the years where you had sexual dysfunction and perhaps relationship breakdown or some of these young breast cancer survivors, they're 30, they're 28, they're 35, they may still be in the dating world and so they have to get out there in the dating world. They don't even have a partner who they can like discuss this with. These are these are lifealtering things. And imagine losing that part of intimacy when you're fighting for your life. like the comfort of being able to be intimate and having that relationship. So this is to me sexual health is overall health and some women abandon their cancer treatments because their sexual health have been decimated. Right. So you know that's I I don't think a little vaginal dryness is the right like PR term for what's happening here. Yes. Yes. I agree completely. And then we can talk about the older gals who I mean that's a whole other conversation. I cannot tell you the amount of women that I have treated. And so I did predominantly regenerative injection therapies. If I was applying hormones, it was for pain. It was to get people out of their pain state. And it's amazing what hormones and the right ratios can do. And it's different for everyone. Everybody needs a different cocktail, if you will, to get their pain symptoms under control. But these little old gals, they didn't. They were just adamant. They It's so You probably get this too on your social media. Some of these older gals are just like, "Well, I went through menopause without any hormones and I'm fine." And they're like raw dog in menopause. and they think that they deserve they should get a ribbon for it, you know? And I'm like, some of us don't do so well without it, right? And anyway, these older gals, I would get these gals in their 70s and 80s, they would get UTI, they would have no idea that they had a UTI because I would make them go pee on a stick before I would agree to inject them. I was not going to put a needle in their hip joint without knowing if they had some kind of systemic inflammation or infection going on. And lo and behold, so often these UTI and then they would start to get neurocognitive impacts from 100%. And I'm like, this is nuts. This is crazy. And I'd say, hey, do you want some vaginal estrogen? Oh, no, no, no, no. I'm like, really? And trust me, it's so easy. Like, I could save you the grief. Or I remember one lady coming in. She was suffering so miserably, chronic UTI. She was in her 70s. Her husband had passed away. And the, you know, like you said, we can get the vagina back. The vagina is resilient. it it it's on, you know, it's it's on the comeback pretty readily, but if it's a use it or lose it kind of situation as well. So, the not using it just potentiates the losing it. And so, she wasn't using her vagina anymore because her husband had passed. And I said, "Would you like some vaginal estrogen?" And it was like, "Oh my god, she was crying the next time I saw her. Like, thank you so much." Like, she was just living in utter hell. When when women past menopause, we're talking all about menopause and below, the older generations are just they suffered. They're just discarded and forgotten and tortured. And it's hor it's it angers me at a level saying, I mean, Rachel Rubin, people follow on social media. She was a part of the new American Neurological Association GSM, genitalary system of menopause guidelines. And they made it very very very clear not only that it's safe for breast cancer patients but that it's safe and really important for this prevention of eurospsis um hospitalizations for you know ascending urinary infections pylonritis which then can cause you to have cognitive changes dementia you could fall you break a hip I mean I'm not being you know inflammatory by saying this these things actually happen and it you know they're they presented the data that using vaginal estrogen saves Medicare. If they just paid for estrogen for all these older women, it would save Medicare like gazillions of dollars and profound decrease in hospitalizations and death, right? 70ome% like decrease crazy numbers. Yes. And so the problem is is that because we have a generation of women who were kind of ingrained and taught that just deal with it, suck it up, they're still they're stuck with that. And then there's the fear-based label on the FDA approved vaginal estrogen products that you know I get these comments every day like well I finally got the prescription from my medical oncologist or my gyn or whoever but I opened up the label Dr. Men and it says causes probable dementia stroke heart attacks and breast cancer. They're like so the label from the FDA says this but my doctor says this so I don't know who to believe. And so we're trying actively to get the FDA to remove that label because we all know and not just me like the menopause society like American College of OBGYn like you know major medical install agree the data is clear that label does not apply to vaginal estrogen. It doesn't even apply to systemic estrogen but it certainly doesn't apply to vaginal local estrogen. Um but it's hard to teach old dogs new tricks. I'm talking about the doctors, right? Um, and then the fear that this label, you know, perpetuates, right? So, we're working on getting that taken away. Thank God. I thank God there's a whole army of you and you all have you're all growing your Instagrams cuz it's an it's, you know, we got to make enough noise. I just had a friend call me. I rate she is in her 50s. She was going in to get cleared for preop for um a surgery, orthopedic surgery. And unrelated to anything, she's on transdermal estrogen. She had a 65-year-old female physician who totally bitched her out for being on it, told her it was going to give her blood clots and kill her, and told her if she didn't go off of it for several weeks prior to her surgery, that she would not clear her. And my friend was like, "But my inflammation and pain goes through the roof if I discontinue the transermal estrogen." And she had called me and said, "Is this true?" And I was like, "God, no, it's not true." Like, I have a whole I have pages of data showing it's not true. But is there a minute risk? Perhaps, but everything that I have found adds up to transermal not being nearly the concern as oral, if if at all. They couldn't really conclude. And you might have better data. But I said, "Hey, let me send you this data to share with her." And this doctor said, "I've been in medicine, you know, x amount of years. I'm 65. I should know and I'm female. I should know hormones. I like literally just dismissed my friend completely. And I thought, how asinine that this is the world we live in where other females are yelling down to patients with the wrong information. And if that was her comfort level as a surgeon or as a person clearing the surgery, okay, fine. But like it was so denigrating. But no, not fine. Not fine. Because you know what? What I actually think, and we don't have a study for this, but I actually think withdrawing someone who is stable on a transdermal estrogen, withdrawing her from before surgery is putting her in an abrupt new estrogen deprivation state, raising inflammation, and actually I think you're going to raise the risk by withdrawing it. And I I really believe that we have data showing the safety of transermal estrogen even in women who are at higher risk of clots even in women who've had previous history of heart disease MIS. The British Menopause Society has two beautiful statements that review the data on using transdermal estrogen in women in these higher risk situations. So there's a lot of ways we can lean into adjacent data to say like this doesn't make sense. Like we don't take people's ovaries out or give them chemical menopause before surgery, right? Like like so then why would we suddenly take somebody off a transdermal estrogen? Um now someone was on an oral birth control pill and they were going to be in a state where they were in prolonged immobilization, right? There are certain scenarios, but it's become a knee-jerk reaction of like, you're on estrogen, you got to take it off. Like I'm like, this doesn't make sense. And where I see it a lot in the cancer world is in BRCA prevors. So women who carry the broco gene who have never had cancer who have had mastctomies to lower their risk of ever getting breast cancer and then when they're done with their childbearing they go in to get their ovaries taken out or vice versa. Maybe they have their ovaries taken out and they've been on transdermal estrogen and now they're going in for breast surgery and suddenly they are told at 37 years old that they have to come off estrogen for 6 weeks before and 6 weeks after. I'm like this is insane. Don't you operate on 37 year olds every day who have very high levels of estrogen? This woman is stable on a transdermal estrogen and an oral progesterone neither which raise an increased risk of clots. Um, so this is bad medical care and this is increasing problems, right? So that's a huge issue out there as well. The Brona prevors, we could do a whole episode on those because broa previvors have not even had cancer, but these people are completely completely mismanaged um and undermanaged when it comes to their hormones because many of these women are putting being put into premature surgical menopause to prevent ovarian cancer. And people are forgetting about the risks of premature menopause for these women. So I say these women can have their cake and eat it too. They can remove their ovaries. Take them out. I don't want you to get ovarian cancer. You're done having babies. I can fix that. I can give you back your hormones. You can lower your risk of cancer and be healthy in terms of your hormone replacement therapy. These are the times where I will use replacement therapy because these are young women who we need to replace the levels up to that are mimicking what would naturally be being produced in your 30s say right versus a menopausal hormone therapy dose which is lower right so but these women less than 50% of them are getting the appropriate hormone therapy that they deserve it's insane and the removal it's insane the removal of the estrogen prior to surgery just going back to that what I don't think a lot of women understand is that hot flashes are vasospasms. That is what they are at their core. That is they are the I did a whole podcast episode about this. Like folks who who are suffering with a lot of hot flashes, it is the harbinger of doom, it is not a good sign. And so pulling estrogen pre-surgery or for any reason when we're worried about blood clot risks and inducing vaso spasm like it doesn't and also wound healing. Wound healing. So, you know, estrogen is really important for collagen production, for hyaluronic acid production of the skin, for wound healing, for um immune function at the tissue level. Um, and there's, you know, I I've been speaking to some plastic surgeons about this recently. I'm like, listen, like I've had some people tell me that they were like their surgeon told them that they were shocked when they had wound breakdown at 32. I'd say this woman is on estrogen deprivation with aromatase inhibitors and ovarian suppression. Of course, she had womb breakdown. She's been on these meds for 10, you know, six years or whatever the case may be. I'm like, her tissue is not like a 32-year-old's tissue. Her tissue is like a 67y old or 75year-old who hasn't had estrogen on board. It's thinner. It's drier. It's less vascular. It's less resilient. We have to be considering the whole picture when we're treating these people. Yes. Yes. That I'm so glad you said that. Estrogen makes you elastic. That's what keeps you juicy. And without it, it's Yeah. Oh, man. That's such a good point. I'm so I'm so grateful that you are speaking out and I watched I mean, I found you really early when you came on Instagram and I've watched your account grow and I'm so grateful for it because it it's really your uh I know there's others speaking on this, but I I do find you to be the authority and I think you're so passionate about it. You've got a Where's the When's the book coming out? We need a book. I got my outline. I'm working on it. I'm working on it. Good. I'm glad. And I was like, she needs books. She needs to be on all the shows. Like, we got to get this woman out. Thank you. You're very nice. Well, it's really my it's um a labor of love. It's a passion of mine. And I just want women who are breast cancer survivors or other women who are dismissed in particularly with premature menopause to know you're not alone. We do have solutions. There are doctors who care about it. There are guidelines that are out there. We We're not making new things up. we actually know what to do for you whether it's hormonal or whether it's not because again I always want I'm very careful I always want anybody listening to this if systemic hormone therapy is not in the cards for you we can help you in so many ways please it's not all lost and it might be in the cards for you and that's what I want to leave you with that um we we can help you and if anybody is dealing with menopause after cancer of any type because it's not just breast cancer survivors it's all cancers um I I just want to shout out to my friend Danny Bennington. She's in the UK. She has a nonprofit called menopauseancer.org. It is my favorite resource for people. Um she has a podcast. She's got free patient education resources. It's incredible. So if you're really looking for some evidence-based well um vetted information, check out menopause andcancer.org. Um, if you're not being able if your doctor will give you vaginal estrogen, the doctors at Alloy, we will we will prescribe you vaginal estrogen. So, if anybody has a problem getting it, we're in all 50 states, you can get your vaginal estrogen from us. Um, and if you need resources on how to navigate these hard questions about HRT or MHT after a breast cancer diagnosis, follow me. I have a course for patients, right? So, and then I have a separate one for um healthcare clinicians who want to learn the ropes. So, they can find that all at on my website and on my Instagram. So, good. Okay. What's your Instagram? Speak it out. So, we'll put everything in the show notes, but I want to make sure they hear. Dr. Men OBGYn. So, drmen OBGYn and my website's just drmen.com. and for general menopause care um vaginal estrogen sexual health skin stuff um I see patients on alloy and then I do patient education group consults and stuff through my private practice um so yeah perfect good thank you so much for having me oh such a pleasure I will make sure everything's in the show notes so people can find those resources and I really am grateful for you for taking the time today so thanks for being on the show oh well thank you for having me thanks for listening to the Dr. Ina show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcastdtina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have, and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.