Mopure uroliththna permits is that turnover of mitochondria to keep a healthier pool of mitochondria throughout our body. >> You are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, we're diving deep into one of the most exciting areas of cellular medicine, the intersection between mitochondria, aging, and a powerful compound called uroliththna. If you've been feeling worn down, inflamed, or like your energy battery just isn't charging the way it used to, then this episode's for you. We're talking about inflammaging, that silent, lowgrade fire that accelerates as we age, and how supporting mitochondrial health may be one of the most important moves you can make for strength, resilience, and longevity. My guest today is Dr. Brad Courier, one of the world's foremost experts on uriththna, the postbiotic behind Timelines Mitoure. and we're going to be unpacking why this molecule is such a gamecher for muscle metabolism, immunity, and even brain health. So, let's jump in. Brad Courier, thank you so much for coming on the Dr. Tina show today. I am excited to have you. We are going to be talking about Uralith and A, and I am a big fan. So, I think we're going to have a good time nerding out on this. Welcome to the show. >> Well, thanks so much, Dr. Tina. It's a pleasure to be here. Really looking forward to our conversation. >> Yeah. So, uraliththna, this is a supplement. I was telling you off uh offline here, off camera that of all, you know, my supplement stack is so out of control. It's so out of control. And I kind of hit a wall recently where I just got sick of taking supplements entirely and I was like, I'm not taking any more pills. But then your product came through, the gummies, the the new uriththna gummies, and I was like, okay, I can get into this. And so I religiously take my timeline uroliththna and I have my reasons but I was hoping we could you could break it all down for us today so that my listeners could really understand the benefits of this specific molecule. What is it? What is uroliththna? Why is it important? >> Absolutely. So uriththna is a natural molecule. It's what we call a postbiotic. So it's not a prebiotic, it's not a probiotic. It's a postbiotic, which means when we eat certain foods, our gut microbiome, the little bacteria in our digestive system, should transform those nutrients into another molecule. And we call that new transform molecule, a postbiotic. So, urethane is a natural molecule. was discovered actually by studying uh pigs who ate a lot of acorns which are high in these polyphenols uh as well as populations that eat a lot of pomegranates or other fruits, nuts and berries. Um and so urethane is this natural molecule and it was originally thought to be a waste product by the scientists who kind of found it just of metabolism. However, when they looked closer at it and what it was doing in some pre-clinical models, so you know, worms, animals, looking at things we can do to improve health span and lifespan, they saw it was having remarkable effects. And this is 20 years ago now. Um, I mean, what it was doing, it was increasing lifespan by upwards of 45%, increasing strength and endurance by 10 and 20%. Which is really unheard of. I mean a lot of these caloric restriction or other activives aren't doing half that caloric restriction is the best it's doing the same but uh uriththnate was having this profound impact and so what these scientists did um who they were based out of the Swiss Institute of Technology basically Switzerland's MIT and they uh started studying it and for the last 15 years have been developing this clinical uh validation to see what impact this has and I'm sure we'll get into it but essentially what is eriththin A it's a natural molecule and what it does its mechanism of action is improving our mitochondrial health. So it stimulates a key process called mphagy which is our cell's way of recycling dysfunctional mitochondria. When we have urolithna our mitochondria that are at the end of their time at the end of their life can be recycled into new healthy mitochondria. So really underpinning uralithn's benefits are its ability to improve mitochondrial health >> which is key. Our mitochondria for everyone listening I did a report back in undergrad about how mitochondria are actually bacterium that are symbiotic and they are from a matriarchal lineage if I if I am getting this right and we will die without them because they are the powerhouses of ourselves. So, I thought that was the coolest thing in the world. >> It is. Well, you're right. A lot of people don't realize it's maternal, our mitochondrial genes. And yeah, the uh if we're going back to early years biology, but I think the theory of endo symbiosis, how the bacteria evolved with it. And you're right, they're the powerhouse of the cell. And I'm sure we'll get into the details, but they do a lot more than that. They truly do power everything in our body except red blood cells. For anyone listening closely, I'll throw that out. They're the red blood cells are the only thing that don't have mitochondria, but everything else in our body powered by mitochondria. >> Yep. And they're critical and they synthesize our hormones and they I mean they're without the mitochondria, you're dead. That's that's it. And I think that uh the reason I realized how important they were was I was at a conference years and years ago. It was actually a ozone conference for like forever ago. And the doctor there said, "How do you know if your patient has mitochondrial dysfunction?" And we were like, "I don't know." And he said, "If they're in your office." His answer. He's like, "If they're in your office, they need mitochondrial support." So most mitochondrial supplements that I understand kind of nudge the mitochondria to go, which may not always be entirely favorable if your mitochondria are compromised. And how do mitochondria become compromised in the average, you know, let's just say the average US adult for instance, since our diets are so atrocious here. >> Well, you hit a big one right there. U really because our mitochondria anywhere, any toxins exposed to our body are going to impact the mitochondria. There's a lot of things that can funnel into that. So sure, certainly if we're eating a lot of processed foods, these are going to have a negative impact on our mitochondria. environmental toxins, pollutants. Um, certain medications can impact the mitochondria. Um, but I think the the thing to recognize is that the mitochondria's role in the cell is taking all of the food we eat, the nutrients, and transforming those parts into cellular energy. So, anything we're eating for fuel or food, it's going to go through the mitochondria and anything that's problematic in there is going to have a negative impact on the mitochondria. Um, so toxins, yes, certainly a poor diet, environmental toxins, um, even in chronic as chronic disease progresses, things like the inflammation, blood sugar levels. When these get out of control, they're going to ultimately converge on the mitochondria and cause issues that uh, exacerbate these problems. >> Yes. And I'll add lack of sunlight, lack of lack of light. Not good. It's it's I think of the mitochondria kind of like chlorophyll. I know they're not the same, but they're I I absolutely believe that they transform sunlight into energy in some capacity at a roundabout way. Like that's it's a critical piece, too. We And we just hammer them with blue light. We hammer ourselves with like lack of light, blue light, shitty food, toxins, lack of movement, lack of nutrient density. It's a pretty complicated system and uh I think they're petered out in most people. Well, and like you said, medications, a big one being the fuoricquinolones, which is the class of antibiotics like levocquin, cypro, which my generation, we were just dowsted with cypro. It was like every girl my age went to in college in undergrad, we'd go to the, you know, the infirmary or whatever, the the the medical clinic, and it was like cypro, cypro, cypro, cypro. And so, for folks who've heard of being flocked, that's where you basically got cypro poisoning. And it's because it's mitochondrial poisoning. It kills your mitochondria like a bacterium. >> Yeah, it really is. There are so many things that can converge there. Certainly the medications like you're saying if they're uh maybe being used uh inappropriately. I think the the daily thing too that actively in everyone's life though we can think about those recurrences in lifestyle, right? H how much or how little physical activity we're getting, what we're eating. Sunlight's a great one too. And that's a whole emerging area looking at uh you know metabolism fluctuating throughout the day because of things like sunlight exposure. Uh so yeah it it really is a fascinating area. Um at the end of the day if we're if we're hurting our mitochondria it's a recipe for disaster. >> So we can help them with different things. >> We can regenerate them. we can make more like tell me about that part and how uriththna plays in there because I know that there's differences there. >> You're you're absolutely right. There are differences and we can think of the mitochondria in three stages, three parts of their life cycle. The first is the creation of new mitochondria and that's called mitochondrial biogenesis. So that's when we're actually making new mitochondria. The second is mitochondria efficiency. So once we have a mitochondria, how well are these mitochondria working? Can we make them more efficient or not? And at the end of a mitochondria's life is a process called mphagy, which is that cellular breakdown of a mitochondria into its key components that can then be recycled into new mitochondria. Now, urthanise uh does play a role in that and people have probably heard of other mitochondrial supplements, things like NAD, CoQ10, NMN, things that are targeting the mitochondria. And really they each look at a different process. And what's unique about uriththna is that it hits that mphagy bit. It's the only clinically validated supplement that actually targets the breakdown of dysfunctional mitochondria. It's kind of like the the garbage person in our cells. Right? If we leave our house, you know, and we never take our our garbage, there's going to be this accumulation of debris that causes issues, even if that's just an angry, you know, spouse or family. So what mito what my uh mitoure does uriththna is that it recycles these mitochondria and that feeds into mechanisms that then create new ones. Other things like NAD that's mitochondrial biogenesis or CoQ10 that's mitochondrial efficiency and the quality of clinical data for each is different but mopure and urolithna is really unique in targeting that mphagy component. >> Yes. Okay. And then there's a there's a playback on our muscles. Talk to me about that because I that's the part that resonated with me early on was there was some data around muscle health and uriththna. >> Yeah, certainly. And uh I'd love to hear your experience too. I know so we timeline the company that uh produces uroliththna. It's the um obviously who I work for uh managing clinical trials. Um but what timeline uh did originally was look at ways we can increase health span so how can we increase the number of years people are spending in good health and muscle central to that you know uh I think it's rightfully considered the longevity organ um in many spaces we we all can see and people we know as we get older we lose strength we lose muscle mass and so muscle was a primary focus in some of the early clinical studies that timeline was doing and what we saw in some of those studies after showing the safety and bioavailability of uraliththna was that when we took a wide range of populations whether it be middle-aged men and women primarily women in these studies actually which is quite common in this space but you know 40 all the way up to 90 years old with two to four months of supplementation we were seeing significant improvements in muscle strength. So whether people were taking half a gram or 1 gram, we saw about 10 to 12% increases in muscle strength after these couple months of taking uralithn. And that obviously was really exciting to see positive clinical results. um that has continued to uh translate and be replicated by other researchers around the world from elite athletes who just had a study accepted uh that was in elite uh runners uh going Australian Olympic team going into the last Olympic cycle weightlifters all the way up to uh to frail adults. So muscle really was the core of what we're doing because of its role in longevity and strength uh was one of the first places we saw um benefits of moperiorithna. >> Well, it makes sense because with with adding muscle to our body, we are adding mitochondria to our body, right? Do I have that right? >> Yeah, I would and you know, I would actually think about it uh almost the other way in this case of what the mechanism might be where >> Yeah. muscle. >> Yeah, muscle is a very energetically demanding tissue, it costs a lot of energy to build muscle. >> Exactly. >> So, if we can improve that energy source in our cells and remove any of that dysfunctional mitochondria, which do have major negative impacts on our muscle, then we have the energy needed to build uh to build strength. >> Exactly. Yeah. So, that's that's how I think of it. It's like adding muscle to your body is one of the few ways that you can add mitochondria to the scene, right? And then but if you've got compromised mitochondria going on in there and they are c there's they're they're if they become scesscent cells if or if they you know they're they're part of that kind of pathway of the zombie cell you know sucking up resources not pulling their weight kind of thing to have a product on board that helps with that mphagy and that sort of junk and debris clean up makes so much sense because it's like if we're bringing in new good stuff we can't be keep you I'm cleaning out my house right now cuz I'm moving And I I'm like, I have so much I have so much crap in here. I'm not going to bring this crap to my new house, you know? >> That's right. If we're improving the house that is our body, we need to get rid of the garbage. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, having a system on that side, I've always been hyperfocused on this side, but it wasn't until you guys came on my radar that I and I legitimately use this stuff every day. Like, this is one of the few things I just religiously take because it had never occurred to me that like, oh, maybe the mphagy part is critical. Yeah. Well, well, you're absolutely right. I know we were chatting about it off air, but supplements when it comes to what's worth it, it's a short list. And when you talk to people who have seen the trends come and go, you see the fads, you ask them what they're taking, it's usually a pretty select list. And uh I think it it's telltale sign when something can span years and years and only have more built up evidence behind it. You know, you see things like creatine. You know, no one doubts creatine's efficacious. You something doesn't stick around for decades if it's not. And it's exciting to see that now with almost 20 years of clinical research, that happening with MOPure. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's exciting to see creatine get big, too, because >> absolutely. >> I was giving it to my little old ladies a decade ago for their brain health, and now everyone's like, you can use creatine for your brain. >> Yeah. >> Get out of here. you know, and it is even just recently, I know um well, you uh rightfully called out my Canadian accent, but shout out Darren Kando, who's a fantastic researcher in this space, uh has a couple really nice papers this year. Um and and it is I think it is uh there's enough smoke that there's probably a fire and I I'm excited to see where the clinical data lead on that front because it makes sense that you know creatine at at its heart it's improving cellular energetics. So it it would make sense that it's going to have positive impacts in several tissues. >> But that brings in this piece again because if we're I always think of things in terms of pathways. If I'm revving pathways, if I'm asking the body to rev a pathway, I have to provide necessary co-actors. I have to provide the environment for it to thrive. You can't just ask a system to go and hit the gas and not have something on the other side to mitigate it. So this idea of mphagy of of you know mitochondrial cleanup that part made a lot of sense to me because usually we're we're throwing the inputs in you know we're asking systems to go harder instead of like >> what about the tail end of things we and and how do we recycle what we have? >> Exactly. It's a cycle. Exactly that life cycle of a mitochondria you might say but our body really is just in constant state of turnover. It's renewal. You know if we nick our finger while we're cutting our nails you know that that skin because it's turning over can heal. It's the same with everything in our body whether it be muscle blood cells. And that's really what mopure uroliththna permits is that turnover of mitochondria to keep a healthier pool of mitochondria throughout our body. >> Yeah. Yeah. Instead of just hitting the gas all the time. Okay. So that kind of brings me to my next thought which is about this concept that it's a postbiotic. That was also very interesting to me because my first thought as a naturopathic physician was like all all disease in my opinion starts in the gut. Like we treat the gut first in good naturopathic medicine. And >> if you don't have the right microbiome on board, you may not even be producing your own eurolithna levels adequately by default, right? Like have you guys looked into that? I'm sure you have. Like what's the deal with that? Because people's guts are a wreck in most cases. >> Yeah. No, that's probably it lightly. >> Yeah. So, are they even like are we even making our own uriththna or is and that that was the other part of like why I diligently supplement this because my guts are wrecked too, you know. >> Yeah. And well, the short answer is no. People are not making it and it is something we've uh looked at in clinical studies. Uh our team has uh and it's a it's a very fair point because if we know this is a natural compound that comes after eating pomegranates, why don't we just eat a bunch of pomegranates? There's a couple reasons for that. Pomegranates are great, but what we looked at in to figure this out if we need to supplement with uriththna or not, we did a series of clinical studies looking at how many people in our population can produce any amount of uriththna and how many can produce a what we'd consider a clinically meaningful amount. So in these studies, we took a 100 people and we had them come in on two separate days. On one case we gave them a glass of pomegranate juice and on the other day we gave them uroliththna supplement and over the course of uh a few days we monitored them amount of uriththna in their blood and really what we found is that only just under 40% of adults can actually produce meaningful amount of urethane. So the vast majority of people cannot produce this naturally. >> Yeah. And this varies in different parts of the world. You know, certain parts of Europe where the diets are a bit cleaner, you know, you you see a higher percentage, 40%. In other parts like Canada and the United States, the numbers closer to 12, 13% of adults that can actually produce uraliththna. >> So that was really the indication that you know what, if you want to have the benefits of this, you need to take it directly as a supplement. >> Yeah. Yeah. I know that makes absolute sense. people's the diversity in our microbiome has really gone down too. I have friends in that space who were telling me during lockdowns they were like it was shocking to watch the drop off because of the isolation everybody selfisolated right and and then co itself has an impact on the bifido bacterium in the gut and so like there's just the biomes have shifted >> significantly just in the last few years and I I can't imagine it's in a good direction right so the >> like we were saying you know so many of these lifestyle factors s can do that. You know, rampid antibiotic use, particularly in our early years, can really impact the gut microbiome's development. >> And this is something we've looked at like you know, can you save your gut microbiome? You can nudge it certain ways. Absolutely. And uh you know, I'm not going to say everything's an absolute lost cause, but as we have a better understanding, we can see that you know, okay, these certain things are beneficial for our gut microbiome. other things say like this postbiotic uroliththna we haven't found the way that we can take a food first approach to get people that have these benefits um I know that that's something we share um I would perhaps but you know food first is the best way to go like supplementation is to replace deficiencies or to enhance a physiological benefit it's it's not to be used as a replacement if you can get something through diet Right. Right. But if you eat a diverse diet that's interesting to your gut microbiome, that's how I always think of it is like I my gut wants interesting food so that it can break it down and turn these things out. And this is one of those. That's that was the the first thing that got me interested in it was the fact that it was a postbiotic. And I was like, huh, that is probably really variable like you just mentioned. And then the second was the muscle protection really. Um, what about So, tying that all together, my audience loves when I talk about GLP-1s and I I know a lot of people are here because of that. >> How can this Well, let me back up. One of the things I I have a course about this and one of the things I teach is that we have to take a gut first approach and we have to support digestion because GLP-1s actually shift your microbiome in a more favorable direction in most cases, but there it does definitely have a shift. I think that's part of the reason people initially have gastrointestinal issues to some degree. It's not just the mechanism of the GLP-1 slowing gastric motility, but the fact that their gut biome is shifting. And if they're taking a very high dose very fast, that can be a really gnarly shift and people can have what's called a Herxheimer reaction for the audience listening where you basically have a die- off event of your microbiome and it's uncomfortable. So all that to say, I try to make it really comfortable for folks and digestion is first and foremost and I'll in fact work on the gut before I'll even offer the GLP-1 in many cases. How can something like Uralithna A work in that capacity and be supportive to somebody on that journey? >> Yeah, it's a great question because GLP-1s, they're here to stay. You know, there's a heard a great talk the other day just said this is, you know, the next geroscience breakthrough and you know that GLP1s are here to stay. Um, so it's something that I'll be fully transparent with you because we are a science-led company. We haven't done human studies on GLP-1 and uriththane directly. I think we can look at some of the data that uh various labs around the world have generated and have an idea of okay if we're improving the energetics you know muscle loss is a huge issue with some of the early generation GLP1s particularly if we can see these benefits when uriththna is just given to you know overweight you know and so inactive individuals that it's having these benefits on muscle strength V2 max endurance function you know can Can you infer that or you know suspect that it might have a benefit if someone's say on taking their GLP1s and they're trying to keep their cellular energetics healthy if they're trying to improve their fitness. It might. It's just something that we don't have clinical data for. And yet, I'll say yet, we don't have clinical data for. Um, but I certainly think when we're targeting, you know, the muscle and many other tissues at that cellular source, you know, there's reason to think it could have an impact. We just can't say for certain. >> So, more the muscle impact than the gut impact probably. >> Yeah. And it is one it's an active area of investigation because the gut as as you would know better than most is such an interesting field but very much in its infancy. It you know just starting to understand it's one its downstream effects on our health but also what we can do to meaningfully improve our gut microbiome. Um it's one that I think will we're getting closer, but it is it's something that uh anecdotally people say, yeah, it helps, but we don't have data to back it up. And I think over time we'll we'll start to have a clear idea of how things like uriththna or other, you know, lifestyle modifications can ease the use of GLP-1 so people can have those benefits without the issues such as the gut uh discomfort. Yeah. No, it makes sense. I think it's crazy that I think it's just so crazy. I don't people don't realize that dietary choices you make shift your microbiome in real time, like almost instantaneously. And so if you look at the guts of people with very heavy plant-based diets and then you look at the biome of carnivores, for instance, it's like they're vastly different, right? And you can really shift your biome in real time by the food choices you make. And exercise and stress levels and all of these things vastly impact our microbiome. And the microbiome is driving the show. Like that's that's it. That's endgame is is your microbiome. And so so I'm I'm one of those people that got put on antibiotics like right out the shoot. I was born and I was sick and I was loaded with antibiotics my entire life. And so I'm that's why I said earlier I have all kinds of gut issues because I there's just no like you you're the only person I've heard say that fairly. People think that there's some way to completely rehabilitate the gut in those cases and I staunchly believe there's not. I've >> Yeah. >> You know, you can imp you know I I hang on as best I can. I'm doing pretty good. But like I'll never have My husband grew up on this farm and was never given antibiotics and that man has the vitality and robustness of an oxen, you know, and I just don't I see it all the time. I'm like, man, I'd like his mitochondria. >> Well, there you go. It is uh it's it's seated early. I know I've heard one thing I've heard some people in the space because you know I'm gut microbiome is one that I would certainly not consider myself an expert just a very engaged listener and uh observer follower um but some of the people in that space one of the things that uh is that the gut microbiome is really seated in the first thousand days of life. >> Yeah. And so if there's rampid antibiotic use that that will have you know some lasting effects. Our our chief medical officer who was really the lead uh in the clinical development of mitoure u he originally grew up in India and then did his training in the US and then Switzerland and that's something he you know often says that the the antibiotic use early on he can't make a drop of uriththna naturally and never will be able to. out. So I think it is certainly something that's increasingly appreciated from quite literally birth through the rest of our life. >> Yeah. So let's talk about that process. Aging just in general. I mean we know when our mitochondria start to peter out that aging increases rapidly. I'm sure you saw the study I'm just throwing a wrench in here. I'm sure you saw the study recently where we age in bouts. So there's like a big one around 44 and there's another big one at 60. We're not aging linearly. We're aging in like, you know, there's there's definitely some significant drops. >> Yeah. >> What are your just just spitballing like it doesn't I know you have to follow the science, but >> how Yeah. What's going on there? And like how does that tie into this? >> Yeah. There's a lot of things that uh could tie into that. I think biologically I guess maybe to start with what the science says we know there's that gradual decline. Pick any system whether it's or any system or its performance. You know we look at muscle strength muscle mass if we look at bone density over time it's going to slowly decline. That's inevitable for all of us. We're going to try to prevent that decline or plate keep it level or slow it as much as possible. But these chunks that we see uh there's a few thoughts I would have on that. Uh and maybe one just to consider is the biology. So if we imagine that aging is this slow downward trajectory, there are going to be times in our life where our biology just knocks us down to a different level. >> And I think a great example of that is woman going through menopause. >> Yeah. It is a true watershed moment for our bone and all density, right? And the role that estrogen and these really important hormones play in maintaining those systems, that's something where we'll see that sudden drop. If we look at just lifestyle factors, I think muscle is actually a great vehicle to look at this. >> Yeah. is yes, we see this progressive decline, but what is really, really detrimental to people as they advance in age is not the slow decline, but it's when they encounter an event that causes a rapid decline. For aging individuals, this could be simple as something like a 3 or 4 day, you know, bout of flu where they can't really get out of bed or maybe very limited moving around the house. That sudden drop in physical activity is enough to start to induce insulin resistance to it really shift that balance, that turnover that we talked about into a state of weakened muscles, atrophy and metabolic consequences that if they were kind of aging and they maybe had 70% of that strength, this short instance can knock them down, you know, to 60% of their strength. and then they continue the slow decline and they never fully recover. And this is something that you know it is has been studied uh by many great labs and of course I'll shout out my my PhD supervisor Stu Phillips who's really done a lot of great work in looking at this kind of detrimental drop off with instances of things like muscle immobilization. So, speaking of Stu Phillips, something I love that he talks about, which fits in here, is he, which I'm such a fan of, is the fact that recently on his social media, he's been kind of going up against this high protein conversation of everybody just eating, you know, tons and tons and tons of protein, which I understand and it is important and I'm a fan of adequate protein intake, but I'm a bigger fan of what he says, which is what matters more, and tell me if I'm getting this wrong, but what matters more is strength training and strength and getting in the gym and the actual spark and signal of doing that activity seems to trump whether or not you're getting adequate protein. Am I right on this? And how does that play in here? Because I feel like uralithna must be a player in there somewhere. >> No, you're absolutely right. Short and simple, exercise is the best thing we can do for our health span and longevity. And I I can't say enough good things about Stu. I'm uh forever grateful and indebted to him. Uh but the point of exercise versus protein that is one where certainly exercise if you had to pick one eat enough protein do exercise you know long term we we've got to eat enough but exercise is so potent that two things people don't realize is that almost no one exercises less than a quarter of our population actually engages in any form of weightlifting exercise and most people eat enough protein already. We don't necessarily think about it, but the average American is eating, you know, 1.1 g of protein per kilogram of body weight. And that's pretty close to the recommendations of experts to have about 1.2 g. So protein for most people isn't actually a concern, but the lack of physical activity is. When it comes to muscle, you're not going to build stronger, better muscles by eating more protein. You're going to do it by challenging your muscles. Yes. Asking them to adapt. And that's really what exercise and particularly resistance training is. Putting our body under that load, it's causing us to try to adapt to build some strength, to build some more muscle mass. And Stu's right on the money with that where, you know, if people have could change one thing, pick up a weight. And it doesn't have to be a big heavy weight. It can be a lightweight. It can be your body weight. Anything is better than nothing. And having that activity in our life, I could go on for days about the profound impacts because it's uh it's really really incredible what exercise can do. >> It's so it's it's non-negotiable. I always say strength training is non-negotiable, especially if you're a woman and you're trying to age well and you want to avoid breaking a hip. If you want to stay beautiful, if you want to stay with a nice figure, if you want to not turn into a blob, we we men too, but ladies, like we have to be lifting the weights. And I know my audience hears me. I have been beating this. I have been telling people to strength train like like back in when I came online in 2016, the big the big, you know, influencer doctors at that time were telling people to go vegan and do yoga. And I was like, deadlift and eat steak. you know, like there's like just trust me on this. I we didn't have all the science to back it at that time, but we had enough. And I was like, just trust me. Build your glutes, build your thighs, build the big muscles, just save your save your metabolism before it starts going downhill. And the best time to start this is when you're younger. And it's I really encourage the women listening who are in, you know, before they're 40 be earlier than 40. You got to start early. You have to build a reserve up because and this ties into the uriththna. I'm I'm going somewhere with my rant. the it gets harder. Like my ability to build muscle was difficult enough. I started strength training at 40. I wish I'd started sooner, way sooner. I would have been a much happier, healthier person, but it really was is difficult for me to gain muscle. It is significantly more difficult now. And now is the estrogen and the even with endogenous replacement that I do. I do HRT, I still am so much flabier and just sort of like wiltier than I used to be. And so yet another reason I take uriththna because I'm like that muscle protection is so key. So if we're putting in all this effort, >> we need to so we're not ending up taking a million supplements like we have to be strategic with the supplements we do take to protect the muscle we're working so hard to build. >> Yeah, you're you're absolutely right. And obviously with uriththna that's been primarily studied in the 40 plus uh years old demographic. Um, but I I really can't emphasize enough because the the the importance of exercise. You know, at the end of the day, we want people living healthier lives and exercise, the benefits really can't be understated, particularly weightlifting. I love that you've been beating that that drum for so long because it is true. When we're young, yeah, we want to start that inevitable decline from the highest possible point. >> Yes. But I but I would also add to just for everyone else that's think might be thinking well I'm 65 and has the ship sailed for me? It absolutely hasn't. And that is something where are you going to build a bunch of muscle get a lot of strength. >> First of all, no one's going to build muscle. People get concerned about getting bulky. You just said it yourself. Particularly females that I've coached and had friends coach. You know the the one of the fears is that I'm going to get so big and bulky. It's like it's really hard to build muscle. >> I wish I wish >> I was like a like the older I get this started happening and I'm like what the heck is that? Like I I do too many push-ups for that. But yeah, it's it's a thing. >> So you're not going to get big and bulky just by meeting the exercise guidelines. Yeah. But you can get a lot stronger and it's one of the most fulfilling things I've seen is whether it be clients or you know even I I used to do some training in senior homes where you would work with people and over a span of a few weeks you know they might struggle to get up and out of a chair two three times a little bit of activity four weeks later they're hammering out 30 reps you know chair squats and >> getting strength is really the ultimate goal when it comes to function in this case strength and power really. But these are things that we you will see massive improvements just by doing that little bit of exercise. >> And certainly if we have that targeted supplementation approach complementing it, you know that the sky's is really the only limit. >> Strength is far more important than muscle size and muscle mass. And it study after study shows for folks as they age. And we have to really define too. We're talking, it's hard sometimes because sometimes we're talking apples to oranges. You know, generally my audience is quite fit. They are quite optimized and they're looking for that little bit extra advantage to kind of sweeten the deal. And then we have folks like you were mentioning who are, you know, can't get in and out of a chair in an old folks home. There vastly different humans. And I think that line divides. I'll say clinically what I've seen. If you haven't gotten your [\h__\h] together by about 45, it gets real hard and you can still build muscle and you can still have a lot of headway and you can still make progress. But >> heed me when I say the earlier the better that we start that we start paying attention to all of this. You know, we don't have to get it perfect, but we got to start that journey. But there is definitely a dividing line in the early 50s. You go to any event, like I go to any event with my husband now, and he's a farmer, so he's not like cut like a gym bro, but he's got great. He's so I literally watched him pick up like a hundredy old >> giant pole, like a giant pole that was this big around. He just picked it up, put it over his shoulder, walked it across, pllopped it in the ground into a hole he drilled in the ground because we we got cattle. And I was like, I'm just watching this like nonchalantly sitting there with my dog. I brought him out some iced tea and I was like, that was the most impressive thing I've ever seen. He just whoop. But all that to say is we look vastly different than our age match cohorts in most cases because the wheels really start falling off. And so protecting that muscle, protecting that mitochondria, protecting what you have with targeted supplementation. So, if you're going to be doing the creatine and the essential amino acids and the vitamin D and all the things, we want things that synthesize and work together. And just from the what I've looked at with uriththna, it it really seems to be that like icing on the top. It's it sweetens the deal and it makes the things we're taking work better is how I kind of explain it to people. >> Yeah. And I, you know, like we're saying, the the mitochondria are powering almost everything in every cell in our body. And if we're improving the mitochondria health, you know, we're really starting at the cellular source. So everything the mitochondria is powering will have a potential to get better. Um it it is one where yeah I think that exercise like when I when it comes to healthy aging like there are five keys to me it's like move you know be active spend time with your friends and family. The social component is huge. Eat well sleep well and use that targeted supplementation to your advantage. There are very few supplements with clinical evidence and in my opinion it's not even close what mitochondria targeted one tomato has the best evidence. Um but it's a short list right and lifestyle and these these key decisions can really have a profound impact. >> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Um, and just for the community out there, I follow the Bro Science Peptide crowd really closely and I'm watching what they're doing and I've noticed more and more and more as of late. It's It's funny because they're usually way early to the game. They usually figure stuff out way before the medical community does. I learned more about hormone replacement therapy in clinical practice from my bodybuilder patients that were in their 70s than I ever did from any conference I ever went to. So these guys are usually way early to the scene and maybe they've been talking about this forever but I and I just started noticing but uriththn has been put into every stack. So every every stack generally has something for metabolic health. So usually that's one of the GLP1s you know one of those like the new sweetheart on the scene is reatride that's in phase three trials. Um one of them will be some kind of mitochondrial support. So, we've got, you know, peptides that I can't really talk about because they're not available via prescription and I can only talk about things I can prescribe, but there's different mitochondrial supplementations that they're talking about through the gray market. And then they always stack it with uroliththna. That's because that then it makes sense because I'm I'm guessing my theory is that we're talking mitochondrial. They're stoking mitochondria. So, they need something to clean up, right? and then they're stoking metabolism and which is going to tax the mitochondria to do its job efficiently. So we need something for cleanup. So it seems like uriththna would be an appropriate part of virtually any stack when I when I think about how they work together. >> Yeah, you're absolutely right. I mean uralithna is the only clinically validated nutrient targeting that mitophagy that that mitochondrial recycling. And in the the gym bro space uh we actually did just have a study published last year. We we weren't involved in it. It was one of the top sports scientists uh based over in China and he had ex you know very well-trained weightlifters. You know these are young healthy in this case it was males that had over four years of resistance training experience heavy training for you know multiple years and just by having neurolithna in they improved their strength and their muscle endurance. So reps to fatigue performance with just 8 weeks of supplementation significant improvements. So I I suspect that you know we are led by the science but the science also makes a lot of noise in the market. Uh and I wouldn't be shocked if you know some of those that that crowd is at least uh picking up on that data and re recognizing it's got some impact for the weightlifters too. >> Nice. That's awesome. That's good to hear. Man, I always think about guys when I see young men who are just not healthy and not taking care of themselves. I and women too, but men especially because they at 25, 30 years old, you've got the advantage of just copious amounts of testosterone. Like do something with it. You know, it is so expensive on this side that it is so expensive as A-50-year-old woman to m even just maintain what I'm trying to keep put together, you know. And it's not I'm nowhere near perfect by any means, but like >> who is not either, >> but what a what an effort it becomes. And if you're young and listening to this, which I do have a lot of young listeners, like get your game on now. You have every advantage. Your stem cells are working. Your scinsesscent cells aren't really taking over. Your mitochondria hopefully are working. like go for it, you know, like really build that health up because on this end it's it's like peptides, hormones, and supplements just to keep the engine revving. >> Climb climb the highest mountain you can get as high as you can and then really just take your time walking down the mountain. Slow it as much as you can. Um it goes to your point, right, where earlier, you know, kind of how you're saying it's easier just and I preferably you start as early as possible. It's like investing, right? If you you you can start saving for retirement at 22 and you can start at 72. One's preferred. It's never too late. You're not going to regret. Whenever you decide to start, you will not regret it. But the earlier you start Yeah. It's more runway. >> Yeah. I took terrible care of myself in my 20s. I was absolutely a disaster. I was chain smoking. I didn't I was a mac and cheese. I ate no protein. I drank like a fish. I lived off of coffee. It was horrible. I was horrible to myself and I poisoned my mitochondria to no end. So, I I pay for it now. That's why I say it's costly. But I I see a lot of people who didn't who don't actually have bad habits necessarily as far as like vices like smoking and drinking. They just sort of like skate through and and hope for the best. There's a lot of people like that who really never took terrible care of themselves but then they end up in my office and in my clinic and they are their labs are like a disaster, you know, and it's cuz they literally did nothing. They just sort of like hope for the best and hoping for the best doesn't work. You got to really you got to invest in your health now and then, you know, use targeted supplementation. That's why I have these brands come on this podcast you guys cuz I want you to understand the things that I'm promoting so that you know if it's right for you or not cuz not everything's right for everybody and I'm not trying to push supplements on people but there are a few things that I use consistently and I think it's important to get the education around them as to like why are we using this you know it helps to know. So anyhoo that's my rant. Um what else what else have we not covered that you want to make sure that the audience knows? Yeah, I think uh maybe if to just uh cover maybe more so extend on something we were chatting about. Obviously, MPure, it's the one clinically proven uh supplement that improves mphagy and mitochondrial health has these awesome benefits for muscle. But I think we should keep in mind that the mitochondria are all through our body, right? You know, muscle is an easy one to study in the clinic. It's great because we can see how strong someone's leg is. We can take biopsy samples. We can really see what's going on at that mechanistic level to understand what the effect of something is, but they're elsewhere, you know, and something with mito that we've looked at in more recent years because of feedback from consumers is skinincare. And that's something that I, you know, it's not always intuitive like, okay, so you have this nutritional supplement and skincare. How did how does that work? Well, it's because we're really targeting this at the cellular source, the mitochondria. And as we were doing these trials, you know, showing improved muscle strength, improved mitochondrial health in this wide range of populations with a lot of people saying, you know, I'm stronger, feeling good, my skin looks better. We thought, okay, that's interesting. What might be going on there? partnered with some top dermatologists, formulated MOPure into topical creams, and now we've got almost 10 clinical trials ongoing or completed in skin alone and looking at these topical applications showing significant improvements in collagen production, reduced wrinkle depth, increased hydration, and it's really an a neat area that if uh people are interested in MOPure and timelines, uh I would definitely look at some of those. There's a lot of exciting stuff happening on the skin side as well as the nutrition side. >> Yeah. You guys have a serum that I use and a moisturizer I believe it is that I'm using. I I don't I just smear it all on. >> Yeah. >> I'm desperate at this point. >> I can honestly tell you uh skin care has been something I have done nothing but neglect. Yeah. >> For my, you know, the all decades of my life until recently as I've learned and probably given it more the what it's due. But yeah, the the the serum, the >> uh day cream, night cream, eye cream is the most recent one. >> Oh, nice. >> All uh like anything from Timeline, if it's not proven in clinical studies, we're not selling it. So, >> it's nice. It's nice products. I I did not take care of my skin at all ever. I have People always say like, "Oh, you have great skin." I'm like, "I think that's good lighting." Because I have no idea. I have like Dr. Bronner's has been, you know, I always get requests on my Instagram like, "What's your skincare routine?" And I'm like, I don't have one, but I definitely smear the all the I take the MPure. I smear the MPure on. I'm I'm like over here going, "Come on, collagen. Give me Give me what you got because I, you know, it's all starting to >> it's all starting to droop." Um, no, I love that. And I think too, oh, I I wanted to ask you about immune health. I know that it's important for immune health, too. And that's a big I mean, that's a big piece of this. So, talk about mitochondria and immune health and how that ties together. >> Yeah, absolutely. So immunity is really a cornerstone of aging. Um like everything immune cells are powered by mitochondria. Uh people might have heard of inflammaging or this chronic lowgrade inflammation that accumulates with advancing age. And what's beginning to be better understood is how the mitochondria dysfunction is actually underpinning a lot of these issues we see with the immune system and inflammation as we get older. So, this is one we actually just uh there was a it's accepted now will be published any week now but a randomized trial looking at middle-aged adults who are taking mopure and it was uh led by a brilliant physician and uh Dominic Denk uh who's now doing a posttock out in uh University of California San Diego I think but really he did this deep deep dive into these middle-aged you know average adults taking Mopure and looking at what it was doing to every single type of immune cell in their body. And what was really neat, we saw in that is that the inflammaging was reduced. So this chronic low-grade inflammation reduced across the board in people taking Mopure. But almost more excitingly, we think of older adults, they don't respond well as well to things like vaccines or new toxins. This is the immune aging where we don't respond well to new unrecognized toxins as we get older, these pathogens. And what we saw in this is that the cells responsible for addressing these toxins, CD8T cells, were significantly improved and it was underpinned by improved mitochondrial function. So this is data that will be published any day now um and will be presented over the coming uh years at conferences but it's a really exciting area where immune is a cornerstone of aging. A lot of it's underpinned by the mitochondria and there's some really great data showing that with mitoure we're able to have these beneficial impacts on lowering inflammation and improving the immune cell vitality in uh as we get older. >> That's huge. That's huge. I talk about inflammation a lot and that's it's kind of like this, you know, we can't avoid it. I mean, we can we can we can make everything better through good lifestyle, but like it is coming and our immune systems are not going to be as robust of responders as we get older and we will just by default of aging become more inflamed and so that's huge. >> Yeah. Yeah. having this clinical data of that immune fatigue, you know, immune aging being revived. Yeah, that immune revival with mito that's um in my opinion some of the most exciting data on just nutrition and aging alone period. And the reason this is important is because like we saw with COVID, the first part of the immune system, the innate immune system, if it is petered out and trashed, which most people's are, especially as they get older and for those suffering with obesity and other conditions, diabetes, they're going to have this sort of like subpar innate response. And that lets the invader in, right? That's like the guards of the castle are missing. And so now the invader's in the house and then it starts replicating. And as a virus, it starts going and then by the time the adaptive immune system figures out what the heck is going on, it starts throwing grenades and that's that cytoine meltdown that doctors really can't stop. And so we don't want that to happen. We need a robust first guard. And so that immune aging that we're talking about, that inflammaging is where we're losing that. And that's such a critical piece. We do not want it to get to the point where the adaptive immune system comes in and like all hell breaks loose, right? And then and then you get a subpar adaptive memory. So like the immune system doesn't remember well of what it was supposed to guard against in the first place. The whole thing's a mess. And so we can do things like keep our body weight low, keep our muscle up, you know, all the things I preach, but that's a big piece of it. And so our mitochondria health are huge piece of this. >> Yeah. No, you're absolutely right. And with muscle too, that's uh some interesting data. Um obviously we're both exercise nutrition backgrounds but even just lower incidence of illness infection by exercising regularly. Exercise is the forgiver of many sins and it will it uh in many ways is beneficial but really neat to see that this targeted supplementation with mitoure has this profound effect on immune health. >> Yeah, that's awesome. Cool. Okay. Well, I feel like I feel like we covered the gamut and I am excited that people get to hear about this because I've been I've been promoting this for like two years and people I often get asked like what is uriththna and I refer them back to the muscle study but obviously we've just covered much more than that. >> Couple dozen studies now and you mentioned it's the gummy that you like right that's what brought you >> well it's I think I just needed a different delivery. I Well, you guys have great packets too. You've got these nice little pack. I don't know if you still have them, but I' i've got some packets that I travel with. So, I could It makes like a like a cherry flavored type drink. That's delicious, too. I'm just looking for unique uh and elegant ways to get things into me that aren't pills. And you guys really deliver a lot of options. >> Yeah. Well, it is. There's the soft gel, of course, the powder uh and the gummy. Gummy's uh my fiance's personal favorite. Same thing. It excites her to take it. Uh for me, I just take the soft gel with my multivitamin each morning. But uh yeah, a vehicle for whatever the preferences are. All clinically tested to be equivalent, just as effective. >> Nice. Good to know. And then I smear it all over the topicals. I smear all over them with the cosmetic line you have. So I that was the first thing when I was introduced to your company. I was like, can I have some serum? Because I was I was just getting into serums. And I'll I'll tell the truth. I have Oh, man. I've spent a lot of money on serums over the past couple years trying to figure out what my skincare routine is. And I really like the Midtopure product because it's not I don't even think it has a scent. I and I'm pretty sensitive to scents or it's very lightly scented. It's not heavy. Um a lot of these products are just like way too much for me, you know? So, it's just it's clean. It's just a nice clean simple topical. >> It is just we're looking for things that work and that we enjoy using. So, that's that's what we aim to have. Um definitely I'll make sure that whenever we link up uh conferences, whenever we're crossing paths, I'll have some serum for you. So, >> okay, >> we get some sent over too if you need anyone. >> We just needed to lift >> lift it all up. All right. Well, you guys, if you are interested in trying timeline, any of these awesome MyPure products, you can head to timeline.comdtina. And if you use my name, Dr. Tina, Dr. t y na at checkout you'll get 20% off. Um so I highly encourage you guys to try it. I think that you know sometimes we look at supplements and we think if I don't feel different right away then it's not working. And I will say with this this is something that I've just given myself time on and trusted it and over time I do feel AI when I am consistently taking my uralithan AI feel more resilience. I feel I wouldn't say I necessarily it's not like taking a you know if I with all due respect if I can inject something into me I will. So like I'm a big NAD injectable. I was I did regenerative injection therapies for a living for a long time. So like you know I keep wondering when are we going to get this in a when can I get it in a vial? But I definitely feel like my lights are on when I consistently take my Midapure. For sure. >> That's it. Not a magic pill. Rome wasn't built in a day. It's a continued use like exercise with time. >> Yeah, we're we're starting at the source and uh that's when we see the benefits. After regular use, eight weeks is when we start to see the clinical benefit. >> Yeah. Love it. Okay. Well, so nice to meet you and so nice to chat with you today and have you on the Dr. Tina show. I appreciate your time and your insight and your brain on all of this and uh I hope that people come check out the your website has a lot of good science, too. It's a nice site. It's it's comprehensive. >> Yeah, we do keep it up to date there. Whether it's blogs or you want to read the actual papers, we'll have it all shared there. But thank you, Dr. Tina. This was really a pleasure. Uh enjoyed it. Hope we get to do it again sometime soon. >> Absolutely. And if I if there's anywhere you need me to send them besides that website, is there anything else that you want to add on here before we check on? >> The website's the best way to uh look at all the products, the research, see what's coming down the pipeline. We have some exciting things coming in the next few weeks even. So, uh stay tuned. But yeah, website is uh is a is a place to go. So timeline.com uh we do have the social medias, Instagram, Tik Tok, you know, you can you can see uh that there, but website great place to have everything you need. Timeline and mitona. >> Okay, cool. timeline.comdtina and use drina at checkout for a discount. All right, thank you Brad. See you later. >> Thanks. Yeah, >> thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcasttina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthc care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice. diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.