On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I'm going to share with you my opinion about Tylenol and NSAIDs like ibuprofen, Advil. These are two separate individual over-the-counter medications. Uh I feel like I have a very specific background in understanding of these medications and their use as my clinical practice specialized for over a decade in pain and in chronic muscularkeeletal conditions. So, I have seen a lot of this come through my door. Pretty much every patient who walked in was utilizing these over-the-c counter medications to some degree or another. And I want to share with you some takehomes that I share with my patients. This is the same information I share with them. So, we're going to get into it. Disclaimer, I am not your doctor. So, none of this is medical advice. This is for educational purposes only. I assume if you're watching this that you are an adult and you can make your own decisions. Um, you obviously should talk to your practitioner if you have any concerns. If you are utilizing these medications, I would definitely tell you that I don't think that they should be given out the way that they are over the counter or at least alluded to being as safe as people have come to think they are. I know there was a huge push in the magazines when I was growing up. Advil was everywhere. You know, there's a huge push in my lifetime to get people hooked on some of these medications. And when I say hooked, it's for real. Um, there's a real rebound impact that can happen with some of them. We'll get into it. I'll get into the details of that. But all this to say, if you're utilizing a medication and you're finding yourself needing it consistently, I would really get on board with somebody who can help you either decrease the dose or help manage you on them because they are not, in my opinion, as safe as some would have you uh to believe. So with that, let's get into it. You are tuned into the Dr. Tina show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. All right. So NSAIDs again, ibuprofen, Advil, Motrin, Celra, Mobic, which is Moxyam, neproxin. They work by inhibiting the inflammatory cascades, which I'll give you a little more detail on as we go. Tylenol is just an analesic. Tylenol is acetaminophen and in Canada it's called paracetamol that is an analesic mean it meaning it just is intended to cut pain. So when somebody comes into my clinic and they are using one of these over-the-counter medications and they say you know I take whatever and it helps so much I say what are you using it for and does it work? So they tell me what they're using it for and does it work? If they say it's not working, then that gives me some clues as to what's maybe the underlying driver of the pain may be. If they tell me ibuprofen helps, I know we're dealing with some kind of inflammatory situation, like they are inflamed, it could be acute inflammation, it could be chronic inflammation, it could be due to autoimmune disease, but when they say, "Oh my god, ibuprofen is a godsend. It changes everything. It makes me feel better. It improves my mood." I'm like, "Okay, we got a very inflamed individual here." If and I am that person. So again, no judgment. Like ibuprofen is a godsend to me. I rarely take it. I try really hard not to take it. But to be honest with you, at this point in my life as my hormones are shifting, I carry it with me wherever I go. I use it very rarely. Um I take it very seriously when I do choose to use it. I use the minimal amount necessary to get the job done. And I'm careful not to repeat that dose. Like I'm not somebody who takes it all day long. The only times I have done that in recent past was when I herniated a disc and I really had to get through the initial acute phase. Sometimes we do have to squaltch inflammation a little bit. We have to just modulate it and get it down to a a roar where we're still allowing it to happen but we're not um you know completely shutting it down. If they say I use Tylenol and it helps so much, which I rarely hear to be honest with you, I don't even know why people use Tylenol to be totally honest with you. I've I've rarely had anybody tell me that Tylenol was hugely impactful for them. But a lot of people do use it thinking that it's helping, hoping it's helping. And when I really get into it with them and I say, "Does it help?" They're like, "Not really." So I'm like, "Well, the downsides of ibuprofen are many," which I'll tell you about here. But the downsides of Tylenol are even bigger in my opinion. And I think of it as a very dangerous over-the-counter medication. That is my medical opinion. That is my personal opinion. I do not think it's safe. I think there's a lot of things that could go wrong. And I'll I'll tell you what they are here shortly. But if they're telling me they're using Tylenol and it's working, I I tend to think we're not dealing with as much of an inflammatory situation. So that's one question you can ask yourself. So let's start with Tylenol. None of this is new information, by the way. I am going to be sharing studies with you that are 10 plus years or older. And I'm going to share with you a very recent study that I think is uh important that we know about because it was done by a high up at Harvard and people are dismissing it all over the internet right now. First off, my mentor again told me to stay away from it. He was a physician for many decades, like almost 40 years. He told me, "Stay away from it. Don't take it while you're pregnant. Don't take it. Don't give it to your ch your babies or infants. Stay away from it. All right. So, here is what I downloaded from Medscape. Now, Medscape is a website where you can get information, but it's also an app that doctors use, and it gives us all of the information we know when we're trying to prescribe a medication. We go into Medscape, we type in the medication, it gives us all the information we need, including dosing, how to use it, um what adverse events could be, what, you know, all the things. Nowhere in there did it say anything about uh neurodedevelopment neurodedevelopmental disorders but it did say this about pregnancy crosses placenta and can be detected in cord blood newborn serum and urine immediately after delivery increase the risk of stratogenic effects not reported following maternal use of drug during pregnancy. So strategenic is cancer-causing and it was not reported. So that's good. Use of normal doses during pregnancy not associated with increased risk of miscarriage or still birth. However, increase in fetal death or spontaneous abortion may be seen with maternal overdose if treatment delayed. Wheezing and asthma in early childhood associated with frequent maternal use of drug during pregnancy. This is something we have known for a long time. If you used a lot of Tylenol when you were pregnant and your child has asthma, that maybe has a connection. Okay? Again, I'm not judging. It is excreted in your breast milk in general. Okay? Some of the studies that interested me the most about Tylenol were not actually the neurodedevelopmental disorder issues, but the um fact that it and we have multiple studies showing that it can dull positive emotions as well as any pain that you're feeling. So, you're dulling your pain, but you're dulling your emotions along with it. And according to the study by Derso, they were not aware of their blunted emotions. So, blunting of emotions, it blends positive and negative emotions. So we've got the Derso and Latrrell study 2015. This was a randomized controlled lab study, single dose of acetaminophen and the findings were reduced intensity of both both positive and negative evaluations. There was another study in 2016 showing reduced empathy towards others pain. that attenuated cortical error related activity. There was another study in 2018 showing blunted emotional response to music. That's a bummer. That's a real bummer. I love music. I love the emotional response I have to music. And then another study in 2021 I pulled up showing blunted electrocortical response to both positive and negative images. So basically it's dulling people out. And then we have the neurodedevelopmental disorders part. And I have let me pull up my graph on that. So, I'm going to go through some old studies and some new studies. So, we've got a 2014 study in JAMAMA pediatrics showing positive association with behavioral problems and ADHD diagnosis. Um, multiple studies showing another showing persistent use linked to ADHD symptoms and autism traits. Boys were more affected. Proposed ox and this is go that's 2016 proposed oxidative stress immune disruption canabonoid receptor involvement association between prenatal exposure exposure and ADHD risk dose uh response higher bio biomarkers linked to increased ADHD and and um ASD risk consistent association with ADHD ASD symptoms. These are studies going from 2016 all the way through 2025. significant associations especially with frequent or prolonged use in a 2025 study in European uh psychiatry and then a product study 2025 27 studies I'll share this in a second uh 27 studies positive null for protective overall evidence supports association this was titled it was in environmental health BMC environmental health evaluation of the evidence of acetaminophen use and neurodedevelopmental disorders using the navigation guide methodology. One of the authors was high up at Harvard and the results quote we identified 46 studies for inclusion in our analysis. So it was a meta analysis of studies. Of these 27 studies reported positive association uh significant links to neurodedevelopmental disorders. Nine showed null associations, no significant risk, and four indicated negative associations, protective effects. Higher quality studies were more likely to show positive associations. Overall, the majority of the studies reported positive associations of prenatal acetaminophen use with ADHD um ASD which is autism spectrum disorder and neurodedevelopmental disorders in offspring with risk of bias and strength of evidence ratings informing the overall synthesis. The conclusion was our analysis using the navigation guide thus support evidence consistent with an association between acetaminophen exposure during pregnancy and increase incident of neurodedevelopmental disorders. Appropriate and immediate steps should be taken to advise pregnant women to limit acetaminophen consumption to protect their offspring neurodedevelopment. I will give you that study in the show notes. I can't link all of them because there's a ton of them. So that's for your information. Do with it what you will. I will tell you that people are often getting acetaminophen from a variety of different products that they may be taking. So a good example would be like maybe you have a cold and you're taking some kind of over-the-counter medication. It may have acetaminophen in it. So acetaminophen toxicity is real. It's easy to it's it I think it's this is my opinion medically from what I've seen and from what I have researched and from what I've talked to my colleagues who have far more experience than me. It seems to me that getting to a certain acettoinophen toxicity point is not a magic number. It's based on bioindividuality and it can happen more readily than one would think. It definitely can happen when you start mixing it with alcohol. So I cannot tell you how many people and patients that I would have and they would take something maybe like an opioid analesic and with acetaminophen in it and then they would drink alcohol and I'm like no no no no no no because what can happen is spontaneous liver toxicity. So hpatic necrosis the liver literally melts and there's no way to stop it. There's nothing that can fix it really. I mean we can try like intravenous NAC or milk thistle and there's some data showing that that might be helpful but once this process starts it starts and so a lot of folks it is my understanding and I'm uh this is what I have been taught that a lot of folks on the liver transplant list were mixing acetaminophen with alcohol when they got to where they got to. It wasn't just the alcohol that often acetaminophen is a culprit in there. So, I think it's just worth noting. Also, just total side note, since we're talking about pain relief with over-the-c counter medications, something that is not over-the-c counter obviously would be an opioid medication. Just to note, opioids actually ramp up your micro gloell activation, which are the the cells in your brain that drives chronic pain and inflammation in the brain. So, it's very interesting that opioids, you know, I think short-term use can be very helpful. Um, and I know this is also a heated topic and as of late it's become very heated that most doctors won't even prescribe it anymore because they can get into so much trouble. The the pendulum has swung so far the other way that now patients are, I think, being, you know, unethically not treated. They're not being treated when they need to be after like say a surgery or some kind of big trauma. They're not even being offered any kind of um opioid analesic help. But it does over the long-term chronicity use ramp up micro gleo cell activation which is going to ramp up neuroinflammation which is ultimately going to drive chronic pain and more of a central sensitized pain state. So potentially so just something to think about. Okay. So let's talk about the dangers of NSAIDs. I think first off the fact that they're so readily available over the counter. They're used really, really prevalently in sports and in sports with kids, teenagers, you know, like younger folks in sports. If patients would come in and say, you know, I've been having these shoved down my throat by my coaches and by the team doc since I was a, you know, a young sports player on a team. So, they're red, they're little, they look like candy, they have a sweet coating on them. That's the inter coating. People pop them like candy thinking there's no repercussions because, you know, the advertising was thick when we were growing up. parents hand them out thinking they're fine. And while they are amazing and I understand that often it's the only thing that will help, think of them ultimately the way I think of them is in a pinch and short term. Very short term. Let me back up a second. I won't take Tylenol unless I'm dying. I hate the stuff. I hate how it makes me feel. It immediately makes me feel gross. And now that I've seen all these studies showing the emotional blunting, it makes more sense. But I just find it them to they make Tylenol makes me feel super gross. I don't like it. I have had many patients report the same. I think that's because it's like bottoming out glutathione and some of us are really sensitive to that. You know, some of us with MTHFR mutations or different SNIPS, genetic snips can be very sensitive to shifts in glutathione levels. And so, yeah, not a fan of Tylenol. I will I personally just cuz you guys will ask me I I don't take it unless I'm absolutely in a 10 out of 10 pain and I'm just hoping it'll help along with it. Uh I very much avoid anything over the counter if I can help it. And the reason being is if I've hurt myself like say I have an acute injury my first goal is to get moving. My goal is to always get moving. And so if I do have to take a little overthe-counter analesic support to get moving then I will be in agreement with that. But it's short term because the movement is actually what's going to help me the most. And I'll talk about what are some alternatives to these at the end if you stick around. So movement is motion is lotion and movement is the medicine. And so I will use everything at my disposal to get myself moving. And I will pick the things that are on my hierarchy of like least dangerous to, you know, sorry, like that are in the category of the least dangerous. And I have Tylenol ranked up there pretty high as most dangerous. Uh I'm not a fan of it for anybody pregnant or not pregnant. I just don't think it's super safe and I think there's a lot of risks. And I'll talk about the dosing of it in a minute and how just how they do it and how it's suggested and I'll let you decide. But first a history lesson. So first we have the Egyptians using white willow bark. I love white willow bark by the way. Wonderful herb. Wonderful herb. If it works for you, it's so wonderful. White willow bark was then uh made into aspirin. So aspirin is synthesized from white willow bark. And I think aspirin has some really incredible benefits. And that's a topic for another day. Maybe I'll do a whole episode about it. But that's not to say run out and take aspirin. It's not I don't think it's appropriate for everybody. And again, this is for educational purposes only. Talk to your provider. But I will tell you that the story goes that in the 1918 flu, you know, the flu that ripped through. First thing I want to say about that flu was that what was killing people was the secondary bacterial infection that they were getting. Homophus influenza was the bacterium and it was causing their lungs to basically like melt and coupled with the inflammatory cascade occurring from the virus. It was bad. Sounds like something that recently happened, but we weren't allowed to talk about the secondary bacterial infection that was occurring with the most recent uh situation in 2020 and and so on. And so some of us who were in the no were treating with antibiotics because we knew this is pretty common knowledge when someone has a viral infection of any sort that they're very likely if they're compromised, which the virus can do, or they go into it compromised, that there is probably going to be some kind of secondary bacterial infection. And that's what we're way more concerned about than we are the virus. So just take that as information and put it in your pocket for next time. Um anyway, the soldiers in the 1918 flu who were given aspirin because it had just been put on the market I think in 1916 they died which was interesting they or they had a higher rate of death I should say and very likely it is our opinion that it was because their fever was suppressed and fever can be very beneficial. Now, fever in a pregnant woman can cause problems. And so, again, this is why I say talk to your doctor and you decide for yourself what you want to do, but fever benefits in a non-pregant human being, very beneficial. Big fan of the fever. I always say we want to rock the fever, right? And and that's another conversation to have with your practitioner. There are certain levels that we're comfortable with of rocking a fever, too. And beyond that, we can get some brain damage and we can get some issues. And so, I'm not saying this is for everybody and this is, you know, this is all up to each individual's risk tolerance. based on their own level of um risk versus benefit ratio and also their level of health because how you go into anything as I've said from the beginning as you go into anything is how you will go through it and how you will come out of it right so if we go in strong and healthy and metabolically optimized our chances of get and we have data on this I'm not making it up your chances of getting through that are smoother sailing and your chances of coming out the other end without having lingering impacts and long viral symptoms are higher. So now we have acetaminophen which is Tylenol. It was invented and first introduced in 1955 as an aspirin-free pain reliever for children because we don't want to give children aspirin because it can cause rice syndrome. So it was initially available by prescription only. The active ingredient acetamin acetaminophen had been synthesized in the 19th century but wasn't widely used until the 1950s when they developed the product to be a safer alternative to aspirin was the idea. The brand was acquired by Johnson and Johnson in 1959 and Tylenol came available over the counter one year later. So in 1960 in 1969 we got ibuprofen. That is when ibuprofen that's the NSAID came to market. In 1976 we got neproxen. It's harder on the gut supposedly easier on the heart. And then in what 20 right right around 2000 2001 we get the Vio scandal. So let's talk about that because people seem to have forgotten this. Vio was basically sold as a safer painkiller. Uh Merc introduced Vio in 1999 as a new type of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. That's what NSA stands for. It's a COX2 inhibitor. They all are. I'll I'll tell you what that means later. It was marketed as a safer alternative to older painkillers, posing fewer risks of stomach bleeding and ulcers. And the drug quickly became a blockbuster, generating two over 2.5 billion in annual sales at its peak. There were early warning signs that were ignored. Um, during a clinical trial known as the Vigor trial, VIG, in 2000, data revealed that patients taking Vio had a significantly higher rate of heart attacks compared to those taking neproxin, which is known as Alie. also an NSAIDE. Rather than halting the drug, Merc downplayed the findings, suggesting that neproxin had a cardiorive effect that skewed the results. Then there was some data manipulation and ghostriting. Gee, I never thought that big pharma would do such a thing. The FDA warnings were disregarded. In 2001, the FDA issued a warning letter to Merc for Vio promotional campaign that misrepresented the safety profile of Vio and minimized the heart related findings there. There were cardiovascular issues, known cardiovascular issues. There was final evidence and withdrawal. Four years later, oh, I'm sorry, three years later. In 2004, Merc voluntarily withdrew Viox from the global market after a new long-term study, the approved study, confirmed that the drug doubled the risk of heart attack and stroke in patients who had used it for 18 months or more. Let me repeat that it took them three years to pull it. They had the data since what 1999 and they proved and then pulled the drug that it doubled the risk of heart attack and stroke in patients who used it for 18 months or more. Now something similar to it called Celre is still on the market and a lot of people take it. So that's also an insight just so you know. There were lawsuits and settlements. In 2011, Merc finally pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge related to the illegal off label marketing of Bio for rheumatoid arthritis before its FDA approval for that use. That's what they got in trouble for. The company paid a total of 950 million in criminal fines and civil statements. And in 2007, before that, they agreed to a 4.85 billion settlement to resolve the majority of the personal injury claims. Now, it's speculated that vio maybe led to anywhere between like 35 to 80,000 deaths and uh people seem to forget that. Okay, so let's talk about NSAIDES. This is a few years old. Uh this is probably from 2021 that I pulled this stat up. Docs write a 100 million prescriptions in the US for NSAIDs, 20 million in England and 10 million in Canada. NSAID dosages per Medscape per that app I told you about basically say first off NSAIDs come in 200 milligram tablets or capsules over the counter and generally used over the counter for pain, fever or menstrual pain and like Motrin would be menstrual pain advertised as regular dosing would be 200 to 400 milligrams every four to six hours not to exceed 1,200 milligrams a day. That's what the doctor software says on how to dose. Prescription versions, which is the same thing, allow 400 to 800 milligrams every 4 to 6 hours, not to exceed 3,200 milligrams a day. I think that is outrageous. And I will tell you why. Because it significantly inhibits healing. But that is outrageous. That is outrageous. And I cannot tell you the number of patients who've come into my clinic who actually were on that kind of dosing strategy. They were actually on that schedule and they were doing it without any concern. And I'm like, "How's your gut?" Like, "Are is your gut bleeding yet?" Tylenol, this is what's interesting to me about Tylenol is it comes in 325 milligrams or 500 mgram tablets, but it is exceptionally difficult to find the 325 milligram tablets in the store. If you go look at the go to the next time you go to the store, go look at it. You'll see extra strength Tylenol everywhere. You'll rarely find regular Tylenol. So, the extra strength is the 500 and the regular comes in the 325. This is where things get much diceier because they really do not want you to exceed the maximum dose. And there's not a lot of leeway here on Tylenol dosing. So, for pain or fever, it's advertised as 325 to 650 milligrams. That would be one or two tablets of the regular, which I just told you are very difficult to find. every four hours as needed, not to exceed 3,215 milligrams a day under and this is this is on the app which this was not on the app for the NSAID under supervision of health care professional only. So why is it available over the counter if it says under supervision of healthcare professional only extra strength it says 1,000 milligrams. So that would be two of the 500 tablets every 4 to 6 hours, not to exceed 3,000 milligrams a day. Again, under only, it's very hard to find the 325s. And what I have found with people I've lived with, guys I've dated, husbands, friends, patients, is when I say, "How do you use Tylenol?" They say, "Oh, I pop a couple whenever I need it." They're not paying attention to, "Has it been four to six hours yet? And they are taking usually two at a time. Most of them have extra strength Tylenol in their cupboard. So they're, and you might, this might resonate with you. They're popping two of them whenever they need it. When I met my husband, he had neproxin and Tylenol in his um his little e-glue cooler that he used for work. He's a bluecollar guy. So when he was on the the job site and he had no idea how he was taking them. He was just taking whatever he wanted whenever he wanted. And I was like, "No, no, no, no, no. This is not safe. No, no, no. So, and sometimes we will piggyback the two. I will say that caveat. If someone's just had, you know, a major injury, I might use both because I'm trying to get pain down because again, I'm trying to get them moving. And sometimes I can give a little less of each if I can use them together. But that is under the supervision of a doctor I'm that I am instructing that. So, that is not advice. that it's I'm just saying sometimes we can piggyback them to get a quicker impact and keep dosing lower of each. Never ever ever I've said this before, never ever ever ever take Tylenol with alcohol because you can get the spontaneous epatic necrosis. That's liver necrosis. And again, it's irreversible. And be careful, something that I hear often, and I actually just got a message from somebody on Instagram. Be careful of your Tylenol PM. A lot of you are taking Tylenol PM for sleep. What that is is benadryil with Tylenol. So the Tylenol I've just made a case for how dangerous I think it is. Um benadryil is not great you guys. Benadryil man I mean we've got data showing mo I know allergists who are telling people never to use benadryil again. Benadryil has been shown to c to lead to dementia in older folks using it. So for folks using Tylenol PM their whole life to sleep or all through menopause up into old age, like you are looking at trouble in my opinion. So Americans buy 30 billion tablets of Nsaides over the counter yearly. I don't know how much Tylenol they buy, but that's a lot. That's a lot of NSAIDs going out the door. All right, here's some more stats. So 16,000 people plus 16,000 plus people die from GI bleeds from NSAIDs annually. And in 2015 they finally put a blackbox warning on the NSAIDES. The FDA finally put a warning that said cardiovascular disease which includes um heart attack and stroke and GI bleeds. That's what the blackbox warning warns for. Overuse of it can trigger rebound inflammation and pain. So, how does that work? Your body gets so used to it. Many of you have been taking NSAIDs for years and years and years. And your body gets so used to it that when you quit taking it, your system does not know how to regulate normally anymore. And so, it overexpresses itself and you get an over, you know, just it's a rebound. You get a rebound phenomenon of inflammation and pain. It also blocks pain and people will push past. And so, when I see its chronic use in athletes, I'm talking about NSAIDs here. When I see chronic NSAID use in athletes and in people who are very active, I will see them pushing past their threshold, which is also not good. Pain is there to tell you something. If you have chronic pain, it's there to tell you something. There's a problem to be sorted out. Lord knows, I know, I live in chronic pain. It is a problem to be sorted out. And so, when used acutely, like say you use it for an injury, you may run the risk of reinjuring yourself more readily because you're not aware of the pain that's stopping you. And if you're using it chronically, you may just chronically push your tissues past threshold. So something to consider. They also inhibit healing. They block the inflammatory cascade. Like I told you, they block the first 14 days of the inflammatory cascade, which each part of that cascade is contingent on the wave before. So we have a problem because within 300 days, we have collagen deposition somewhere in the middle. And that collagen deposition by around day 300 has now gone from this mishmashy cross-knit pattern to like a very nice linear pattern that's able to withhold forces and or withstand forces. And that's how collagen is. It's it's it's collagen lined up in the direction of force. And so that's how your ligaments and tendons hold you together. And if you break that cycle and shut that down, you're going to end up with just really bad cross-hatched collagen. that is mishmashy and not very resilient and so the risk for reinjury is high or people don't in or people don't um heal at all well you know it's like it turns into a chronic issue. So we knew in the 1990s they did studies where they pissed rabbits cartilage in their knees and then they gave them ibuprofen and the cartilage didn't heal. So and I'm going to tell you a little bit more about that. We also know orthopedic surgeons know not to suggest it to people who need bone healing. If you've had a fracture, it can inhibit bone knitting. They know that. So, to hear an orthopedic surgeon suggest ibuprofen after a surgery is bonkers to me. I I have heard it and I I've heard it many times and I'm like, are are we not reading the same literature? Because that inhibits the bone knitting, which we need. So, if you've had a hip replacement or you've had like say you busted a biceps tendon, it had to be sewed back onto the bone. We need that bone to actually be strong and have integrity. And we do not want to be giving ibuprofen for that. That's not a great idea. So obviously talk to your doctor, but this is what the studies say. And it thins the blood. Ibuprofen and NSAIDs thin the blood. Lancet uh 2015 high doses of Nsaides increase cardiovascular risk by onethird. Circulation 2017. For people with the history of one heart attack, taking NSAIDs increased the risk of death by 60% and of a second heart attack by 30%. I want to repeat this. If you've had a heart attack and you use NSAIDES, your risk, according to the study in circulation of 2017, increased the risk of death by 60% 60% and of a second heart attack by 30%. I also have read about risks in using it for hangovers. So, you have a hangover because you've ingested too much alcohol. That puts you at a higher risk for blood clots as is and then you take a bunch of NSAIDs to try to help yourself with the pain of the hangover and now you're sitting there with you're taking something that increased blood clots and it decreases nitric oxide which is what makes your vessels vasoddilate. So you're creating blood clots in a system that you are now creating potentially vasospasm in concurrently and you've got alcohol poisoning and people get on planes, right? So like big weekend bender in Vegas and you get on the plane, you're like, I'll just fly home. I'll sleep on the plane. You get on the plane hung over, you pop some Advil, you try to go to sleep, maybe have another drink, like and you're at altitude, uh which all of these increase your risk for blood clots. So like just something to consider. Again, don't shoot the messenger. The impacts on the gut. You are five times as likely to get an ulcer when you use NSAIDs. It alters the gut flora and damages the gut mucosa which leads to leaky gut and that leads to suboptimal immune function, autoimmune disease, food intolerances, and nutritional deficiencies. Bad bad juju. So, I think a lot when a when a patient comes in and they're having a lot of gut issues, that's one of my first questions is like, "What's your Advil use like? What's your NSAID use like?" Cuz if they're taking a lot of NSAIDs and their gut's a mess, I'm like, "Well, there you go. There's something, right?" It contributes to asthma, as I mentioned, it contributes to arthritis, which I talked about a little bit. I'm going to give you a little bit more information below because not only does it inhibit the healing when you have joint damage of any sort, but it actually has some changes on your immune system by shifting your macrophagages from an M2 to an M1 type macroofage. And all that means is M1 macrophagages are the pro-inflammatory type of white blood cell and M2 are also can be inflammatory but and one is not good and one is not bad. It's a dance between both but a lot of things es like as we age as we lose hormones as our gut microbiome shifts a lot of things will shift us to an M1 macroofage and NSAIDs do it. So, it's kind of ironic that we're giving the body something to try to decrease inflammation while simultaneously increasing inflammation by shifting our M2 macroofagages to an M1 status. So, M1 is like producing reactive oxygen species. It's a pro-inflammatory state. M2 is the it's responsible for collagen production. It's also got its own kind of inflammatory state, but it's responsible for collagen production and to induce healing and wound repair. So, we're shifting us from collagen production and wound repair to a more pro-inflammatory damaging state as we're taking a substance to decrease inflammation. This is part of that rebound problem, too. So, just something to think about. It induces kidney damage. Um, it can cause kidney damage. It causes constriction of the vessels and renal failure. We have data. People know that. People know the GI bleeding and ulcer and blood clots and kidney damage part. What they don't know is some of the details I'm trying to break down here. There was a 2015 study showing it inhibited ovulation. NSAIDES inhibit ovulation. So, if you're taking chronic NSAIDs and you're having a hard time getting pregnant or your periods are all crazy, something to think about. It also reduces progesterone. Progesterone's huge in pain tolerance, but also we do not want to reduce progesterone because in most cases, I I've rarely run labs and seen normal progesterone levels in any woman of any age. So, we certainly don't want to be reducing it by something we're just erroneously taking over the counter. Another study showed it increases miscarriage risk by 80%. This is why this is not Tylenol. This is NSAIDES. This is why we don't take anything when we're pregnant and we tough it out. This is why we don't take anything. I'm not a fan of taking things during pregnancy. I that is my opinion. Again, talk to your doctor. Again, we do not want high fevers rocking during pregnancy. That can be dangerous to the fetus. So, talk to your doctor. But I'm just giving you the other for people who are just so casual about the over-the-c counter meds. There are some risks. It can cause mitochondrial damage uh due to their impact on the GI and the GI damage that's occurring. And the immune system is trained in the gut. So if it's a mess, the whole thing's a mess. Something to think about really quick. Um COX 2 pathways. So COX pathways are your cylogy pathways. There's COX one, there's COX 2, and NSAIDES impact them both. Now, Tylenol does not impact the COX pathways, but NSADes and aspirin impact the COX pathways. Aspirin basically blocks them completely until the aspirin's out of the body. So, it's like a it's a at the time the aspirin's in the body, it's they're blocked. NSAIDes block them a little bit differently and that's why they were considered as an aspirin alternative and supposed to be safer. But NSAIDs block both the COX one and the COX 2. COX one basically um the prostaglandins produced by COX one protects the mucosal lining of the stomach from acid. It's responsible for activity in the stomach, intestine, kidneys and platelets. And when you block it, this is where you get the GI issues. COX 2 is responsible for inflammation which we need to heal. It's found in the lining of blood vessels and blocking this cascade increases the risk of blood clots and decreases blood pressure and it also decreases nitric oxide and so that's where we get the clots while we have the clamping down of the vessels. Bad combo. When cox pathways are blocked, more lucotrines are produced via a third pathway which is the lipo oxygenizes pathway and that that promotes the release of chemicals that decrease cartilage synthesis, promotes cartilage breakdown, impairs the body to repair damage of the cartilage matrix. It inhibits the anabolic bone activity. This is why we don't give it after a surgery or a fracture. It inhibits proteoglycin matrix synthesis of cartilage. Your proteoglycin layer is like the layer in your cartilage that it holds water and it is responsible for the bounce and slickness of your cartilage. And when people say, "Oh, I have a breakdown of my cartilage or my cartilage is degrading or I'm bone on bone." Well, what's your NSAID use been like? Were you taking something that was actively inhibiting the proteoglycin matrix synthesis? Also dehydration will lead to proteoglycin synthesis or predoglycin health overall I should say degradation. So something to think about and this is something I talked about a lot with my patients because I'm like you're actively taking something that is breaking down your cartilage and you are hoping that it's helping with your knee pain. It's it it doesn't work that way. So and it's a vicious cycle, right? Like you get in this I was in it. But I remember in high school, I used to take NSAIDs like candy just on and on and all through college, all through high school and college constantly. And it made me feel better. It decreased the inflammation in my brain. So it decreased my depression levels. It decreased my anxiety. It decreased my pain. And I was in that NSAID loop until I met my mentor who was like, you got to knock this off and help me get out of it. So just awareness was huge for me. And that was a big part of me being able to step away from it. Daily NSAID used to treat degenerative joint joint disease actually speeds up the joint degradation. And I think that's the take-home message here for those of you using it for joint pain. If you're using it to treat your joint pain, it's actually increasing and speeding up the joint degradation overall. And so NSAIDs again inhibit COX 1 and two and aspirin has an irreversible COX one and two. So when I say I there's some benefits to aspirin, I'll have to save that for another day because that's a longer conversation. And then Tylenol, remember, has no COX inhibition. It's an analesic, but we get the liver issues and the blunting of a of empathy and the, you know, potential for a lot of issues as we deplete glutathione levels and potentially cause mitochondrial damage. So, so what do we do about pain? That's the million-dollar question, right? It's really multiffactoral. I've done many episodes on my podcast. You can go back. We'll try to link a few in the show notes. Some of them go way back to the beginning. This is really multiffactoral. I'll tell you the number one thing that I see in common of all patients who have chronic pain is that they are generally deconditioned. That's the biggest one. Most of them are It's not overtraining. It's not is there are inflammatory arthritises like I have and it's very painful. Like we have seriatic arthritis, we have rheumatoid arthritis, we have some of those conditions. Absolutely. But I will tell you that adding to that, no matter what is driving your pain, no matter what the root cause is, which I'll name a few in a moment, being deconditioned makes it all worse. So, I'm a huge fan of Pilates to get out of pain. I'm a huge fan of strength training to stay out of pain. So, if you if you're starting from base level and you don't know what to do, Pilates is amazing. Most of what you see out there is not Pilates. Most of what you see in the studios nowadays is not Pilates. Find a classical Pilates instructor who knows Joseph Pilates repertoire, who knows the old classical work. That's my favorite. Up from there is contemporary Pilates, which is like balanced body. Anybody who says, "I was trained in the balanced body system," I think they do very good work, too. I've trained in all of these. Um, from there, right now though, because Pilates is so popular, these, you're getting a total mixed bag where they literally bring in young girls and say, "We're going to train you in Pilates overnight." And you have like a weekend and then they're on the floor and they're running the courses, they're running the classes that you're in. And I have been hurt in Pilates. So, I would very It's not cheap. I I'm not going to lie. It's not cheap. If you want a good instructor, it's not cheap and it's worth every penny. If you're really in a lot of pain, the way I just did a whole episode on how I pulled myself out of pain with my Pilates classical experience and my reformer, I was able to get myself out of a horrific, horrific pain loop this summer. So, I highly encourage you to seek out classical Pilates. You could do it in a group, you could do one-on ones. Depends on how bad off you are. Um, they'll tell you. Usually they have you do a couple solos so that they know how you move. And then they'll tell you if you're cleared to go into a group class. And then from there, once you feel like you're able to trust your spine and your joints and how to tension your body, this is where strength training really shines. But strength training before you have that base level, I think can be depending on your pain and your orthopedic faults. It's again, I can't advise you. I would have to analyze you myself and and figure out what you can and can't do. But that's usually kind of my one two. Um, from there I will tell you hormones are huge. Your gut health is huge, huge, huge. It it is underrated. All these I did a whole podcast episode on this, so I shall not rant. But all of these doctors and health gurus and people online taking my original message about GLP1s and twisting it up. Um, a lot of these folks are trying to sell you into peptide stacks that they're getting from the gray market or doctors that are maybe getting it from the gray market or doctors that are prescribing it. And none of them are going after the gut first. And I treat the gut first. The gut's really important when it comes to pain. And so, not on everyone. I don't treat the gut first, but I treat the gut first. When somebody comes into me in a, you know, they're in a 10 out of 10 pain, we go after the gut first. That's usually the biggest lever. It's because a lot of these organisms can drive lipopolyaccharide production and that can drive a whole host of issues including chronic inflammation and pain and so really ramp up pain. So that's a big one. The gut, the hormones, if your estrogen and progesterone are leaving your body because you are aging through pmenopause into menopause. I I have said this on past episodes. I have a whole series of podcast episodes about orthopedics. I have a whole podcast series about strength training. I have a whole podcast series. I've done a couple on Pilates. I have a whole podcast series on um hormones. And what I will say in most of those, you'll hear me talk about hormones. And I think that you should start hormones sooner than later. Hormones are not a crash out at the bottom of the valley and then and then we treat you. Hormones are like you're starting to go into the valley and we need to raise the valley up. We need to I heard a doctor say that this morning and I thought it was such a genius way to describe it. I usually say that, you know, you're going down the mountain and we don't want you to hit the the base, but that really is the valley, right? So, we bring you up and we keep you up so you never really crash out. And because it's the peaks and valleys of estrogen that seem to be what causes a lot of pain for people, at least that's what the data shows. It's the swings in estrogen levels. It's not it's not no estrogen or high. In fact, if I take too much estrogen, I end up in really horrific pain. And if I have no estrogen, I'm in horrific pain. And so for me it's like there's a sweet spot and that's going to be different for everyone. That's why there's no algorithmic dose of anything. That's why anybody telling you that this is the dose is doesn't understand the intricacies of this because this is you have to take a functional medicine approach to this whether your doctor believes in it or not. This is multiffactoral like you have to treat the gut. You have to look at the metabolism and the metabolic health overall. We have to look at the atapost levels of an individual. Like all of those not only impact hormone replacement therapy, but they impact your pain. So, for instance, a study just came out recently showing that the more visceral fat, the higher the pain levels. And that some folks with increasing visceral fat will have a significant uptick in their pain. I know that's true for me personally. I know it's true for members of my family because we're all little apple shapes. And the second that visceral fat starts to grow, my pain goes through the roof. That's why I've said in some of my prior GLP-1 episodes, I have a whole series on that too, is that um as that kind of 15 pounds comes on, that 10 15 pounds you get when you hit the middle age, you know, the middle age, middle, it can drive a lot of pain. So, not only is the are the joints becoming compromised because of the hormones leaving the body, but on top of that, we now have an increased pain level due to the visceral fat coming on. And as estrogen is depleted, pain sensation is higher. People feel more pain. Women feel more pain more vigorously as estrogen is leaving the body. That's why we need some estrogen and why I'm a big fan of HRT. Again, HRT isn't for everyone. talked about that on past episodes, but there's a sweet spot for everything. And so all of these need to be taken into consideration. Testosterone can help with pain. It depends. Testosterone can send my pain through the roof. Other times it's very helpful. So it depends on the individual. You got to find someone to work with who's willing to ride the roller coaster of parmenopause with you. And then when all your hormones are offline, hopefully things get a little easier actually because now it's just all exogenous, right? it's all outside instead of the roller coaster that you know sometimes some months I have estrogen some months I don't but if you're throwing a lot of NSAIDs on top of things you are potentially having an impact on your hormones and decreasing your progesterone and then and messing up your gut which is going to mess all this up worse and drive further pain and further cartilage degradation and then if you're throwing Tylenol on top of it you are looking at a lot of liver um I don't want to say liver damage damage because safe use of Tylenol may not necessarily induce liver damage. But anytime we're putting a load on the liver, this is why we tell you that you kind of have to quit drinking at middle age. It sucks, but like drinking and middle age just don't go together because of the load on the liver and the liver is trying to process the hormones and it will preferentially process the toxins first. So if you're taking a lot of things that are inducing liver uh I mean in naturopathic medicine we you know we say you got to support the liver. We're not necessarily saying saying that you have frank liver disease. And so a lot of the MDs will dismiss this concept and say, well, they don't have frank liver disease. There's no problem. Your liver is fine. Your liver gets sluggish and it has a rough go of things when you hit middle age. And that's why we start to see changes in our blood lipids and a lot of other factors. And so just supporting the liver, I think, is always a good idea. And there's different herbs and supplements we can use to do that. But really, a lot of it's like, why would we be taking a lot of herbs and supplements if we're just continuing to put a toxic burden on, right? So Tylenol is in that bucket of toxic burden. So is toxins in the environment, your hair dye, your nails. I mean, whoa, hair dye. One of the reasons I let my hair go gray was cuz I just was like, I don't need a further toxic burden. And if you've got an MTHFR mutation sitting there and your detox pathways are compromised, you're going to have a hell of a time with your hormones and everything else. And so this all really shows itself. It kind of like bubbles over in middle age and it bubbles over for women in particular because we are exposed to so many more toxins than men usually unless you're my husband and you're a blueco collared guy and you're up in like diesel fuel all day cuz he comes in after a day on the farm and I'm like god you smell like I don't even know like grease and diesel and who knows he's probably up in the glyphosate as well. I don't know. But all that to say is um yeah, I mean this is all real and it's happening. And this is why I think we have to take an integrative approach no matter what. And that a functional medicine approach really is important here. If you're going to do hormones right, if you want your pain managed well, kind of the same thing. It's all one big bag, right? And it's ultimately we're trying to decrease inflammation and we're trying to get systems to run more smoothly. I know a lot of alopathic doctors are going to poo poo on this. I don't really care. I've been doing this a long time and this is how it works. So, um, I really think, you know, if you're a doctor out there and you're like scoffing at me, trust me, in 10, 20 years, you're going to be like, "Damn, she was right. I wish I'd listened." Because it's taken 20 years for people just to even get to the point where they're willing to have a conversation about HRT. Like, we, my colleagues and I, Carrie Jones, Dr. Carrie Jones and I, and several others have been preaching this a long time. And before us, our elders, who some of my mentor, people who are not with us any longer, have been preaching it for decades before that. Like, you got to have your metabolic health in check. You've got to have your gut health in check. You've got to exercise and be moving. You have to have your detox pathways open and your monies open, meaning your skin and your pooping. You got to be pooping every day. All of these things play into your hormones. But most notably in my world, what I am an expert at, they play into your pain levels, which many Americans and people throughout the world are just trying to offset with over-the-counter medications that I've just covered. So, you see the big we've come full circle. Peptides can be really helpful. I haven't really found um I I'll be honest with you. I use things in conjunction with other things, but straight up like straight up using it depends on the person. You know, a lot of talk around some of these regenerative peptides can be very helpful. I'll do an episode on this. Um but there's regenerative, you know, the Wolverine stack people have talked about. I haven't found them to be as remarkably effective as some of the other basics that I've just laid out here. They can help and we will use them in conjunction. But what I want to drive home with that statement along with GLP1s because I have had messages from thousands of people all over the world since I started talking about micro doing GLP1s saying, you know, I want to try it for my seriatic arthritis. I'm 300 lb, blah blah blah. And I'm like, whoa, there's this is like a big conversation. This is not just take the JLP1 and hope for the best because no no monotherapy is going to work. There's no one magic peptide. There's no one magic anything. This is all the things and I've just laid them out for you. There's more, but this is like basically 101. If you really want to know how I approach patient care, it's in my GLP-1 Done right university. I realize I've talked about this course a lot. It's not just about GLP1s. There are a lot of people in there that had no interest in GLP1s but wanted the rest of it because it is my clinical step-wise process of what I go through what I look at when I'm trying to address a patient their metabolic health overall. If you want to know my clinical thinking it is inside that course and it's very comprehensive and I think you will gleam a lot out of it and it will give you definitely a pathway of where to start. A lot of the work is yours. It's not about supplements. It's, you know, you can take all the gut supplements in the world to try to like, you know, repopulate your gut with maybe it's probiotics or maybe you're doing the, you know, kill off all the bugs with the herbs and then whatever it is you're trying to do. None of that works if you're metabolically compromised, you're inflamed and your hormones are completely skewed and you are continuing to eat all the foods, right, that are offensive to that. And while I don't go deep deep deep deep into how to completely terraform your gut, I in the course I definitely lay out like these are the main things that I look at and why because all of them are equally as important in my opinion. So it's all in there and I think GLP1s are a really beautiful tool in this journey, but they can go bad. Things can go sideways and also they're not the only answer. It's not a monotherapy. micro doing GLP-1s is I'm so tired of watching women online. Some people I follow and they follow me and they're they have absolutely no health knowledge whatsoever. They just have big followings and they're like, "I've been micro doing for inflammation." And then two weeks later they're like, "Look how skinny I am and look how much weight I've lost." And I'm like, "You were not micro doing for inflammation." And then they immediately give you their affiliate link to send you to a tele medicine company who's not actually micro doing you. They're just standard dosing you and calling it a micro. And I have a whole podcast about it. I'll make sure if you guys want to hear it, you can. It's not a weight loss strategy the way that I propose it at all. Um, you're being sold something completely different and they're calling it something just to get you in to remove the stigma around it and it's all a big scam in my opinion. But we will leave that for another day. So just know that your gut can drive your pain, your visceral fat can drive your pain. Not just the actual weight of excess fat on your body, but the visceral fat itself is metabolically active and inflammatory active. It's like wearing an extra blanket of fire of inflammation. Your subcutaneous fat, the weight of it can actually be very pro-inflammatory. Uh or I'm sorry, it well, no, I take that back. Subcutaneous fat is less pro-inflammatory than visceral fat, but it it's the weight of it. It's the actual weight of it. And so when you start putting a lot of weight on joints, they get inflamed and irritated. Um lack of hormones can drive pain. Excess hormones can drive pain. Definitely, definitely. Definitely though something we can all do and agree upon is lack of movement and deconditioning. That's probably the biggest needle mover right there. None of it works on its own. Everything works together in synchronicity and monotherapy of any of these never works for very long. There is uh regenerative injection therapies like prolotherapy PRP stem cells. That's what I specialized in for a long long long time. That's really what I did for the bulk of my clinical practice. I'm very well verssed in it. None of that works if the system isn't somewhat dialed in. So, I turned a lot of patients away because I'm like, "This is not for you. This is not going to work for you. I'm not going to take your money. None of this is covered by insurance no matter how hard we try. You have to pay cash out of pocket. It's expensive. And none of it works if you you are in a you know, hot mess of inflammation state. So, that's why I say a lot of the work is your own." And I go through that in my course. I go through that for free on all of these platforms that you see me talking about it. The work is yours. go into these doctor visits prepared because I had to send a lot of patients out and say, "You got to go get your [\h__\h] together and come back to me in three to six months and then I'll inject you because right now I'm not going to put I'm not going to take a hot mess of inflammation of your blood, concentrate it down to just, you know, get the platelets out or extract atapost and concentrate down your stem cells and shoot it back into a hot mess of inflammation of a joint. That is not going to go well. You're not going to like me and it may cause a bigger mess than we started with. So, don't go into these doctor's appointments and a lot of these regenerative medicine doctors are charging an arm and a leg now. It's crazy. It's crazy some of the pricing I've heard. And you go in and they sell you into like a $20,000 package and they don't address anything. They do not address getting you to a certain base level of health before you you receive the injections. And while these injections are complete game changers for many, it only really works if your body's optimized to heal, right? That's the whole point of it is it's inducing a healing cascade. And so, yeah, you got to do the work before you go in. And if you're going to a functional medicine doctor and you're going for HRT and it has nothing to do with, you know, regenerative injections, but maybe you have pain, again, you have to do the work before you get there. That means I have a very inexpensive course called my metabolic revamp toolkit you can check out. That's a great one to start with. I have a strength training course. I'll put the links for all of them in the show notes, but I'm I tried to at least create a little suite of offerings that will get you there because really the work is on you. And then we utilize these other therapeutics to give you a leg up to move the needle to really um instill a further level of healing once you've got that base foundation built. Okay? And then I'll leave you with some herbs that I love. And this is not medical advice. None of this is treatment, prevention, or cure. None of what I said is pre uh treatment, prevention, or cure. We're just trying to get the homeostasis back in alignment. But these are some herbs that are tried and true. Great data behind all of them. Very well studied. Kurcumin, big favorite. Bosellia, devil's claw, fish oil is fantastic. Just know that you have to hit three grams a day to even have the anti-inflammatory impact start. So talk to your doctor because that's a pretty big dose. But fish oil is wonderful, used consistently. Collagen has shown benefits in joint structure and skin structure. Good old bone broth. You can make bone broth. You can buy it over the counter. Bone broth, a mug of bone broth every day. I've had a lot of patients do that and report back that it's really eased up some of their joint pain. So again, we're just trying to turn the dial down. You know, like getting you to zero is much harder, but it can we turn the dial down so that you can get moving. And once you get moving, then you honestly usually will feel better. So search my podcast, go to my website, go to drtina.com, click the podcast link, and there you will find a page that actually has AI running it and you can type in any term you want and up will come all the episodes where I talked about that term. But if you scroll down the page, you'll see there's my whole orthopedic is or orthopedic medicine is a scam series. You'll see my GLP-1's done right um series. You'll see all my strength training. you'll see all my hormones. I've categorized them all for you. So, when people ask me, can you do an episode on this? 99% of the time I've already done an episode on it. In fact, episode 41 was a lot of this information came from that. I did a whole episode just on NSAIDs. Uh, but today I decided to include Tylenol because that's a really hot topic right now. So, I hope this is helpful. Education only. The more you know, the better you can do. Talk to your doctor. Don't take them blowing you off as any kind of uh answer because that's just nonsense. A lot of doctors are not up on the literature. A lot of doctors don't want to hear it. I saw it all over the internet today. I saw a lot of doctors coming on saying there's nothing wrong with Tylenol. This is all made up. RFK is a quack. Um, okay. There's I've got at least 10 studies right here that I have tracked over the years. I have been very well um aware of this link for a long time. None of this is new. And again, there's no certain links, right? In medicine, there's no certain links. We just have and correlation is not causation. But when we have a signal, we pay attention just like we do with GLP1s. When we have a signal, we pay attention and we look at who that might impact. And I think for the sake of simplicity, I'm going to go with what my grandma taught me, which was don't take anything during pregnancy. And when it comes to pumping medications into a little baby or toddler, um, I use caution. So, I'll leave you with that. I hope it's helpful and I will bid you a do. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcastdtina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time, and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.