This is amazing. These patients are actually now in control of something that before they had no control of. You are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I have a very special guest joining us, Dr. William Seeds. If you have not heard of him and you are interested in peptides, you are in for a treat. Dr. Seeds is a board-certified orthopedic surgeon that's been practicing for well over 25 years. He is the founder of the Seed Scientific Research and Performance Institute. He is the OG expert on peptides and cellular medicine. He's hosting the Peptide World Conference next month in June 2025 in Las Vegas. I am honored to be one of the speakers on the main stage and I get to talk about all the things you need to be doing in order to get your peptides to work optimally. Dr. Seeds and I had a great conversation today. We kept it short so that you guys could take it all in. We talked about GLP1s, of course. We talked about them in their utilization for their neurocognitive benefits. We talked about them in the use of weight loss and behavior change. And he brought up some really important points that you may not have heard before. And we talked about why strength training, which he and I both loved, is absolutely non-negotiable if you want to optimize your outcomes with this peptide or any others. So, without further ado, let's jump in. Dr. Seeds, welcome to the Dr. Tina Show. I'm so excited to have you here today. You are I've been um I don't know how else to put this. I've been fangirling you for a long time, and I just love all your information that you've put out in the world around peptides. You are the OG in my opinion, and so I'm really honored to have you here on the show today. Well, thank you, uh, Tina. This is a it's a pleasure to be with you. Um, I, you know, I'm humbled by what you said. Thank you. Uh, hey, it goes both ways. I I want to let people know we're very excited to have you come to the Peptide World Congress and uh be one of our main presenters. I'm I'm very excited to get you on stage. I think you're a dynamic speaker. I think you do an excellent job communicating with your people, your patients, and uh I just like your approach. And um so that's why I'm here. I don't do many of these. I I don't I do very few podcast interviews, but uh for for people that I think are that are really representing what all of us are trying to do and that's what improve outcomes really, you know, look looking for everything we can do for our patients. I mean, you exemplify that and I'm I'm excited to to be part of this with you. Thank you. Thank you. I am very excited to speak at your event and I actually have some ideas rolling around my head. that I'm going to run by you at a later date to make sure we nail that talk because I I'm excited for the messaging there. Um, okay. So, we're going to hop in because I know that you are you're busy busy man. And I wanted to share with you that I came around to GLP1s and just sort of their magical benefits, if you will. I I hate to use that word, but truly I when I first started digging into the literature around them, I was like, "Holy smokes, these have a multitude of impacts across the body that are really impressive." And I kept having people say, "Have you listened to Dr. William Seed's work around this?" And I knew of you and I knew of you in the peptide world. I actually had purchased a few of your online courses, but I hadn't actually heard you talk on that subject. And it was JJ Virgin. I don't know if you are friends with her, but she's a huge fan of yours as well. and she was at a conference that you spoke at and you were talking about the neurogenerative impacts of GLP ones. And so I went I had already been kneede in the literature when I went back and found some of your you do have very rare appearances on podcast, but I found the ones I could and really just astounding. Uh I I'm so blown away with what they do in the brain and I hope that we could just start there and you could share your knowledge with us on that because I think that they're one of the most promising things out there for neurocognitive health. Yeah. So, you know, you've touched on AI mean, GLP-1s are are very interesting peptide that um and I don't know if I I mean, if I'm allowed to say this, but I'm I'm going to tell you that I have a book that's coming out here in the next month or two. I you know, there about 20 books out there on JLP1s. I think this will be the gamecher um in better understanding the um the pleotrophic effects uh meaning the many different pathways that these uh GLP1s work and in particular um addressing some of the things you're asking me about right now and and how you have found them to be an integral part of your practice and in where they play a role in in many areas of self-sufficiency and um in in improving um aspects of metabolism, neurological function, um and so forth. So, so I'm very I'm I'm really excited to kind of get that out and it's been a passion for gosh maybe well over 10 years I've been teaching about GLP1s. Um and uh the last two years I've really focused on finishing this book. So, I'm sorry. It's exciting. I'm excited. Sorry to take that sound bite away from you. No, it's good. This is great. But it I think it just kind of it leads into this question you're having here where Yeah. I I think this is one of the most exciting areas of of um of many of these aspects of what the GLP1s uh how they provide a role and and I think um I think the basics let me let me start at the 30,000 foot view maybe and then maybe I can kind of go down to the detail devil in the detail as far as you want but but let's let's kind of look at the at at this as a you know GLP-1's there one of the um aspects of GLP-1 is its role in um not only improving um uh aspects of glucose absorption, insulin sensitivity, um slowing down the gut for better nutrient absorption, all of these things. But it works in the brain um through specific pathways to to keep it simple to do some uh to to take a step in decreasing the um let let's say number one decreasing uh the patient's appetite. And why does that happen? It happens because we're allowed to provide uh the brain with a super physiologic at the beginning. Now this can be this can go two ways. You can use high this gets into another discussion but you can use high doses over a period of time or you can even go with low doses over a long period of time and potentially achieve the same things. But let's just say, you know, these GLP1s are are something that you produce in the gut, in your L cell that have the ability to communicate with the brain uh in a way to decrease your ability to want to eat. And and so let's back up with that and understand that most of these people that get into issues with weight and metabolic insufficiency. Um they have a much more difficult time controlling their appetite and don't some and don't realize that they're providing their body with an over surplus of of nutrients and food. And they may even develop certain addictions, right, to sugar, to um chocolate, um satiating type of uh foods that that they don't realize that what they developed a behavior to. And and I think that's where this all comes into an interesting place here. Um uh we can if if we look at it as um when when people get into these states of uh of nutrient surplus and um and their eating habits change and they don't really see it, they don't realize it because it's become a behavior that they can't control. And and in fact, um it's it's actually it's signaled into the brain. um where these uh the in specific in the hypothalamus and the POMC uh neurons it's it's an area of where this signaling takes place to um to control basically appetite and what happens is the behavior is set and so what does that mean? It means not only is the has the cell signaling changed um based on what we would call an mTor state uh where the cell is constantly activated and promoting this behavior. Um but it it's also uh it it's in it's setting off other pathways of um influencing dopamine expression and dopamine for gratification for what they've been what they've done. And that that has to do with connections in the hypothalamus and and so forth. And and and and so they're they're in this pattern basically. And so what what's really interesting is uh and I I know I started noticing through um you know before before GLP1s became a weekly um once a week thing u we were using GLP-1s that we were dosing like twice a day some uh then we got into the ones we were dosing every day and that's kind of where we were in that phase of like using a lot of laglutide and we learned a lot um years and years ago on these influences of where we could get people to this so so when you introduce this um this exogenous source of a GLP-1 and let's say we use some higher doses of it initially to to what to influence that that pathway in the brain to turn off the the appetite and basically what are we doing? We're changing the state of that cell. Um we're we're we're taking that mTor state and turning it off and creating an AMPK state. Um AMPK being catabolism, um mTor being anabolism. And and so it's a very it's a it's a switch that we're turning off that has um allows other cell signaling uh processes to occur. And that that has to do with the melortin uh uh receptor 4 and its influence on decreasing appetite. And and so what happens is the GLP-1 um process kind of turns off that appetite um seeking behavior. And that allows in combination with decreasing appetite, it allows also the metabolic aspects of of what it does for efficiency, which we may get into or may not here. uh and what it does for the cell and improving fat oxidation, AMBK in the cell, the things that it does to uh improve efficiencies to utilize your own fat, improve the flexibility of the cell and deficiency to to um to start losing weight because what is losing weight? Losing weight's a side effect of cell efficiency. Mhm. So, so that process begins and you get you you go through that time frame of getting that patient from whatever your desires are, you know, 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70 pounds, whatever it takes. You can get your patience over time. And I express this very uh passionately. It has to be over time. It can't be this fast process that so many people don't realize they're creating more problems with. Um, but you take your time with this. Many many many months up to a year, year and a half, whatever it takes depending on the patient. And you know, once you kind of reach those states, you can you can you can start backing down on this GLP-1. And and what happens so what happens is you have patients this and I learned this from my patients. This was incredible actually. And then I can correlate it with the research. Um, I started seeing a certain subset of patients that were saying, "Hey, Dr. seeds. You know, I uh I'm going down on my dosing like you said because there's so many other benefits, right, that these GLP1s have with the immune system with with bone um uh uh with uh with bone morphology and muscle activation and muscle growth and brain activity and you name it, kidney function. There's so many other things that the GOP ones play a really significant role in. And um so patients we typically will go down to this using a very small but effective dose that we feel we're making those strides with. And when those patients start backing down, so we got some of our patients that were saying, "Hey, you know, I had this desire to want to start eating. You know, I I thought, oh my gosh, here comes my appetite. How am I going to be able to handle this?" And and what we were learning were that the patients were teaching themselves new behaviors. They were they were taking advantage and and brilliant in their own accord on their own accord. They were they were developing a new behavior saying, "Well, gosh, I recognize now that I'm hungry. I recognize that I could go eat this, but I'm going to choose not to." And the more they did that, the more it became a behavior. And I was like, "Holy Christ, this is amazing. these patients are actually now in control of something that before they had no control of. And in fact, that went a step further because our p you had patients that were saying, "Well, gosh, if I can do this, um, maybe I can, you know, jump into a new hobby or maybe I can learn something new and retain it better." And and so I started seeing some of these incredible changes where uh people took on new activities uh new learning behaviors and they were very successful. So then I took that to the next level of where I started working with my patients in training them that they had this capability. And and that was the hardest part was to learn the art of giving your patients that knowledge that hey guess what you have this new capability that if you decide to take advantage of it it's not easy. It's like anything you do right you go out and you lift weights you want to get stronger. you want to get more performanceoriented. Um, it takes time, it takes work, it's you learn a new language, it takes work, you learn an instrument, it takes work, it's not easy. Well, it's just it's the same thing with learning a new behavior. Um, especially when you don't when before that behavior became something automatically you couldn't control. Now they I it's the art of teaching that patient, hey, guess what? you have control of this and this is this is how I suggest you work through it and it's building that behavior. Oh my gosh, after that, you know, after I learned that over a few years and working with our patients, it was like it was a it it raised these GLP wands to an incredibly new standard and uh for for what I felt people needed to know. And interestingly enough, years ago, I was at a a research meeting in um oh jeez, um it was in Singapore, uh Singapore, uh where a specific lab had been working, the Max Plank lab actually, um out of Germany. They were working on on actually nailing down these mechanisms of new learning and capability of of changing behaviors. And they correlated the molecular pathways with this GLP-1 in in healthy people like taking healthy young students. Um, and I'm talking to the endocrinologist who's the head lead head on this abstract and presenting it. I'm losing my brains. They're listening to this and I'm like, "Holy I'm doing this in practice." And so we talked and um and it was just an incredible experience and I think on both sides to see that, hey, clinically people that this I I mean I didn't have an influence on them. uh they they were going to write the paper anyways, but it really drove I think it I I think we added to each other's enthusiasm with where this was going to go and they they they published their paper and um and just being able to share that information just secured, you know, moving forward where yeah, we need to we have an area here um that's untapped and and incredible if especially if you take advantage of it. um knowing that it's something your patients can harness and and and it's I'm going to tell you something right now and again I'll I'll stop I because I can talk forever. Um the patients it's not going to work with everybody. I mean it it's you know be behaviors can be recreated very quickly and it's a tough it's it's not an easy thing to do and especially if you're not conveying it well to your patient and you don't work together on it. But it's a it's uh I would say it's uh very significant in how it can occur. It's a gamecher and uh I hope that answered your question and what you were asking. Well, yeah, because I mean it induces neuroplasticity and that's so how I came to this was I had hit pmenopause and I was feeling like my brain was not working the way that it used to. I used to have this brilliant ADHD that was like my mad genius skill, you know, it was like a superpower and it wasn't going so well for a hot minute and stress had been very high. I pushed back really hard during COVID on a big platform and, you know, dealt with that. So I was looking at JLP1's predominantly because my background is in regenerative injection therapies and regenerative medicine and I was looking at it from like the neuro you know the decrease in neuroinflammation the sort of like resetting of the micro gal cells and I was sitting there looking at this literature just in shock and this was during the height of the ompic craze when it was so much clickbait happening all over it's still happening but you know the internet was going insane and I thought what if people's L cells are just fried because the bulk I mean I test everyone's gut, right? And I treat everyone's gut. I'm a naturopathic doctor. Everybody's gut is pretty trashed. And I thought, what if their L cells are just fritzed out from all of the chronic inflammation, leaky gut, whatever. What if they have a functional deficiency? It's not just an overt, but a functional deficiency. They've gotten themselves there, if you will. And if I gave him just the tiniest little bit and I was thinking in my head as like a um I told my husband I said I think of it like when he's an electrician like when you go and you blow a fuse in the house and you have to reset the circuit. I feel like GLP1s could be this circuit reset. And what if we used really tiny doses and we just gave them back what they needed. Kind of like when we functionally supply thyroid hormone or we give, you know, a woman even in her 30s or younger a little bit of progesterone if she needs it. these these functional uh we just give them back a little bit. I'm not trying to hit them with pharmacologic doses of anything. And I started doing that and it was profound. Like it was just crazy. I was watching pain go down most importantly because that's my wheelhouse. But I was watching conditions like inflammatory bowel disease calm itself down and then the subsequent chronic bodywide polyarthgia joint pain go down. I was watching I had one patient who was neurode divergent and when on a GLP-1 she's quite normal her and I I hate to use that word but just for the sake of you know the world around us she be because I love my neurody divergent people but she just had much more normaly in the way that her brain was functioning and she was able to keep her job steady and hold down the fort much better and all of these so I was tinkering with it and then the exciting part about being able to give people with addiction a little bit of an edge to help change those behaviors like you said. And I was able to do this all with really really tiny doses. And none of it was ever for weight loss or type two diabetes. I mean, everybody could use some metabolic assistance, but that was the thing that got me most excited. And then just to see all this literature that's already been out and that's coming out and hearing about some of the things I've heard you talk about in in different venues. That to me I think is the most exciting part because I think from a top down I'm a chiropractor too so everything's top down. If there's something going on neurologically that controls everything else, right? Your cardiovascular system is going to be compromised. Your metabolic health is going to be compromised because if the listeners don't know this, if you get a big wamp on the head, you can go right into metabolic dysfunction from there, you know? So, I know it it's like you said, it's pleotrophic. I know it works right down at the cellular level to do some really incredible things, but for me, I'm kind of thinking from this top down neurologic perspective. That's I'm just spitballing here, but that to me is really the most exciting part about this. And I don't know of other peptides that do that. I'm sure you know the neuropeptides better, but man, it's pretty cool how we can just take the even the smallest dose in many cases and wind things down. And like you said, it doesn't work on everyone, but it can just sort of wind down the noise of all the noise across the board and then give them this window of opportunity, this neuroplastic window where they can relearn new behaviors and and rewire them in. That's anyway that's how I see it. Yeah. And I I think you're right on target. I mean it's u it's all relative to you know most we always learn things from we either learn we've learned a tremendous amount about these metabolic and molecular pathways through normal cell function with good exercise, good diet, good sleep and so forth. And then we learn the other extremes of the disease states and how these things occur. And and then when you have that information, you know, like you like you are um like you indicated here, you know, you had people that pretend uh that weren't really in a state of where you felt they needed this this for weight loss in particular where actually you know these GLP1s are they're they're originally were studied in in the mechanisms of cell efficiency, right? And and cell flexibility of improving metabolism. And it it always comes down to metabolism and cell redux of of everything. And and so with you you're not wrong in looking at the top down because the the if let's say people are compromised by not so so one thing that you you should know too is that you also have the capability of producing a little bit of GLP-1 in the brain too. You you can it's not just in the gut. Um and um but the the predominant production of uh GLP-1s absolutely like any other cell signaling uh aspects like can be influenced by aging disease states and and so forth you know environmental things uh epigenetic influences right higher alosatic loads all of those things can have an influence. So you you you touched on something where you thought well maybe this may be something that I can I could improve by just improving the uh the potential of getting back to the normal endogenous production of a GLP-1 you so those GLP-1s in the brain you know from u looking at you you mentioned in the uh in the brain if you're working on self efficiency Let's say the microgal cell which is a cell that influences significant cytoine, chemocine, protein and uh uh proteasis that are influencing aststerytes and neurons that create this inflammatory state. They change they phase change right into into a um an inflammatory type of uh of propagator in the brain. And if you're influencing the GLP-1 receptors, which by the way microgle cells have, astroytes have, neurons have, if you're influencing that metabolism, in particular, influencing the mitochondria in in making that redux state better, that then influences not just ATP and NAD production, but you're influencing the signaling of those cells, which is so important in influencing PGC1 alpha, the SER gene activation, NFR2 production, all of these things that play a role in what? Controlling inflammation of the brain. And so absolutely the you you you've got uh something that is uh I think critical again not just in the brain but in the kidney. I mean here here's just another thing to throw at you. You know, years and years ago, they said, "Oh, you can only use GLP-1s for stage four kidney disease, maybe stage three. Got to be careful because this could be this could work against the kidney and cause kidney failure." And those of us at that time said,"Well, that's complete because if we're improving the aspects of cellular function u in the parietal cells and the um uh in particular um the meangial cells of the of of the kidney were and the ptoytes. Well, wait a second. we should be improving um kid uh glamular filtration and and kidney function. And in fact, what have we seen now? Oh my gosh, the literature now is, hey, how do you keep somebody from a kidney transplant that is in kidney failure? You put them on a GLP-1 and you're going to preserve that longer. So, look at where this has come. And so, I think it definitely, you know, resonates with what you've said. It's like, hey, here you you've kind of hit upon one of those pathways of a peptide that plays a significant role again in redux control, cell efficiency, and uh flexibility and and you mentioned are there other peptides specific that can do that? Absolutely. And they're different all around the body, but the GLP-1 is one of those really cool ones that has so many different areas it works in. And that's that's why it's always caught my attention and why we've been so focused on trying to teach uh healthc care providers this information for over 10 years and just all of a sudden now it's like everybody wants to know about it. I'm like Jesus where was everybody 10 years ago? I think I think the whole I mean that's a whole other topic but people are fatophobic and the minute you start talking about weight loss they don't understand. I it's very odd and you're right. I mean going back to what you said at the end of the day this is about the metabolic health of the cell at the cellular level in the brain which is leading to all of these wonderful impacts. So you know people just don't want to go back that far into their thinking and I think the community at large thinks it's just if you just eat less and move more all this will work itself out and the cells will all reset themselves into a beautiful state and they they don't get it. Absolutely. And and I think I think really where it's gotten even more fascinating is on the research side of where we've seen we know like we knew GLP1s were the beginning but it was what are the next steps in the evolution of the these GLP1s that can even improve that cell efficiency even further to mimic normal um uh cascades of of different pathways. that need to be activated when GLP1s are working efficiently and that's where it's gotten really amazing you know in introducing the tzepatides and which are the dual agonist and then I I can I'll never forget uh when they introduced a um uh I think it was in uh the re the first research was uh presented in uh in Portugal on um this reatride and adding glucagon. And at the time when people said add glucagon, we're thinking, wait a second, glucagon? Are you are you kidding me? You're going to put glucagon in when we're trying to inhibit glucagon. But wait a second. Oh wait, wait, wait. If you really think about these mechanisms and you're like, oh my gosh, you know, how could we forget? You know, glucagon is this incredible hpatocine. it it's uh meaning it it does something in the liver that is so important in upregulating something called FGF um or um FGF-21 which is crucial to PP alpha uh gamma KB activation all these things that work systemically to improve what fatty acid oxidation ketone body production insulin sensitivity um the thermogenic gene expressions that we haven't even discussed in beige atapost issue and I mean even that aspect of suppression of of those things we talked about in the CNS right in um the metabolic behaviors glucagon plays a role by its activity with this upregulation of the FGF21 in the in the um liver so what I'm trying to say is it's only going to keep getting better as we keep as this research really gets to hone in on something that is so pivotal in changing metabolic function. So that takes me to a question I have which I've been rolling around in my head and I'm just going to explain it as simply as I can for the listeners. If GLP1s are upregulating the AMPK pathway, that's awesome. In the longevity space, for those listening, that's, you know, get the mitochondria going. It's all the rage of the longevity space. This is what fasting does, intermittent fasting. This is all the things, right? We get AMPK going. Okay, great. And then we've got mTor, which if you look at it from the standard American diet and the regular, you know, American person walking around, it's probably in more of a pathologic state. But when you look at it from the muscle protein synthesis standpoint, you need mTor activation. This is what we get after we strength train, we eat our protein. And so in my head, just really simplistic kindergarten version, we need to balance with mtor. It's not a matter of revving one side or suppressing the other, right? Like we we need this imbalance to be a happy, healthy human. We need both sides, you know, doing the nice teeter totter dance. And I think that folks who are taking the GLP-1 or anything that's going to rev potently rev AMPK, that side of things, if they're not doing this side, if they're not hitting if they're literally if they're not hitting the gym and eating enough nutrient-dense food, including protein, I think it puts them into long-term more of a catabolic state. I think it can. And I think that's why we see some of these folks on GLP-1 ones who aren't doing it right and they're just look like melted candles, you know? They just they're just they look like they're melting and their soft tissues are melting off their bodies and they're not doing anything but just eating the same foods they were eating prior to going on it. They're just eating less of it. So, they're still eating the standard American diet and they're not doing all the things. But if you if you take the if you hit the gym and you eat the protein and you do all the things, these are almost anabolic like and they they you get this beautiful synergy of both sides happening and the body really responding in turn in in the most healthful way. We just can't have one side going for too long, too hard, and too fast. And that's my concern about the long-term use of GLP-1s in the average American who's not being managed well in a comprehensive way and they're just sort of, you know, hitting the pen, getting themselves up to the highest dose and then hoping, you know, now they're stalling. We have a whole group of people out there who are gaining the weight back and who are stuck at the highest dose of nothing's going well. They're regaining the atapost tissue and they're just waiting for reatrite thinking that's going to solve the problem. But then I'm even more concerned because if you have glucagon agonism going and you're not hitting the gym, if you are hitting the gym, you're going to be put in more of an anabolic state. If you're not hitting the gym, you're going to be put in even more of a catabolic state. Am I am I over the target here or am I way off? Am I making sense? Well, you're making sense and you're trying to think your way through it. And it's it's awesome. And I I I commend you on on on your thought process and you're in the right places. But I think what you have to you have to look again as it's not one way or the other. It's if we're working on improving efficiency of the cell, we are then enabling it's it's a modulator. It's not a and it works on demand. GL GLP1s they work on it's why you don't get into hypoglycemic problems um with glucose with GLP-1s it's GLP1s work more it it's an it's a more precise type of peptide that works on demand and it works as a modulator and so think of it this way if if I'm working on improving the efficiencies of the cell meaning um its ability to do what? Switch from AMPK into mTor. MTOR back into AMBK. It has to have that flexibility, right? It's got it. And it loses that flexibility when it loses that metabolic advantage to use like fat oxidation when it needs it or protein catabolism, which is something that occurs um to to make up sometimes. This is where you get into issues with people not knowing how to utilize these appropriately as as the healthcare providers where they push things too fast. They don't realize that um that yeah the the cell is getting efficient and it may in order to provide more glucose or to to do things for um enhancing what's already happening with fat oxidation. it may it may want to catabolize like glutamine from the muscle uh you know to to utilize protein because that's kind of what's happening. it's it's getting another source of glucose. And so this is why it becomes so important to understand and you're right in in at least initially with the initial GLP1s we realized a while back that you had to have because you were you know because you were stimulating changing metabolism in not just improving fat oxidation and so forth but actually you were causing some calorie restriction because of appetite suppression. That was like a double whammy, right? You're you're improving metabolism from the metabolic aspects of changing truly fat oxidation, which just improves a uh ATP and NADH production and efficiencies of how the cell uses glucose, fatty acids, and and proteins. But you're also you're double whamming it with this appetite suppression that's further calorie restricting the body. So you've got some extra influences that you got to account for and you got to make up for that and and so you you're right in thinking initially with the GLP-1 and mTor well gosh protein we know in in particular leucine has an influence on in inducing um uh uh protein synthesis and then exercise itself self in particular uh resistance training as another factor to you know increasing um the production of um uh or the mTor state uh activation and what are we trying to do retain muscle so it's not being catabolized and also um to potentially even improve muscle protein synthesis which you can do absolutely just with GLP-1's by themselves. Um if you understand that so so it's a it's an understanding of the mechanisms and then also understanding that you can take advantage of those mechanisms um with providing the proper stimulus. So that's where kind of exercise, strength training, u protein synthesis kind of made a real difference um in providing a much better uh environment for your patients to benefit from training. um especially if they were, you know, especially if you're using low doses and um these aren't people that are achieving weight loss, but the weight loss definitely is a different place in understanding that and and we learned all that a long time ago with calorie restriction and and and what that really emphasizes because everybody loses muscle with calorie restriction, right? What happens with the GLP1s, it's just people are using such super physiologic doses without really compensating and trying to do it too quickly and just not understanding the the mechanisms there. Now, let's take that a step forward of what you were also jumping into, you know, saying, well, glucagon may not be a good thing. Well, actually, as we get better with these GIPS and uh glucagon additions, we're actually getting into a state of where we're doing a better job of muscle preservation and enhancing lean mass production because that that FGF secretion that I was talking about, well, that's fat oxidation. It's it's it's sparing. You think of it as fat oxidating a fat oxidation sparing muscle like the muscle is uh it doesn't it's got a source that um it doesn't need to catabolize muscle um if that makes sense and and then the addition of the GIP it's it's all it's even further anabolic support um you're you're you think of it as you're lowering the effects of cortisol and the fox transcript cription genes that reduce uh that have a a role in muscle catabolism. You're reducing uh muscle catabolism signaling of cortisol and of the foxot transanscription with that addition of the glucagon and the GIP. So, so you're making mitochondrial health better. you're you're balancing also that process of the appetite control with the severe al um uh the severe calorie restriction. So there's a lot to it and that's why it's so exciting to see where these GLP1s have gone in in particular um from what you and I are very interested in in in the training aspects and um this is this is a huge step with this glucagon edition. I think it's really exciting. I Everyone I've heard that's actually been using it loves it, but they're all generally relatively fit people already, you know, and they're just optimizing their overall just overall body composition with it. Um, I haven't talked to a lot of people who've used it predominantly for more excessive weight loss and so and I haven't used it for that. I I my only concern at the end of the day and it's not the same standard oh you're going to lose muscle argument. It's the just the actual because what I've noticed with some patients and with some clients and with some people I've consulted with is that even at the tiny tiny doses. I'm talking like one of the standard starting dose, tiny doses, if they don't actively get their protein macros hit and they don't actively strength train, they do start to waste. They lose their ass. they lose their strength in the gym and they just start to and it it seems to be a little bit more robust than if they weren't on the GLP-1 because there is that low-key appetite control happening and maybe even appetite suppression even at those tiny doses. So, who knows? Maybe they're undereating, maybe they're under lifting. Um, hard to say. I just my only concern is are we are we inadvertently revving pathways too hard too fast without compensating for the balance? Yeah, that that comes down to the heterogenicity of the population. It's like everybody needs to understand that there everybody has it's why you tailor these things. It's why you have to be in communication with your patients. It's I mean you hit it. I mean there's some people that are going to be very sensitive and some people that are that GLP-1 receptor activity isn't as sensitive. Uh and that's why as you keep moving up the ladder um you're just ensuring like are you doing a better job like if you ask me are you doing a better job with with a low dosing of redatide versus uh uh semiglutide absolutely because you're doing more to enhance mitochondrial efficiency of muscle the gluccocorticoid signaling the proteolyis aspects the the you're reducing the the muscle proteolyis by um downregulating you know the atrophy genes of these muscles. So, so you got to under you got to utilize that knowledge to take care of those type of patients that you're going to see th you know those uh those specific changes in because you see it with everything. It it's why um it's why aspirin doesn't work the same way for everybody. It's you know it's why these peptides work differently for everybody. It's it's everything has to be tailored. And the more I think and I I love the way you're thinking. I think the more you try to understand the how these work, what the process is in in their function within the cell, then you've got a very clear understanding of how the sensitivities can change and how some people can be, you know, very sensitive and and how you have to adjust to it. Right. Right. Yeah. You got to meet the patient where they're at. You have to assess the short-term and long-term goals and then you have to go on the journey with them and tailor it along the way and keep it tight because things change from day to day. And these all of these peptides, like you said, it depends on their receptor sensitivity. A little bit too much can be a lot too much for somebody. And some people need wamping higher doses than others. And it's it's really there's just not a standard. I wish there were an algorithm that you could follow, but I there just isn't in my opinion. I think that we've you've got to just really stay in touch with your patient. Well, and that's the problem that you know, Tina, you hit it on the head and I think this is why you're you're you're an amazing practitioner for your patients is is that you realize that that that everybody's different and and that's the problem. Everybody, right, they want a protocol. They want a protocol. Well, that doesn't it doesn't work in this world. If you really are, if you're in this on this front of really taking care of people, the first thing you know that you're going to tell everybody is, "Well, everybody's not the same." I mean, the internet doesn't like that, Dr. Seeds. They want the answer. It's there's got to be some standard answer for every human walking, apparently. Yeah. It's Well, it's very frustrating. Um because it's you know I I and yeah it's just frustrating because people don't it's harder I think for for for you and I who were on the front line let's say that hey we're doing this every day and you know we went into this thinking oh my gosh got this down like I I can tell you long time ago I thought my gosh I've got this so well dialed in. I'm going to just do this this this and this. this is the way the pathways are going to work and we're gonna do amazing things. Oh my gosh, was I humbled or what? It and it's it ch it it changes every day, right? Isn't it funny? The longer I'm in this world, the more I realize I don't know anything. I I think that's the sure sign, right? You're just like, what am I from day to day, from month to month, year to year, it's it's ever changing. But the cool thing is is if you are a good practitioner and you stay tight with your patients, then you can, you know, and patients are compliant. That's the other huge part, right? They got to go to the freaking gym. They they got you got to go to the gym. If you're going to take a GLP-1, you have to move your body. Preferably strength training. That I will die on that hill. It's it's it's the beautiful synergy. It's like when people are crushing their protein macros, but they're not going to the gym. I'm like, what are you doing? You're missing the whole synthesis. Correct. Okay. And you've I mean my gosh we were we must have been brother and sister from the same um the the you know the pillars of you know okay we do all these things with peptides and small molecules repurposed drugs and um prebiotics postbiotics probiotics. Okay that's all great but what are the real pillars of life? It's nutrition. It's sleep. But it's exercise and it's strength training and it's I don't know how you know the the most fascinating thing that just drives me continually is knowing that there we're learning you know that the muscle is like the biggest endocrine gland we have. It produces over five to 700 of these extraines myioines. We've only defined 70 or 80 of them. We don't even know this other 450 and there's probably more that have such a relevance on health and well-being and and I hate that freaking word longevity. It's healthan. It's health span. It's health. It's right. It's every what do we care about? I care about tomorrow. I want tomorrow to be my best day, but I want today to be my best day, too. Right? It's not it's not 10 years down the road. It's not, you know, if I'm not doing what I'm doing now 10 years from now, then somebody better shoot me because I I need it. And and how have I gotten there? Yeah, I've done all these other things that enhance what my strength training and and I can't say enough about that. And and we know what it's hard, right? It's hard work, Tina. It's it's not easy. It's uh there days that you just you got to just walk in the gym and just say, "Okay, I showed up and maybe something will happen." And it's not easy, right? But but boy does it pay off. I mean, being chronically depressed and in chronic pain, which was like half my life, that is a lot harder than just getting my ass into the gym because who cares what I do while I'm in there? I just think of it like a big playground. Who cares what I do when I get in there? I mean, I may just dink around, but I always leave feeling better. I always got a little sweat going and I feel better. So, win. That's a win, right? That's it. I'm just You got to get your juices flowing at the end of the day. And you got to get stronger because you're right, longevity. I think of longevity and I think of like the whole vegan fasting crew and just a bunch of skinny old people that look weak. I don't want to be that version. I just want to be strong and healthy and vital with a good libido and and good a good set of legs to get me where I need to go. And then hopefully, you know, at whatever time that candle flickers out, it flickers out. But I don't want to go into it a frail little thing. That's that's really the ultimate uh goal, just not the frail little thing. But but all the research proves that you're correct. I mean, there's there's so much data and literature that provides the framework for for all of this for people to understand there is no magic pill. The pill is working out, right? and and all these other things that we can provide can make that a better environment. And that's why that's why these DLP1s and strength training are are just in they should be inseparable. I mean, they should it has to be it has to be part of the conversation at some point that you have with your patients for them to realize they're missing out on something if they're not partaking in that. Right. Absolutely. Absolutely. Well, this is what I'm going to be talking about on your stage at the uh at the world or the Peptide World Congress. So, when that's in June, I'm very excited. Do you go do you want to tell the audience about that? I know we're coming up on time here. I don't want to keep you too long. So, I want to make sure people know where to find you and for all the practitioners listening where to find more resources from you. Oh my gosh, this is where I fail miserably. I I'll do it for you. Yeah, my team will give you all that info, I guess, or you'll have it and then you can, you know, they just kind of say, "Okay, doc, you need to go here. You got to have this ready. You got to It's like I'll do it for you. It's the srpinstitute.orgpwc." That'll get you to the peptide world congress. You guys still have tickets for sale, I think. So, that'll be super fun. And this is a cutting edge research, patient outcomebased conference from what I understand. I did the online version last year. It was amazing. I tried to come in person, but I got invited to Diary of a CEO in London, so I had to go to that instead. So, I did the online version and it's all peptides, cellular medicine. It's I think it's a really great uh starting point for all the I have a lot of practitioners who listen to the show and they are always asking me where can I go learn more and I started with you guys. So, that's what I'm going to tell them to do. SSRP institute.org. There you go. Very much appreciate it. I think that's I think people will be surprised what they see. I think they'll be energized. I think it'll enter, you know, it'll I think it'll get I think it'll ignite your passion that's already there. I I'm excited to get I I really love um providing an environment for, you know, people like yourselves that that I want to I want to get you out there for more people to know about you and what you're doing and uh because you're doing it right and you're doing it well and and that is where the energy and the momentum continues to push this whole SSRP forward because medicine in in just health is changing and there's so many influences out there that are not necessarily giving the right information, right? And and here we're trying to provide a platform for real researchbased, evidence-based um aspects of of the cell and and in in particular peptides and um small molecules and so forth, but but not neglecting exercise, not neglecting sleep, not neglecting the microbiome. All of these things are are in this place at the SSRP. And so I I think uh I think people will be excited with what they see and the people they meet and the um it's going to be a big conference. Uh I'm I'm uh it's a it's extraordinary. I'm I'm extraordinarily humbled every year how this thing keeps growing and exploding and this year it just it it's at work. It's exponentially grown because we're going to run out of space and that's that's unheard of, you know, at the Win Hotel. Yeah. Um that doesn't happen. And this is we're about to reach that goal. I'm excited. It's going to be a good one. And I'm just excited. Last year, why I wanted to come honestly was because I just wanted to find my people because I get lonely. I get lonely in this world and I have a lot of friends that are great functional medicine practitioners but they don't like they don't live and breathe the gym life. They don't get it. They don't do it, you know, for the most part. And so I'm just excited to be in a room of people who get it all in all. Well, Tina, you'll be happy to know that it is my if you ever talk to any of my kids and you may meet a few of them out there. Uh, growing up, our family conferences, our things that discussions, I mean, people spent time in the living room. Well, we were always out in the gym. That's where that's where every major decision was made. It's where I I think the the kids kind of got their their drive and passion for really regimented processes, you know, that I think made a difference in their life. And in fact, it I mean it plays a role if you came and saw where I work like my main office. My office is my gym actually. I love it. And and and I I actually work out in these clothes in in between, you know, working on a presentation or research or whatever I'm doing. It's all incorporated. That's my life. And my my staff, everybody knows that. My teams know that. My kids know it. And it but it's it makes it fun. It makes it I love it. I love it. Well, I don't make any major decisions until I deadlift and then that's my role. I'm not allowed to I have to deadlift and I have to sleep on it and then I get to make a decision. So, that's how I keep my otherwise I make rash decisions. So, well, Dr. Seeds, this has been such an honor. I loved having you here. I hope you'll come back someday. I'm excited to be on your stage next month. I promise to bring my agame and uh I will make sure to get everybody the show or the links in the show notes so that they know where to find you. Well, thank you, Tina, and we're excited to have you and um I I look forward to opening your eyes to I think you'll be even surprised. Oh my gosh, what what what have I gotten myself into? And it's going to be exciting. I love it. All right, I'll see you there. All right, Tina, thanks for having me. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcastdtina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.