Our soils are so damaged. Our food is so overprocessed. Um, and it's almost impossible to be properly nourished. And everybody I know has a a countertop full of supplements. And when you take algae, because there's 40 vitamins and minerals that we test, there's probably like 200 micronutrients in there we haven't just tested for. You can eliminate many of your other supplements and they're going to be much better for you. Anyways, you are tuned in to the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I'm sitting down with Katherine Arnston. Katherine is the chief scientific officer and founder of Energy Bits. She is literally the algae fairy, as I joke. She was on the show last year and we laid out all the scientific evidence around chlorella and spirulina and how algae can be a really beneficial superfood. This time she came back because we wanted to talk about all things women, midlife women, hormones, mitochondrial health, antioxidants, you name it, we went through it and its relationship to algae, spirulina and chlorella specifically. I think you're going to find this conversation fascinating. I always enjoy talking with her. So, let's jump in. Catherine, thank you so much for coming back on the Dr. Tina show today to talk about all things algae. I had you on last year and it was mind-blowing and I'm so excited to have you back. Well, Dr. Tina, thank you. I love being a frequent flyer with you. Awesome. I hope that I provide a good service. I uh I've been flying around a lot lately in the last year and I have definitely got my opinions on different airlines. So, yes, using notes. I try to go for, you know, a high level of customer satisfaction here. No, I just I love your product and I think I shared this with you last time, but my grumpy old farmer husband, he is such a fan of it and he is all if we even run low, I hear about it like we're not allowed to run out. It's it's always like where's my algae? Where's my algae? And I think we particularly uh focus on just using it daily sort of as a almost like a multivitamin if you will. It's like it's just kind of the no like it's non-negotiable. Like that's the one thing we we definitely take. And so I wanted to quickly I know we went deep last time but I thought we could just quickly run through what's the difference between spirulina chlorella and also your manufacturing process because I think you guys do a really standup job. There are other companies that are not doing it so clean and I think that part's really important. Then we're going to dive into how this is applicable to women's health because women need to hear what you are discovering. Yes, absolutely. Well, um, uh, I'm glad that you take it daily. Everyone in the world should be taking it daily. Um, but it's, and while I realize a lot of people think these tablets, these LG tablets are a supplement, they're actually food. And, and I refer to it as a foundational food because, let's face it, we are being poisoned to death. Uh, combination of uh, soils not having nutrients in them, so the plants don't either, and then overprocessing, so there's fiber and calories, but no nutrition. And so algae could really is really I think the last shot we have at being um nourished. Um and also that's what spirulina does and we'll get to that. And chlorella pulls out toxins because we're also being poisoned to death from from the toxins. And if you have too many toxins in your body, doesn't matter how much nourishment you're getting, the the the nutrients have a difficulty getting absorbed and getting where they need to go. So again, Spirulina and Chlorella work uh to as your superheroes to give you super nourishment and keep you living long and well during your journey. Uh particularly for women. So so understanding that it's a foundational food. Um let's go back a little bit. First of all, it was the first life on earth four billion years ago. Not just the first food, but the very first life. Um I've now taken to calling spirulina spiritualina because there's something spiritual about being the first life. it was a cinobacteria like a spirulina and ultimately that sinobacteria evolved into becoming our mitochondria which we're going to do a deep dive on today. Um so it's so no surprise to me why all the nutrients found in algae um are critical for supporting mitochondria health because basically they came from the same place. So they're family. So within the category of algae we have two main categories. One is called macro algae one is microalgae. We're talking about micro algae today, but let me quickly define what macro algae is. It's that stringy stuff you see washing up on shore on your uh on beaches, also known as seaweed. And it's good for you because it has good lots of fiber, but it has virtually no nutrition. It does have a lot of iodine in it because it comes from the ocean. Um now, the other um uh type of algae is what we're talking about today and doing the deep dive on called microalgae. Now, microalgae is called micro algae because it's microscopic in size. You can't even see it. Something like a million of them could fit on the head of a pin. And it's completely opposite to macro algae. First of all, it's found everywhere, not just the sea. Um um and it also has virtually no fiber. Macro algae is the has high fiber. Micro algae like spirulina and chlorella. Spirulina has no fiber because it's a bacteria. Chlorella does have some fiber but very little. But it's the most nutrient-dense food in the entire universe. And that's not just my opinion. That's a we have a quote from NASA that says one gram of algae has the same nutrition as a thousand grams of fruits or vegetables. So micro algae everywhere from the oceans, the lakes, the rivers, the streams, the soil, and it's harvested as a food crop. The two that are harvested as food crops are spirulina and chlorella. Now micro algae, there's tens of thousands of strains. One strain is called blue green algae and spirulina is one type of blue green algae and then there's green algae and chlorella is one strain. But I want you to understand that while there is blue green algae in the ocean, it's not spirulina. Spirulina and chlorella are grown in fresh water. Whether you buy it from Target or Whole Foods or from us, it's harvested. It's grown hydroponically like lots of vegetables, lettuce, tomatoes, whatever. So yes, there's algae, micro algae in the ocean, but what you buy packaged from us, it's not from the ocean. And ours is not from China. We grow ours in Taiwan, which is worldrenowned for having the highest quality algae. Because growing algae isn't like growing broccoli or carrots. It's more like making wine. So a couple things on that point is the angle of the sun very much affects the quality of the algae just like it changes and affect the quality of and the flavoring of your wine. Number two, the way that the wine is produced directly affects the outcome. Same with algae. And this is what separates us from pretty much almost anybody else because u a we grow ours in not just fresh water but triple filtered spring mountain water. So, no toxins because um algae will absorb whatever's in the water. So, you need clean water. You can't keep microtoxins out of the ocean or lakes. And there's a company that does grow algae in Clamoth Lake. And I've got science that shows that there were are microtoxins in their in their algae because you just can't keep it out of wild bodies of water. So, very clean water. And then the most important thing and we're this is going to be a very large part of our conversation today is that we do not use high heat to dry it. A lot of the uh pretty much most of the other lower quality lower priced algae uh companies cut corners because they're lower price so they need to get market quickly. And what do they do to cut the corners? They use high heat to dry it so they can get to market quickly yada yada yada. We've never done that because um I chose all the processes um when I started the company 15 years ago and I started the company because my sister had breast cancer. So everything we do is to really improve the health of everyone and there were no corners to cut that just I wasn't going to build that kind of company. This is so important because one of the nutrients we're going to talk about extensively. Well, there's two actually. One is a is an antioxidant that protects your mitochondria called superoxide dismutase which also happens to be an enzyme and and when you use high heat on enzymes they deactivate the enzyme. Doesn't matter whether you're cooking it at home or using it in a in a production process. This is why a lot of your greens powders are not as effective as algae either because they use high heat to make to usually to blend the the tablets or the powder. We don't ever use high heat. So it preserves all these magical nutrients, many of them which are not found in any other food. So you don't want to cheat yourself by getting the cheaper version because yes, it may have been in there initially, but using high heat deactivates it. So that we're going to talk about super oxidiz also known as SOD because this is critical for protecting your mitochondria particularly as you get into pmenopause and menopause and your body stops producing it. It stops your body stops producing things like melatonin and hormones as you get older. Well, it stops production of this stuff called superoxidismase which is probably not very familiar with you. Um it's a but there are 25,000 studies documenting how this super oxidizmutase prevents Alzheimer's, prevents heart disease, prevents insulation. So it's very heavily documented, but nobody knows that you can get the highest concentration of it in algae, but only if it's not heated with heat over 114°. So you could get fresh spirulina or frozen spirulina. Those would work just as well as ours. um or but you do need it to be raw. So that super oxidizontase is one of the critical nutrients we're going to talk about today. The other critical nutrient only found in spirulina because sod is also in chlorella is the blue pigment found in spirulina. That's why it's called a blue green algae. And this blue pigment is called ficoyanin. I'm going to spell that for you. P h y c o c y a n i n. it too is deactivated by high heat. So now you have these two critical nutrients found in that are active in our algae that were originally in all algae, but if it's heated uh used uh dried with high heat, it's not there. It's like buying getting a great deal on a great car and then you open lift the hood and find out there's no engine in there. So um it might look great, but it's not going to perform for you. and we want it to perform so it can protect you because your mitochondria are on your side but they they need a little help from you to make sure that they can be alive and well to keep you alive and well. So uh so our process separates us from 90% of all the other uh companies that are out there and that's why I kept I we also do third-party lab tests here in the United States by the way. I needed to know why a algae was working so well to protect people and restore their health or protect their health and why b ours was working better than anybody else's. And we've done some of our own clinical trials and I'll I'll uh since we've last spoken, so I'll I'll um I'll reference some of those results as well. Just like I said earlier, the way that a wine is made affects the outcome, the taste, the quality, everything. And so, as I mentioned, growing algae is is complicated. And uh you and the higher um the more attention that you give to your production process and the higher standards that you set, the better outcomes that your clients will have because all the good stuff is preserved. And that's what we do for everyone. I live in wine country, so I know you're so right. The way the sun is in a season, the just the whole season itself can change things. There's so many factors that go into how the wine ends up uh being over time. So, I know that it's it really is a science getting behind it and timing and everything. So, I hear what you're saying. Yeah. Um but what what amazes me and what I'm so excited about and why I really dove deep into algae 15 years ago is because as I mentioned earlier, our soils are so damaged, our food is so overprocessed. Um, and it's almost impossible to be properly nourished. And everybody I know has a a countertop full of supplements. And when you take algae, because there's 40 vitamins and minerals that we test, there's probably like 200 micronutrients in there. We haven't just tested for, you can eliminate many of your other supplements and they're going to be much better for you. Anyways, I also did some studies and found out that not only does spirulina have the highest protein in the world, has the highest collagen in the world. vegans can't take them because they're mostly from um bones of animals and t and uh chickens and fish and whatever. So, this is a vegan source of collagen and in many cases you're getting well in most cases you're getting more anyways. So, it and to melt the collagen down, they use chemicals. So, that's not so good for the environment or for you. So, you can eliminate your collagen, you can eliminate your multivitamin, you can eliminate CoQ10 and biotin, lots of nutrients. So these individual nutrients are like listening to soloists. They may be a great soloist, but why would you listen to a soloist when you can listen to the orchestra where the soloist is part of the orchestra and you get harmonies and and synergies that aren't possible um by just bringing a bunch of soloists together. LG is your orchestra. All the harmonies are there so that they uplevel each other and you don't have to worry about taking it at certain times of day with food or without food because everything's already done for you. Mother nature I can't take credit for algae. That was mother nature's creation. But I, as I mentioned, I can take credit for growing it so carefully. We preserve everything for you. So you can clear out your clutter. You can clear out some money because everything's already all there. Um, and then you can, you know, just selectively add things that you may want to uplevel even further. Um, algae is all I take. I do take vitamin C because there's actually not much vitamin C in spirulina, but otherwise I just I hunker down and take it in the morning, afternoon, and night and and we'll talk about the different benefits of the two algae and when and why to take it different times a day. Okay, good. Yeah, I do want to know that because I'm just sort of taking it as is and whatever time of day. Yeah. So I want to know more about that. Well, talk to me about mitochondrial health and women in particular. You and I offline were talking about estrogen and mitochondria and I am familiar with SOD. I used to prescribe it for patients and I I get what you're laying down there like people need superoxide dismutase and how estrogen is an antioxidant. There's a lot here to unpack. So yes. Well, let me um absolutely. So I'll I'll I'll do a few overviews first of all. So, your mitochondria are probably the most important thing that determines how well you age. Um, and uh, so what are mitochondria? Well, they're called the powerhouse of the cell. They're these little organels that are inside your cells, and they generate what's called ATP, which is cellular energy. You need cellular energy for everything. We're not talking just a great run or a trip to the grocery store. This is uh cellular energy is used by every body part. Your neurotransmitters, your lymphatic system, your digestive system. Um everything requires cellular energy. And so your mitochondria are what create that for you. But the problem is as you get older, you have fewer mitochondria and the ones that you do have tend to get damaged. And how are they getting damaged and why do you have fewer one of them? Well, the process of generating this ATP, cellular energy, occurs in the mitochondria, but the mitochondria have their own DNA which is also located inside. And there's only 37 of the DNA for mitochondria compared to like 25,000 of your regular DNA. And you think, well, how important could 37 mito DNA be? Well, those 37 mitochondria DNA control everything. They control your regular DNA. They control cellular communication. Think of them as the air controllers at an airport. There aren't many of them, but they control everything. And if your air controllers are having a bad day, uh, planes would crash. So, when your mitochondria DNA get damaged, as they do, and I'll explain how they get damaged, your health crashes. It's just that simple. So, how do they get so damaged? Well, a byproduct of this ATP stuff that we need, which is called cellular energy, a byproduct are free radicals. Let me explain what free radicals are just so you're clear on what they are. It's a molecule that has what's an unpaired electron in its outer orbit. And nature strives for balance. So, if the molecule has a single electron, it will steal an electron from a neighboring molecule to balance itself out. But then that molecule is uh unbalanced. And so it will steal electron from another one. And so this is what causes tissue damage. Now the good thing is there's these good guys called an um antioxidants. They have lots of extra uh free um electrons to give away. They're sort of like the kid who came to school with extra lunches for their friends. So they give them all away. And so those extra electrons that are donated by the antioxidant calms down the free radical, pairs it off so there's no tissue damage. Perfect. Right? Well, here's the problem. Your mitochondria have a second membrane. All your it has the outside membrane that all your other tissues cells have, which is called a lipid membrane. But your mitochondria have a second inner membrane. And what's why is that a problem? Because virtually no antioxidants can get in there. You could eat a room full of blueberries, a a bottle, a house full of vitamin C or vitamin E, and none of it will get into that inner membrane to calm down those free radicals that are a byproduct of your of your ATP production. There are a handful, fortunately, of antioxidants that can get in there. And the good news is they're almost all in algae, glutathione, um, chlorophyll, but the most important one is called super oxide dismutase. And why is super oxidizmmitase so important for your calming down your these free radicals? Well, it's because there's a special type of free radical that's released in the mitochondria. It's called super oxide. Now, why is it so? It's not only u unique, it's the most damaging free radical of all. Why is it so damaging? Because instead of having one unpaired electron, it has three. So it's three times as damaging. So you it is so critical that you calm this free radical down and neutralize it. And this stuff called super oxidiz. And how does it do it? It converts the free radical into that super oxide into harmless water and oxygen. Tada. So it basically saves your mitochondria. Now the good news is your body creates this stuff called superoxidism dismutase from the moment you're born but until the and until the age of 30 your mitochondria are protected that's why you have so much energy that's why you grow that's why everything seems to work really well think of super oxide disysmutates behaving like a big golf umbrella if you've ever been seen those big golf umbrellas it doesn't matter whether you're a golfer or just shopping if you suddenly get stuck in a rainstorm you pop that big golf umbrella up, you could you could protect a family of 10. It's so big. So that's what super oxide dismutase does. Your body's making it for you. It doesn't stop the free radicals, but it stops the rain of them from getting to the mitochondria. Now that works until you're 30. Now your body after 30 and you're starting to get into parmenopause or and then eventually menopause, your body slows down that production of super oxide dismutase. Now that big golf umbrella that's been been protecting your mitochondria is about the size of one of those city totes umbrella. So now your your mitochondria are dodging raindrops or free radicals. Uh they're getting some protection, not a lot, but some. Then by the time you're 40, your body literally stops producing this super oxidiz. So now that golf umbrella that was protecting you and then became a totes is about the size of a cocktail umbrella. Virtually zero protection. Remember the free radicals were always being produced but up until that age of 40 you had this ability to convert it to oxygen and um and water. So there was no damage. Once you hit 40, once you're in that serious menopause stage, you lose that protection because the fact is up until about 150 years ago, we died at age 30. Our biology thinks we're dying. That's why it slows down estrogen. It slows down melatonin. It slows down a lot of things, including the super oxide disysmutase. And scientists aren't aware, virtually nobody is aware that algae, especially spirulina, but also chlorella, has the highest concentration of super oxidiz. You can't get it from any other food. You can't get it even if you took it as a supplement, it would get damaged in your digestion. And the reason why it works so well in spirulina if it hasn't been heated with dry with a high heat is because spirulina is a technically a bacteria. It does not even have a cellulus wall. So there's nothing for your body to break down to get access to the 40 nutrients, the high protein and the high super oxidizes. It goes straight into the mitochondria and helps protect it instantly. We've had people with Alzheimer's and dementia within 24 hours their brain is back on. And so what happens is just like all parts of your body, all of your cells, including your mitochondria, when given the right nutrients and and removing the wrong ones, they will grow back. Nothing in your body stays still. It is there's a great expression, you never step in the same river twice. You are constantly evolving. And so what you're putting in at the moment is creating new cells. And so that's why when you start giving your mitochondria the protection that it needs. And there's other things you can do as well like red light therapy um building muscle um this also stimulate uh cold plunges stimulate uh mitochondria growth. But the best one is getting the super oxidizment and we even did some clinical trials on that about that last year. So this is so important for women because at the same time they are losing all this super oxyodism like men are we are losing hormones. We are losing estrogen and it turns out that estrogen also acts as an antioxidant in the mitochondria to protect it from free radicals and and it helps with um uh proper functioning of the cells. And so we this is why women particularly when we get into the paras pmenopause and menopause get hit twice as hard. A we've lost the superoxidismase protection of our mitochondria and b we've less lost the estrogen protection that was also protecting your mitochondria. And by the way your mitochondria the highest amount of mitochondria are where your greatest energy needs are. Number one is your brain. Your brain has two million mitochondria per cell. Next highest is women's eggs. After that is is your heart, which your heart has 8,000 mitochondria per cell. Um so this is why when women as we hit um menopause and pmenopause run into so much brain fog, we run into depression. Um there's a great book by Dr. Chris Palmer um called Brain Energy where he talks about every brain disorder ultimately is traceable to damaged mitochondria. Um so and there's all sorts of science papers about that. So if we can get your mitochondria back up because think of mitochondria as the they're not just the powerhouse, they're the light bulbs. They keep the light in your in your body working in your office tower. When the lights go out, you call maintenance and they come and replace the the light bulb for you. You can't do any work without any lights. Same with your body. When your mitochondria, which are the lights that keep everything working, go out. Unfortunately, you don't have a maintenance crew to come and replace it. But you do have super oxygenation in our spirulina algae tablets, energy bits. Um, and also to the second highest is in the chlorella. But, um, spirulina gets in there faster because it's a bacteria. So we can turn your lights back on just as with food, not a drug, not uh any kind of surgeries. It's it's it's almost a miracle if there wasn't so much science proving that this worked. And we, as I said, we did our own clinical trials. And you can't argue with 25,000 clinical trials about super oxidiz. So, um, we just need to get the word out that particularly to women, you don't have to struggle with metabolic, uh, dysfunction and weight gain and and fatigue and and brain fog as you enter this change of life because it's going to it happens. It's just part of life. And so, I tell people, you know, you can either as you get into menopause years, you can either get bitter or you can get better. And I want you to get better. And one of the ways to do that effortlessly, simply, and with food is with uh spirulina algae if it's raw. I think a lot of women are walking into those years with really tanked out mitochondrial function anyway. You know, they're they're they're fried out in their 20s and and even earlier sometimes. And so they're especially the younger generations and the foods that the younger generations have been raised up on, especially in this country. So people are walking in with metabolic or metabolic and mitochondrial compromise and then you add into it any drugs that they've taken like the fuoricquinolone antibiotics fry out your mitochondria. And so this is why we see we even had a study come out last year showing that there's two periods in a woman's life where they age aggressively. One is around 44 years old and one is again in their 60s. And it's true. I mean I mine hit later. I I think it was probably I was around 47 48 but all of a sudden it was like night and day. something just happened, you know, and it's not just the dropout of estrogen. It's all of it. This is why I say we have to train for menopause. We have to prepare for this. Right. Right. Because it's it's hard to get it's hard to get on top of it when you're behind the ball, you know? Right. And until recently, there was not a lot of discussion about this. Um, and you know, Dr. Tina, that so many science studies that that were done were always with men and women just we we're built differently. We have different issues. Uh we have smaller bones, so we're more susceptible to osteoporosis. We're more susceptible to um all sorts of um brain disorders. And I'm convinced that so much of this is because of the double whammy of our hormonal changes with the loss of the superoxidism. And so um I can't do anything about the hormones, but I can certainly get this super oxidiz back in and turn the lights back on. There's and you can tell when your brain is functioning again. And it's like you just feel alert again. And um and to your point, these issues are hitting women earlier and earlier because of the toxicity that were surrounded by the the glyphosate, the pesticides, the the lead, the heavy metals. Um, that's why chlorella, by the way, we'll talk about chlorella as well, pulls out all heavy metals to help protect you from this um you gathering of of uh toxins because the average adult apparently in North America has 700 toxins in their bodies. And our our immune systems and our bodies simply were not built to sustain that kind of toxic load. So, it interferes with everything. It's like um you your nutrition that you're getting from the the nourishment you're getting from the spirulina in many cases can't get into the cell because the toxins are taking the spot of the on the receptor cells. So they work very well together. Spirulina puts nourishment in. Chlorella pulls the toxins out. Yeah. Let's talk about that. Let's talk I mean if you want to jump in to that now or we can continue on with a little bit more about I think est you know talking about estrogen here. Estrogen's protective in so many ways and I just want women to understand that it is not to be feared and it is something that we desperately I I believe that I I don't think every woman needs to supplement estrogen as they age, but I believe for optimization it is something to be considered. That said, and I'm just sharing my opinion. I'd love to hear yours. That said, if you start throwing estrogen at a toxic body, at a body that's inflamed, at a body that's metabolically compromised, it starts, I'm talking, you know, using transdermal, whatever kind of supplementation that women are using, bio identical, doesn't matter. It starts to go down weird pathways. And this is something I don't hear talked about often. And so, I'm very careful when I apply estrogen to a woman. And I'm always trying to find ways to clean her up first so that I can get her optimized so that the estrogen actually does what we want it to do versus it being like trying to hit a moving target. Because when you take an inflamed, especially if there's excess atapost on that body that is acting as its own endocrine system and you start throwing estrogen patches at these women, things get really messy. So, I think what you're proposing here as far as just but one tool in a toolbox of how to get on top of that, this is one of the main reasons I take the energy bits because it makes sense to me as part of that. I'm I'm extra uh I'm extra diligent about liver support and keeping the liver healthy as we go through menopause. Dr. Dr. Carrie Jones talks about this all the time and how your body will preferentially detox your alcohol before it'll detox your estrogens correctly. And so it's really important that we support our liver. We support our detox pathways and we do so gently and consistently. It's not a take a bottle of this and you're done. You know, it's like this is part of a job now in middle age. Yeah. But I really I want women to understand that. Yeah. Well, and it's a couple of things. First of all, um, women, none of us were really told how our body functions from a metabolic perspective. So, and the way I describe it is, you know, I'm not much of a cook, quite honestly. So, unlike my two sisters who are magicians in the kitchen, um, so when I do cook, I need a recipe because it's foreign ground for me. And so, I have the recipe and it tells you all the ingredients and I go out dutifully and buy all my ingredients. And then I if I if I follow the recipe, there's a 99% sure chance pretty good chance it's going to come out as it as it should. Our bodies is the same way. But nobody's really until recently told you the recipe. And one of the the recipe that I follow includes a very critical nutrient because lots of times you have a very important part of your recipe and for me that's algae. Both spirulina and chlorella are part of your recipe. so that you cuz if you follow the instructions and you follow the ingredients, you will have a a more positive outcome. It just is that the way it is. So that that's one thing. The other thing is, you know, it's uh if you lived in the Midwest, let's say, and you're the only cars you ever saw were used cars and they're everybody's driving around, they're all dirty. It doesn't matter how many um times you take that used car to a car wash and make it look pretty on the outside. If you don't fix the engine on the inside, it's still never going to work properly. So, you can do all this sort of buffing and like, you know, the patches for the estrogen patch, but if you don't address the bigger issue inside first, there's only so much traction that you're going to get. The better thing is to address the issue that's going on inside. And you'll find out by listening to Dr. Tina, some of these issues so that you can then start adding the taking your car to the car wash and start adding the extra pieces, but you're only going to get so much mileage out of that old jalapy until you fix it. Um, so algae is one of the things that will fix it. It's not just a patch. It's a fixer because it fixes, repairs, and protects your mitochondria so they can grow and be um more plentiful and more powerful because they are ultimately what is giving your body the cellular energy it needs to perform in every single function. So, um that's why I'm so bullish on algae is because yes, it's great. It satisfies your hunger and gives you energy and it uh your skin improves your all these other there's a thousand lists of benefits and it's almost unbelievable if it wasn't all proven in 100,000 studies that nobody seems to know about. But it it does work and but it gets right to the root cause which is getting your mitochondria functioning again. And it does it with food, which um which is a miracle in its own right because you don't have to get a um any kind of prescription drug and it has no downsize. There's no drug interactions of any kind. So um by the way, it's a very affordable um food. Uh we sell them in large bags. We have a Dr. Tina has a discount code she's going to share with you. Um but the bags are the largest value, best value. There's five a,000 tablets in a bag and there's the th,000 tablets equals 551 pounds of vegetables. But using Dr. Tina's discount code and you took 10 tablets a day, which is a sort of a starter dose, it cost you a dollar a day. So, you can protect your health, bring back your mitochondria, turn the lights back on in your brain and your metabolic system, uh, and still be nourished and get great skin and hair. Um, and, uh, all for all all at one. It's like the gift that keeps on giving. It It's again, it would almost be unbelievable if it wasn't so science-based. So, we're not talking a very expensive um uh thing to do or you don't have to go to a clinic um and get injections or anything. It's it's it's foundational food. It's really foundational food. It is. And I don't Sorry, my little visitors up here on my lap now. He decided he was going to Oh, it's great for pets, by the way. Anyone's listening. Oh, he loves them. Actually, and cats absolutely love them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. and they have the same health issues we have. I use uh I use them to train him. He's a puppy, so he's he's he's a pushy little puppy. Well, he's about I should say he's about a year and a half now, but he's a young. Anyway, I use I use the energy bits to train him. So, I he loves them. He loves them. My other dogs won't go after them the way he does. He knows that they're a treat and he absolutely gobbles them up. It's so cute. So, they're, you know, they're easy to they're small, so they're easy just to use as little trick treats, right? Um but yes, it's a food and so I don't think of it like a supplement. I don't I don't you know like I get so tired of taking pills and powders and all the things and I've got the whole countertop of supplements and I just it's like oh this gets arduous and it gets expensive and I do love the energy bits because I think of them as just whole food like it's just an easy kind of a no-brainer. Do it in the morning, do it at night. Um take a little bit extra if I've been exposed to toxins that day. My husband's so cute. He doesn't believe me in that his farm life is quite toxic life. He comes in smelling like diesel and like oil and fuel and I don't know, he's probably bathing in this stuff outside as he's tinkering with tractors and it's so gross. I won't even let him bring the clothes inside anymore. And when they get bad enough, I'm like, "We're not even going to wash these. Like, I got to throw this away. This is so bad." And so I rush him over. I'm like, "Get over here." And he knows he's got to take his energy beds. He's got to take, you know, he's got to take the whole thing. And then if it's if it's really bad, I throw some extra glutathione at him. But, you know, it's like I think he's up there with bare hands and arms up, you know, in this toxic garbage. So, that's just that's just farm life. Now that you mentioned glutathione, the chlorella has the highest glutathione in the world. So, it's really amazing. Um, so it that's one of the reasons why chlorella is so detoxing and why we called it recovery bits because it helps you recover your health. But, but I chew all of mine. It I mean, you can't chew supplements. I chew mine. I add to them with sea salt or I add pistachio nuts or um if you're keto macadamia nuts are really great. Uh slices of fruit if you like. Um some people put them in their smoothie. Just grind them up first and put them in your smoothie. So it's really up to you. Um they're great for kids as well. Um this is why you don't have to worry about anything. Um it's not age specific. It's it's they're they're good for fasting. They don't have any carbs. Um, so they're they don't interfere with your fasting. They're uh there's no lectins or oxalates. So if you're a carnivore and you are avoiding vegetables because you don't want lectins and oxalates, you're good to go because algae started in the ocean and didn't have to develop lectins or oxalates to protect themselves. So um so it's low carb, lowal, no lectins or oxalates. Paleo um who like ancestral foods, you can't get any older than algae was the first life on Earth. So, so it's it's been around. Yeah. Yeah, it's still here. It just needed someone to explain it. You're like the algae fairy. I think that the carnivore community could get on this, too, because I do think that they need some greens in their life, and this is an easy way to do it without having to do the whole plant life thing, you know, people who are like vehemently against plants. I think I think uh spirulina and chlorella are a good option there. I know that when I was more carnivore, it like they were they were that was like my other substrate. with my energy bits. So, I'm I eat more vegetables now than I used to, but yeah, you need you need the chlorophyll and you can't get decent chlorophyll from vegetables anymore because there's no nutrients in them. And chlorophyll builds your blood. I'm not sure if I showed you this before. So, your hemoglobin and your and chlorophyll are virtually the same cellular structure. Your hemoglobin has iron in the middle. That's what carries oxygen and chlorophyll has magnesium in the middle. But if you're not um eating vegetables, you're not getting chlorophyll. And so when you have um uh healthy blood, everything else is going to work better. You're going to carry oxygen more. You're going to have more energy. I have, this is just theoretical, but I have always noticed because my background is in biology and cell biology, and I've always noticed that chloroplast look a lot like mitochondria. And to me it makes sense that we are and we I mean we can go into like the quantum biology and all that but we at the end of the day we photosynthesize correct as humans and we can't do that if our if our mitochondria are not healthy and I do believe we need chlorophyll in there to make this all this action happen at the end of the day. I I'm not going to be ignorant enough to say that I can explain all the different mechanisms, but I do think that those two things are pretty necessary. And so without good mitochondrial function, we can't really get the benefit of sunlight, red light, and all, you know, this is why we're using red light to try to hone our mitochondria and get them to do something. This is why we're using strength training. This is why we're using even heat adaption through heat shock proteins, trying to get the mitochondria to do something. But to me, it's like that meme where the guy's poking the thing with the stick and he's like, "Do something." You know, sometimes people's mitochondria are just so petered out. And so, they're trying everything. They're trying the peptides. They're trying the hormones. They're trying everything and they're just like, they're flatlined. And so, this is where I'm like, go outside, get some gentle movement going, started at least, and get some greens in your life so that we can get that absorption of red light optimized inside of our cells. and then you know finding food. The the other thing is the green I mean straight up the greenery helps you absorb that red light. And so this is one way very simple way to do it if you're not down with chewing on a bunch of plants. Yeah. And there's um you've probably everyone's heard of the 8020 rule whether it's in life or business that 80% of whatever you're aiming for comes from 20% of something and then but most people spend so much time on the other 20%. It takes so much effort and they only get 20% benefit. So on the 8020 rule I put algae in the 80 in the 80 category on its own. It's amazing what it does and and and all those other things, whether it's peptides or red light or cold plunges, they bring they bring up the the uh the number, but the 80 is coming from the algae because on its own without anything else, you're going to get massive improvement in your mitochondria health. But when you leverage it and stack it with these other biohacks, then you get improved benefits. And so as an example with red light um I know I showed you that those little um molecules in the electron transport chain I talked about the CoQ10 molecule being a or sorry the cytochrome C molecule being a little helper molecule. Well, there's another little helper molecule called CoQ10. And um they've done some research and found that when you have chlorophyll and red light, so it could be from a red light device or from the sun. When you merge, you have simultaneous chlorophyll and red light, it recirculates the CoQ10 molecule, which is another one of those helper molecules in that transport chain. So it regenerates it also contributes to ATP and also this is one of the reasons why it contributes to reducing inflammation. So uh and of course algae has the highest chlorophyll in the world both spirulina and chlorella. Chlorella has the most so if you want the maximum you get the spirulina because you get the helper molecule from the blue pigment and you get the helper molecule from the from the chlorophyll. So um so to your point we are we are generating electricity from the sun with chlorophyll. So that's that's pretty and there's nothing in the world with more chlorophyll than chlorella algae which is why it's called chlorella because of the chlorophyll. So very very efficient but it just uplevels every biohack whether it's the cold plunges and the cold plunge or the cryo the blood is rushing into the core to nourish uh to protect your organs and then when you step out then all the blood rushes out to your extremities and brings energy. But while it was in the core, it's going through something called uh autophagy or apoptosis. Autophagy is basically cleansing. Um because you need your body needs to be cleansing its cells. This is why fasting is so great because when you're fasting, you're not eating. And so um eating uh dumps all these uh glucose and electrons into the electron transport chain to generate energy for you. But it's like you can't clean up your uh car while you're driving your car. So, your your cell has a hard time cleaning itself up while it's being overloaded with food. And the worst offender are carbs. When you eat too many carbs, there's a great um video I see on on uh you can see it on on YouTube. It's was it Lucille Ball? It's a segment from one of her her episodes and she was working at a chocolate factory and somebody stood up chocolate factory, you know, uh conveyor belt and she couldn't keep up. So, she was stuffing all the chocolates in her mouth or throwing them over her shoulders. Well, when you eat carbs, this is what's going on. Your molecules in that electron transport chain can't keep up because carbs release the most free radicals. And so, your poor little cell is getting so dumped on by free radicals because they escape from this process, the electron transport chain. So, the best thing to do, even if you don't want to go keto, just reduce your carbs. It will make your electron transport chain more efficient. So fewer free radicals, more electrons because when they escape, they turn into free radicals. So it just uh so you want to reduce the free radicals and you want to you want to uh eliminate them and that's what the SOD does. So um anytime you can stop eating from the free from uh using intermittent fasting or fasting, it reduces the load of of electrons being um moved along the electron transport chain. So your cell has a chance to clean up. And algae has no carbs. So, a it helps with the a the autophagy and the apoptosis, which also happens when you're doing cold plunges or cryotherapy, but even on its own, it's very much the cleanup crew. Um, and I tell people, you know, lots of times they only think of algae as the the thing that's closed their favorite beach. And I I remind people, well, algae is the cleanup crew in nature, too. You can't see the toxins or bacteria that are in the water, but um that's the algae shows up to get rid of them, to absorb them, and to kill them. And it does the same thing in your body too, especially the chlorella. So it's the cleanup crew. Um, so maybe you have a big mess to clean up or a little mess to clean up, but it will clean it up and get you back on track. And it does it from food. Yes. Yes. And chlorella has B vitamins in it as well, which are something that a lot of us end up very deficient in throughout life. Our stress response gets off the charts when we are not getting enough B vitamins. And so finding just different ways to get food sources, you know, without having to take a whole litany of bottles and pills and think about it. That's the thinking about it part. It's overwhelm. It's decision fatigue, you know. That's I I got that honestly that is my favorite thing about the energy bits. I was skeptical when I was first presented with them and I started taking them and I told you the story. My husband started first and he was like, "These really work." Like he never he he takes whatever I tell him to take, but he never compliments any of it, you know? And he's like, "These really work." And then I realized the decision fatigue of looking at like do am I getting enough of this and enough of this and it's just it's exhausting. It's um and also foods become political and um there's so many different different things that you have to do if you pursue a paleo or a carnivore diet. And so even if you changed nothing else, nothing. And just started taking these, you would you would feel an improvement. And and it's and as I mentioned, it saves you money, it saves you time. you know, let's go out and use that extra time to, you know, go for a run or be with your family or do whatever it is you want to do and you're still getting nourished. I call spirulina your nutritional insurance because it gives you the protein, the collagen, the SOD, um 40 vitamins and minerals, and I call chlorella your health insurance because it builds your immune system, pulls out heavy metals, uh support your your um gut biome, helps with elimination. Yes, I said elimination. Chlorella is a beautiful thing to help with bowel movements. And most people aren't talking about uh constipation or pooping, but if you're taking medications, you're traveling, you're eating a lot of dairy, you're eating a lot of processed foods, you're eating a lot of gluten, I can almost promise you, you are you are constipated. And uh chlorella, not spirulina, only chlorella, um will help you um get on top of that and have a happy bowel movement in the morning because elimination is very important. So, uh, it's not just what you're, uh, taking in nourishment wise, it's what you're getting rid of because there's this stuff that I call the junk in your trunk. And, uh, you want to get rid of that because if it's sitting there, uh, your blood circulates around those because those are toxins and stuff that your body just didn't want. And so, it's recirculating. It's like having a garbage truck parked in front of your house permanently. And who wants that? So, uh, we want to get rid of that junk in your trunk. And you do that with chlorella. So, it offers you all of the benefits of a plant-based diet, the fiber because it has the fiber in it and it does the stimulation um of the uh of the perryistals. So, um it's it they they work so beautifully together. Um spirulina, by the way, I also call it brain food because me remember I mentioned your brain has the highest mitochondria, 2 million per cell. And so the first thing that goes turns back on is your brain because of the high concentration of mitochondria and the high super oxidizes in the spirulina that's getting to your brain. So we all know that fatty fish are brain food. Well, spirulina is very much a brain food. And then chlorella I consider gut food because it it has the fiber for your gut biome. It has the chlorophyll that kills bacteria. It stimulates peristalsis. It has the 40 vitamins and minerals that build your immune system. So, um, so it's very much your gut health, um, algae. And if it helps you at all to think about it, um, you know, differently, I've come up with some analogies. I travel a fair amount and sometimes I get room service and so it nourishes me for the day and I get out the door. I have lots of energy. I thought, hm, that's sort of like spirulina. So, think of spirulina as room service. And then chlorella, you come back to your room and it's all cleaned out, the garbage has been taken out. It's like, huh, that's sort of like chlorella. So think of chlorella as room as uh as housekeeping. Spirulina is your room service and chlorella is your housekeeping. They do completely different things but they are both you know really essential for living well and living optimally. Um and I tell people it's never too late to feel great. I don't care what age you are. Um by the way I'm turning 70 next year and so I know that's what I was going to ask. I was gonna say you got you got to tell them how old you are. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, this is my hair and I don't have any Botox and these are my teeth. Um, and I I do hot yoga. I do Pilates on the machines. I run a company. I'm traveling all over the place. I got my PhD when I was 68. So, so ladies, there is no expiry date on our forehead. The society seems to want us to believe that and it's not there. And I want to encourage you, whatever your dream is, whatever you want to do, just go and do it. Don't listen to anybody else. Just listen to yourself. Cuz your soul is uh will always whisper to you. By the way, it will not shout at your ego will shout. Your soul whispers. Your soul is who you should be listening to. Your soul is who you really are. Your soul is why you are here on earth. Your soul will help direct you to find joy. Joy is what you are here to to experience. That is it. And but society likes us to think, well, our, you know, after the end of 40, you know, you don't deserve any joy or why would you get any joy? You're supposed to be, you know, going out and getting ready for retirement. Screw that. You know, the best time of your life should be now. You've kind of figured out who you are. You're realizing how much [\h__\h] is out there in the world. You're realizing you're the only one that that you should be listening to. So, you have this confidence level. So, with the confidence level, I want you to feel energized. I want you to feel mentally uh on point, have the acuity, have the the wherewithal to go, I deserve this cuz you do. And um but you know, we we listen if we listen to the noise of of the outside world, it will have us going down a path and then you realize it was not the one that you you really wanted after all. So I want to give you but it takes energy to live. It takes energy to pursue your dreams. It really does. Uh and so I want to give you the energy and it takes good health to do that too because you can't very well be you know doing all this all this travel and juggling all the things that we women do if you don't have health and energy. So those are my core u foundational promises to you. Mother nature gave this to us as a gift to to ensure we have the nourishment and the health. Uh I'm just giving you a very clean safe version of it. Uh, and I'm helping you understand why it works. Um, but if I can get it into you, I can promise you it will it will do amazing things for you. And we have amazing lives to live. Um, and each one of us has our own perspective on that. And I want you to be able to, you know, enjoy that and explore it. And do not listen to anybody telling you that it's too late. It's never too late to feel great. Ever. Ever. Ever. I love it. That's the best advice. We should have just started with that. Yeah, it's such it's sage advice because I was telling my best friend the other day, we've been best friends for 40 years and we were sitting there thinking about how um I mean gosh, we both were such pretty little things and we used to get whatever we wanted, especially when we were together. Like together, we were just, you know, a powerhouse. And there we are laying by the pool getting completely ignored and I'm like, I think the time has passed. I think we're I think we're past that part. and she's laughing and I said, "It's really too bad." You know, the irony that and I take care of so many women like this and so many women like this follow me. the irony that you finally get to the place where you're making the kind of money that you want to make and you're able to have hopefully the time to travel and especially as the kids are leaving the nest and so many women get to that point and their health is in complete shambles and it's it's so sad and devastating and I certainly am not in any kind of perfect health. I definitely have my issues, but I think I'm doing better than the than most my age. And you're definitely doing better than like 99.9% of the women your age. And that's that's that's sad. Like that shouldn't be the case. What what you just said is absolutely the truth. We should be thriving, not, you know, scraping to get by. And I'm I'm so proud to tell people my age now because because if I can do it, and honestly, I have not done anything special except take algae every single day for the last 15 years. And I wouldn't miss it. I don't know what I would do without it quite honestly. It's just it's a gamecher for me. And uh it's so essential that I wrote a little booklet. I was looking for a copy of it. I can't seem to put my hand. A little book called um the LG Love Story because we all need love. We can't live without love. It it's it um energizes us. It it it feeds us. Um it's natural. It and and algae is everything that love is um from a nutritional perspective. And so, um, we're going to put the little book on our website soon, but it's called the LG Love Story because I started the company out of love and algae will just love you to death. Love you to life. I think we should say algae will love you back to life for sure. So, uh, and again, it's food and and it's natural and there's one ingredient. Uh, we know that when foods have multiple ingredients, they're probably not good for you. You can't get any less than one. And it's it's like meeting the one. Uh, so I've met the one and it's algae. Um, I'm probably I call myself the algae gal because um, you know, the gal next door is for everyone and so is algae. It's it's really for everyone and um, I'm going to try to be building algae farms here in Florida because we need to have it grown here in America in large quantities. In Asia, it's a multibillion dollar agricultural crop. It's as big as the beef industry is. And that's why you don't know about it cuz it's really not grown here. Like we have corn and wheat and you know tomato patches but we don't have huge algae farms. But if I if I do this right I'm going to have some algae farms here in America for you very soon. Uh well couple years and I will hope so. Yeah. Yeah. So I want it to be as natural um as any other food group that you're familiar with. So we're we're doing our best. I love it. I love it. Well, it's always such a treat to have you on and you guys have offered a really generous discount. I'll make sure all of that is in the show notes so folks can take advantage of that. I've heard great feedback about your product from the last podcast. So, I've had I have certain supplement companies that sponsor me and I love having guests on and learning all about the products. I don't always get to hear about it though and your product is one that I consistently hear from my followers saying, "You know what? I bought those energy beds. They're great. They're great for traveling. You guys sell them with a little tin." So they have canisters um that come with the bag in them and then you just you only buy a canister once and then you just refill it um with the bags and you just shake the tablets out through the through the canister. So if you have a family then your hands aren't going into the different bags and we have little little travel pouches that you could toss in your gym bag or a handbag. The red one, by the way, is the blended algae tablet. But um yeah, we get testimonials emailed to us literally every day. It's it's what what people just absolutely love them. So, uh, I'm very proud. Our whole team is really proud of what we do. We're very educationoriented. I taped 200 teaching videos last year. I'm going to do 200 more. Just helping people understand their bodies and mitochondria and algae. Um, because it's here to stay. So, you might as well uh, as I say, get on the algae train now. It's uh, that way you can understand and you can be use discernment to be sure that you're getting the best. Although I'm a little um uh biased that I still think we're the ours is the best and and doctors seem to feel the same way. So um thank you Dr. Tina for allowing me the opportunity to share my passion with you and your community. Um L al LG is um is is the love story of my life. I'm still single, so it's the best I'm going to get, I think. Well, you fantastic. So whatever you're doing, maybe that's the secret. Yeah. Some 26-year-old tried to pick me up yesterday. Yeah, that. Wow. Okay. I guess I guess I'm still in the game. Good job. Grandmother. I love it. I love it. No, that's the secret. Whatever you're doing, you're doing it right. So, you are the goals. Well, it's just lovely to have you on as always and I hope you'll come back and uh I'll make sure to get all the links in the show notes for people to go and dive into the science further and get the discount and check it out for themselves because this really is one discount. Yeah, Dr. Tino, use it at energybits.com and come and see us. Anyways, we have lots of great stuff there. All right. Awesome. Okay, we'll do. Thanks, lady. Thank you. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcasttina.com. That's dr ry na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time, and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have, and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.