So early pregnancy, your body is actually more insulin sensitive. It's in kind of an anabolic state. Your tissues, maternal tissues are very responsive to insulin and are readily storing energy for later on. Even though this is typically like the lower weight gain portion of pregnancy, but the baby itself is like very very small. As you get to later pregnancy, as the baby gets bigger and bigger, I mean by the end they're putting on upwards of like half a pound a week, right? Your body doesn't want you to be energy hungry and using up the fuel. It wants to shunt as many nutrients to that baby's growth as possible. And in the context of human history, food was not always readily available. We regularly experienced periods of famine. Maybe the harvest wasn't good that season. If our bodies were not adapted to prioritize sending that energy to baby, we would have a pretty high rate of pregnancy loss in later pregnancy from the fetus being starved. Right, Lily Nichols, thank you so much for coming on the Dr. Tina Show today. I am a huge fan of your work and I have just been ingesting all of your Instagram lately and you are an expert in prenatal nutrition and we're going to talk about all the things. So would you introduce yourself to the audience please? Sure thing. Yeah. So I my backgrounds in uh nutrition and dietetics. I'm a registered dietitian nutritionist. I'm also a diabetes educator and I've spent most of my career in the prenatal space with a lot of emphasis on gestational diabetes. I know you wanted to talk about that today. Yes. And my work has really spanned kind of broadly. I've worked in the clinical space in conventional health care and private practice. I've worked at the public policy level with the state of California's diabetes and pregnancy program. So working on like guidelines and do a lot of work with training other professionals and a lot of people know me from my books these days. So I have three books real food for pregnancy, real food for gestational diabetes and real food for fertility. A lot of my work focuses on where the guidelines have got it wrong for nutrition and where we can do better. there's often a pretty significant lag in new research making it into clinical practice and then an even longer gap before guidelines get updated. So, we're talking a minimum of like 17 years. And having worked in the policy space and seeing how difficult it is even to make the tiniest little changes to things, I was like, I I have to go at this from like a grassroots level. I have to get the information out to the general public, out to clinicians. It has to be like a movement that gets these guidelines changed over time, but I can't sit by and let a whole generation or two continue to get bad advice and suffer the consequences of, you know, poor pregnancy outcomes, pregnancy complications, and all the things. So, yeah, that's where I'm at. We could talk about so many things here and probably go on for hours and just geek out on it because this is really near and dear to my heart. I was not metabolically sound when I had my daughter and she suffers the consequences of that to this day as a young adult. And so I've been studying this kind of off and on through the years and the data is really depressing. It's really depresses me every time I get into it. And I honestly just recently found you and I, like I said, I found you going through Instagram and I was like, "Oh my god, I got to get this woman on the show." And then I just went deep into your Instagram and looking at all your content and you really have this this conversation dialed in. So, this is going to be a fun topic to to break down and I'm going to let you deliver the bad news for people. I'm used to it. I'm tired of getting rocks thrown at me when I tell people the truth. But let's just start from the top. Uh, I really want to dive into this topic I've brought up a few times with my listeners, which is what is the outcome for children and offspring born to mothers who are metabolically unsound and/or suffering with obesity. So, however we can best break that down during this hour is really what I want to dive into. And I know there's lots of pieces to that. So, you start where you want to. I'll let you Okay. Take the lead. Well, I I'll start with this. I mean, when I first kind of accidentally fell into the gestational diabetes space, I didn't know that this was an area I choose to specialize in and early early on actually in my career before I even went to college and started studying nutrition. I thought I wanted to work on the school lunch policy and make a dent in childhood obesity. I thought that it was like, okay, we just need to fix what the kids are eating and get them more active and everything's going to be fine. When I started working in the gestational diabetes space, I learned a stat that children born to mothers with poor blood sugar control during pregnancy face a six-fold higher risk of developing diabetes by the time they're teenagers. And now there's some newer data suggesting that can be up to a 19fold higher risk compared to a child born to a mom who has normal blood sugar levels. And that shocked me and that really was like, okay, this is an area I need to work in because we can do something here. You get a two birds with one stone situation. We all know how difficult it is to change the way that people eat, especially kids. It's like they have all the picky eating, all the things. I mean, I have two young kids myself. But in pregnancy, there's never a time when you're more motivated to take the best care of yourself possible. Even people who aren't super well informed on, you know, the consequences of metabolic health still understand that there's some importance to what they're eating during pregnancy and that can affect how they feel and potentially affect their baby. Um, so that's the place that we really need to focus. The situation with the high blood sugar being problematic is that maternal blood sugar levels cross the placenta go directly to baby. There's no like the placenta doesn't like filter out some of the glucose. Maternal blood sugar levels are fetal blood sugar levels. Maternal insulin does not cross the placenta. So the maternal insulin controls maternal blood sugar levels. But when that baby is exposed to high blood sugar levels, well, early on when they don't have a fully developed pancreas, it's directly teratogenic. It can cause birth defects in early pregnancy. So, talk about delivering the bad news. High blood sugar levels are touatenic. And this is why we see a significantly higher rate of pregnancy loss, early pregnancy loss among women, particularly those with pre-existing poorly managed diabetes coming into pregnancy. But mildly elevated blood sugar levels in early pregnancy, even below the diagnostic threshold for just gestational diabetes, increase the risk of certain birth defects like congenital heart defects. those women are at like a five times higher risk of having a baby born with a congenital heart defect. That's not necessarily a a genetic thing. It can be an epigenetic thing as well. So assuming everything's fine in early pregnancy, let's speak to the like higher blood sugar as you know pregnancy progresses. Once that baby in uterero fetus that baby's pancreas has uh developed the ability to produce insulin now that baby starts managing its own blood sugar level. So high maternal blood sugar, high fetal blood sugar and high fetal insulin. So these babies start producing excessive amounts of insulin. The pancreas grows larger. It produ produces more insulin than is typical and they grow insulin resistant literally in uterero. So I used to work at a very very busy parinatlogy practice in Los Angeles and our OB in charge was the chief of parinatlogy at Harbor UC Harbor UCLA Medical Center which is like the second largest hospital in LA and we're we're serving the underserved I mean people who really don't have you know health insurance or all the things and we had a synographer on staff who would do ultrasounds in later pregnancy and for the women who have poorly controlled blood sugar. You actually can see on ultrasound a significantly thicker fat mass on these babies, especially around the abdomen. So, the babies grow larger than average, not because they're robustly healthy, because there is also such thing as larger babies who are healthy. These babies are specifically putting on excess weight in the form of fat because their blood sugar and their insulin levels are high. Okay, fast forward to birth. So wait on average I'm gonna slow we're going to back up for a second just for the audience. So for the audience listening insulin is secreted by the pancreas to lower your blood sugar levels. That's the checks and balances in the human body. And so that's why we're seeing early loss in mothers who are metabolically unsound potentially. The this is one of the many reasons why we're seeing pregnancy loss. And then the baby's insulin kicks on at a certain point. And now the babies are pumping out insulin to respond to this high blood sugar that they're dealing with. And now they're dealing with insulin resistance in uterero. Yes. And insulin is progrow. So it's anabolic in a way. and it causes things to grow, which is helpful after a strength training session, but it's maybe not helpful to be swimming in it in a, you know, placental sack. So, that's really bad. I mean, this is like what you just said is really terrifying. And I I just wanted to hopefully explain it again for people listening so they get the severity of this. Okay, so fast forward to where you are. Fast forward to birth. I mean, so they're born essentially like insulin resistant and with high fetal insulin levels. You can actually measure it via cord blood ceptide, by the way. So what happens at birth is when once they're born and the cord is cut, that sugar supply like immediately disappears, but the baby is still pumping out large amounts of insulin. So they're very prone to going hypoglycemic. post birth, which is a metabolic emergency. Usually people are like, "What? How would that how would that happen? Because shouldn't their blood sugar levels be high?" It's like, well, their blood sugar levels were high, but their insulin is also high. There's no more sugar supply. They're like babies are actually meant to be born fat adapted. Maternal metabolism shifts in in later pregnancy in particular to be quite ketogenic. You are fat adapted and those babies are fat adapted. And this is by design. Like babies are born in ketosis or they're meant to be and they are in the deepest ketosis in those first couple days of life as uh breast milk, you know, transitions from colostrum to mature milk. Like they're in ketosis. They should be able to tap into their fat stores for energy. And these babies who are, you know, sugar adapted, they have trouble with it because their insulin levels are high. You can't go into ketosis when you're in that situation, right? So that has its own consequences for you know immediately at birth. What I am most concerned about is the long-term consequences to the baby though which is that they're essentially born insulin resistant with a pancreas that is has been programmed essentially to pump out large amounts of insulin. So they're prone to unstable blood sugar levels from birth and they face a you know higher risk of type 2 diabetes, obesity and metabolic diseases for the rest of their life. And I I give the bad news so I can swing it just for a minute to the good news, which is that it doesn't have to be this way because if you maintain maternal blood sugar levels in a healthy range, so the maternal insulin production isn't ridiculously high and those blood sugar levels are a healthy level. So baby is not getting the signal to produce excessive amounts of insulin, you can interrupt that cycle. you can prevent that type of fetal programming from going down. And that's really where, you know, my work centers is trying to empower those who have been diagnosed with gestational diabetes to do something about it because we actually can. Unfortunately, our guidelines, our nutrition guidelines for treating gestational diabetes are high carb. They're no less than 175 grams of carbs per day, which only perpetuates the metabolic dysfunction. And so that's that's the lifetime battle in my career is educating people on what is actually safe and optimal for pregnancy and optimal for blood sugar management. So we can actually like manage this very manageable condition and optimize both mom's health, fewer fewer other coorbidities and complications, and that baby's lifelong metabolic health. When I was pregnant in two or 1999, basically gestational diabetes was treated like it just was like oops, it happened and there's nothing we can do. I mean that lit it was just like you were it was just an unlucky situation to end up in and there was absolutely no cause and effect assigned to it and it just was well it is what it is. Go on bed rest, you know, eat whatever you want. It's just the pregnancy. It's just placental hormones. Yes, that's the story. Is that still the story? Depends on who you talk to. There are alternate opinions. It depends on the clinician. Yeah, please talk just briefly about where people are at because I still hear women saying that, you know, oh, I had gestational diabetes. I got sent to bed rest and I don't, you know, don't know what to do. And I'm like, oh my gosh, this is actually, I mean, from what I understand, gestational diabetes is bad omen. We got to get on it and there's still a lot we can do. So, please talk about kind of where modern days are at. Well, I don't know if it's like modern days are at. I mean, I I hang out with a lot of gestational diabetes researchers and clinicians, so my my opinion may be different than your like OB practicing down the street. Because I do still hear people who say, "Oh, yeah, it's just the placenta. There's nothing you can do." There there are some cases of gestational diabetes that seem to come up out of nowhere, but those cases in my opinion are actually fairly rare. So, one of the things the California Diabetes and Pregnancy Program really gets right is their diagnostic criteria includes screening in the first trimester with a hemoglobin A1c. So we would by the guidelines we would check A1c on everybody universally first trimester. Anybody whose A1c was 5.7% or higher in other words pre-diabetic range we would treat as gestational diabetes. So you have twothirds of your pregnancy to do something about it and much more better chance that things are going to go well. But also the chances that you will if we gave you a glucose tolerance test, which like we didn't even do, if you had a high A1c, you didn't even get a glucose tolerance test. You were just treated as if you had gestational diabetes. That's your diagnostic standard right there. Right? But if you are to do a a screening on those women, there's a 98.4% chance that they will fail the glucose tolerance test. a first trimester A1c. The placenta has not even fully formed yet. This is not an issue of placental hormones at this stage. That is a reflection of your pre-reg blood sugar levels. So what what are we really catching? The vast majority of cases we are catching undiagnosed pre-diabetes. Occasionally we catch undiagnosed type two diabetes. But when you have a population, the US over 50% of Americans have type two diabetes or pre-diabetes, most of which are undiagnosed, and then they get pregnant and you're actually screening when most people are just not randomly checking their blood sugar, we're just catching the people who were metabolically unwell to begin with. Now, there's a couple caveats in that occasionally you have like people who really don't have any of the risk factors who go on to take a glucose tolerance test um later in pregnancy that may have like a very mild case or it may be somebody who eats really low carb. And if you put people anyone pregnant or not on a low carb diet and then you give them a glucose tolerance test, they will fail. Like that's been known since the 1960s. So some some there are some caveats but the majority vast majority of cases with true gestational diabetes that I'm seeing there is a pre-reg component. They are usually coming into pregnancy with insulin resistance. Pregnancy is already it becomes an insulin resistant state particularly in the latter half. So, when your body already is tasked with having to produce double or maybe triple the amount of insulin and you already have a baseline of insulin resistance, that's when you're more likely to run into problems where your body really can't maintain blood sugar in a healthy range without extra effort or potentially even like medications to help you get there. So, that's really what we're seeing. That's kind of the bad news. Well, that's fantastic that the screening is happening first trimester for a hemoglobin A1c. This is not across the board. This is like in in the no practitioners in California and people who follow those guidelines. Most of the country is just doing a glucose tolerance test, the the less accurate version of a pregnancy glucose tolerance test. The rest of the world does a different version of the gluca than we do in pregnancy in the US. Oh, interesting. Most of the country is doing like this two-step method where you do A-50 gram glucose challenge test, which is not even performed fasting. And then there's a threehour 100 gram glucose tolerance test. So, it's a two-step. You have a screening and you have a diagnostic. Most of the world does a single test. It's performed fasting. It's two hours. It's 75 grams of glucose. And those criteria were set based on a very very very large study called the hypoglycemia and adverse pregnancy outcome study or hapo of over 23,000 women from like 11 different countries and they were looking at maternal blood sugar levels and adverse outcomes on the baby like macrosomia cord blood ceptide levels and they set more stringent criteria which most of the rest of the world follows. The US is like in its own weird own weird place because they don't want to label more women as being gestational diabetic. They don't want to catch the mild cases. And when you lower the diagnostic criteria, you catch the mild cases. They're worried about it increasing health care costs. That's the whole reason that like they haven't changed to more stringent diagnostic criteria. But lots of people on the West Coast use the they call it sweet success guidelines that include the the different version of the glucose tolerance test and the option for first trimester screening with A1c. But that is not the norm at all in the country. That's if you're at like an in then practice. Wow. I was taught by smart docs to run a serum insulin a as you were running the glucose during the different mark points that we ran them at. So my mentor did it in a whole different way and patients were there for hours. That would be ideal. That's not even in those guidelines, but and they don't even have guidelines for what's considered normal insulin levels in pregnancy, right? It it changes as the pregnancy progresses. And I have not seen like there's no official guidelines on what they should be, but that would be optimal. Yeah. Like a craft insulin assay where you're doing the insulin and the glucose like yes that would tell you a lot more than just glucose alone 100%. So the second half of pregnancy you mentioned insulin resistance just is kind of you know par for the course. It's just a natural progression of a pregnancy to some degree. Can you explain why that is to the audience? Yeah, it's a little bit confusing because it's reversed of what people think. So early pregnancy, your body is actually more insulin sensitive. It's in kind of an anabolic state. Your tissues, maternal tissues are very responsive to insulin and are readily storing energy for later on. Even though this is typically like the lower weight gain portion of pregnancy, but the baby itself is like very very small. As you get to later pregnancy, as the baby gets bigger and bigger, I mean, by the end, they're putting on upwards of like half a pound a week, right? Your body doesn't want you to be energy hungry and using up the fuel. It wants to shunt as many nutrients to that baby's growth as possible. And in the context of human history, food was not always readily available. We regularly experienced periods of famine. Maybe the harvest wasn't good that season. If our bodies were not adapted to prioritize sending that energy to baby, we would have a pretty high rate of pregnancy loss in later pregnancy from the fetus being starved, right? Like that doesn't happen because human physiology is there to like shunt as many nutrients to that baby as possible. So your body actually like doesn't want to get too greedy. And at the end of pregnancy, maternal metabolism kind of switches to ketosis more frequently. Most women actually go into ketosis between meals, most certainly overnight. Like pregnant women are three times more likely to go into ketosis overnight than someone who's not pregnant. You're like very easily switching over to fat metabolism mode because you're also sending fatty acids to baby for their growth as well, not just glucose. So that's a little bit why your body is also producing more insulin to overcome that insulin resistance though because sometimes there's game of telephone over this conversation where some of the details don't get through. There's a whole group of people who think gestational diabetes is a madeup diagnosis or a diagnosis looking for a disease. Blood sugar levels in pregnancy tend trend lower than outside of pregnancy. So like our criteria for what is considered a low blood sugar value which is typically 70 milligrams per deciliter outside of pregnancy in pregnancy that drops to 60 milligrams per deciliter. And our goal blood sugar level for optimal blood sugar management depends on which guidelines you're using because some of the guidelines really have not adapted to pregnancy specifically. But typically those have dropped by about 20 points as well. Instead of aiming for 140 milligrams per deciliter, we're aiming for a peak of 120 milligrams per deciliter or less. So in a healthy metabolism, in a woman who is coming into pregnancy healthy and isn't going like insanely overboard on the carbs in pregnancy, they actually have no trouble maintaining blood sugar in a healthy range. their body just produces a little more insulin than they typically would like outside of pregnancy to overcome that very low level of physiologic insulin resistance. That is just a pregnancy phenomenon and their blood sugar levels stay pretty pretty healthy, pretty good. I wore a CGM in my second pregnancy, like once each trimester to use myself as a lab rat to see what was going on. And I had worn it before pregnancy, too, to kind of have a baseline. And that that was indeed true for myself too. Like blood sugar levels just trended a little lower than Interesting. I was going to ask you about CGM and there its use in pregnancy. It seems like it would be a good idea for people to put one on every trimester and see how that trimester is going because they're all so different. Yeah. Yeah. If you're I mean Yeah. If you're if you have the ability to do that and you want to use yourself as a lab rat, like definitely do. It's fun. It was fascinating actually in the first trimester for me. It was like hard for me to get my blood sugar level up. Like like I said, you're a little more insulin sensitive at that time. So I remember at one point I'm like I'm just going to like drink some juice here and see if I can get my blood sugar levels up because I was like hanging out in like the 70s and 80s and just like you know I was like what is going on? I think I finally got it up to like 100 with like a cup of juice. Not that I'm going to do that on the regular, but I was like, "This is crazy how low um I was trending." So, it's pretty wild. And then in later pregnancy, it is it is kind of noticeable. You become a little more carbohydrate intolerant um as pregnancy progresses. That's Yeah, this is so fascinating. What is the impact on the fetus of a metabolically somebody whose metabolism they're going into it not great? they're going through it not great. Maybe they don't develop frank gestational diabetes or get diagnosed with that. What is the impact of these high blood sugars on the fetus aside from I'm guessing high birth weight, but what else? Yeah. So, you have the hyperinsulinemia, you have a larger pancreas than is typical. High birth weight for sure can be a consequence, but it's specifically like when you look at their lean body mass. I mean, they have a significantly higher fat mass than the babies who are just larger because the parents are really tall or something, you know what I mean? It can affect their lung development, especially as you get towards the later part of pregnancy. hyper maternal hypoglycemia can impair the production of like lung surfactant for the baby. So that can be an issue. It certainly can have like small effects on brain development as well. And then I mean like I've already said my biggest thing is worrying about their metabolic health later in life. We inherit our mitochondria 100% from our mom. Like once an egg is fertilized, the mitochondria and the sperm is destroyed and you are inheriting your mom's mitochondrial health essentially at the time of conception and and then it's like continues to be programmed through pregnancy. So how well your body utilizes different fuel sources that's kind of set up for you early on. And I think some of these kids do face an uphill battle. We were talking before we started recording. You know, I've had examples in practice where I have maybe a client who wasn't very metabolically healthy before pregnancy with their first baby, didn't really manage their blood sugar well, and then later on goes to have another pregnancy, has things a little more in check, has a third pregnancy, had like lost the baby weight beforehand, had gotten their diet dialed in, had gotten their exercise up, and you can see differences, or they're telling me they see differences in their babies or their children's health. Like the oldest child who had like the least, you know, helping hand with their metabolism, they're struggling in their teens with putting on weight pretty easily with blood sugar instability and their other ones seem to be able to eat almost everything and they're fine. So, there is definitely some of that going on. And I have examples even in my adult life where now I've kind of connected the dots from people that I knew in childhood who maybe had struggled a lot metabolically, but then they have a sibling who didn't. And you start to get to talking to their mom and it's like the same situation I'm just describing. Oh yeah, I was just eating whatever I could. I was, you know, I I didn't really care about what I was eating. I didn't, you know, exercise. I was drinking soda. I was eating a lot of fast food. and then had this like terrible pregnancy, gestational diabetes, preeclampsia, all the issues. That child struggles and I got my act together the next time and this next baby like their star athlete, you know, like same mom, same dad, even with the mom being older where you expect insulin resistance typically to go up with age, like you can intervene and do something to like bring that back to baseline. and you can see the metabolic effects on the children. That's really helpful and hopeful because I think that we, you know, I get into the data and this whole conversation depresses me so much because like we were talking offline. I mean, we're several generations into this and these children are being epigenetically marked. Basically, they're being flagged for a life of obesity and metabolic dysfunction. And it's I mean it's just really daunting when you think about that and you think about how we're several generations in and then the disruption and well the tainting of the food supply or whatever you want to call it. I mean our food supply has just turned to garbage. I was talking to somebody about school lunches recently and I was thinking, "God, it was garbage when I was in school and I'm 50 years old and it was definitely garbage when my daughter was in school and I wish it were as easy as changing the school lunches." And I of course we need to do that and of course we need to make changes and we need to get soda machines and the junk food out of the vending machines and the schools and I mean there's a lot to unpack here but at the end of the day how that mother goes into and goes through pregnancy really has a lot of impact is what I hear you saying. Yeah absolutely. Yeah. So let's talk about let's talk about that. It's interesting. Mitochondria, there's so much. Oh, there's so much there. When you said that, I was like, "Oh, man. This is a tough one." Because if you've got someone who's mitochondria, they're just really fatigued. They've got mitochondrial fatigue, as I call it, and they go into pregnancy, that's a whole host of issues, even if they are metabolically sound. Although, it's harder when you're metabolic or mitochondrial fatigue. But there's a lot happening here. And I I want to make sure that the audience understands like, yes, this sucks. And it it can be a depressing subject, but what are some things that folks can do? Obviously, prep, you know, preparing the prep period before pregnancy. What does that look like ideally? Would that be like a six-month prep, a nine-month prep, a couple year prep before people walk into pregnancy? Have you found an ideal there at all? Yeah, I think I do write about this in in Real Food for Fertility. I think it depends on the underlying health of both partners. takes two to tango. We have to think about dad's health, too. I'm always going to mention that. Yes, please talk about that. Yeah. So, we have to look back and into their their health history and see if you need more time than is typical. So, for a woman maybe who has PCOS, like if we're talking about the whole, you know, gestational diabetes scenario, PCOS, 70 plus% of cases, there is an insulin resistance component there. They are very prone to gestational diabetes in pregnancy. So they might want to spend a little more time in advance working on optimizing their cycles, getting their insulin resistance down. Women who have a history of cycle disruptions that then were covered up by just putting them on the pill. You know, you think you just can come off the pill and then everything goes back to normal, but it it can take upwards of like 12 menstrual cycles for the cycle to fully normalize. I mean, your ovaries have to sort of reboot, figure out how to do their job again when they've been um artificially shut off with these hormones for so long. So, a lot of those, you know, a lot of those cycle issues that were just covered up, you'll see those once they come off the pill. And the longer you've been on the pill, the greater chance something is going to go ary with that because the pill depletes you of a number of key nutrients that are vital for ovarian function and egg quality and all of that. So in some cases, I think you may be looking at more like a year or maybe two years. In a person who's pretty metabolically healthy, you may only need 3 to six months to prep for pregnancy. And in that time, I would be focusing on really like repleting any nutrient stores that may be low. Bring your nutrient status up. Boosting your protein intake is huge. A number of amino acids are really vital to egg quality, sperm quality, liver function, detoxification. Certainly mitochondrial function, our ability to like metabolically burn fuels. Well, you need a number of amino acids for that. Like carnitine's a great example, right? and having some sort of a healthy but not too excessive movement practice. There's research showing kind of like a span where like you can go kind of crazy hard overboard on the exercise and drive more oxidative stress. Although that said, some people actually do benefit from a little more heavy exercise, particularly women with a history of PCOS and those who might have a history more on the scantymenstrual cycle, short ludial phase, hypothalamic amenorhea, they tend to already be overactive or very I don't want to say overactive, but they exercise a lot. they might need to rein it in, keep it a little more gentle because you there's this kind of fine balance with female fertility where if you undereat significantly, you disrupt the menstrual cycle, you stop ovulating and you end up with this amenorhea situation. And on the other hand, we have this like I don't want to put this into two distinct boxes because it's not always this simplistic, but for the sake of simplicity with PCOS, there's often too much fuel in some ways. It might not be the best macronutrient balance or the most nutrientdense, but your body has an abundance of fuel and we need to like use it. In addition to shifting the macronutrient balance to better support blood sugar metabolism, obviously prioritizing protein is vitally important on that aspect. When it comes to men's health, this is a really interesting tidbit. It turns out that so when you have the embryo and then it implants in the uterine wall and then you start to have a placenta form, the placenta forms from embryionic tissue. So it has both male and female mother and and father genetics in it. The placenta more readily expresses paternal DNA than it does maternal, which is very interesting. And there's been some research. One study I can think of in particular states that upwards of like 13% of preeacclampsia cases actually stem back from the terminal component. Wow. So if you don't have the placenta forming really well like the majority of the really serious pregnancy complications arise from placentation not going well. So the placenta did not properly invade the uterine wall. you don't have robust vascule, you have issues with like blood flow from maternal to fetal interface that actually we can point the finger at dad for at least part of that. I mean of course we need mom to have a healthy endometrium as well. The endometrium is what nourishes that embryo before the placenta fully forms. We need mom's endometrium what's shed every menstrual cycle. We need them coming into this time of their life with like a history of some healthy cycles so we know their endometrium is robust enough for implantation to take place and for that placenta to fully form. But again, it's like both. And there have been some, you know, I think we have less data on the paternal component, but there is more research on this. Certainly an abundance of animal data showing that, you know, you have an unhealthy father. You're more likely to have an unhealthy embryo, unhealthy placenta, and a worse trajectory of the pregnancy. I think we're seeing more data come out in recent years around paternal their participation in it for sure in lots of different aspects. So everybody's got to be metabolically healthy going into this. That's it's a group effort. Yes. Yes. It's a group effort and well I always told patients you know your poor metabolic health and you're leading to hypothyroidism really impacting their thyroid function. It I I would always tell them that you're that's your birth control. And as soon as you wrap that up as soon as we start working to peel away the layers of the onion and you start to really optimize your health, be careful because you're probably going to get pregnant a lot more readily. But then we've got to stay the course because we don't want to lose it. And I saw that sadly I saw that too often where people would be maybe on some progesterone support, some thyroid support and often thyroid hormone prescribed that I would give them and then they would get pregnant out of nowhere after years of trying whether it was PCOS or they were utilizing hormones to induce the egg dropping and we'd get them pregnant like no problem. Yeah. And then they'd go back to their OB and their OB would say, "Stop doing everything your naturopath is telling you to do." And that's all hogwash and they lose it. I saw that so many times and I was like that's tragic. That is absolutely tragic. Yeah. So people's poor health is their birth control and then they get their health in order and magic happens. You know, you mentioned off air that even just losing 10 20 pounds could often we would see it all the time in clinic. We'd have a and we'd have to even talk about it at our postpartum visits because a fair proportion of the women that I saw in this parinatlogy practice years ago were pretty metabolically unwell. Um many of them had 20, 50, 70 extra pounds on board. And we would work at it as much as you can during pregnancy. Just optimizing their glycemic control. Often just naturally helps prevent them from gaining quite as much weight in the pregnancy, which that gets into controversial land. But that actually is it's very clearly shown in the data that there is a subset of women who actually benefit from less weight gain than the guidelines um when they're starting their pregnancy heavier. But we had talked to them about it postpartum because oftentimes they would lose the baby weight pretty quickly and we'd be like just careful that you have a plan here because you're more likely to you're probably going to have an easier time getting pregnant again next time if you want to. So we would see this quite frequently. They would drop 10, 20, 30 pounds and I thought I couldn't get pregnant and here we are in clinic. So yeah, I mean the body it's like nature always wants to find a way. It really does. It really, really does. Yeah, it's miraculous. And it's awesome because it just shows how resilient we are. You know, we That's the good news is we just laid out all the bad news, but the good news is, and I even saw a study recently showing that piggybacking on what you said, weight loss during pregnancy actually led to really good outcomes for the offspring versus not. So, I mean, they were comparing it in real time during the pregnancy. they were actually inducing weight loss in the pregnant mother and it was good. It was good that those children had were less inclined towards diabetes and obesity later in life. So it's awesome like we can have an impact and in real time these things can be modified in real time which I think gives a lot of hope. It just means that people actually have to do the work and put in the time and make the changes. And yeah, as you get to particularly like BMI greater than 30, but especially greater than 40, the data is pretty consistent on a much lower weight gain or even potentially upwards of I think one study it was upwards of 13 pounds of weight loss over the course of pregnancy is associated with better outcomes for both mom and baby, fewer complications and better outcomes short and long term for that child. And that always sounds like crazy to people until if you have not worked in practice in real life with a client like that and I've worked with many. We're talking like BMI of like 56 in pregnancy, right? Your metabolism is higher in pregnancy. And if we improve like the macronutrient balance of your diet, like it takes years of a poor diet to get to that point, right? And so if we improve your diet over the course of pregnancy and you also have this like metabolically active like you know maternal metabolism like kicking in. You are burning more energy when you're pregnant than when you're not. We're not actually starving these women like they are getting enough calories. They're getting enough micronutrients. They're getting enough protein. Like we're working on that and their body is like readily shedding the extra pounds. So, I think there's like a people think that in order to accomplish that, we're forcing a weight loss diet on people. And I never never once starved a client intentionally. I don't even give people a calorie amount. I'm like prioritizing protein, shifting the quality of carbohydrates, and trying to like shift out as much of the ultrarocessed foods as possible. And that's what metabolically like needs to happen for that group. You take somebody like myself who has started my pregnancy at a normal weight. It would have been terribly unhealthy for me to not gain weight during my pregnancies. My body absolutely needed to gain the weight to like sustain, you know, baby's life. So, it totally depends on where they're coming into pregnancy. And that's the part that like that part doesn't ever seem to get translated to people because they just look at me with like shock and awe and I'm like, "Yeah, some people do benefit from weight loss in pregnancy. It's a thing." Yep. I've been reading the studies. I'm with you. Well, and this is the point that you just made. I want to reiterate that so people understand. I never put any patient in a caloric deficit. I've never ever ever told someone to eat less food. I literally just do what you just said. I rep prioritize what they're eating. Their metabolic health improves and the weight falls off. And when you're filling up on essential proteins and essential macro and micronutrients, you're less inclined to eat these calorically dense garbage foods. And you just tell them avoid the ultra refined carbs. Focus on whole foods. It I would rather give somebody good foods to eat than tell them we're taking this away from you. And people really want to do better, right? especially when they're pregnant, like they really do want to do better. So, I get asked this all the time by my followers like what's the appropriate macro balance and what's the appropriate macro? And I'm like, I don't know, calories. I I came from a background personally of severe anorexia and bulimia. So, and then I watched and you probably see this too, especially online, when people start waking up about the food supply and the foods they're eating, this orthorexia tends to kick in and people get really hypervigilant and that's a whole other thing. And so I'm never trying to induce orthorexia into somebody because that sucks. And it I watched all the naturopathic students go through it the first two years of school. Everybody like suddenly was panicking and eating out of glass jars and like oh my god you know and we don't we don't want to raise cortisol here. So really just shifting. So this goes for pregnant or non-pregant or whether you're preparing prenatally postnatally just shift your macronutrients and really miraculous things happen. More protein, honestly, like more protein, I feel like, is the answer to 99% of our metabolic problems. Oh, it's so true. And I even see this with geriatric folks that, you know, they just they stop eating so much and they really start wasting away in their protein as I drink my essential amino acids here. Yeah, right. I'm slugging down magnesium and essential amino acids while we talk. So, Lily, you mentioned in a clip on your Instagram where I first saw you about being malnourished and overfed and what that is leading to with offspring. Can you talk about that a little bit? Sure. We're in a situation as a country where 58% of calories that Americans are consuming are ultrarocessed foods. So these are foods that are just made of isolated starches or sugars, ultrarefined oils like seed oils, vegetable oils, and then like the slew of chemicals and flavorings and all the other junk that goes with it. 58% of calories. It's crazy. And then you have the food industry who has, you know, specifically engineered these ultrarocessed foods to have the exact right combination of fat and sugar and salt and flavor chemicals to get you to eat more and more. They spike your blood sugar. So physiologically, you get an insulin spike and then your blood sugar tanks and you're hungry and you want to eat more, right? The situation that we're in is in my opinion it's like dire that we interrupt the cycle because this consistent overeating of ultrarocessed foods drives glucose intolerance both men and women that affects egg quality and sperm quality. That affects chances of conception. There was a study actually out of believe it was out of Singapore of women who were trying to conceive. And those who had blood sugar levels that were averaging like over a hundred had significantly lower uh rate of conceiving any given menstrual cycle than women who had blood sugar levels below that. And that wouldn't necessarily be considered problematic by our current guidelines on you know pre-diabetes and and diabetes, right? So, we're starting off with again that like maternal and paternal mitochondria not being super healthy, being overwhelmed by an excessive amount of energy, but not all of the co-actors needed to utilize that energy. So, they can experience literally glucco toxicity where they're just overwhelmed with fuel and you can't burn it. And this is affecting our fertility. It's affecting our health during pregnancy and it's certainly affecting our kids. Uh especially if those kids did not get off to the best metabolic start in uterero either, right? We really need to be shifting towards more whole foods, less of the ultrarocessed foods. We can finally interrupt that cycle. Yeah, it's key. And focusing on nutrient-dense foods, shifting your macros, eating more protein, like you said, can make such a huge difference. My friend said it so well. She said, "The entire time I was pregnant, I didn't eat anything out of a package." And I was like, "Ravvo. Wow. Well done." You know, that that was her goal was to not consume anything out of a package. And I thought that was and of course she did prioritize her protein and and do all the things. But I think that that combined with and you know better than I maybe touch on this if you would, exercise. You said obviously not too much and not too little. There's a Goldilocks, but how important is that and how helpful is that to managing blood level, blood sugar levels when pregnant? Oh, it's huge. Yeah, there's a a study I can recall where they assigned women to uh exercise preconception and throughout pregnancy, those women had something like a 79% reduced risk of developing gestational diabetes. I mean it is huge because you're when you build up your muscle mass you have metabolically active tissue that uses and burns fuel well right you don't have this excess fuel floating around your bloodstream looking for a place to go just getting converted into maternal or fetal fat stores right so it's absolutely huge research on exercise in pregnancy specifically is overwhelmingly positive we have a handful of, you know, considerations. Most of them actually center around just avoiding injury for the mom, like muscularkeeletal injury because your joints are more relaxed. You're just more likely to like tweak something or pull your back and your center of gravity is shifted with baby. The rest of it is around avoiding really obvious things like contact sports or sports with a ball, it's going to be thrown at your gut or like kickboxing or something. Some guidelines have things about bikes because they're worried women might fall off their bike. I mean, it depends how serious you want to take it. But most of it is just avoiding like abdominal injury and like going easy on your joints. But overwhelmingly, aside from some of those like small safety considerations and of course there's certain medical like although those are actually fairly rare for most women it is safe to continue exercising. It's even in the standard ACOG guidelines like 30 to 60 minutes a day if you can at least 150 minutes a week. So absolutely finding some form of movement that is enjoyable to you whatever that is and even if that is just walking that is still beneficial. I would highly encourage some form of strength or resistance training as well that we especially see to be helpful not just for the short-term glycemic control but like day long again when you have more muscle mass you're just more metabolically efficient. So a combination of both is ideal but at your worst and if your symptoms only allow you to walk for 30 minutes. Amen. It does wonders and if you can't do that get in a pool. I was big on the aquaerobics when I was pregnant and it was so nice to get in the pool because all the weight comes off you and you're like, "Ha!" I don't feel like I'm lugging around a massive belly right now. So, exactly, whatever you got to do. I did a lot of things wrong in pregnancy. Full admission. I went into it in poor health. I was a smoker. I was drinking. I was eating junk food. It was a mess. And I went into pregnancy and I got to say, the one good thing I did was I became obsessed with Taibo. Do you remember Taibo? Are you old enough to remember that? So, I was living in San Diego and I had these Taibo videos and it was a big expense for me at the time because I didn't have much money and I did Taibbo religiously every day before work and I went into pregnancy coming off of TaoBo and I swear it saved my ass. I swear that was a huge I I that's why everything wrapped back up nicely at the end. Wow. I didn't come away with many stretch marks. Everything stayed intact. my pelvic floor was solid and I've taken care of a lot of post-natal women that went into it unfit. So, my contribution to this conversation, if I can give anyone any advice aside from eating really well going into it, is make sure you go into it as strong and fit as you can. The strength training is non-negotiable ahead of time. But I know lots of my friends who went into pregnancy like these are CrossFit gals, strength training gals, gals who really prioritize muscle building. They just rocked out their pregnancy, popped those kids out and just everything just tightened right back up, you know, and they didn't skip a beat and six months later they looked exactly like they did before they got pregnant. And I'm like, that is the power of muscle. So, yeah. Yeah. And it's just it's also motherhood's a lot. You know, you're lugging around babies and car seats and you're carrying the screaming toddler plus the bike that they decided they didn't want to ride 5 minutes into your bike walk, you know, like you have to carry a lot of stuff, so you may as well prepare ahead of time. Yeah. Start training for then there's a dog and a stroller, right? The whole circus. Yeah. I love it. Well, this has been so insightful and I'm really grateful that you took the time today to come on the show. Let listeners know where to find you. You've got some great resources. Yeah, sure thing. So, you can find me on my website which is lily nicholsrdn.com. Um, up there there's a tab for my books. So, check those out. My blog, there's 250 plus articles up there. So if you want to read about weight gain in pregnancy, protein in pregnancy, eating liver and organ meats in pregnancy, use the search bar and you will find all sorts of helpful resources there. You can download the first chapter of Real Food for Pregnancy for free. There's also a number of other freebies on the freebies tab, including a free video series on gestational diabetes. In my services tab, there's information about practitioner training. I do individual webinars with the Women's Health Nutrition Academy. I do a full-on mentorship with the Institute for Prenatal Nutrition. So, there's like there's a lot going on on the website front. Just check it out. Um, all my articles are free. They're not behind a payw wall. So, have fun. And as far as Instagram, you can find me at Lily Nichols RDN. I'm also on, you know, Facebook and Twitter, but not very often. So, that's that's probably the most likely place you'll find me posting. I love it. you do have a treasure trove of resources and I've been digging into it. So grateful for the work you're doing and this message needs to get out to the world. So hopefully the listeners are hearing it and people will share this episode and all the other podcasts you've been on because this is I think uh I'll just say this boldly. I think humans are going extinct at a precipitous rate and if we don't get this under control, we're really going to regret it. So I don't know fertility rates on the level they're at. Um, yeah, we're seeing a massive I mean, we write about that a lot in Belfood for fertility. We're seeing a massive decline in sperm quality. I mean, they keep adjusting the guidelines down for what's normal to like represent what is being observed and it is not normal and female fertility as well is declining. So yeah, we need to we need to interrupt it and you know to give a little hope so we're not ending this on doom and gloom. It doesn't always take that much to improve either. Like the interventions that improve fertility are not necessarily all super complex. I mean we have the whole assisted reproductive technology world and that to me I think should be like the backup. Like we got to start with the food and lifestyle stuff. That is the stuff that is inexpensive, readily available, and it actually works in many, many cases. Of course, there's exceptions where you need a little extra help, but even still, you can improve your chances of those interventions working if you're starting with a good baseline of metabolic health. You get your nutrient levels in check. You're moving your body, you know? So, it's like whatever path it takes, you're never going to regret focusing on your health. So, okay, I'll get off my soap box. No, I love it. I'm like, amen. Yeah, that's it. No, I love it. That's great to close on. Thank you so much for coming on the show today and I'll make sure that the audience has links to everything so they can find you and really appreciate the work you're doing. Thank you.