Um, most people in the United States are not paying $1,300 a month for Ozmpic. In fact, Wiggoi, which is the the obesity medicine version of Ozmpic, most people that are on this are paying less than $25 a month. 80% of the people who are on this are paying $25 a month. Um, is that with insurance? That's Yeah, that's with insurance, right? So, you have the list price at $1,300, but most people in the United States are paying 80% or paying $25 or less. You are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I am excited for this one. I got to sit down and have a great conversation with my buddy Dave Knap. Dave and I met through the online space when I was deplatformed back in September for I believe talking about micro doing GLP1s. He has built an entire platform called On the Pen and his life's mission. He's become an independent journalist of sorts. That's not what his background was in, but he has made it his life's mission to connect people who are utilizing GLP-1 agonists. He is a man living with the disease of obesity, the disease of type 2 diabetes, and he knows this world well, and he's built this wonderful expansive community of like-minded people who are all utilizing these peptides with lifechanging impacts. He keeps us ab breast on what's happening in the news. And so I brought him on today because AI wanted you guys to get an update on what's happening with the FDA versus the compounding pharmacies and those ongoing trials and what's happening there because the future of compounded GLP1s may be in jeopardy. So I want you to get the inside scoop on that. He explains it so well. Whether you're on GLP1s or care about them or not, this is a conversation you need to hear. Number two, we talk about the PBMs, which are the middlemen who are gouging us all and driving up prices of medications and pharmaceuticals. So, that's something you guys need to know about as well. We talk about what it's like to live with a disease of obesity and what that means and how he's gone keto, he's done the eat less, move more, how his community lives, and the struggles that they have and how these peptides have been absolutely life-changing for them for leveling the metabolic playing field, as he calls it. And lastly, we even touch on a few things that we both agree Maha may be missing the mark on. So, without further ado, let's jump in. We get right into it. This is Dave Nap. Hey, I got sun pelro, too. We could be It would be Oh, yeah. Except mine's in a plastic bottle. Oh, well, there you endocrine disruptor. Yeah, right. There you go. Like, uh oh, cha right off the bat. Um, so I used to work I used to work at Olive Garden. Uh that's sort of my history is I I was a restaurant manager for literally from the time I was like 15 years old to the time that I was 28 years old I managed restaurants and one of my guilty pleasures when I worked at Olive Garden was you know there's a lot of guilty pleasures working at Olive Garden but they had glass bottles of San Pelro and glass bottles of aquapana you know that is such good spring water. Um, and man, I probably I probably drank my salary in fancy. I worked at Olive Garden. But it's funny because, you know, a lot of my journey uh to obesity I think can be, you know, obviously there's the genetic components. We have lots of stories about about or not stories, but we have lots of clinical trial data that bears out the fact that obesity is there's a genetic component. there's a very genetic component to to living with obesity and then once you sort of get to the point where you have a lot of excess atyposity as you talk about often it is very hard to pull somebody back from that and so the years that I spent in drostanolone industry and the years I spent sort of on this roller coaster of dieting uh was a huge contributing factor to to my overweight condition and to ultimately developing type 2 diabetes. So back in let's say about 2011 which I was probably about 25 26 years old at the time it was time to get out of drostanolone world. It was like 90 hours a week. It was horrible sleep schedules. I mean just you know you'd be there at 5:00 in the morning some days. Some nights you'd be there till 1 or 2 a.m. And I wanted to start a family with my wife. Funny, the the whole reason I got into restaurants is I was going to go into marketing and I was dating my wife at the time who has rheumatoid arthritis. And accessibility is a huge issue with the Knap family because the one thing her parents said to me when I asked if I could marry her is they said, "Well, there can never be a gap in her health insurance or she loses access to her medicine." And at the time I this was a foreign world to me. I said the biologic she's on that keeps her her arthritis at bay is $4,000 a month without insurance and if there's ever any gap, she doesn't get that medication covered again. So this is all pre uh affordable care act when when they could sort of drop you from coverage if there was any sort of gap. And so I was like, man, I really want to marry this girl. So, I better either go back to school or I better, you know, figure out a way to get good health insurance. So, I went to my my manager at Olive Garden. I said, "Hey, I'm going to go back to school." And he goes, "Well, do you ever think about becoming a manager at Olive Garden?" And I was like, "No, no, I haven't." And he's like, "Well, here's the deal. Here's what we pay for, you know, at the time it was like a $60,000 a year salary. So for somebody who was like 20 years old at the time and it's and then he's like full benefits 401k I was like wait what about that full benefits is that health insurance too he's like yeah and so I literally was like I'll do it and within a couple of weeks asked her parents to marry her and then that set off for the first eight years of our marriage I worked in restaurants and just b this obesity snowball this down 25 lbs up 35 lb pounds, down 25 lbs, up 35 lbs. The fetuccini Alfredo probably wasn't a helpful contributing factor uh to that either, but I wanted to get off this roller coaster. My father had done video production in the community that we live in for 25 years. And I stopped into his office one day on the way into uh an Olive Garden shift, and I was like, "Dad, you got to help me get out of this. I I've got the chops to do marketing. I'm passionate about it. What's out there?" So I sort of repeat this stopping into his office for a period of a couple weeks and he I pop in one day he's like finally I got something for you. It got me out of drostanolone industry. Um and I was about 6 months into that job where I was like I want to just go talk to my dad today. I just felt this nudge. I was pumping gas. I can still remember it clear as day. I was pumping gas. I was like why do I feel like I need to go see my dad? So, I went to see my dad and we have this big long 2-hour discussion about everything from politics to the state of our family to the fact that I really wanted to do marketing. And so, he he sort of says, "Hey, I'll I'll teach you what I'm doing from a video production side. You know, you just have to sit with me a couple hours a week." And I was like, "All right, let's do it. I got to get back to work." And so, I'm walking out. I'm sliding his slider door shut and he goes, "Don't forget this conversation, boy." And that's kind of how my dad was. I was like, "All right, all right. We'll see you later." Um, to make a very long story short, those would be the last words my dad ever spoke to me. Died of a massive heart attack a few days later. He was 54 years old. Um, it was obviously sudden and painful and traumatic and all of the things. Um, but the the last conversation that I had with him was rattling around in my brain for about 6 months. And ultimately it led me to start a small marketing company and that's sort of how I got into marketing. Now it got me out of this restaurant cycle but it didn't get me out of this obesity cycle. Um just every year down 25 up 35 down 25 up 35 until finally um you know it was the year of COVID. It was 2021 and I I had had COVID a couple of times, a couple positive tests. Um, from 2020 to 2021, I went into the doctor because I felt like I had long COVID. And I was just like, I'm I'm tired every day. All I want to do is sleep. I don't know what's wrong with me. And he goes, well, your A1c is a 7.9. You're diabetic. Yikes. I was like, what? It was like literally that was my response. I never had I never had fasting glucose that showed that I was on the track to diabetes. I never like so I felt like I was just punched in the gut. Um I knew that I I was overweight. Um I knew that I had a family history, but I never had numbers that would indicate like, hey, you're on the fast track to type two diabetes. So it was like this sudden thing. And this is coming off COVID, right? And so I'm I'm full of all sorts of of skepticism towards the towards medicine and the medical community. And I think that probably mirrors a lot of people's story. And he goes, "What do you want to do, Dave?" And I said, "Well, I've I've yo-yoed on keto for like 20 years, and that was the diet that I'd always lose 25, gain 35." He's like, "Well, that's the only way you can stay off medicine." I said, "Well, if it means staying off medicine, I'll do it." So I bared down, white knuckle, did keto for a full year. And I mean, I was under 20 grams of carbohydrates every day. I was lifting weights. I was doing everything humanly possible. With keto, I was able to get my A1c down from a 7.9 to a 5.3. Non-diabetic, right? Really great. But my weight went from 319 to 312. I lost 7 pounds. And granted, you know, some of it was pro there was probably some body composition change. I was lifting weights, but not what you would expect to see with somebody with that much weight to lose. So, super frustrated, right? And just be beyond frustrated. And the interesting thing at that time to me was that even though my A1c was under control with the diet, my insulin levels were still off the charts 12 months after being extremely strict on keto. Now, I had never really like gone off the rails eating. Like I'm not a donut eater. I'm not AI'm definitely guilty of drinking diet soda, but I'm not a a a sugary beverage drinker. Um just like not your typical who you would expect a 300 lb, you know, 37y old to eat, right? I generally ate lower in carbs anyway. I was aware that those probably weren't going to be handled by my body in the best way. So, we we're a year into the diabetes diagnosis. And he goes, "You know what? I don't know, you're one of several people on this program out of a thousand people that have gone through this program that just haven't responded from a weight loss perspective." And I was kind of like, "I could have told you that when we started." Um, but he goes, "You're probably a candidate for beriatric surgery." And I'm going, "I'm 37 years old. I don't want to have my anatomy rearranged." Like, that's where my my mental state was at the time. I'm not knocking anybody who makes that decision for themselves. And in fact, um, you know, I'm still considering it at 39 years old that that that actually might be the best course for me. I don't know. Um, but still sort of wrestling with it is my point, but I didn't have coverage for it. So, he goes, "There's this new class of medications, right? They they're actually mimicking what happens when people have bad buriatric surgery. We found that there are a bunch of hormonal changes that happen like on the operating table once we make these these changes that there's a hormonal regulation that starts to happen almost immediately and they're starting to mimic that with this class of medications called GLP1s. And so he goes, I'm going to put you on Mjaro. It's expensive, but you're diabetic, so you should be able to get it covered. So, I went home again, still super skeptical of medicine in general, coming off of all the shenanigans that we saw around that time. And I'm like, I'm not going to just put this into my body. I'm going to learn everything there is to learn about this. And so, I went to YouTube and what I found from YouTube was a bunch of stories like, hey, I lost 100 pounds in six months on OMIC. I yada yada. and you there's a hundred stories out there, but I didn't find anybody talking about what they were, what they did, how they work, what the study showed. And I thought, you know, I'm going to go find this information, but I'm going to share it because somebody else is going to come behind me and and they deserve to be able to find this information. And so that's sort of where on the pen was born is just this desire to to to empower people with information, right? And so essentially this sort of has evolved as as I've been a slower responder. I've seen many people in our community. We have probably 110,000 people between we're split spread out across the platforms, right? Tik Tok, YouTube, Twitter, email, Facebook, everything. Um but I've heard such dramatic stories about uh just massive transformations in in weight loss, etc. it's just not been my story. Um, so there's been sort of a level of frustration in wanting to know what else is on the horizon, what other things that I may be able to explore to get to treat my metabolic dysfunction. And so really what we do is we we effort to share the news about the these medications, the trial data that comes out, the u the whatever's going on in the news that might be pertinent to somebody whose life is being transformed by what I always call leveling the metabolic playing field. That's really in essence what these medications are doing for a people who are taking them for for type two diabetes or obesity is they're actually just giving people a fighting chance uh for their biology to come into alignment uh in a in a sense that they can kind of work with the medication and bring themselves into better more more full complete health for themselves. And one of the things that has been just the evergreen topic within this community is just the accessibility. They're extremely expensive medications to to get unless you're diabetic. It's a little bit easier if you're diabetic, but then you have to you have to be diabetic to get it. Um Right. You have to remain diabetic to continue to get it too, right? Like you have to remain obese or diabetic to actually have it clear. And that's the crazy part. Yeah. Yeah. I mean an insurance that's the other thing that that we've learned in the nap household is the insurance companies will fight you tooth and nail to not cover anything that that is expensive. Um they're they're essentially practicing medicine right at that at the uh at the bureaucratic level of the insurance companies. they're just saying, "Yeah, there's something better here." Just um and so ultimately, yeah, it's very difficult to stay on the medication as as well as getting treatment for obesity once you're below a certain BMI, unless your doctor is coding everything just so it's very hard to stay on it because now you're not obese anymore. But you need the medication for maintenance. Many people who are on these medications uh for obesity will need some level of treatment uh because like any chronic disease typically when you need treatment to get it in remission you need treatment to keep it there. Um and that sort of bears out in the clinical trials for these as well. That's not to say it's going to be everybody's story, but um you know, you're you're leveling the metabolic playing field with a peptide that is is supplanting something that's deficient or or disregulated in your body. And so once you remove that, you're sort of fighting an uphill battle again. Um so the issue of accessibility has been this evergreen topic. I know that you talk about this within your community. Many people relying on the compounded versions. Now, compound versions, I don't know how much you want to get into the weeds on this, but but essentially pharmacies have been compounding medicines for hundreds of years. That's what they've done, right? But back in 2013, I believe it was, the the government wanted to realizing that we had some really glaring holes in the way that drug companies were sort of outsourcing active pharmaceutical ingredients and the manufacturing of their drugs. there was this gaping hole that left the United States open to drug shortages. And so it's like, what happens if all of a sudden we can't get antibiotics that are largely made primarily made in China or India? What happens if we can't get those? Right? And so they they basically made a big distinction and they said, you know, we're going to have 503AIES that are always have always been around. they can make a a drug that is commercially available, not in shortage. Uh but maybe a patient can't stand or or is allergic to a certain preservative or a pres certain dye or maybe even the doses that are available commercially don't work for that person. So compound a 503AIE always have the ability to make a branded medication in a compound form when there's a medical need that precipitates that. But they also in the food drug and cosmetic act of 2013 established another code that established 503barmacies. And basically this was to address that you know what the lawmakers could see happening with the outsourcing of drug manufacturing was if we all of a sudden let's say there's something that happens on the economic stage of the world and we can't import drugs. We need infrastructure in the United States that can manufacture drugs that make sure people have what they need. And so in establishing 503barmacies, they established basically a pharmacy that's not like a traditional pharmacy. It's a factory. It is a a plant that can mass-roduce medicines. And unlike 503As that have to hold an individual script for a patient, if a drug goes into an FDA shortage, they can massroduce it, right? and and sort of fill in the gaps for where uh the drug manufacturers can't uh meet the demand or import enough etc etc. Now back these these medications because of their efficacy because they are leveling the metabolic playing field and because the disease of obesity and diabetes are so uh prevalent in the United States these went almost immediately into shortage. People like me started making content about it. They haven't even really had to advertise these that much. Of course, everybody knows the Ompic song, so they have been advertised to some extent, but once people really started to realize that these are absolute metabolic game changers, it's like everybody and their sisters on them. There's just no way these two drug companies have been able to keep up. So, they've been in shortage. The problem with that system is that these are essentially a handshake agreement between big pharma and the FDA that says yes, our drug is in shortage or no, it's not in shortage. Um and so when October of 2024 hit Eli Liy reported to the FDA that Majaro and Zepbound which tepatide it's it's the probably the not probably it is probably the most powerful anti-obesity medication and type two diabetes medication on the market. It's like the next generation of Ozmpic. uh they said our stuff is commercially available which set off a chain reaction of stopping the 503b manufacturing and there's upwards I I have direct contact with all the people that are kind of at the upper echelons of these industries the estimated amount of simaglletide compound scripts that were made in 2023 was 80 million 80 million scripts for compound simaglletide in 2023 in one year. in one year. Now, that's not 80 million people. That's 80 million scripts. So, divide that by 12 uh and then you sort of get how many you know prescriptions per year per people. But the other thing is Tzepatite at that time is estimated to have been at about 30 million scripts. That's 2023. 2024 those numbers had to have jumped by conservatively 30% probably more. I'm sure I helped with that. Yeah. Right. I was over there in 2024 going compoundingies micro dose. Right. So conservatively in 2023 the estimate is that there were almost 30 million people on compounded tepatide. And so you can obviously see an increase happening in 2024 when this really blew up. I'm sure you had something to do with that as well as many creators. And the interesting thing is I come from the Tik Tok world, right? And in the Tik Tok world, there are creators that are pushing compounded versions of medications that are making $20,000 a month pushing this stuff. It's It's huge. Are they getting paid by the huge money? Okay. So, I received zero dollars for any, just so that everyone knows, I've never been paid by any big pharma or compounding or tele medicine company at all. I refuse to take the dollars from them because I don't want there ever to be a conflict of interest. I'm just really trying to hang my hat on this one idea that I'm trying to get across. I'm not saying people who do are bad, but like what how is that even happening? Like how are they getting these kickbacks? Yeah, it's crazy. So So I would also just throw in me either. I I I am a adviser for a company called Row uh which is a telealth company that just simply wants somebody who represents a community to help them know what tools to develop and how to speak to the community etc. But I haven't either because it all seems like a very legal gray area. But essentially, it's these tellahalth companies have shared affiliate codes and and they go on live and they share about the medication, what it's done for them, and if you want to do this for yourself, you can use my code, you know, use code Dave10, whatever it may be. And then, you know, ultimately, uh, Tik Tok has such a far reach that people are getting people to sign up in the hundreds every month, receiving large kickbacks. That's crazy. I've had so many companies offer me I I've turned down multiple I I've probably turned down hundreds of thousands of dollars at this point from companies who really want to get me in with them, and I'm like, I just can't. Even if they're good companies, I'm like, I just I can't do that. So, anyway, go on. Yeah, it's so it's definitely a wild little sidebar rabbit hole to go down, but it it all has, you know, at the end of the day, what it's done is it is ex exponentially increased accessibility to these treatments again at an affordable rate, at an accessible rate because these copies of the branded versions have been allowed to proliferate because the drugs are in shortage. But now that the drug companies, these pharmaceutical companies have sort of had enough of their intellectual property being sort of usurped by this this new sort of sector of the economy that has arisen, right? No drug has ever been compounded and mass- prodduced the way that GLP1s have. There's definitely push back from big pharma. In that push back, Lily removed their medication from the shortage list, which set off a legal battle between the Outsourcing Facilities Association, basically a trade organization that represents 503bs, these big outsourcing factories that have been able to mass-roduce these during the shortage. Uh, and they basically argued in court, what's going on to end the shortage and the data that is being shared is nothing more than what Lily wanted to present to the courts and or excuse me, the FDA and the FDA's just gone along with it. Meanwhile, we have an estimated, you know, between 80 million and 30 million 110 million prescriptions per year. you divide that by 12, I don't know, you get somewhere in the ballpark of what 100,000 people um or sorry, a million people uh on these, probably more people. And so it's it's very interesting to see this sort of unfold shortly after Tepatitide was removed from the shortage list. You saw Novon Nordisk follow suit, remove theirs. Interesting timing, right? And these are also two companies that have been sort of embroiled in lawsuits over price fixing over insulin. And so you kind of look at the template there and and it's very interesting to see how this is all unfolding because you definitely have sectors of I'm not saying this is my point of view, but you definitely have people out there saying this is the insulin fix 2.0 being done for GLP-1. Now, in fairness to both Lily and Novo, they have both gobbled up about every ounce of manufacturing capacity that is to be gobbled up to increase production of the branded supply. Eli Liy just announced a $27 billion investment in infrastructure in the United States to continue to increase their manufacturing capacity. One of the things that I think is really amazing that Lily has done in all this is they've repatriated the act active pharmaceutical ingredient to the United States. So, so the actually the active ingredient in Minjaro will be made in uh Lebanon, Indiana. And so, oh interesting. I think there are some positives to this. You've also seen because of this sort of market that has popped up and I don't even know how how to let's call it big pharma little pharma, right? this little pharma um sort of market that has popped up in 503bs is it put pressure on Eli Liy and and Novo Nordisk to reduce the cost of the prescription. So you always hear like how many times have you heard this? Well, we pay in America five times what they pay in Australia or the United Kingdom for these medications, right? That all has to do with the list price. Um, most people in the United States are not paying $1,300 a month for Ozmpic. In fact, Wiggoi, which is the the obesity medicine version of Ozmpic, most people that are on this are paying less than $25 a month. 80% of the people who are on this are paying $25 a month. Um, is that with insurance? That's Yeah, that's with insurance, right? So, you have the list price at $1,300, but most people in the United States are paying 80% are paying $25 or less. Now, why is that? We had the CEO of Novo Nordisk testifying on Capitol Hill that PBMs, which are the pharmacy benefit managers, they're the ones, for your audience, that that are the ones that gatekeep what drugs you can have on your insurance plan. And they basically do this the way that Walmart sells a toaster, right? So, Walmart wants to sell a toaster. They bring in five toaster manufacturers and they say, "Who can give us a $5 toaster because we're going to sell it for 15?" And and the one guy goes, "Well, it costs me eight to make it." And so that person's option is either outsource his manufacturing to a foreign country where they pay slave labor labor wages or uh you know, they don't have a lot of choices. So, whoever can bring them that $5 toaster gets added to the Walmart shelves, right? Same with the insurance formulary and the PBMs. The PBMs go, you want your anti-obesity medication on our formulary? Well, here's what you're going to pay us to have it there in the form of rebates. And so, the testifying on Capitol Hill that the help committee ran, this is uh chaired by Senator Bernie Sanders, but there it's a bipartisan committee in the Senate, and they brought up the CEO of Novo Nordisk. And you know, you got Bernie up there and he's like, "Why does it cost Americans five times what it costs Australians, you know, and and so, you know, you get these great sound bites." Um, and he basically said if the PBMs are taking 70 cents on every dollar of every drug that we sell in the United States. Yeah, they're a racket. I have a whole podcast episode I did with Dr. John Kim about the PBM. is a pharmacist and it's just crazy how corrupt the system is. The PBMs are they got to go. This is they got to go. They got to go cuz this this what the Harvard study that was done that gal found out that it costs them what like $7 to manufacture a month's dose. And a month's supply, I'm sorry. And that in what in Canada it's like 70 bucks. in maybe I might be getting my countries mixed up, but between the UK, Germany, and Canada, we're some somewhere it's 150, somewhere it's 60. Like this is ridiculous. Yeah. Here in the US, it's wild. And you know, not to get too far in the weeds, but essentially what happened during the we we talked a little bit at the beginning about the Affordable Care Act. The affordable care act had some noble things it was pursuing but like all noble things like big money is always going to find a way around it right so but what the affordable care act was did to insurance companies they said you can't be more than 15% profitable right that was their way of sort of controlling this out of control rising cost of insurance premiums in this country they said you can't be more than 15% profitable you either have to put that money back in um to expanding access or improving efficiencies within your business, but you can't be more than 15% profitable. So, what did they do? Well, they decided, we're just going to go buy the pharmacy benefit managers and we're going to change that game and that's where we're going to make back the difference. And so, yeah. So, so what you've seen Eli, Lily, and Novo do in response to this secondary market that has popped up to ultimately has it has it increased accessibility because there's shortages absolutely. It has fulfilled its its dutiful responsibility as designed within the code of the US law. But what it's also done is it's added a level of competition that usually doesn't exist for drugs that are under a patent. And because it did this, it forced Eli Liy and Novo Nordis to look at this a different way. So what they decided to do is they decided to say we're going to cut out the PBMs alto together, which is actually a very bold move for pharmaceutical companies to make because pharmaceutical companies have always seen PBMs as their as their customers, right? We sell to the PBMs. The PBMs then put it on the formularies and doctors prescribe it be based upon what's on the formulary. How many times have you gone to the doctor, people who are watching, and the doctor says to you, um, let's see, you have this, so here's the four or five antibiotics I could prescribe, and this is the one your insurance company likes. They like it because they get kickbacks, right? Um, they decided to just go around them all together. And so now Eli Liy and Novon Nordisk both have directto patient programs that offer a cash pay price that just cuts insurance out of the whole deal. And they charge 400. And basically, it's a little bit more convoluted than this, but for all intents and purposes, it's $499 a month for all the doses of Wiggoi and up to the 10 milligram of Mjaro or sorry, Zepbound, uh, which is the the weight loss version of this one, uh, $499 a month, right, for the single dose vial versions. Um they they've done this because they're able to then forget about what the PBMs have to get paid in this and they just offer it at a direct cash pay price for $4.99. Still a lot higher. This there's no more pharmacists in the middle of this. This is the doctor prescribing straight to big pharma and big pharma fulfilling the order. Is that correct? Correct. Innocence. Yeah. So so it's it's a little That's novel too. That's that's quite novel. It is. there is a little bit of a of a middleman um in that they have partnered with teleaalth companies to to you know if you you don't just go to Eli Liy you got to go to well I guess now it's a little bit you can go to anybody and they can prescribe these vials and yes it comes directly from essentially the manufacturer by way of some like Amazon pharmacy I think is is offering the Lily vials now so there is a distrib distribution element to it kind of but yeah by and large yeah it's the novel approach by big pharma to go direct to patients. And actually just this week, there was a a letter sent from some senators. I think it was a bipartisan letter sent to some of the teleaalth companies that Lily Direct in Novocare, that's these two direct to consumer programs, uh, and basically gone to their partners, their teleahalth partners, and said, "We think there might be a conflict of interest that you're pushing people to your drug. We want to look closer at this." But but yes, it did create a novel sort of approach. Now the sad part about it to me, I mean, I think it's great. Competition, great. Cheaper drugs for people, great. Especially because, you know, people on Medicare are just screwed out of this stuff. They don't medic Medicare is illegal for obesity medication to be covered under Medicare. Now they're getting some secondary um sort of coorbidities that have been approved for cardiovascular disease um with heart disease with preserved ejection fraction, sleep apnea, some of these backdoor indications to get you on if you're on Medicare. But by and large, it's illegal for Medicare to cover anti-obesity medicine because going back to the obesity medicines of old, what were they? They were amphetamines. Basically, the last thing they wanted to do is give a 75 80y old person an amphetamine, you know, to have him. So, so it's a bit of an archaic law that there are some things trying to correct. The Biden administration moved at the end of their administration to sort of add it and hopefully the Trump administration picks that up. But, um, there are some positive things. I think the sad part is the PBM have been squeezing out our localarmacies for the last um, 20 years, you know, roughly 17 years. they've been squeezing them out by way of not reimbursing them the appropriate rate. So, for example, if you're going to fill your mangaro at a local pharmacy, chances are they're losing $25 to $50 every time they fill that script. Yeah. And let's let's just talk about that for a moment. I have friends in the pharmacy industry who tell me this and it's gotten to the point where they're simply unable to sustain that. So, I mean, it's just impossible. So that's this is a big problem is that they're they're just choosing not to stock it period. So when the far when people call to reup they're like sorry we don't have it in stock and we'll never have it in stock because we're losing so much money. Like why would they why would you why would anyone participate in a backwards model like that? It's crazy, right? And not not to even make mention of the fact that so a pharmacy, a local pharmacy, a mom and pop corner shop who is serving their community in some cases have been serving the community for 75 years longer. They have to cut these deals with the PBMs because typically you go to any town in the USA, there's one large employer. they're going to carry United Healthcare or Blue Cross Blue Shield, Humanana, whatever it may be. You have to take that PBM's insurance in order to be in business. But what they do in these, it's so evil what they do to thesearmacies is what they do is one of the things that most people don't know is that if you go to the pharmacy for let's say a a generic medication, um they're going to default by contractually they're contractually defaulted to run it through your insurance and sometimes you're going to pay more with your insurance than you would to just get pay the cash pay price. So, one little word to the wise is always ask your pharmacy, "What's my cash pay price versus running it through insurance?" Because you might be like, "Well, I trust my pharmacy. Why don't they just tell me it's cheaper?" Because they're contractually obligated not to tell you that. Supposedly, they're not even supposed to tell you there's a cash paid price if you have insurance. They are. So, and I had this happen to me recently. I went in for uh just like an antifungal medication and she it was so awkward, Dave, like right before she filled it. I walked up and I had a Good RX coupon and I said, "You can just you guys can go to goodrx.com and print off coupons and there's always great coupons for drugs." And I went up and I said, "Okay, so I have this." And I think it came to like 17 something. And she goes, "Oh, well," and it was an older lady and she said, "Oh, well, our cash pay is only like 12." And I said, "Okay, great. Let's do that." And then this young girl comes up and literally shoves her aside and looks at me and goes, "Do you have an insurance coverage?" And I said, "I just got an insurance with my husband, but it's Kaiser. It's garbage. I don't think that like this is going to cover. It's a non- Kaiser doctor prescribing it." And she's like, "We need to check." And so she checks it and when it's all done, it comes back as this stupid price and they use the good RX coupon and I have to pay the 17 instead of the 12. And I looked at the older gal like this is insanity that like this is crazy. And that's a whole other thing because I will tell you what this happens in the medical industry as well. Like this is happening inside of doctor's clinics every single day. It's AI never took health insurance ever. I've always existed on pay payment at time of service practice because I don't think we should get third parties involved in our health care or our car care or any other care. And uh complete transparency. Give a patient an estimate. Tell them exactly what it's going to cost. If I veer outside of that more than $100, I agree to eat it. And like I eat the cost if I have to. And like that is the kind of transparency I function on because I cannot believe what medicine has turned into. And not only in my lifetime because I was a really sick child. So, I was always in and out of doctor's offices and I remember when my mom, blueco collared mom, could write a check to the specialist and it would be affordable to now where we've gotten to, especially since Obamacare kicked in on this this side as the physician and someone who never even took insurance but just has kept up like it's insane and corrupt. It is organized crime in my opinion. Yeah, it's legalized corruption. Yeah, it's crazy. So, so back to the GLP-1. So, access is obviously an issue. the compounding pharmacies have come in and f filled a need and what is your opinion a about this lawsuit? So, let's back up to the this OFA organization that's fighting the FDA. Eli Liy from what I've learned from you and your very comprehensive reporting. You guys follow Dave. It's onthepen.com. It's on the pen. What is it on all the different platforms? You've got like on the pen or man onthepen on Instagram. Yeah, I think if you just go to Google and just hit on the pen, you're gonna find it. Or onthepen.com, you should find it. Man on the majaro was my handle. That's sort of it was a play of Man on the Moon and my handle in most places is Man on the Majaro. But Eli Liy jumped in on the FDA side on this lawsuit about Tepatite and didn't Novo Nordisk as well jump in and then isn't there a separate now lawsuit going between NOBO and the OFA about semaclletide since it went off shortage? Yeah. So it's crazy. And then you said recently you tried to explain something I didn't understand about the judge. Tell them about the judge first of all, who he is and what his history is, and then what was this recent thing? There was like a letter or something he denied. I don't know what it means. Yeah. Yeah. There's a lot there's a lot to unpack here. When the OFA originally brought this case, the OFA, it which again is a trade organization that represents these big manufacturers of compound drugs that are produced in times of shortage. They are located in Fort Worth, Texas. In Fort Worth District Court, there is a judge, his name is Judge Mark Pitman. And Judge Pitman has been a absolute I mean I I think he's just been great with some of his rulings against the FDA and big pharma. One in particular uh was o just in December over early December over the COVID vaccine uh from Fizer and the FDA had kind of had this sort of handshake with Fiser that they wouldn't release documents pertaining to adverse effects of the vaccine for like 40 years or something like that. I think it was either 40 or 70 or something. It was like 75 years. It was crazy. Yeah. It was ridiculous. Ridiculous. Right. Right. And so he comes in and he goes, "No, you're going to start releasing 50,000 pages a month immediately." Um, so he's the reason Fizer had to release the documents. Yeah. Yeah. So he's a hero. Yeah. So there really couldn't have been a better venue or a better judge. Like on the surface, I don't pretend to know like all the judges and all that. I don't any judges before I got into this stuff. But when I saw that, I was like, "This is our guy, right? this is a guy who track and the need right um and so if anybody was going to sort of see that there is like something inherently wrong with the fact that there's no transparency in this process that the FDA is just relying on reported numbers from Eli Lillly that there's got to be some kind of conflict in there right like even if everything's on the up and up let's say there's still something wrong with that process where that's the only information that gets you know sort of um taken into consideration by the FDA to determine that the drug's commercially available. Um so the Tzepide lawsuit has not evolved the way that I maybe thought it would based upon the judge, but we actually had a correspondent sit in on the one physical hearing that took place and and he kind of gave me a call afterwards, gave me the rundown. He goes, "This judge is extremely annoyed by the fact that this that this is even in his courtroom. He knows that what whatever the outcome it's going to an in appeals court and he just doesn't think it belongs in this venue. Well, that didn't play well for compound tepatide. Didn't bode well for the case for people who were relying on that mass-produced uh peptide and it sort of played out that way. He denied the preliminary injunction last week which essentially would have protected compounders until this trial was resolved. He denied that and then he actually went one step further and moved for a summary judgement which essentially means both sides are going to get a couple weeks to respond back and forth to his declaration of a summary judgement and then he's just going to rule. There won't even be a trial, witnesses, whatever. He just wants it out of his court. As luck would have it, he's the one who drew the subsequent lawsuit that was filed by the OFA against the FDA in the simaglletide shortage. So, he's overseeing that case as well. It was a little interesting at first. Novo uh tried to interject uh their local they have to have local representation and they're a Danish company. So they hired a guy outside of the jurisdiction and so they he kind of slapped him down initially but Novo was eventually able to join that lawsuit just like Lily joined the Tzepide lawsuit to defend the FDA's decision. And so it's the OFA versus the FDA and Lily and the Offa versus the FDA and Novo. And so you you know it's just it's not going to bode well. Both both of the mass produced compound versions will be going away. Uh this will they filed the OFA filed an appeal in the fifth circuit but that will take a long time to resolve and it's unclear whether the fifth circuit will do anything to sort of stay enforcement. So my prediction of what's going to happen is you're going to see the the mass compounding go away of both recep and simaglatide. Everybody's going to move back to these 503As, which from my perspective is just there's a spectrum here, right? There's a spectrum of non-branded medications. The big pharmaceutical companies would want you to believe that all non-branded are created equal. They're just not, right? So 503bs are subject to the current goods and manufacturing process. Long long way of saying they have FDA oversight. when you move to 503As and that's kind of what we explained earlier where you take the active ingredient and then you you do it in a dose that isn't available commercially or you add B12 because somebody has you know fatigue or whatever it may be nioinomide is another one get add gets added a lot so basically this something that's not commercially available because there's a medical need precipitating it I think a they're they're sort of operating outside of the spirit of why 503As exist right because all of a sudden they're going to move millions of people who are on normal dosages, just exact copies of the branded medication to these custom formulations, prescribers are going to run into problems with the FDA, I believe. Um, the other thing, you think the compoundingies or the prescribers? I think both will be on the receiving end of something. I think p I think prescribers uh potentially I think you know the industry is preparing itself for the FDA to come and and sort of stick their nose into the way these are being prescribed but we definitely know that both Novo and Lily are putting out cease and desist letters to compoundies to providers to teleaalth companies everybody's getting them and so once this March 19th is the cut off that's just coming right around the corner. Um March 19th hits, that has to end and then you'll see massive movement legally from Lily. Um Novon Nordis is like a month behind and so simaglletide will be about a month behind that. All the tele healths are saying we're moving to custom formulations. It remains to be seen how they will respond in the face of of legal threats and and the legions of of you know attorneys and lawyers that will be dispatched to basically squash anything that is not the branded version. Not to mention the FDA. What remains to be seen too is like how much what's the appetite of this administration moving to enforce anything against these compounders that we don't know. But we do know that, you know, Trump has about 27 billion reasons why from Eli Liy this past week as to why they would go ahead and and try to help enforce non um non legal, at least in their their version, their at least from their position, non-legal prescribing of compounds. I think Trump might be on a GLP-1. I I can tell I can tell when people are when people are like, "Oh, I" They'll secretly tell me. There's so many people online. There's so many influencers and there's so many people online that you would never guess that are on GLP1s and they're like, "Oh, I just cut carbs from my diet or I just did this." And I'm like, "Yeah, honey. I know. I can tell. I can see it in people now. I can especially." Well, the Yeah, the Trzepatide just takes the inflammation down so fast and so I can just see it. But anyway, I really do firmly think that uh Trump is he used to be much heavier. I think he's on a GLP-1. I think that's how he got through this. I'm just speculating. I don't know. Don't get don't get me in trouble, Trump. But I think I think watching this whole campaign, I was like, "Yeah, there's Yeah, that's my that's my that's just my opinion. We know we know that his best buddy Elon is he's openly said that he's taking Epic and I believe Mjaro even now. Um, and you know, I mean, there, you know, from the perspective of this, if you just go and buy the the numbers, you know, a good a good percentage of people within his cabinet have probably been on a GLP-1 also. So, I I don't think that the the benefit of these drugs has escaped them at all. It'll just be interesting to see what the appetite for the FDA to to actually enforce um this stuff. So, that's what it's going to come down to. Custom formulations. I I mean I talked a little bit how there's a spectrum, right? So 503bs have the the 503barmacies have the cgmp that is overseen by the FDA. The 503As don't. So 503AIES are are overseen by their state pharmacy boards. So when you start for anyone who's switching to a 503A, a custom formulation or a custom dose in the interim, I would really strongly encourage you to know what pharmacy it's coming from and then do some research on the state pharmacy boards and make sure that they're a pharmacy in good standing because again, there are different checks and balances for 503bs that don't exist for 503A. And then way over here you have the research grade peptides that are available in the far reaches of the internet without a doctor's prescription that are labeled not for human consumption. Right? So there's a spectrum of of safety checks and balances that are built into the non-branded versions. And so when you're talking about that spectrum, they're just simply not all created equal. So the ironic thing about this is the crusade that Lily and Novo have against compounded versions. their actions are actually leading people to progressively less potentially safe options. I couldn't agree more. It's just bizarre. I I get it. I get where they're coming from. But man, it is a well to get back to your point of this 120 million people or 120 million prescriptions that are h coming out and that was in 2023 before this all went bonkers in 2024. you I've seen you say on your platforms that like show us that you can prove and I think this is the argument of the the offa uh is that show us you can prove like sure you you say it's off shortage can you actually make up for all of these can you actually you know cover all of these extra ones that are going around through the compounded world I mean that's 120 million prescriptions do you guys have enough bandwidth to cover that and you know who knows if they do you're right they are buying I've been following it too they're buying huge facilities and um I think I probably learned that from you. I I just keep up with all my GLP-1 news from you guys or from you and your platform. It's I know it's predominantly just you doing all of this heavy lifting. So, and you have a day job, too. So, you're just a valuable resource in this world. Thank you for what you're doing cuz I think that people need to know and a lot of people are flying blind and you've taught me a lot and I think that it's uh it's a real pickle because you're right 503b is different than than the other version and I do know many compounding pharmacists who run very clean ships and their facilities are clean and spectacular. And before this all went down what what did you what year was that? Did you say 2013? When did the 503b come in? 19c. Yeah, that established 503bs. I believe it was 2013, 2011 or 2013. So, I remember that happening when I was in clinical practice and it has always been a source of confusion because many of the things we could have compounded that were injectable suddenly went to that and so we could no longer we used to be able to order whatever we wanted for inoff use and then it it changed and now with 503b you have to prescribe to a patient specifically. Even if you have it shipped to the office and administer it in the office, it has to be by patient name. Anyway, it created a lot of confusion and I know that for a fact that the compounding pharmacies have been the on the receiving end of severe witch hunts for decades and so they are constantly being scrutinized and if one compounding pharmacy in the whole United States screws up it's like headline news and suddenly and it could be a big deal though. I mean there's been deaths when injectable substances get contaminated with a fungus and those happen to be being injected into people's spinal cords. I mean, we have we can have real problems. So, I get it. But at the same time, that doesn't they just paint it all as all compoundingies are evil and terrible and bad. And my friends who are compounding pharmacies are the most OCD clean. I mean, they have whole specialized rooms that cost hundreds of thousands of dollars to build so that they can make injectables and they go in in like the full hazmat. It's a whole thing. And they're always constantly stressed out and worried that the FDA is just going to come in and shut them down and then what do you do? Um, so that said, I I'm not as worried about them going back to the 503A, but yes, you are totally correct in what you said and I'm so glad you said it because it just it is a it's a different it's just different thing that's happening between Yeah, and there's definitely nothing wrong with 503A. It's just that there's not uniformity in the way that they're governed. And so one state to another state has different rules. And the other thing that I would add too is, you know, you you should have a great level of confidence from your provider. If your provider is writing this script, it really is incumbent upon your provider to do the leg work in determining am I sourcing this from a from an appropriate place. Uh we there was a story back in the last few months when this first came off shortage in October. many tellahalths uh a lot of the littleer fly by night tellahalth companies that are out there started offering you could fill six months nine months 12 months of compounded medication in one fell swoop and I was like when that happened I was like slow down everybody like slow down we're not sure like these don't have the same exact preservatives as the branded medications do you're sitting with a year's worth of medicine in your refrigerator you better make sure that you're refrigerator is holding a steady temperature. That's a lot of medicine to sit on when you're putting it in your body. And one of the interesting things that happened was there was a couple of them that started offering this right away from some fly by night compound pharmacy in Florida uh that ended up not having a sterile compound license and they were getting getting their peptides in from unnamed sources and then sending them out to people and and they didn't even hold the proper license to do it. And so I think more than anything, it's important to have a great relationship with your provider. If your provider understands this, if your provider has done the leg work, then you should have full faith and confidence in what they prescribe to you. But when we go from 503bs that are governed and regulated by the cgmp, which means that all the API has to be sourced from FDA approved sources, etc., etc., um you're just moving to something that's stategoverned and so you just want to be familiar with what sort of regulations go on in the state that your medicine's coming from and then just familiarize yourself with what thaty's history has been because everybody's getting into this game. Um yeah, it's a wild west even some people that don't belong in it. Um so that would just be my only word of caution. It's turning into the wild west for sure. I have a whole module inside my big course where I talk about how to find a practitioner to work with or how to educate your practitioner. That's why I open this course up to the public is because I want people to become educated and empowered so they can have these conversations. And I will add this I will make sure everyone listens to this episode and hears that because I think this is a really important piece of the puzzle. I get asked a lot online from people like my doctor just prescribed me this is it safe and I'm like talk to your doctor. I mean I if you don't trust your doctor, who do you trust? You some random online influencer, you know, like I mean I'm glad you trust me, but don't be asking me stuff. You should be asking your doctor. And then the second piece is um I do have a whole list of pharmacies that I trust that I list off inside that course too so that people can and even some teleaalth. I'm going to be adding some different companies I've vetted out because I just think it's this is turning into the wild west for sure. Um okay. Okay. So, we've got the that's a great update on the lawsuits that are happening. So, that ex was my next question was what do you think the future holds for compounded and I think you answered with you know they might go back to the 503A and then who knows what's going to happen from there and I guess it depends on if the FDA actually enforces. It's crazy right now. I don't even know like who that is going to be running the FDA here. We still haven't gotten we had confirmation so I don't know what's happening. I think a lot of us were bullish on Dr. Marty Mccari who is, you know, been nominated to head up the FDA. I think he's already gone through some of the the back and forth on Capitol Hill even. He was the chief medical officer of Sesame Health, which which is a huge prescriber of compounded GLP-1 medications. And so I think a lot of us were bullish on that. Um, but you know, TBD, right? Well, and to be honest with you, I have seen a lot of um bias come out of the Maha movement around GLP1s. Just that's when my that's it's Yeah, I've seen I've seen RFK literally parrot words from Cali Means and words that I corrected Cali means on. If you haven't seen that interview on Mark Heyman's podcast, I debated Cali Means about a year ago and April of last year and yeah, I didn't really get to debate much because he was kind of that's the lion's den. He was railroading me the whole time, but I corrected him on some facts that he had wrong and he continues to spread that misinformation and then I've seen RFK parrot it and I've seen a lot of uh bias around these peptides come out of the Maha movement and I love the Maha movement. I love several people in it, but I do not understand the blatant like I mean Cali was on a bender about GLP1s and I to this day don't understand it. I think the argument there that is somewhat valid is if Medicare covers this or certain like certain states have been talking about covering it, it could bankrupt the system with the cost being what they are currently. But I think the administration needs to bring the cost down because these are life-saving peptides and complete game changers. They need to be able to to arbitrate the cost. I I you know and bring the cost of these medications down when they're purchasing them in bulk through Medicare or Medicaid. Uh I think the other the other thing you know to kind of jump back on well first of all the med Medicare thing you think about this like they find the money for absolutely everything else. When you talk about bankrupting anything, it's like pretty crazy to think what our government spends money on. And then when it comes to something like this that could literally change the course of the history of the United States by by writing this broken metabolic ship that we've created, uh, is just so shortsighted. But the other thing that I think that Yeah. The other thing that I think we see in the maja movement where they have it wrong is that just like everything politically, we've been given this false dichotomy. It's like you you we have to remove we have to switch oils to to um you know um beef tallow and we have to get the dyes out of the Froot Loops and like all good endeavors like let's clean up the toxic environment, food environment, but what do we do for people who are already sick? Yeah, that's the part of the conversation seems to get, well, what are we gonna what are we just going to tell them to eat less and move more? That's been a real winning strategy for the last 40 years. Um, you know, we're if we could just embrace a little bit of the science that we know about broken metabolism, hormonal dysregulation, then maybe we can embrace getting sick people the treatment that they deserve. And then at the same time, like we can walk and chew gum at the same time, right? we can clean up the food environment and we can address people that are are getting sick. And oh yeah, by the way, if you want to um if you want to bring down the cost of GLP1s, why don't we let 503bs continue to compound this and actually look at the fact that Novo and Nordisk and Eli Liy will never be able to meet the demand of 100 million people in the United States alone that are living with the disease of obesity, not to mention type 2 diabetes. If we're just honest about their capacity to meet that problem, then 503bs should be able to let the 503bs cook. That's what I keep saying. Like that's why we created them. We created them to fill a shortage. Now, if they just a deeper look at this issue and made sure that this was happening on the up and up, I think we may have a different out. Oh, that was so well said. I agree with all of it. I also think at the end of the day, we're looking at symptoms. You know, we're looking at they're looking at chemicals in ultrarocessed foods and how they should be changed so that there's not so many chemicals in the ultrarocessed food. And I'm over here saying we have a metabolic disaster on our hands. We shouldn't be eating the ultrarocessed foods in the first place. Like, why don't we teach people? I'm thinking Jack Laane. Like, why is there not a, you know, US-wide national television show every morning where people learn how to eat? This should have started in March of 2020. I was like, put me on the news. Get me a morning show. Oh, I will get everybody through this pandemic. People need to be we need to be subsidizing gym memberships. We need to be and I I know I know based on your story like I know that's not the end all beall, but again we stack, you know, like we got to stack the things and we need the muscle. We need people to learn how to lift the weights. Like there's so many other things we could be worrying about that I almost feel like it's a distractor. Talking about like the chemical dyes and Froot Loops and the seed oils is almost a distractor in the grand scheme of things. The light poisoning. I was just on your podcast talking about how I think we're being poisoned by light and how that's leading to a metabolic crisis. Like there's so many like why did the Biden administration outlaw incandescent light? Like what an utter disaster that is for people's metabolic health and circadian rhythm to be poisoned all day under LEDs. And yet those are some things that I would like to just propose to Maha that we start actually looking at because those are the real needle movers and getting the like we don't need to switch up some ingredients in some shitty foods. We need to completely overhaul the school lunch system and actually feed these kids real food and have that whole thing subsidized. All the kids get to eat the real healthy food in the school lunches because that might be the only place they're getting it, right? So, there's so many bigger fish to fry here that it's like arguing over Froot Loops from Canada versus the US just seems shortensical. It's it creates nice little sound bite clips. But one of the things and I realize we've gone a little long here, but if if I may, one of the things that um I started sort of shifting towards in 2025 for on the pen is I said, you know, I kind of gave the history of how we started and sort of what we become, but we've gotten a lot of media attention over the last year and a half. I mean, we were in a Fortune magazine article right next to Eli Liy uh in a big expose about them. We've been featured in Bloomberg and Fortune magazine. I'm heading out to do a health.com piece in New York City this weekend. Like we've had a lot of opportunities that I just never would have imagined were going to come my way. And I was like, we're not going to go into 2025. Um just aruck with the opportunity we have. We're going to be ready to to actually advocate for some things. And one of the things that I've been advocating for with the change of this administration is why are we not taking obesity as serious every bit as serious as we took the Corona virus? Because this is an epidemic that is that has national security implications. It has economic implications. It has health implications. It has societal implications. We need to advocate for this administration and the next administration, whoever it may be, to take obesity serious. And so that's why one of the things I've been advocating for is like this. Not that Operation Warp Speed was some great template, but in the sense that it was an all of government approach to figuring out how to navigate a problem. We need an all of we're going to eradicate the disease of obesity. And that comes from everything from figuring out how to get the cost of these medications down, figuring out how to get shots in the bodies of every single metabolically p ill person who could benefit from them, and really starting to correct this course. uh and you touched on one of the things. Why isn't there some sort of subsidization of of uh you know health and fitness programs? Why aren't we forming the SNAP system? Why aren't we protecting compoundies to do what we set out for them to do? Why aren't we why aren't we implementing bulk buying programs uh under Medicare and Medicaid to get the cost of these down? Why aren't we just rethinking this system as a whole? And and instead, like you said, we're focusing on freaking Froot Loops. Like Like who even eats Froot Loops anymore? Well, I will tell you, Dave, when I in 2020, when I pushed back on the narrative, I was predominantly promoting sunlight, exercise, and real food. And I cannot tell you the level of censorship I endured. I I can't even believe it now. And nobody believed me at the time because they weren't brave enough to speak out at the time. So, they were not being censored like I was. And I was seeing it happen and I was w I'd been online long enough to see it. I could see it happening to me and very few other people were actually having that message that were being uh censored. Most people were like pushing back on lockdowns, pushing back on mandates, pushing back on vaccines. Yes, I later was pushing back on that as well. But initially the initial the bots that came at me and the initial push back I got were so bizarre and I started getting censored deeply every time I mentioned the word obesity. If I even opened my mouth or any of my title cards or anything said obesity in the caption or on the screen of or on the post, I was heavily censored and I would be dropped into severe shadowbs. I don't think they want it. Oh, and then let's just add I was deplatformed the first time at 105,000 off of Instagram a month after I was on RFK's podcast talking about how obesity was driving the pandemic in my opinion. And I made a very good argument for how this virus preferentially infects fat cells and what was happening there from a metabolic standpoint and how our metabolic crisis was driving this and how we could quell this significantly in 90 days if we started helping people with our metabolic health. And here comes this peptide that has such an enormous impact like you said leveling I love what you said leveling the metabolic playing field and lo and behold I get the same push back that was almost identical when I started talking about them. So I think you're probably under a constant shroud of censorship. You just don't realize it yet because you're being probably suppressed across all platforms. That's just my opinion. But trust me watching the censorship and push back that I got that was orchestrated and concentrated on me specifically and several others in the community like most notably the carnivore movement. Anything that we try to do to help with obesity is squashed. Which leads me to believe and again my opinion that they prefer us slow, sick, fat and dumb. We are easier to control when we are unwell. And the diabetes industrial complex is a massive money maker. So I think that we're looking at a very strange uphill battle that we don't you may not even know the enemy in front of you. But you got your book taken down, right? Talk about that. You have this great book and Amazon I had just bought it and then thank God and then Amazon pulled it. Yeah. So, so I wrote a book. It's called Decoding GLP-1. Uh it's a guide for friends and family of people using uh anti-obesity medication, specifically GLP-1. Um, one of the one of the big things that really became apparent right away to me once I started building community was that there were so many people on these medications that because of the stigma around obesity and the shame and the guilt and everything uh that people are led to believe about themselves. Even though people with obesity, I would argue most of my community are people who have more gumption, more stick tuitiveness, more um drive because they have to do something in and we've been working against our biology. So, we have to fight and and we're fighting like a losing battle all the time. So, we're fighting against something that we know is probably not even going to work out in our favor, but we fight and we fight and we fight even though we don't see the external like rewards. Um, yeah, I wrote this for those people to empower them to have conversations with those people in their life who they love and felt like they couldn't have these conversations with. And then boom, all of a sudden, uh, about two months into this, I had a lot of velocity behind the book. All organic. There's no publisher. I wrote it. I released it. Um, I released it to my community for that purpose. Like they were eagerly anticipating it. So, it did well. We're at the top of we were right next to Dr. Jason Fun in the diabetes code. Um, and yeah, they just wiped it out one day and told me it was um, I can't even remember at this point. It was wild. It was like your your your book violates our community terms. And you know, this meanwhile, there are like a hundred different GLP-1 books out there. Many of them towing the line on what should be acceptable and not, but mine was singled out. Um, thankfully our community like I gave them the little portal that I had to to contest it and I was like, "You go there and contest it, too." And so they started hundreds of emails from 100 different directions and I think finally they just went, "All right, screw it. We'll put it back up." Um, but yeah, thankfully we got it back. Um but yeah, I mean that I for for the last three or four months, every video I put out on TikTok goes into, you know, this this um holding pattern before it's even posted, like reviewing my content, and it's like, who's reviewing it and for what I talk about the news. 99% of the videos that I put out, I'm just talking about what we talked about here today. Here's the news. The off suing the FDA, this is what the judge said today. Or, hey, a clinical trial just dropped and this is the topline data that we got. or there's a new drug in development. This is what it's called and this is who's making it. That's literally what I do. I'm not out there saying controversial things. I'm just simply reporting the news. Now, I've given a little bit more of my opinion today on this podcast, but I've given way more opinion today than I usually do on my podcast. So, um, yeah, I do believe that there's a narrative out there and that if you step outside of that, you don't even, like you said, you don't even know sometimes who that enemy is, what they're doing, but you definitely feel it. And it's it's hard to, it's hard sometimes to stick to it when you've sort of given your life's work. And, you know, it's not just me who has given up things. It's my family. Uh, it's time away from them. a sick kid out here, you know, like we're we are sacrificing. Our families are sacrificing so that we can give people information that's going to help them live better lives. And we believe in the mission. So when it's tamped down by the powers that be, it can be a very frustrating place to be. It is. Nobody knows that better than you. Yet we persist, right? Because we I I'm think like you and it's just tenacity and I refuse to let them break me. though I will I will continue to persist. But I do I do think we are stumbling into a bit of a hornets nest without realizing it here on with our content around this. And I I do think it's because they don't necessarily want us healthy. I that's why I I'm excited for the Maha movement. I'm excited for what RFK can accomplish. Uh I wish him the best. I but I think we're up against Goliath and it's a much bigger much broader umbrella than we even realize. And we I may never know it but we are easier to control. Uh, and he's got a ways to go on this topic for sure. He sure does. I I wish he would give He needs to tune out He needs to tune out the Jillian Michaels and the Cali Means of the world and actually embrace some people who've lived with this disease. I'm so sick of hearing from people who have never lived with obesity that the same old uh mantra of eat less and move more is the solution to this. If it were the solution, we wouldn't be in this position. And I know that because I live with it. And I know that I've lost probably over 500 lb in my lifetime. But the problem is my biology is working against me. And the second that I'm not living in a constant state of complete denial of entire food groups or or or entire life is devoted to being in a gym, which as a father of four and two jobs and every like just if I'm if the only way for me to to move the needle is to live in a way that is completely unsustainable for me. And I think if if people actually understood that and lived in the shoes of somebody that has lived with severe metabolic illness, they would start to understand why that old mantra is so ineffective. And we need we need sick people need treatment. And that's exactly what um these peptides are doing. Um and they're only getting better, right? And as they get better and better, like more and more people will find hope and treatment and healing. But we have to have uh people at the upper echelons of the government that actually understand that and embrace it uh instead of listening to these people who have, you know, maybe larger platforms but have no effing clue what it's like to live with the metabolic disease or maybe they have an agenda as well, you know. So, it's I always when I see people hating on Ozmpic, I'm like, "What are you selling?" And it usually adds up. So, I'll I'll leave it at that. And I will add that this is comprehensive. We the the the pen isn't going to be the the the fix. You know, these peptides are not the solo fix. And I think that's where I get a lot of push back from my audience is well, you know, they can't hear me when I say comprehensive. And that is what I practice and that is what I preach and that is what I teach inside my courses and inside my content is comprehensive. Like we have to do all the things and we stack them because when you go deep into the biochemistry of it, they all favor each other and they all potentize each other and they potentize the peptide. They actually literally make the peptide work better and more efficiently and we can keep the dose lower when we do all the things. And most of the all the things are the things that we just need to be doing as human beings. They're not costs. They're not extra. I mean, they might be extra time, but they're not they're lifestyle. It's not like this is some elite strategy that only rich people can afford. You know, as long as we can keep those peptides affordable, uh, and I think through the help of some of these tele medicine companies, because there are some very good ones, the real onus of responsibility always will ultimately land on the individual. That's not saying we can't help them and give them a leg up, but man, the if the administration really wants to move the needle on the c you are so right on this obesity crisis and it is what is driving the the sheer bulk of deaths in this country are from cardiovascular disease. Category number two is cancer and then for a few years running COVID was number three. I would argue that all three of those are obesity related and driven for the most part or or metabolic compromised driven. You can be rail thin and still be insulin resistant and still be heading your way into all of those things. So, like this is the real crisis that we're looking at and uh our administration needs to do better on this one. Period. Or we're not going to make it such a such a positive way. One of the one of the interesting things that I I always like tell people like I I eat keto for the most part because I want to keep my blood sugars down. I feel terrible. uh if I'm not if I'm eating carbohydrates as a diabetic, I'm feeling terrible. But like some of us just need more to move that needle on a weight loss spectrum. This is a thing that measures your your ketones through your breath. And I just wanted to to kind of throw this in there for that person who's like, "Well, they just need to do this because eventually I get just comments of like if he would just eat this way or that way, like this is measuring my ketones. Haven't eaten for a few hours." Yeah. Better score than I'd get. Yeah, I don't I have no idea what it'll be, but my point is like I I'm doing the things I'm supposed to be doing. There's metabolic uh metabolic, you know, things that are not going well in my body that are keeping me from getting to where somebody who's who would eat the way that I do would, you know, potentially lose weight or maintain their weight or whatever. It's just not it's not as cut and dry as people want to make it. For sure. It's not. And it it could have been the parents you were born to. It could have been a toxic exposure in your childhood. It could have been a toxic exposure in your adolescence. It could have been, I mean, dare I say, you know, a medication or something you were exposed to along the way medically. It could have been a lot of things. And uh it could be chronic stress. It could be my metabolic health is in shambles when my stress is high. My labs look atrocious. And it's concerning that that stress has that much of an impact, you know. So, we have to throw people a bone. And when peop I always have a rule when patients come in. I deal a lot with pain predominantly and when patients would come in and say you know doc I have this horrific pain and blah blah blah and no one believes me and I'm like it is not my job to judge how hard you're trying or not to get out of pain or how bad your pain is. Like your subjective life is subjective. Um it's not my job to judge the pain level. It's my job to help you. And I feel the same way with the patients I've helped with obesity. I've helped a lot of them. It is not my job to judge what they're doing right or wrong. It's my job to help them. I can only lead them to to water. But if if I were back in my big practice with the big numbers of patients I was seeing a day, I would have a large portion of them do a trial of a GLP-1. I I can honestly say that it is that profound for pain and for metabolic dysfunction, which are tied together, right? So, I just think that we're missing the we're missing the trees through the forest or what the whatever the forest through the trees. I I think I think everyone's so hung up on whether people who are obese are just being lazy that they're missing the opportunity here that we can really help people if more doctors and more politicians and more people in charge would actually learn about these peptides appropriately. So, I invite RFK for a conversation anytime because I would love to have a conversation with them. I would be happy to share all my data with him. He's a smart man. Okay, Dave. Well, where can everyone find you? Because I don't want to keep you all day. I know you've got some sick kiddos you got to take care of. Yeah. So, uh, first of all, I appreciate the opportunity to be here on your platform and share, thank you so much for having me. Um, if people want to find the news, if GLP-1 news, like these lawsuits on compounds or whatever new is coming down the pike with anti-obesity medication, onthepen.com is a great rallying point. From there, you can find me on literally all the socials. I'm manonthemjaro. But if you just do a googy search for on the pen, you're gonna you'll see my my little logo. this little guy. Uh, Man on the Moon Jar was a play of Man on the Moon. So, if you see that anywhere, that's probably me or it's an imposttor and they'll have at least some of my account uh content on their imposttor account. But yeah, man on the major pretty much everywhere. Tik Tok and YouTube are home base for me. Okay. And it's so good. You guys go follow. We'll make sure everything's in the show notes for you uh to grab hold and make sure you go follow Dave Knap because truly you're doing God's work and you're just an independent journalist here that it sounds like you you know you didn't really sign up for this. It sort of found you. So this is this these are the missions we go on. Um anything else? Anything I didn't hit on that you want to leave the audience with? Yeah, I I I don't think so. I think I think we covered so much here. Um there's much much more uh to be said. We do a we have our own podcast called on the pin the weekly dose that you can listen to uh that if you want the weekly tidbits of news that come out and we do a show uh that you actually just on a Thursday night live show um that gets uploaded to podcast to we cover everything there. I I think for anyone I my my heart specifically goes out to people who use these medications that feel like they can't share that uh experience with their loved ones. That's really you know where my heart is. That's why I wrote the book Decoding GLP-1. It's very in I've made it very inexpensive by design. Um because I want people to be able to get it. And if if for some reason even the $10 cost is a barrier for people, I don't want it to be. If this can be helpful for you to pass it on to a loved one who's, you know, just think of that think of that aunt or or you know, grandma in your life who's like, "You're not on one of those shots, are you? You're going to get thyroid cancer." Um this book is for them. It's very digestible. Um, and I just I hope that people will check it out because I think it has the power to really transform those relationships and I uh once again thank you for the opportunity to be here. Yeah. And I bought your book. I wanted to support you. So I hope that my listeners will do the same too because you are working really hard on this and you're like I said, you're doing God's work. Well, thank you Dave Nap. I will make sure everyone goes to onthepen.com. I so appreciate your insight and time and you'll have to come back, you know, when we've got more news on what's happening as things unfold and we'll have you back on the show. Awesome. Awesome. Thank you so much again. I appreciate it. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcasttina.com. That's D R T Y N A. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time, and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthcare services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.