On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, we are going to talk all about hair loss. This is my hair loss 101 episode. If you are a middle-aged woman, I want you to listen to this. If you're a younger woman, I want you to listen to this. I'm not going to get into male hair loss on this one, but I am going to be talking to the ladies here. I have a personal history of hair loss. My mother is a hair stylist and has been my entire life and I have treated many patients with hair loss in a multitude of ways including doing regenerative treatments on them like PRP. So stick around if you want to hear about those. Anyway, without further ado, let's jump in. You are tuned in to the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. All right, so hair loss multi-factorial. Is that the right way to say it? multiffactoral. Lots of different reasons that we could be having hair loss. And for the sake of simplicity, I want you to think about your hair, skin, and nails sort of all as the same entity. Um, what's happening with your nails is a direct reflection of what's happening inside your body. What's happening with your skin is a direct reflection of what's happening inside your body. What's happening with your hair is often a direct reflection And I have had a tumultuous relationship with my hair my entire life. If you have followed me for any length of time, I used to have really short hair. I had short hair my whole life. Um, I have a little bit of a hyper sensitiv sensitivity disorder, if you will. I probably am a little bit on the spectrum. I was a very, very strange kid and I hated having my hair touched or brushed. And so my mom kept it short. That was the deal. Until I could take care of it. I was not allowed to have it long. And then I cut it all off in high school and much to the dismay of everybody because I had like big huge rocker hair at the time and everybody wanted my rocker hair and I had it and it was permed and it was amazing and it was probably very flammable with all the hairspray in it. What did I use? Sebastian Shaper. I went through cans of the stuff. The giant cans of Sebastian Shaper. Man, that smell whenever I smell it, I'm like woo memories. Um, I have grown it out multiple times. I last time I cut it off, I thought I'd never grow it out again. And I Here I am. So, I'm trying to see how long I can get it. Anyway, I have had an up and down relationship with my hair. And the few times I've started to grow it out, interestingly, in all cases, I've endured some level of hair loss that was significant for whatever reason. Um, thinking back, I remember when I grew it out when my daughter was just a toddler. She's 25 now for reference. That was probably the first time I'd grown it out since I'd cut it off in high school. and she whatever the stressor was of you know I mean whatever it was I was a single mom being a single mom dealing with divorce with a baby and it's stressful and as I was growing my hair out then I was losing a lot of it but that was probably the thickest it ever was it was actually really good then and then I and I'm I'm getting to the point here I'm just sharing and because different phases of life right I was in my 20s early mid 20s. Yeah. 26, 27. Um, grew it out again when my mentor was dying. He loved long hair. And I, for some reason, felt like I I grow it out when I need to protect myself and I cut it off when I'm trying to get [\h__\h] done. When I'm about to go to war, I cut my hair off. And when I'm trying to protect myself and calm down, I grow it out. Whatever that's worth. But I grew it out again at that time. But it was the worst period of my life. I mean, up until 2020, 2021, that had been probably the hardest time of my life. Um, watching him slowly die of cancer. I still makes me cry. It was a long time ago. Watching him slowly die of cancer and the treatments of cancer is what actually took him. That's what kind of was the nail in the coffin. Um, my hair felt loss was so severe and I was going through a divorce and I I've been married a few times and I was in such a state I remember my daughter's bedroom was next to my bathroom and I remember every time I took a shower and washed my hair I only wash my hair for reference like maybe every four days and I am just due for hair wash. You can tell it's a little I need a little bit need a little bit of hair uh shampooing. It was really hard because I would lose such a tremendous amount of hair. I I could have like I joked that I could have like made a dog out of it, you know, each time I had a Chihuahua at the time. And I was like, there's enough hair for to make another Chihuahua. And I would cry and cry and cry every time I got in the shower. I don't know what it is about water, but it's very cathartic. And I would cry and cry and cry in the shower. And I'd wash my hair and then all my hair would fall out. And then I'd cry and cry and cry about that. And my daughter was listening. I found out years later this part that hurts my heart. She was listening as I just had a complete, you know, that's where I would have my meltdown was in the shower and then I'd get out and you know how it is. You like wrap it wrap it up, pull it together, get [\h__\h] done, go back to work, right? And that was the busiest year of my clinical life was the year I had took over my mentor's practice. So of course that was busy. He was very successful and I had to jump in feet first by myself which you know put on your big girl pants. That was a huge amount of stress but also very exciting and really cool opportunity. And then um the year he died I had a tremendous amount of um stress because I had to tell everybody that he had passed. It it was it's a long story but anyway that was a really and that was the busiest year of my clinical practice was the year he passed. It was very strange. God gave me a real challenge that year and I was like, "Okay, I guess I guess we're doing it." Um, all that to say, I I also lost a pregnancy right before he told me he had cancer. So, that period, I just remember having extended hair loss and somehow it didn't all fall out and then it started growing back. And it was crazy because I was growing it out and I had just a million little hair. I always have a million little hairs sticking out of my head, you the baby hairs that are always coming back in. And then most recently I had short hair again and all through, you know, 2019, 2020, 2021, maybe going back to 2018, I cut it off again. Anyway, um, started growing it out a couple years ago, right when I started taking GLP1s. So, this is why. And I was also in per I'm in permenopause. I'm not I'm still permenopausal. I'm not fully menopausal yet. Getting there. I had really significant hair loss when I started micro doing GLP1s, which I'm going to get to in this conversation. So, if you are interested in hair loss with GLP-1s, this is the episode where I'm going to talk about it. I don't like talking about any of this stuff on social media because I cannot get information across in sound bites there the way I need to and I'm not allowed to talk about JLP1s on Instagram. I I don't have a hard and fast rule as to why. I just got deplatformed last September because I was talking about micro doing GLP1s. I know for a fact from insiders that big pharma doesn't like that and I'm pretty sure they know who I am and I am just not going to talk about that. This doesn't matter though. I have found it doesn't matter if you're micro doing or regular dosing. I have found hair loss to be a side effect in a a variety of women. Um and I will talk about that. So the main reasons for hair loss that I have seen in my clinic and that I have helped treat is a hormonal and that can be at any age. So this could be a hormonal shift where usually we see it in women who are postpartum, right? They have significant hair loss and then they get through that period and that can take up to a year, right? So there's like they're good after they have the baby usually for a few months. It can be three to six months, sometimes shorter, sometimes longer. Then all of a sudden they have a big hair fall and a ton of hair falls out. They don't know what's going on. And then we get them through. Now during that period, what's happening? They're often breastfeeding, especially if they're coming into my clinic because I'm a naturopathic doctor and people tend to radiate, you know, naturally minded people tend to radiate towards me and they tend to be breastfeeding and sometimes I wonder if they're getting enough nutrition. I've seen nutritional deficiencies. I'll get to that. That's on the list. But um nutritional deficiencies coupled with postpartum and the hormonal fluctuations that are happening there. So that's a big one. There is hair loss due to malnourishment. That's a big one. Now is that happening with GLP-1s? That's probably part of the equation is people will dose themselves into appetite crushing and they won't eat enough and they won't eat enough protein and they're not eating enough to support their hormones and so they start to have hair fall. Um, the hair loss that I am hearing reported back from obesity docs is that the and again the way that I utilize GLP1s is rarely for obesity. I I'm talking non-obesity related usage, but in their case they're talking about when the patient loses all the weight they want to lose, the hair loss tends to halt and then it starts to regrow is what they're reporting back. So, I'm hoping that that and that seems to be when I go through some of the, you know, different uh groups that I have looked in where folks are talking about utilizing GLP1s in the obese cohort. That's generally what seems to happen. And once that hair loss stops, I'm sorry, the weight loss stops and they get to their goal weight, the hair tends to grow back. That is probably the stressor of the weight loss. And I and I don't mean stressor negatively always negatively. I don't always mean when I say stressor, it just means anything that is putting a load on the body and the body has to deal with it. It doesn't necessarily mean it's negative. Weight loss is very often very positive. And many other markers are improving, but the body's going through a transition. And so I call that a stressor. And so a stressor on the body can be can look like a lot of things, but that's probably part of it. And they're having weight loss and then they're having hair loss. And I wonder if malnourishment isn't part of that equation in addition. So it's multiffactoral. Two things can be true at once. Three things can be true at once. They're all contributing, right? So we have to think of it that way. So eating enough protein, getting enough exercise, doing the GLP-1, right? Going really slow and low. Uh those are always my suggestions. That said, I have seen people take a micro dose and have hair loss. It happened to me. It did stop. I will say that of all of them I saw the biggest hair loss with trespathide. I saw less with semaglutide but then again I cannot tolerate hardly any semaglutide without feeling nausea. So I don't use much of it at all and I have seen less hair loss with reatride but reatrite is not yet available. It was for a minute through compoundingies. So without getting into all of that um that's just what I've experienced personally. I have seen a variety of things happen with clients and patients and I also hear back from I mean I I gotta say it it's it doesn't seem to want to sink in for some people but I have hundreds of thousands of followers and a lot of people DM messages and give me information and so I also talk to many clinicians who are using these peptides on the regular and so I have a very interesting network where I'm gathering information from and I hear about hair loss a lot a lot a lot whether people are micro doing or not that said if I add a dollar for every time somebody wrote me and said, "Dr. Tina, I'm micro doing and I'm having these side effects." 99.9% of the time they are not micro doing. It just happened the other day. A lady said, "I'm having terrible hair loss. I lost 30 pounds. Micro doing uh whatever it was, and now I I can't stop the hair loss. Even though the weight loss stopped, the hair loss is continuing." So, I just said a moment ago that usually what the obesity dos are reporting is that once the weight loss stops, the hair starts to regrow or the hair loss at least stops. In her case, it was continuing on, which makes me think it's probably the GLP-1. And so, I wrote back and I said, "If you lost 30 pounds on a micro dose of a GLP-1, you're not micro doing. I I can almost guarantee it. What do you on?" And she tells me and she's nowhere near. She's on a standard dose. So, just for the record, folks, I did a whole podcast about this. I'll make sure to link it in the show notes. micro doing GLP-p1s, truly doing a micro dose is not a weight loss strategy and it doesn't work for weight loss. A micro dose is anything below the standard starting dose. What's happening and what I'm getting more feedback on, and this is really shady, is that doctors are telling you that they're micro doing you by giving you the standard starting dose and then bumping you up maybe one tier or two tiers into a pretty hefty dose in my opinion. And the reason they're telling you is it's a micro dose is because it's not the highest dose that you can take somebody up on the tiers. Very rarely, even in my obese clients and patients, does anyone even get near the top dose. The top dose is delegated for those with severe obesity and severe type 2 diabetes. In my opinion and from what I've gathered from all of my colleagues that use it, very rarely do people get up to the absolute top dose. So them telling you that you're do you get what? Do you follow me here? They're telling you, "Oh, we're micro doing you because they're just giving you a regular dose, but it's the it's the starting dose, which is where they would start you anyway, but they're calling it a micro dose so that you're placated or they can sell you something or whatever. Who knows? There's probably a million reasons. Maybe they just don't know. That's bonkers to me. And so women are walking around on very high doses and then telling me they're micro doing and wondering why their hair is falling out or why they are having side effects or why they're having severe nausea or whatever it is. So go listen to that episode because if you're not on a dose that's lower than the standard standard starting dose, you're not on a micro dose. If you're on half the standard starting dose, I still don't think you're really on a micro dose, but I'm not going to split hairs. So anyway, I'll I'll link that up. You can listen to it. Okay. So, even on a micro dose, why would that be happening? I think that GLP1s really shine a light on or a mirror to whatever internal issues are going on. That could be hormonal dysfunction. That could be PCOS. That could be hypothyroidism. Often, hypothyroidism, which is another, we're going to get to that in a minute. That's another cause for hair loss. when could be nutritional deficiencies, whatever it is that you've already got going on that you're already rocking and you go in and you start cranking. This is why I'm not a fan of being told you're micro doing and being started on the standard dose and then cranking it up because there is a break-in period and whether doctors want to admit this or not, if you're not taking an integrative approach, I really don't think you can do GLP1s justice because they are not a monotherapy done best. done best. It's a comprehensive treatment protocol and I talk about this in depth inside my course. This is why I have a whole course about it. The course is for practitioners, but I let the general public in. It's been very informative for the general public. I would say it's about 60% practitioners, 40% uh general public. Last time I ran the reports and looked, you need to know all the pieces and you really should have all the pieces addressed. And you can't go finding somebody to do the pieces if you don't know what you're looking for because most doctors don't know how to do the pieces, all the pieces. So, I mean, even some of my favorite GLP-1 docs out there are not doing a comprehensive integrative approach. And a lot of the hormone docs are not doing an integrative approach. They bash on naturopathic doctors and they bash on functional medicine doctors, but what they don't get is that they actually need to know that information themselves if they really want to serve their patients at the highest level. But we can split hairs about that later. not going to get into that battle. Point is is HRT on board if you're a middle-aged woman. Definitely supporting your thyroid and your adrenals, making sure your gut health is intact. And there's a lot of pieces to this and I talk about it all inside my course. Not to mention lifestyle, not to mention the way you train. Like there's a lot to this. And so if you're going to go on the GLP-1 journey, you have to address all the things. So, when I have a client or patient with who's on AI'm talking a fifth to a tenth of the standard starting dose and their hair starts falling out, I'm like, whoa, we we got to stop. Something's wrong. Something's going on that we have to do further investigative work. And that could be a myriad of different things depending on their symptom picture, which route we go. But there needs to be a little bit more investigation because something is off and or and or and or maybe GLP ones just aren't right for them. But I I do think that there's a place where they could be helpful. We just have to figure out why did their hair decide to start falling out. Now, is there a causal relationship between GLP-1s and hair loss? Not yet. We don't have that definitive link, but there was enough of a signal that the FDA just recently came in and added it to their list of side effects. Um, I believe under Trozepide or maybe GLP1s in general, uh, hair loss is a known side effect. So, it's there. It's there enough for it to be a signal to pay attention to. And so for some people, they get really severe hair loss. And some people come into it with really thin hair because guess what PCOS does? It makes your hair fall out. Guess what hormonal imbalances do when you get severely especially when you're dealing with diabetes and you're dealing with obesity? Your hair starts to fall out. So this is why you see folks suffering with those conditions and their hair is very thin. It's part of that. And so then you put them on a GLP-1 and they lose more hair and they're like, "Hey, I don't have any more hair to lose. Like I can't be doing this." And I get that's a scary frustrating place to be and it's really devastating for a woman to lose her hair. So with all that I say you really this is again why my argument is slow and low and not everybody is ready for the standard starting dose and not everybody needs it. So take what you will. I talk about the strategy behind my logic and my thinking and how to approach this inside my course and so I'll make sure there's a link to that and you guys can check it out. It's a wonderful course. It it really is. I I worked I spent a year building that out and it's it's good. Okay, so we've covered that. Just know that when you start a GLP-1 at whatever dose, you are potentially putting a mirror up to whatever deficiencies or systemic issues are going on inside your body. Now, those GLP1s can definitely improve and do improve PCOS very often, and they do improve metabolic function, which will ultimately hopefully lead to improved hair health and hair growth. But I get that there's a break-in period and that can be a really scary time for people. I don't have a solution for you. I do things very differently. I do things very comprehensively and very holistically. That's how I function inside my practice. That's what I teach inside my course. And so, uh, if you're a practitioner, I highly encourage you to check out the course. If you're the general public like this woman who was talking to me on Instagram, I pointed her towards the course. I really think that you need to empower yourself through education because most doctors don't know this stuff or they don't want to talk about it or they don't want to deal with it because they only have a limited amount of time in the clinic with you, especially if they're on the insurancebased model which is garbage. Like it's garbage for you, it's garbage for them and that's my opinion and you guys are um you know you're you're strapped. So one, don't let doctors tell you that the standard starting dose is the micro dose because it's not even close. And two, be careful how you ramp this up, especially if you're having hair loss. Are you chasing weight loss for the sake of going bald? Because that is tough. It is tough to get hair to grow back, you guys. I'm going to talk about that in a moment, but that is a tough one. Okay, so the next reason I see for hair loss is not even frank overt hypothyroidism. Even low-key very mild hypothyroidism, the one of the first symptoms can be hair loss. So when the that's my case personally the minute my thyroid starts going south even barely and I don't notice any other symptoms I my hair starts falling out and that's usually a key to me like okay we got a problem here how do I notice my husband will usually say like geez after I get out of the shower there's a little bit more there so it's hard to tell when you're growing your hair out because there's more hair so just one strand of this looks like a lot more in the drain than when my hair was short right so that's a tough one but yes he usually notices I notice I track every time I take a shower. I clean out the drain beforehand. I make sure that there's nothing else that is going to contribute. And then I shower. And then I look. And so I gauge my health based on what that looks like. Stress will make your hair fall out. Stress, like emotional stress will make your hair fall out. Emotional stress will destroy your thyroid health. So that's a big and and your adrenals. So it's a big complicated loop, right? But having some thyroid support on board, if you haven't listened to my thyroid episodes, go listen to them because I really think that anybody over the age of 40, especially a female, should be considering some kind of thyroid um supplementation. I'm a big fan of desiccated. Unfortunately, the FDA is not and they are hellbent to take it away from us. So, I don't know what people are going to do, but desiccated is how I go about doing things. And having a little thyroid support on board is I think really paramount when we are traversing middle age no matter who you are. I will die on that hill. I that is a going joke in my profession is how much I want to give people thyroid and it's game changer absolute game changer for people. I work in the realm of pain predominantly muscularkeeletal pain and I cannot tell you how intimately linked thyroid is to your muscular skeletal pain overall. So anyway having adequate thyroid support on board is key. As we're going into the GLP-1 journey, a lot of people are going into GLP1s very worried about their hormones. I'm glad that they're paying attention to their hormones. They are writing me messages and telling me, "I'm on the HRT. I'm on the GLP-1. What am I missing?" And a 100% of the time they're not on thyroid because a lot of these docs are not thyroid literate. And it's not as simple as just giving thyroid. Like thyroid literacy is a whole different ball of wax and not everyone's trained on it. A lot of pe doctors are afraid to give it. A lot of doctors are afraid of desiccated thyroid and they're having to transition their patients off anyway. The FDA gave us a year to transition our patients off and that was a few months ago. So time is running out. If you're on a desiccated thyroid and you haven't heard about this, call your doctor because your time is up soon and so they need to figure out how to transition you and there's options. I'm not going to go into that. That's a whole other episode. But that said, um the golden days are over on that and this is really going to be detrimental to a lot of people's health. I I think and I'm very concerned about it, but particularly women, it's very difficult to go through middle age without some thyroid support. I've noticed in most cases of most patients that I deal with. So, take that for what you will. Um, but your hair will fall out. Your eyebrows may start falling out, but your hair will fall out before often you get any other symptoms. Okay, back to nutritional deficiencies. I would, you know, I would be missing a big one if I didn't talk about iron deficiency anemia. And iron deficiency can be for a variety of reasons. Especially as we get older, we could have a pernicious anemia happening. We start to lose the ability to absorb B12 gastrointestinally because the intrinsic factor isn't being made in our stomachs anymore because our stomach lining is atrophying. And so even if you take B12 capsules, you're not absorbing them. and then you end up with a pernicious anemia and you end up with hair loss. Um, you can have frank iron deficiency anemia from bleeding too much during your menstrual cycle. Lots of different reasons for iron deficiency, but hair loss is a big symptom. So, pay attention if you're and that's for any age. I have seen iron deficiency ruin young girls lives. girls like 14-year-olds go completely psychotic, completely mental break because they are iron so iron deficient. So, there's lots of different reasons you're going to have to work with somebody who's going to do some investigative work on you and find out, but that is a big one to rule out because if you're rocking low-key like super low feritin, I walked around with a feritin of nine for most of my life, which is not good. Um, no wonder people's hair is falling out. So, something to consider there. I think we, you know, we hit the thyroid, we hit the big ones, the hormone deficiencies, stress. I want to talk about that a bit longer. When you're cranking cortisol because you are so stressed out, your hair will go with it. And that's just how it is. You cannot live in that high cortisol, just chronic catabolic state. Your all of your tissues are dying. Literally, all your tissue, it's catabolic. Cranking cortisol from stress is catabolic, meaning it chews up your tissues. And so, your hair follicles start to die off and shrivel. you start to lose hair. Stress will end a beautiful head of hair. And so this is why we see it so much right now. I follow a lot of dermatology doctors on Instagram because they're so informative and I learned I have and they're all fun. It's those are fun accounts to follow. Um, a lot of them have come out and shared about their hair loss journey and it was all happening while they were in medical school, right? So that stress peak of medical school, lack of sleep, too much, you know, too much time spent studying, not enough time spent resting, brutal, you gauntlet that they go through, they lose a bunch of hair. And so stress will do it. And then what happens is you end up like me crying in the shower and raising your stress because your hair is falling out. So you get in this vicious loop, right, that you can't get out of because you're like, "Oh my god, my hair is falling out." And because, "Oh my god, my hair is falling out. I'm freaking out." And so then you freak out more. And it's it's terrible. And so my mom, the hair stylist, always says to me, "Don't stress about this, honey." Because the more you stress about it, the more hair you're going to lose. And for me, it's these areas right here, right? Like she always knows when she goes to do my hair, she's like, "How stressed have you been?" Because you're losing your hair there. So I lose this and I grow it back. And I lose this and I grow it back and I lose it and I grow it back. And that's been the cycle my entire life. But those times, those periods I was telling you about, that was really bad. And I don't know if I'm thinning on the sides, which is also a very common area is up through here. I feel like I might be, but also I have white silver hair. And so that's a whole different ball of wax. When you have silver hair, you look baler. My mom explained it because your hair is basically clear, I think she said. So the hair follicles lose all their pigment because they lose all their melanin and they lose their pigment. And because of that, you end up looking like your part is wider than it really is. You end up looking like you have more hair missing here. And so I see myself in pictures and it looks really bad. But then when I get up close, I look and for some reason the first inch of hair that grows out of my head is like silver white. And then it seems to darken as it comes out. And so that silver white looks in pictures like almost bald. And I'm like, whoa, I'm not that bald. I go up look up to the mirror. Not at all. My best friend and I were just in Arizona. I am moving to Arizona, by the way, to get the f out of this god awful state that I am in in the West Coast and leave it behind and never come back. I never want to come back. Um, it's been very stressful. Like, being here has been stressful. Living through COVID here has been very stressful. The last few years were very stressful because I for some reason was getting my ass handed to me trying to talk about GLP1s utilized in a different way that's now mainstream. And even I heard the other day there was an event that Peter Aia was speaking at and he was even talking about being interested in what micro dos could do for people in a non-obese state. And I was like, "Huh, we are now going to have it go totally mainstream." So I've been talking about this for years, guys. I'm the one who came out with this conversation. And we're talking using it outside of weight loss, using it outside of body composition, using it outside of diabetes for non-obese non-diabetic states. But anyway, that was been a very stressful process because I took the brunt of the heat and because I don't have the right letters behind my name, I still get dismissed. I, you know, I got to be the fall guy. Any article that's written that I get interviewed for 99% of the time I have to be the fall guy. And you know, if I had MD behind my name or I was a male, it wouldn't be happening. But hey, it is what it is. So, whatever. I've accepted my role in this. But it will become mainstream here soon. And I think it'll probably get studied and we're going to it's going to be a whole new world. And I'm excited that I got to open the door on that. But that said, that was a very stressful period. And I was traveling all over going on podcast. So I was never home. I was never sleeping in my bed. I was eating outside of my own kitchen. Like life was not it was not great. It was not a great time for my health. And so I did have some hair loss during all of that. Right. And so I was very worried and I was just with my best friend and she's known me since we were 11. We've been best friends forever. Yeah. 40 years. And I said, "Okay, truth. We're out in the sun." I was like, "Truth. Am I going bald? Cuz my daughter just told me. She's like, "I think you're going bald, mom." And I was like, "What?" And so she, my best friend, looked at my part and she looked at the sides of my hair. And my mom had already done this, by the way. My mom was has hair stylist since I was five. So my mom's like, "You are not going bald. This is just because your hair is silver. I promise you, I see a lot of women losing their hair." She's she's retired now, but she's like, "I've seen a lot of women lose their hair. You are not losing your hair. You might have some hair falls now and then from stress, but it always grows back. you have a ton of baby hairs. I guess they can tell by looking at the ends if it's a broken off hair or if it's a baby hair coming out. And she said, "You have a ton of baby hairs." So my best friend's looking at my head and my best friend's like, "No, look." And she she I think dyes her hair, but she also has a lot more color left in her hair and we compared our parts. I looked at hers and she looked at mine and um I was checking hers out and like I guess hers really is as white as mine when you consider I mean my scalp looks very pink and then I have and I can't even imagine what it looks like in this light but I have it's so silver at the roots. It's so see-through. So I think that's part of it. So ladies out there who grow your hair out, silver hair is going and white hair is going to definitely look you're going to look a little baler unfortunately seems to be the consensus. I've I've looked into this. It's it is what it is. The other thing I want to talk about is hair breakage. I mentioned this because I mentioned nutritional deficiencies. This could be protein deficiency. This could be B vitamin deficiency. This could be vitamin C deficiency because vitamin C is responsible for collagen production. It could be vitamin D. It could be zinc. It could be a lot of things, but what I notice when I start to get deficient in nutrients is my hair starts to change the actual texture. So maybe I'm not having hair loss, but my hair starts to break off like crazy. And so that's a big concern, too. And I know that a lot of women will report in middle age, not only the hair loss, but the hair shifting. It changes on them. The nutritional deficiencies that come with aging would maybe be due to either lack of eating enough or because we start to diet ourselves down because we're gaining weight because of menopause and we're like what the heck is happening. So, we start eating less. I know I did. I know I went down to like pretty minimal. I still am there sometimes. I'm just like I I cannot eat the amount of food I used to eat and maintain my weight. Bottom line. So, I know a lot of you can resonate with that. But I think that um we start to get atrophy in our stomach lining in our intestines. I mean, that's just what happens when you age. Everything starts to atrophy. And so, can we offset that? I think good exercise and good lifestyle definitely is going to keep the integrity of all your skin better and all of your mucous membranes better. So, I'm a big fan. But that said, as we get older, it's just a side effect. We start to get atrophy. And so, I think we might start to just low-key become nutritionally deficient by means of aging. And it just is what it is. So we have to be more cognizant of the nutritional density of the foods we are choosing to eat and not fill up on filler but fill up on nutritionally dense foods instead. So I'll leave it at that. Those are the big ones. Those are the big ones I saw in my clinical practice. Saw a lot of folks who were sort of like edging uh up to anorexia or full-blown anorexia with hair loss. Saw a lot of women going through middleage with hair loss. saw u and we'll talk about hormones in a little bit more detail in one moment, but I just want to make sure I get the big reasons uh checked off the list. I saw a lot of vegans with hair loss, and I I note this because they would be coming in for regenerative injections either to their scalp or to their joints. And if somebody's got a lot of hair loss, I know they're not healing well and they're not in a good place to be getting anything injected. And so sometimes we would have to halt and hold off on the injections whether it was into their scalp or they were coming in for another reason because I could tell by their I could tell their overall health by the quality and density of their hair. Let's just leave it that way. If their hair was thin and it was frail, then they were not in good healing mode and we were not going to inject anything. We had to beef them up and we had to get them in a more anabolic healing state before we started throwing expensive injections at things. So, please heed that warning. If you go somewhere and they're like, "Sure, we can charge you $1,000 and we'll inject your scalp or more." Um, if you're nutritionally malnourished and you're a train wreck of health and inflammation and you're not exercising and you don't feel good and your nails will often show the same thing, your nails will get frail. My nails are hard as a rock now, but you used to be able to bend my nails backwards. I can see there's a hair falling out. used to have to bend my nails backwards and they were so flimsy and that's no place to be to be receiving uh any kind of regenerative injection therapy. You got to beef yourself up. How you choose to do that is up to you and your doctor, but you got to beef yourself up first. Speaking of, I was in Pilates. This is when I first noticed the hair loss from the GLP-1. I think I had switched to trezepite at that point and I'm in Pilates class and I'm in all black and the reformers got a black pad, you know, on the on the slide deck and my hair is everywhere. Like literally everywhere. My hair is and it's white. My hair is all over me. It's all over the Pilates studio. It's all over my mat. It's all over everything. And I was horrified and so embarrassed. And I was like, "Oh my god, what is going on? What is wrong with me?" I mean, it was significant hair fall. And it was not great. Like that was not a fun time. And I was really embarrassed and was really scared that I was going to start thinning. I mean, when you start thinning up here, that's more hormonal, by the way, when you start thinning up here. And you start thinning and as a woman, it's it's not great. Okay. So, let's talk about that for a second. Hormonally, a couple things can happen. You might have a high conversion to DHT. your testosterone might preferentially go down that pathway and you might make a lot of DHT which is potent and an awesome form to have in your body but also it can contribute to hair loss. So men who make a lot of DHT will have hair loss, male pattern baldness, women who make a lot of DHT will start to lose hair too potentially. So you can like I look on a Dutch test to find that information to see if that's high. I don't tend to be a high converter. So, not I don't have a lot of the enzyme that converts it. Um, at least I didn't last time I checked. Another thing that can raise DHT is creatine. And we have data to show that. And there was a small study done last year that the internet grabbed and blew up with saying creatine does not cause hair loss. There was not a causal relationship. It was a small study. It wasn't done for very long. And they really I don't think it I don't think it was done well enough to say that, you know, convincingly. I think that we know that creatine can potentially impact DHT and DHT being high can potentially impact hair loss. So, there's a link. And I lose hair when I take a lot of creatine. It's just what's one of the first things I noticed. And everybody said, "Oh, no, no, no. That's not possible." And I'm like, "Okay, well, I do." And I've had many patients tell me that they do as well. I've been using creatine a long time, you guys. And it was not for muscle. It was for my elderly patients. I mean, yes, of course, we wanted to have good, healthy muscle, and that was important always. I use it in conjunction with protein powder usually, but in my elderly patients, it was to beef up their brains. I wanted to make sure that they had good cognition. And so, there's a couple things we can use for that, and creatine is one of them. And so it's really important to me that especially as they're getting into that frailty, we're addressing the frailty and we're addressing the brain and the brain impacts the frailty and the frailty impacts the brain and we're addressing all of that with creatine which is so inexpensive and easy to use. But some people could not tolerate it because they would have hair loss. So I don't care what the studies say. I've been doing this for decades and it does sometimes lead to hair loss. So I take a pretty low dose of creatine. I know on the internet lately all the rage has been taking, you know, normally we suggest five grams which is about a scoop. I say for women three grams on the days you lift three to five and the internet now is saying take 20 grams to offset any um fatigue or to really supercharge your brain. I just don't think the data bears out so well on that. And I think taking 20 grams of creatine is not tolerable by everybody. I do not my face swells up. I don't tolerate it well. If my face is swelling up, something's happening with my hormones. So, creatine doesn't impact your hormones, people say. I don't I don't think so. I think we're going to find that maybe it does. That's just my experience clinically and personally. So, I' I've been used a lot of creatine on a lot of patients and I'm telling you, not everybody tolerates it and some people lose their hair. So, something to think about if you're having hair loss. Um, let's see. I think we hit the main top causes. Oh, medications. So, there's medications we can take be taking, especially in middle age. A lot of people end up on medications. And so, we may end up with hair loss due to the medications, due to the nutritional deficiencies that the medications can lead to. So, look, if you're on pharmaceuticals, look them up and make sure they're not actually directly causing nutritional deficiencies. And make sure you supplement, talk to your doctor, supplement with the things that you are depleting. For instance, um we know that insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome, which I always talk about, we mentioned that earlier in the episode, can lead to reduced scalp blood flow and follicle health, and that's why the hair starts to thin. And then there's obviously autoimmune conditions. We've got alopecia ariata, lupus, and other connective tiss uh tissue disorders. Autoimmune disorders like to ramp up in middle age. They like to show themselves more prevalently. So, you might be dealing with an autoimmune condition. So, it's really important to get with somebody who can help diagnose this appropriately. I am not a hair expert. I should have said that at the beginning. And I am not a dermatologist and I don't pretend to be. I just have treated a lot of people with hair loss and I treat everybody holistically. I'm not looking and saying, "Oh, it's this exactly one thing." This why it's so weird like this Tylenol and autism link. Everybody's so mad about it. But it's like we have data. I just did an episode about it. We have data showing a correlative link. Enough data showing a correlative link that I would say use caution. We've had it for a long time. Uh we have a few studies saying no link. Okay. But if there's a signal, use caution. It's like the um you know the blindness that's happening with some users of GLP1s. I would say use caution. I've talked about this. I did a podcast about it. Everybody should use caution. But I never say there's one thing that does this. This one thing caused this. That's not how medicine works. There's usually many factors involved. And so you could have low-key autoimmune dysfunction. You could have low-key malnourishment. You could have low-key thyroid disorders and hormonal dysfunction. You could have be using a GLP-1 that sort of like pushes it all over the edge or shows it. Now, all of those things tend to be helped with GLP1s, but there's a breaking in period for people. This is why I say go slow and low. All of these things can be true at once. So, you might have I look at it this way. You've got four or five prongs coming in or six even, you know, coming in. The gut could be compromised. Let's talk about that. You could have gut compromise. You could have a really, really bad gut infection. You could have parasites. You could have leaky gut. You could have autoimmune gut, I call it, whereas chronic low-key inflammation in the gut. Um, we see this obviously most blatantly with inflammatory bowel disease like Crohn's and ulcerative colitis. But we also see it with a lot of IBS, a lot of people with just like, oh, I get diarrhea, constipation. Like, there's sometimes an immune component there. And there's always an immune component in my opinion to everything. Um, you can't you can't dissect out a piece of your body and say, "Well, the system isn't involved." It's all it's all one thing. It's all involved. That's why I take a comprehensive approach. I lay out a comprehensive approach inside the GLP-1 Done University for that very reason because it's a comprehensive approach. Um, but anyway, you could have a bunch of different things going on that would potentially lead you down the road to losing your hair. And so, and I there's probably many I haven't even touched on in this episode, but many things can be true at once. And so working with somebody to help you, mold, I think mold exposure can be huge. Lyme disease, any chronic illness, and those are, in my opinion, chronic conditions. So any chronic illness. I just saw a gal on Instagram. She had a terrible situation occur after uh the birth of her child. And I can't remember exactly what, but I mean, she almost died. It was bad. I think she got sepsis. I think she got body weight. I can't remember, but it was severe. And I was like, "Oh my gosh." And then she had maybe, you know, she battled it out. She survived. She I mean, she was like, she couldn't talk. She couldn't walk afterwards. It was horrible. And she got through it. She lived. And she's rebuilding her health. She's walking again. She's talking again. She's posting again. And then all of a sudden, like six or nine months in, massive hair loss. Like lost half her hair. And she was talking about it. And I commented and I said, "Dear, be kind to yourself." like you just went through a massive stressor. So this could be something like COVID, you could get a really severe illness and then all of a sudden many months later all your hair falls out. So like a big wamping stressor, not just lowkey stress drip, right? We we think of stress as like the sort of chronic low-key drip. But some people just have a massive wham. That's what child birth is, right? Is it the hormones after child birth or is it just the stress of birthing a creature out of you? Right? That's a big deal. Growing and creating and pushing out a another living being. Five, six months later, massive hair loss. So, be kind to yourself if it's happening and just know that you are now on an investigative journey to find the solution because there's not one solution just like there's not one cause. And I think a lot of people are living in mold and don't know it. You can't get away from it. In fact, going to Arizona, the inspections I've had done on multiple buildings, black mold is the thing in Arizona. And I'm here in Oregon where there's a lot of moisture and wetness. So, we get different kind of mold. It doesn't seem to be the kind of mold that wants to kill you as aggressively as the molds that grow in the desert, but it is like low-key wants to compost you. And part of that is going to be your hair follicles losing their vitality and, you know, your hair falls out. So, it could be a myriad of different things that you're contending with. You maybe just had a wamp of maybe you lost a job, maybe you lost a loved one, maybe you went through a bad breakup, maybe you know you could lose a baby. I've seen this. It happened to me. I had a miscarriage. I've seen it with many patients where they had a miscarriage and then their hair behaved exactly like it would have if they had birthed a child. And it's so unfortunate. They go through the same process. Is it the hormones shifting? I'm sure that's part of it. Is it the stress of losing the child? I'm sure that's part of it. So, you know, be kind to yourself when this is happening and take my mom's advice where she always tells me, "Oh, honey, don't stress out about this or you'll make it worse." Right? You have to start doing some investigative work. And hopefully I just laid out the bulk. I would say that's and I you hair experts out there, chime in, please, in the comments. If you're on YouTube, let me know. Um, but I think I've hit most of the big flags there. Uh, I want to make sure there's nothing else I want to tell you before I leave because I made a big long Oh, I want to talk about minoxidil briefly. Minoxidil can be used topically or it can be used orally. Uh, there's finer. I have not used that ever because I have heard horror stories about people using it and having um it's like finasteride syndrome. So, I'm not going to get into that here. You can look that up. I'm not a fan of it. Minoxidil orally. The reason I've never used it is because it can cause hair growth everywhere. It's actually was developed as a anti-hypertensive blood pressure medication and they started using it orally and finding that it would help regrow hair but you can grow hair everywhere and I just don't want to become a furry beast. So I have not used it although I have considered it and I would if I did use it I would use it probably in a micro dose. Then there's topical minoxidil. And the reason this is important is because when you first start using it, this is something you have to really commit to. It takes a ton of time. It is not something I have been able to commit to. I have tried and tried and tried. I don't like the way that it makes the hair feel that it gets on. I will say I prefer the mousse to the or the foam to the liquid. Originally the female version was the same price as the male version and the female version was 2% and the male version was 5% and then all of the dermatology docs I follow online say just use the 5% cuz duh why wouldn't you? So you get buy the men's. I recently went to the store and looked and the female version was the pink box was also 5%. This was at Walgreens. The brand the generic brand name was also 5%. So, I don't know what's going on there, but just to let you know, look for the 5% is the going uh info out there advice from the dermatology docs I follow online. And the foam is preferred because the liquid can get everywhere and if it starts running, you're going to grow hair wherever it runs down to. So, people will get like be messy with it and not careful and they'll get hair growth all the way down here and start looking like a werewolf. So, be careful about that. You can use it on your eyebrows to grow back your eyebrows, too. I've seen some people apply it with a toothbrush. I've seen other people do dermal needling, micro needling with it. So, there's the stampers, the ones that you can like dial the depth and you stamp. I like that better for the scalp because when you start using a micro needle that's round and you roll the scalp, you can actually create some damage around the hair follicles. And so, I like the stamper one. You can buy these on Amazon or wherever. Um, obviously use the cleanest, most sterile technique that you can. So, look that up. I'm not advising you, but this is just what I do and what I've seen other people teach. But you can do that in combination and you wouldn't do that every night. You would because of the way that your collagen regenerates, you would do that every couple of nights or maybe once a week. You can piggyback on top of your uh topical minoxidil with like a retinoid, like a topical tininoan or an over-the-counter you the ones you use on your face, a retinoid, a retinol, a retinaldahhide, all of those. I'm not going to get into that, but whatever you use, your retinol that you use on your face, you can use on your scalp. I've seen and and heard advised. So, lots of different ways to go about this. I would definitely get with someone who knows what they're doing and have them guide you through this. But just know that Minoxidil topically a takes a long time. B there's actually a shedding phenomenon that happens a few weeks in. So you're you're you think you're doing yourself a favor by growing your hair and then all of a sudden a bunch of hair falls out and it's because of the way the minoxidil impacts the hair follicle and the life cycle of that and the regeneration or however the hair follicle again I'm not a hair doctor the hair follicle uh does its thing and goes through its cycle you will have a hair shed and so people freak out and panic and then the goodness comes later. So, it's really an arduous commitment that I have not committed to. That said, the other reason I have got not committed to this is it can kill your pets. Topical minoxidil is super toxic to pets from what I've researched and most importantly cats. So, if your cat licks any of what you've handled or your fingers, if you leave it on your fingers or they lick your scalp or I'm concerned because I know some of you are going to gross out, but my haves loves to sleep right by my head on my pillow or next in the space between my husband and I's pillow. And I'm worried and he kisses me all the time. I'm worried he's going to lick my head or my forehead or lick my pillow. I don't know. I'm afraid that he's going to get minoxidil somehow into him, ingest it, and I don't want to put him in harm's way. So, minoxidil, like that really concerned me, and that's probably the biggest reason why I haven't been consistent with it because I don't like the way it makes my hair feel around the area. Like I said, I don't wash my hair every day. You can wash your hair more often if you're having hair loss. I have learned that you actually don't want to go long periods of time without washing it. You would think maybe you do, but hair washing can really help with the hair loss. And so more often than not, so maybe every two to three days was what I was advised instead of waiting three to four days. And then you can use ketoconazol. Niserol shampoo has ketoconazol in it. Topical ketoconol has been shown to improve hair loss. Now I really don't know how leaving that on for 5 minutes and then washing it off is going to do much of a job, but you can even have ketoconol prescribed topical ketoconol. So I have played with that a little bit. again, I don't love the way it makes my hair feel and so then I end up with like a weird part or like greasy hair and then I have to wash it again. So, I've been really lazy about my topical applications. So, that's a that's an issue. Um, but all of these things have data behind them. I'm not making any of this up. This isn't any sort of like, you know, woo woo. We do have data a bit on I think rosemary oil and there's a lot of natural companies out there promoting their natural tonics, their hair elixirs and serums and all of that scalp I should say elixirs. I've played with those. Again, I haven't been consistent enough to see if it really works. But I've heard some people online say that it really has been helpful, but then again, they were promoting the product and sharing an affiliate link. So, I don't know. You know, I try to always bring you the absolute like I will I will cancel contracts with companies if I don't get the result I'm looking for with a product. Just know that I have canceled hundreds of thousands of dollars in contracts because I'm like this isn't working the way it was promised or I have am having a reaction or something. And so I just haven't had great luck with any of the hair lines. But that doesn't mean they don't work and that they don't work for you some people they seem to work for. So I'm not throwing anyone under the bus. It's just again it's consistency. If you're really committed to the process and you're going to do it diligently like every single day, you'll probably get some results uh with a lot of these and if you don't, you're not going to you're getting visible results is a just a practice in patience when it comes to these topical applications. There is PRP. I've had mixed results with PRP in younger women who've had tremendous hair loss due to stress or mold exposure or um you know like postpartum things like that and they're they have normal healthy hair follicles. They're just having some hair loss for whatever reason. We can definitely boost hair growth with PRP and it's injected and it's extremely painful. I don't care what anyone says having needles put in. I've never had a done. I refuse, which is weird cuz I normally let somebody do whatever it is that I am inflicting upon a patient. I will always try myself because I will be my first guinea pig. That is my rule. I cannot bring myself to have needles put in my scalp. I have such a sensitive scalp. Like I said, as a kid, like definitely a little bit on the spectrum. And hair head scalp sensitivity is big on my list. This is why I had short hair for so long. I cannot imagine. I don't even like wearing ponytails. I wear my hair in clips because even just having a ponytail in when I take it out at the end of the day, it is so painful to get my hair to drop back down, especially if it's a couple days dirty. It is so painful for me. So, these girls that like put their hair on their head and like put them in some kind of donut thing or a sock and roll it up really tight and then put a bonnet on and come out with these big beautiful curls the next day. I tried that once and I I was literally in tears the next day trying to get my hair to come down back to hanging downward. It was so painful. My hair follicles do not want to be messed with. So, I have not put any needles in my scalp. That said, I have helped a lot of women in that category and it has worked. I have helped young men in that category. I've seen a lot of hair loss, male pattern baldness in younger men. Usually, these guys had metabolic dysfunction and and or a lot of stress and or were drinking a lot. It was usually all three. They were drinking a lot and or they were having a lot of stress. So like medical students etc. and or they were having some metabolic dysfunction probably from all the drinking and stress. I have abated hair loss in many men not from injections from good naturopathic treatment from good comprehensive holistic care. I have I I like I have great results with high blood pressure. I have fantastic results with abating hair loss and I have fantastic results with migraines. Those are like ringer like winner winner chicken dinner. I can I nail those every time. And knock on wood, even my husband when he came to me, he had a big circular patch in the back. Now, that type of balding, I would not say PRP is helpful for at all unless we catch it right early. But usually, again, then I have to treat them completely holistically. So, I'll add that if you're going in to get your hair injected and you're not addressing your overall health, I think you're really missing the boat. If you're getting your face done, if you're having your like there's genital PRP injections that people do, your vagina and your genitals are attached to the rest of your body. Your scalp is attached to the rest of your body. It something systemic. Something needs to be one of the many things I just mentioned very likely needs to be addressed in conjunction. Otherwise, that treatment is not going to take. So, you're going through pain and you're spending a lot of money. So, I'll leave it there. I never just injected their scalp and sent them on the way and said, "Good luck." like I either counseledled them that we need to go deeper or we did go deeper, but at least I let them know like full disclosure, there's probably something bigger going on here. Um, but we I think when we're talking about patterns of baldness, the receding hairline, usually we can get that to abate and grow back if we get it early, men or women. The balding on the back of the head, which I see less in women, I have seen it, but more in men, I can usually abate that. I cannot reverse that. I have had no luck reversing that. If you have clinically and your doctor, awesome. I have not had great results unless we catch it very much at the onset. And again, I'm treating them systemically. So my husband as the example when I met him, his was going. It was actively balding and we stopped it, but if he has a big dose of stress, it gets a little bigger. So we actively stopped it and I measure it and I keep tabs on it and it seems to be holding. So, I'm hoping he doesn't lose any more hair cuz he has the most beautiful hair and the most beautiful hairline and the most beautiful like front of his hair is so beautiful and so I like McDreamy so cute and I really hope that uh none of that goes away and it would be really hard to have a hair transplant on that area because you know when you have gray hair or silver hair like the way that your hair is growing like some of it's dark and some of it's light and you really can't just plop a section of hair back here up there and have it look right. You know, it'll look like completely out of color. So, it kind of, at least from what I understand, it's a life of dying your hair, which I refuse to let anyone dye their hair in my house anymore. So, um, PRP, there's stem cells, there's exoomes, there's all kinds of stuff that you can inject up there. You can use topically, you can dermal roll in. There's all different therapies out there on the market. You can do some research for folks in your area, but just heed my warning. You cannot do that. Like, you have to get to the root cause of why your hair is falling out first. Please, because these are expensive treatments and they're painful. Get to the root cause of why your hair is falling out because it will continue to fall out. So, even if you do something and it starts growing back, if you continue with those behaviors or you don't figure out what's driving the hair loss, you will continue to have hair loss. And so, it's kind of a moot point and you go through all of that for nothing. The last thing I will add is having your hands on your scalp daily. This is something I started and I think it really helped. Two things I did. I started using a product called New Wash. It's by a company called Hair Story. I have no affiliation. I have no affiliate link. I hope they will make me an affiliate someday. They won't let me because I'm not a hair stylist. But I started using it's a it's a creaming a cleansing conditioner. So, it's really creamy. It's a cleansing conditioner and it does not have a shampoo component to it. You put it in, you put a little water on it, it gets a little bit soapy, but not really. And you use this cool scalp brush with these like Oh, it's the best. You guys, you can find these at Walgreens. They have like the silicone um nubs on them, points, so it's soft on your scalp, but like pointy, if that makes sense. Other shampoo brushes really hurt my scalp because I have a sensitive scalp. This one feels so good. So, you use that for 5 minutes and then you rinse it out. And I do that, like I said, every 3 to 4 days. I've really liked that. I feel like my hair stopped falling out. Part of my hair loss problem was autoimmune. I have psoriasis and so I get scalp psoriasis and that makes I mean I'll lose like whole circular chunks of hair when if that gets bad. It only got bad, really bad in and my life was hell because I was being politically targeted by the um current where the the administration at that time which we now have data like it's come out it's come out in Congress. It's come out all over the place that they were targeting individuals who were pushing back against the co narrative and I am very certain I'm on some list somewhere. So, I was having a lot going on those few years, but particularly 2021, 2022, my life was hell and I started getting these circular plaques of psoriasis and I started losing I going completely bald in those areas. It was terrible. So, on and off used this uh new wash stuff and then really recently got into it when as my hair got longer and I really like it. So, that's one recommendation that I will make. And then the second one is the brush that comes with it. You can either buy it from them or you can buy it at Walgreens for like much cheaper on Amazon. And I'll put a link to one off my Amazon store. I love it. I'll put all of this on my Amazon store. Actually, I love this brush so much. I use it every single day. So, every single night, I either use that or I use a different brush that I have and I make sure that I give my scalp some stimulation. So I particularly in this area where I feel like my hair is thinner, I really give myself some great scalp stimulation just to get blood flow. So when I say get your hands on your scalp, you can do that with your fingers if you want. You can use your nails and scratch it. I mean gently of course, but whatever it takes to get blood flow and stimulate. Wherever blood flows, things heal. So I want my hair follicles getting all the blood they can. Exercise is also a big one. And then making sure that you do some kind of stimulatory action to your scalp regularly every other day, every day, whatever. It's it's not just a massage. It's like I'm I'm getting in there with something that actually stimulates the tissues. I'm not scratching myself. I'm not going too hard with it. But that's been I think very helpful for me to be honest with you. And the last thing is your tension on your ponytails could really be causing you hair loss. So, a lot of girls that get the hair extensions, I've never had hair extensions. I'm not opposed to them. I've just never done it. The hair extensions, the all the hair clips, the tight braids, the tight ponytails, you will start to lose hair. Look at some of these supermodels who wore their hair sllicked back. I think Naomi Campbell has had quite quite a bit of hair loss due to extensions. She's come out publicly with this. So, and the tight ponytails that she would wear. So you can get tension alipcia basically where you lose a lot of hair that way. So be careful with how tight you're pulling your ponytails, especially you young girls. I know it's a look right now to do the part and slick it really tight, but just be careful how you're doing that, how long you're wearing those and how often you're doing that because you can start to get tension. My hair part here does not look the same as if I part my hair over here. So, if I part my hair on this side, the part does not That's how my friend was like, "You're not going bald. There's just you've got too much wear." I had my part over here and it was really thinning out. And I think it was just cuz it had been there for like that's where I parted my hair my whole life was on this one side. And I think it just sun just the stress of being of exposure, right, would potentially lead to hair loss. So, speaking of I want to add one more thing. Um, this is my hypothesis. When men especially, especially young men, start losing their hair, what do they do? They start wearing hats all the time, right? You never see them without a hat. I think that lack of sunlight on your scalp could potentially be a driver of hair loss. And I think it's under researched and it's under talked about. And I think that wearing a hat all the time and shrouding your head, and I know this is what happens. I see it in older women who are losing their hair. I see it in young men who are losing their hair. Everybody puts a hat on all the time, but having a hat on all the Now, we don't want to have our scalp burn, especially if you have white hair, like my scalp is way more sensitive to sunlight now than it used to be because I don't have dark hair anymore. And particularly your part line, and I do put a little sunscreen in there if I'm going to be out for hours and I will put a hat on if I'm getting a lot of sun exposure on my head. But just the natural daily act of getting sunlight that we get you know we go I always counsel you to go outside get some sunlight in the morning go outside get some sunlight in the or you know midday gets you know 20 minutes of high exposure to your skin 15 20 minutes we're not burning we're just getting our sunlight for the day our dose and then in the evening as the sun's setting I recommend another visualization of the outside being outside in that light so you're getting three very different types of light and rays. And I'm going to have somebody on to talk all about this, but getting different types of light on you throughout the day, I think, is absolutely critical to being a healthy mammal. I think when you wear a hat all the time, you might be hurting your hair follicles. That's just my hypothesis. Something to consider. So, red light caps, I didn't I I would be remiss not to mention that. Uh I don't think the red light LEDs do very much from the research I've done. It's not in the right wavelength. Uh, the red light laser caps. I have a red light laser cap. It was very expensive. It was by prescription only. I don't know if they sell to the public anymore, but if they do, I'll do a whole podcast about it and I will share because and I'll share an affiliate link with you guys because I think a laser cap, it does have data and I think it helps me. So, I wear a laser cap every couple of days. I also would like to believe that maybe there's deeper penetration than just the scalp and that I'm going maybe into some impact in my head. I'd like to think that, but I use this laser cap every probably two to three days. You don't want to use it every day. It gets pretty warm. So, a laser cap, the manual stimulation can be helpful. Getting adequate light on your scalp, not burning it, not overexposing it, but actually getting adequate light on your scalp, I think, can be helpful. All of these things potentially could be helpful. The biotin supplements I'm not such a fan of. I don't I don't see good data linking biotin supplementation to hair growth. Again, could it hurt? Yeah, actually it could. You could OD on biotin. There's I'm not OD and die, but like you could take too much biotin and it's not good. We don't want to take any B vitamin in excess. B vitamins are like a concert orchestra. They need to all work together. Um, there's other supplements that I've seen sold like there's the Neutrifold and they kind of won't tell you what's in it. Some people say yes, some people say no. Some people swear by it, other people say it didn't make any difference. So, that's up to you. Uh, the other thing that I have seen cause a lot of hair loss is in bodybuilding competitions. I've seen I've had a lot of patients in that realm that women going to do like bikini competition or bodybuilding competition and through that process after it's all done because of the extreme weight loss and the extreme cutting that they have to do to get down to that lean mass and just paper thins you know the fat layer and the skin are just you know very very thin. I've seen hair loss come subsequently from that and again it's it's the stressor of it. So it's like few months later six months later all of a sudden they lose half their hair. I've seen that time and time again. Interesting fact about that crowd is it's so bizarre. They come to me completely wrecked, hormonally wrecked. They're amenorhea. They're I mean it's bad. Their hair's falling out. Wrecked. And we rebuild them. And almost every single time I get them back on track, they're like, I'm going to do another competition. So, it's kind of like moms. I have so many moms that I treated and postpartum absolute dumpster fire. Like they fell apart completely postpartum physically. We rebuild them. We get their pain down. We get their hormones balanced. We do everything. And then the second they feel better, they're like, "I want to have another baby." And I'm like, "Oh gosh, this was so hard to get you back online." So, I don't know what it is about human beings. We seem to forget our pain and trials and tribulations. But all of those things, anything that leads to hair loss is probably not a good idea to keep doing if your body's not handling it well. I'm not saying stop having babies, but some women have a really hard time with child birth, and some women have a really hard time with, I guess, bodybuilding competitions and extreme weight loss. So, you know, either build yourself up really strong before you go put yourself through that again, or maybe consider that, you know, that hair loss was telling you something. It's It's a warning sign. I'll leave it at that. So, I think that's it. I think I've literally talked about everything I could possibly think about with hair loss. I hope this has been helpful. I'm not giving you any medical advice. I'm just telling you what I have learned along the way. Things that I have uh sorted out with specific patients myself. Like I said, this is personal. I've I've gone through it. I'm I'm currently in the oh my gosh, I'm middleage. Am I balding moment? Uh so, I may have to start parting my hair on the other side and I'm going to keep using my laser cap. I really feel strongly that getting enough sunlight is going to be just a complete game changer for my health completely when I get to Arizona. I I'm banking on it. I'm literally moving there so that I can have more sun. Like that's the biggest driver for me. Um I think getting away from all this dampness and cold like in Chinese medicine, damp is not damp energy is not great for you and it's just too much dampness for me here. I don't have enough heat and vitality that way. So lots of things to consider but again just know it's a warning sign. The root cause is often multiffactoral and there are definitely solutions. You just have to find somebody who's going to be a good investigative worker for you and help you sort this out and you're probably going to have to make some lifestyle changes. So, I'll leave you with that. If you like this podcast, please head over to your favorite podcast player. I prefer Apple Podcast because that seems to be what helps get the word out. But if you could rate, review, and subscribe, it would help me immensely and it would help get the word out and so more people could get some good common sense knowledge. I'm really trying to give you guys a different level of value than other podcasts offer. A lot of podcasts just interview experts. I do that and I have expertise myself and so I'm trying to download my brain on just about every topic I could think of that I know something about. I'm not going to talk about things I don't know anything about. That's when I'll bring in experts. But I really try to bring you guys value so that you can become empowered through education. Because if you know better, then you do better. And nobody can take that away from you. And nobody can tell you otherwise because hopefully even if you don't agree with everything I'm saying, it cues your interest and you go start doing some research yourself. And that's really it, right? like the more that I can empower you to start looking things up and really diving in and you know go past page three of Google, get get deeper into things and learn to take the time and the discipline to read up on things and don't just believe everything you see quickly scrolling through Instagram. Um I hope it piques your interest enough that you start to learn more because the more you learn. My mentor always said see one, do one, teach one. And I'm hoping that if I can empower you, you can do some more further research and you can empower yourself, find out what the truth is for you, talk to the experts that are in your world, maybe your doctor, etc. And then you go teach somebody else and you pass that forward, right? Maybe it's your kids, maybe it's your spouse, I don't know. But that's the goal. So anyway, love you guys. Thanks so much for coming on this wild ride and I hope this was helpful and I'll talk to you later. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcasttina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthc care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice. diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.