Oxytocin is this great bonding hormone, but beyond that, it is a hormone of longevity, of immune support, of cognitive brain support, of cardiovascular support. There's so much that we are just finding out about really the far-reaching powers of oxytocin as a neuropeptide hormone. You are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina show. I'm sitting down with my friend Dr. Anna Kbeca. She joins us today to discuss all things oxytocin and vaginal health. You may know Dr. Anna as the girlfriend doctor. She's a triple board certified and fellow of gynecology and obstetrics, integrative medicine and anti-aging and regenerative medicine with over 30 years in the space of functional medicine, sexual health, and bioididentical hormone replacement. She's the best-selling author of three books, The Hormone Fix, Keto Green 16, and Menu Pause. Anna and I always have the best time when we chat and she certainly held nothing back. I think you're really in for a treat on this one. So, let's jump in. Dr. Anna, thank you so much for coming on the Dr. Tina Show today. We are friends. This is a great conversation that I'm about to jump in with you and I'm so glad you're here. You and I are both fans of oxytocin and you are the expert and I have been waiting to get you on here to have this conversation. I realized I was supposed to have you on last year and then uh I think I got sick or something and I had to cancel. So, this is such a critical it's part of the signaling peptide hormone orchestra that I love talking about, but I have saved this conversation for you. So, we're going to talk about that. We're going to talk about vaginal health. We're going to talk about uh topicals around the vaginal area and how important it is and maybe how we have some different thoughts than maybe the going conversation. And we're going to jump into all of it. >> Yeah. So oxytocin is actually the most important hormone in our body. I consider it the queen mother of all hormones because when oxytocin's imbalance, everything else falls into order. And um and so we look at this like when we think of oxy oxytocin, we want to make sure we're not confusing it with oxycodone, the pain relieving hormone. But oxytocin, many women have received this in childirth. They receive ptocin and that is exogenous oxytocin. That's pharmaceutical oxytocin that we inject to help stimulate labor. And naturally, when we're in labor, we produce oxytocin. It stimulates uterine contraction. It stimulates milk let down. And it's part of that hormone that when you get through that child birth, and I know you had a traumatic child birth like experience, but you get through that child birth experience, all of a sudden like you're like, "Oh, maybe I can do this whole thing again. Maybe, maybe not." But oxytocin is that like you look at this child and you're like, "Oh my gosh, I am bounded to this child. I will protect this child with my life." And there's a feeling of love that goes beyond anything that you ever experience. The same with like oxytocin with a love partner, with with um sexual stimulation, and you're like, "Oh my gosh, maybe I really didn't like this guy, but now I have this great orgasm. I could see myself with him." So it can be a little misleading sometimes, but you know oxytocin is this great bonding hormone, but beyond that it is a hormone of longevity, of immune support, of cognitive brain support, of cardiovascular support. There's so much that we are just finding out about really the far-reaching powers of oxytocin as a neuropeptide hormone. Yes, this is the I think of it as the hormone that we get when we get and give hugs, when we cuddle with our children and our loved ones. Um, like you mentioned, I think this is why sometimes women will bond onto a man that they maybe were just having a fling with, you know, and it was supposed to be some kind of casual fling and next thing they know they're feeling serious emotions. That's oxytocin at work. And I in my practice was you know predominantly regenerative injection therapies and pain. So I used it a lot there for people just in the realm of pain and trying to calm down the nervous system. So >> yeah and because it's a potent analesic that's like the part of the like even with child birth naturally forget the pains of child birth and it's an amnesic too. So between the analesic and amnestic you're like oh yeah yeah you remember only when you're in the midst of it again or something like that. But you know that it's it's a powerful analesic. >> It really works well too. It it I think that with pain, what's interesting, I have chronic pain and I treated a lot of pain. I mean, that's pretty much what I did for a career. And we're supposed to forget our pain and sometimes our nervous system gets mixed up and we don't forget our pain, you know, and it's a central sensitization kind of windup central nervous system phenomenon. And I have found and that's a really terrible place to be because then you're in a loop and it's a very difficult loop to break or cycle to break. And I have found oxytocin to be phenomenal for breaking that loop and getting people to a place where it's not that you don't it's not like a opioid where you don't care about the pain. It's a calming down of the nervous system enough to move through the pain is how I've tried to explain it to my patients and what I've experienced personally. But can we can we take too much of it? Because I I love it. I love it. Well, and and for FDA regulation purposes, we'll say it's only, you know, exogenous oxytocin is only approved for stimulating labor and delivery right now, but it has so many far-reaching purposes, right? So, off label, we've been using it for sexual function, for pain, for nervous system, and PTSD. And what you're like the whole concept of what oxytocin does, it's like repaving those ruts in the and potholes of the roads of our life. It does go a long way to that. And the question, can we use too much of it? This is where I think we can get into some trouble because it's a power like if we're making oxytocin, it's just going to feed on itself and you're going to make more and more oxytocin. But if we're getting it exogenously, we may downregulate the receptors long term. >> Yes. >> So, we want to take breaks. And pulsatal use of oxytocin, I think, is the safest way. >> Yes. I use it when I need it. I I use it to get out of a rut, literally. So, that was a great way to describe it. I use it when I We have it compounded. This is a prescription item and uh it comes in in in the compounded world. comes in different various delivery systems. But I actually just like I do with GLP1s, I really like to keep everything as low a dose as possible and help patients utilize it again only as needed because like you said with receptors, we got to cycle things so that we don't, you know, get receptor desensitization. But it really can smooth out those ruts. That's a nice way of putting it. Kind of kind of gets you over the hump, if you will. And if you add it like again off label but like oxytocin nasal spray with some ketamine in it for PTSD trauma when you're deep in those ruts that and also for pain that combination of the two is like I always describe it as if you think of skiing on Christmas day at the end of the day there's like all these tracks in the snow but you look at that first snowfall that fresh snowfall before anyone gets out there and it's this lovely coating of snow and I think that's what the you know definitely oxytocin does and the combination of oxytocin with ketamine too. >> That's a great idea. Yeah, I hadn't considered that. I do find that oxytocin, like I said, it breaks that loop. It breaks that cycle. I recently I just did a podcast that should have come out by the time this is recorded. And it was me talking about the pain trap is how I refer to it. And I was really stuck in it. I had a pretty aggressive adjustment on my midspine and it lit my whole I've got some kind of funny wind up pain phenomenon. It lit my whole spine up and I was in a bad spot for about a month and I could not get out and I was in so much pain that I couldn't think straight. I probably should have reached out to you or any of my friends and asked for, you know, guidance, but I was just, you know, when you're caught in it, you can't breathe and you don't know which way to turn. And I finally caught a breather and I immediately thought of oxytocin. And so I got my hands on some and it really it doesn't take the pain away. It just and I found this with patients too. It just it opens a window of it's like you can finally breathe. And I'm such a fan when folks are in pain whether it's acute pain or chronic pain if they can move if I can get them moving then we get a window of opportunity and that usually will start to lead them down the path to feeling better. And I think oxytocin has such a nice impact there. Does it what is it doing in the brain in those cases? Because it almost feels like the one of the reasons I love GLP1s is because it quells neuroinflammation and it gives you some neuroplasticity. Does oxytocin have any capacity like that. It does the same thing. Yes, it has the capacity to do the same thing. And again, I always think in our great in the best pharmacy in the world that is our own body. you know, when we can produce oxytocin the best way. One of the things I you know, and it's hard when you're in those deep deep dark pits of despair and pain and emotional and or physical pain to to tap into that. But there are powerful ways we can do that, too. And I think remembering that there's always one next right step that we can take to lift ourselves up or say pull ourselves up by our bootstraps, you know. >> Yes. So, what are what are some of those ways? because I I have a whole list of them, but I want to hear your list, too. >> First was, you know, my whole my whole experience with oxytocin and actually the oxytocin cortisol um conversation like when cortisol goes up, oxytocin goes down. When cortisol is up for a long time, it signals the parventricular nucleus to suppress cortisol. It's not that your adrenals fatigue, but it's a suppression of cortisol, but you're in this dangerous place physiologically where cortisol is low and oxytocin's low at the same time. And that's the physiology of disconnect. Physiology of burnout. You know, say I'm burnout. Physiology of you go into a restaurant, you see a longtime friend, but you pretend you don't see them. Like, no one sees me, I see no one. Isolating, right? Yeah. No more trips to the grocery store during hight traffic hours. That's it. you know, let me instacart instead. And >> so that's low oxytocin and low cortisol compound. >> That is Yeah, I think it's physiology of divorce, physiology of depression. There's a lot that comes into this. And so when we're in those and and I learned from my own PTSD experience and that sense like I love my husband, but I don't feel love for him. I love my work. I don't feel like going in to the office again. I you know that complete burnout in in many aspects of life. And so as I started working on you know this this like awareness of this and started to work on increasing my own oxytocin for me it was going for walks on the beach. Um it was prayer and meditation and journaling. It was you know really um deepening my spiritual awareness and growth and things that I enjoy doing and that with nutrition addressing lifestyle. I mean, it's it's never just a one-sizefits-all, but that with these other components really made a physiologic difference. So, then I was like, okay, I can work out. I can, you know, do, you know, I can focus more like brain and cognition just lit up for me at that point. And there so the different ways we can do it, like I talk to my patients about this all the time, like what are you doing for fun? What do what do you love to do that makes you happy? You know, do you have a pet? Because pets are a great way to increase oxytocin. Do you garden? Do you photo? I think I have a patient yesterday in my office. She's 72 and she just had a um a uh a surgery for uh kidney cancer and and she's you getting to the gym, but she can't, you know, she like struggling through her day, very depressed. So, what do you enjoy doing that you haven't been doing for a while? And she loves photography. Like, can you get behind the lens? Can you do something like that? And that can make a huge difference. For one of my patients, it was her starting up dance lessons again. I mean, I fixed her like hormones, nutrition, detox, all these things that we do. But the thing that moved the needle for her was beginning dance lessons. And so, like things that you enjoy. And I sometimes will prescribe My Big Fat Greek Wedding. That movie is an oxytocin surgeon movie. >> Mama Mia, too. I think Mama Mia is a good one. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. >> Is this is this why people love going like is this why girls love getting together with other girls? Like having girls time? I feel like women gathering together is another oxytocin booster. >> It is. It absolutely is. And you think about the characteristics of the blue zones or the areas where we have the longest living populations. Things that are characteristic of high oxytocin are characteristic within those communities. like having a faith-based practice, having long-standing marriages, having great family relationships or multigenerational households, getting out in nature, you know, good community. All of those things help increase oxytocin and you know, like, okay, well, what is it? Is it the getting out in nature? Is it It's a combination of the things that I think, you know, when we win, when oxytocin's winning, that improves our physiology top down. So if we can elevate oxytocin, we should naturally get our cortisol to decline then. So we can use it as a lever. We can use it as a lever 100%. Like I have worked on this area now since my own like PTSD which began in 2006. And so I've worked on this and in this concept and with patients whether you know again it's always lifestyle nutrition you know we're doing with hormones and then how do we increase oxytocin naturally and then if we need it exogenously when are we adding it and how for how long but these things all I mean it really it works as a lever and if we think so much of our even post-pandemic stress or during the pandemic stress the isolation that is a you know that will level your cortisol And then plus being inside and you know flattening out or disrupting your circadian rhythm like we're doing with blue light and and EMF exposures. And so all of those things interrupt our circadian rhythm. And we talk a lot about stress management. I don't know about you Tina but when you know when I talk when I hear stress management I get stressed like my physiology stresses out just thinking of stress management. But if we think about play and I like to say micro dose oxytocin throughout your day with oxyplay. So just ways to, you know, bump up your oxytocin like we talk about five minute exercise snacks. What about five minute play snacks? And that really does move the name. And we're going to work on supplements, nutrition, all that. Circadian reset, sunrises, sunsets, but things we can do to increase oxytocin move the needle the fastest. And people feel it and their physiology shows. Inflammatory markers go down. It's powerful. You can load up a miserable person with all the supplements and hormones and peptides in the world and nothing will shift. >> So true. >> And if you can get some and sometimes we do have to use exogenous oxytocin to get the ball rolling. But it's it's really it is it's like a misery cluster. I get in it too. I get in my dark doldrums. And I was at a wedding the other day and I was I mean I wasn't you know pain is exhausting. It just like >> Yeah. sucks the joy right out of you. And I I'm at my stepson's wedding the other day and I was totally in that place that you described like I don't want to be seen. I don't want to talk to anyone. I don't I mean I'm And here I get social anxiety anyway. So here I am with like all these strangers and I and they're the most wonderful people too. I could not ask for a better group of people to be around and yet here I am feeling like and finally I don't know a song broke out. I started dancing and I just like let go and I was just dancing and my husband grabbed me. I'm going to cry. He was like, "This is called fun. Do you remember this?" And I was like, "Yes." >> And he's around itself. It does. It like feeds forward. >> Absolutely. That's that's oxytocin firsthand. That's the magic, right? It's so good. And when you experience that, there was a study done by Paul Zach looking at oxytocin in different um populations. And he studied a wedding party and and his results, his analysis showed that the number one way to increase oxytocin or the number one person with the highest level of oxytocin was the bride. And that makes sense. A >> the number two person was the mother of the bride. >> Ah, that's Yeah, I could see that. That was a happy lady that day. Absolutely. And it it it kind of breaks the dam. And then you I try to seek out fun. It's hard. That's one of the reasons I'm moving. We've had this conversation, but I have got to get out of the state because the state as a whole is like been sucked dry of joy and fun. It's not a joyous place. And when you go to other when I travel to other places that are have a much higher level of sun exposure, people are happier and there's just more joy in the community and there's the people giving you coffee don't treat you like they hate you. They are happy to give you coffee. They're happy to wait on you and serve you and be, you know, be good customer service and it's very different and you can travel around a place. I think sunlight has got to play be a huge player in this too. Like just exposure Yeah. And if you think of Yeah. I mean, exactly right. When I have studied cultures around the world, part of my research and looking at hormones and hormonal health, women as we age around the world and different societies, including some of the most warridden societies of the world, and think, okay, what how are they tapping into their joy? Well, first of all, when you look at northern populations versus southern populations, how does a northern Englander greet you greet you? >> They're like very stern. >> Yeah. Hi. Very stern. But how does a, you know, a a beautiful, you know, Peruvian greet you? Hugs, kisses on both cheeks. It's a hug and a kiss. Well, what creates oxytocin? That hug and the kiss. So, societies that have incorporated that already know like, okay, this is a way to build trust, to create relationship, and it's like already a high oxytocin moment. But then physiologically, vitamin D is needed for the oxytocin receptors to work. Uh, yes, there it is. >> There it is. >> Yeah. And I think probably infrared. I'm I'm sure that we'll find out later that the different components of sunlight, just the rays, you know, are going to be a big player, too. I I it's a bonding hormone. And so I can see how in cultures where it's high, those societies probably feel much more bonded overall and much more like a collective than you know we when we I think CO was that was the first thing I thought of actually when they locked us down. I was in Oregon which was like crazy town for years. I still to this day people are afraid to get near you and I'm a hugger. So, I remember I think it was like 2021 and I was flying and I was at the airport in Portland and I'm standing next to a guy and I wasn't standing on my circle and I got too close to him. I was like on my phone just happy to be going on a trip, you know? I was I think I was going to Mexico with my husband. So, I was like in a good mood and uh I got too close to his circle and he freaked out and I just thought, "Dude, I you I just was thinking like you should just let me hug you right now. You'd feel better." Probably right. Yeah. plus get a little of my microbiome on him, you know, like share some good healthy microbiome, he'd feel better. But it really it really is a killer. I think that's interesting to play into the most recent research. I'm sure you saw they came out with like of all the longevity movers community strong community was the biggest, you know, component of longevity period like the most powerful at the end of the day. So I think this is it's got to be oxytocin. >> It's got to be oxytocin. Austin and David Promeater, their most recent book was on that concept of community and how important that is. And that is honestly the building of oxytocin. And then when I looked at these um you know the some of these war torn areas, what are things that they had in common? They have multigenerational households. They celebrated everything. Birthdays, they celebrated weddings for a week. They celebrate name days, anniversaries, everyone remembers everyone. community like there's big dinners, family dinners together that are, you know, that are just, you know, mandatory, but no one would ever think of not showing up, right? So, they build this in the stress. So, oxytocin can trump out that stress cortisol and their dancing and music is part of their lifestyle and in their language. A lot of gratitude in their language. And I like I want to, you know, I always say we're creating my own blue zone communities by incorporating the these concepts as, you know, okay, oxytocin as a as a primary um focus like what we can do to play more, have more pleasure. We talk about pleasure deficit disorder and I was talking with someone recently um Tess Masters. She was interviewing me and we were talking about well she was talking about masturbation. And I was like, well, we don't like to use that word. First of all, masturbation. No, we don't use that word. It's a self-pleasuring. Self-pleasuring. And she's like, self-pleasure as a meditation. I love it. And I'm like, oh yeah, self-pleasure as a meditation because you know that is we have a deficit especially when vitamin D is low, stress is high, but we think about um bringing pleasure into our life in whatever forms how that increases oxytocin and really creates a sense of stability. And I will share with you like in my own experience this is so with this caveat, you know, I recently did a 92-hour dark retreat. I wanted to see what you know with no like no hormone, nothing else I took with me and um so just basically in the dark because in that setting your body starts to produce more melatonin which then will convert to DMT and in that from high levels of melatonin we make oxytocin too. So when you see people come out of these doc retreats and they're like all this compassion, I feel all this love. Like in that setting with no disruption, our natural inclination is to make oxytocin, not cortisol. Like you don't come out stressed out of those situations. You come out with, you know, these amazing visions from the DMT. This sense of oxytocin love and and this compassion and that's within us. And I think that's a really powerful experience. challenge you, Tina. >> I know. When you I immediately got anxiety when you told me you were doing that. I was immediately like, I'm so scared of the dark. Isn't that funny? I have such a issue with the dark. Um, but then I seek it. And the older I get, the more I seek it. I I think there's a lot to that. I think there's a lot to the fact that we women are driving with cortisol all the time. It is destroying all of our hormones. It is destroying our hormonal millu overall because hormones to me are always a finely tuned orchestra and we're all so different. That's why I'm so just kind of I don't want to say anti but this whole like everybody gets estrogen. Estrogen for everyone, you know, on the internet that's happening right now. I I I love estrogen and I want to ask you about actually estrogen and oxytocin. I have a note because the two have a very similar impact on me when I take them. But I think that the it's the orchestra, right? Like you can throw all the hormones and all the peptides at someone like I said earlier and if they are driving with cortisol, which I am guilty of it. It it destroys your joy. It it causes you to isolate. I turn into a hermit. I don't want to talk to anyone. I get, like I said, I get social anxiety. That's all coming from I know it is. It's all coming from that high cortisol level and those stress levels. And I think that that's uh to great detriment to us as women. It's really like the opposite of what makes our hormones the happiest. So with that, how does oxytocin play into the rest of our sex hormones? >> Yeah. So it's the most powerful hormone of our body. The way I like to give the example, I like to um think of like a university setting. Think of all our hormones, estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, DHA, melatonin as the students at the university. Each student has their own passion, purpose, roles, skills, right? And so they all have this great, you know, potential. And then you have the professors of the university. I think those as the major regulatory hormones, adrenaline, insulin, and cortisol. And when they're not functioning well, like that professor that comes in hung over or high, turns out the light, the student body is in chaos. So when they're not high functioning or in balance, there's chaos. And then the mother hormone or the dean or president of the university is that oxytocin. >> Ah, >> that that trickle down effect. So I as I looked at this and studied this and you know like well if I go straight to oxytocin then it's going to be a lot easier to manage everything else right. So certainly we want to balance cortisol and the acidity cortisol creates. Cortisol creating that hydrogen ion secretion across the renal tubules of the kidney creating that acidic urine. Acidic urine for women and men long term creates bladder irritability, cyitis, urinary tract infections. you know it can increase potentially incontinence but we know an acidic urine is associated with cardiumabolic diseases too long term. So, but it makes sense physiologically because like beyond nutrition, nutrition is a key factor, but I think cortisol plays an even bigger factor in this and you know in in our overall health but cortisol being acidifying oxytocin is alkalinizing and we think you as a OB/GYN in pregnancy that amniotic fluid has a pH of 8.5. We are birthed in an alkaline environment, right? That is key. And how much does oxytocin play a role in that? I'm not sure but I I look at that oxytocin as alkalinizing and I studied this Tina through like now it's 11 years ago when I was 48 and I was having this permenopausal or second menopause so to speak because I'd had early menopause at age 39 and reversed it naturally conceived my daughter that I was told I'd never be able to have when I was 41 and then at 48 started to be full-on in the throws and and I did I experienced what my patients would come and say, "Dr. Anna, I've gained 5, 10, 20 pounds without doing anything different." Right? And as a young doctor be like, "Sure, you're not doing anything different." But when it came to me, I wasn't doing anything different. I had gained those 20 pounds. And I was like, "Okay." So, I went strict keto and found out like I didn't feel good. I was anxious. I was more irritable with my kids. I was like I called it keto crazy versus keto flu because I knew how to defend against that. But I checked my urine pH and it was as acidic as the pH paper read. This time in my life, I was a single mom with a girls in in in different ages. One in a wee one in elementary school, a middle school girl and a and a teenage high schooler. And like I was I mean there was chaos in my life. But that was such an aha moment for me when I realized basically I was peeing acid. I'm like no wonder I feel like I'm breaking down. I can't I don't have energy. I have no muscle. I have no focus. So I started in with the alkalinizing foods and so that how my keto green or keto alkaline program was born. But I started in with the alkalinizing foods, the bone broth, the minerals, the beet greens, the kale soup and all that good stuff. But I realized I was checking my urine pH all throughout the day. The mornings I did my, you know, gratitude journaling or my prayer meditation or walked outside or on the beach, my urine pH was more alkaline all day. So that's where I went in to study the renal physiology between cortisol and oxytocin. Like what was this effect? And it's that seessaw effect until cortisol is too high for too long and then it's like a broken seesaw. But you know, so that was what really opened my eyes to these shifts in physiology. And then as you increase those, you start creating those oxytocin increasing habits in your life. And and my hormones were dialed in in the time. But, you know, that's why I say it takes more than hormones to fix our hormones. So, when we hear these hormone conversations and we want to throw estrogen at everyone, like, whoa, whoa, whoa. There's a right way and a wrong way to do hormones. And, you know, and of course, there's many different forms we can use. So, what's the safest form we can use and deliver it the safest way for an individual? But more importantly, think of this hierarchy. When we think oxytocin is the most powerful hormone, pregnenolone and progesterone are the hormones that decline from age 35 to 55 by 75%. And those are our mother hormones downstream from which we make DHEA, testosterone and estrogen in that order. So if we like start top up with supporting our adrenal glands. So I use a lot of adaptogens work on that alkalinizing balance and you know I get criticism in this area but I have now worked with thousands and thousands of clients have them check and getting that urine pH you feel healthier you feel better. You're really like you're in control and you're aware. It's like wearing a continuous glucose monitor. gives you an idea when your thoughts are creating high glucose versus in the same thing that that stress etc can create acidic urine pH. So you start going beyond your what you're putting in your mouth. And I like how you say it's not what you eat but what you absorb. And that's emotionally too. The energies you absorb around you and the emotional states that you experience. But by shifting by shifting that you really can balance hormones. And I don't like the conversations around um medicalizing menopause no more than I like to medicalize puberty or suppress a woman's puberty because why would we suppress a girl's puberty with birth control pills from an early age of 13. I know it's done quite regularly still but like that is interrupting a normal physiologic transformation and menopause is a transformation. So we want to do it you we want to do it as healthfully as possible and every sign or symptom that comes up is a invitation to ask deeper questions to shift lifestyle and mindset a little bit more. >> So then I look at it that way. I go top down with my hormones in that order. Adrenal um pregnenolone and progesterone DHEA estrogen testosterone and estrogen. >> Same same. That's that's if you don't address the adrenal glands and thyroid's in there usually somewhere. If we don't get that handled as a foundation, then the rest of it people just bonk. That's when I say peop when I say that on my podcast like you're going to bonk. It's because you you're good for about 90 days throwing, you know, throwing estrogen cold at someone, but if their adrenals are fried or their thyroid's not functioning, it's it's no good. It's it's not good. And I like what you said, too, about not medicalizing menopause. I think we should dive into this a little bit because I think there's confusion. I give hormones to whatever age person is in front of me based on what they need. So it doesn't matter if they're male, female. I test their hormones. They could be in their 20s, they could be in their 30 because you could have a guy in their his 20s who has been hit in the head multiple times due to impact sports and he's got no testosterone, right? So these are important hormones, I think, to get folks. I've always just treated folks to a physiologic symptom relief level. That's more important to me. Yes, I test labs and yes, I track, but what's more important to me is can I, you know, because my practice was predominantly pain, muscularkeeletal pain, regenerative injection therapy. So I was always applying hormones as a way to modify and mitigate symptoms of pain. So if I could ameliate their migraines or ameliate their spinal pain, you know, axial pain is very specifically different than extremity pain and it they drive off different highways. And so if I can get their pain to shift in a positive way, then I know we've reached a good titration point in that hormone. And my goal with menopause was always to just and where I'm at right now, like I'm menrating regularly, but I still need some hormones. And I the goal is just to ease through the transition. If I'm on the other side, will I always I'll probably always take some hormones just because I like the longevity aspect, but I try to keep my hormonal intake as low as humanly possible because I'm just trying to nudge myself. Not too low, but like just, you know, what's that sweet spot? And each one of them has a sweet spot. And it's really hard to hit that sweet spot with each one when you are stressed the f out. So, you know, like it's like trying to hit a moving target, even if that person is metabolically optimized. They're doing all the things. They're eating great. They're exercising. They're sleeping. They're having good intercourse with their partners. Like, everything's good, but we still are trying to hit a moving target because cortisol is that like spike, you know? It's like the It's I have a tire on my car that just leaks all the time, no matter how much air we put in it. Every time we go to take a long drive, which every drive I live out in the country is a long drive, I'm like, "That damn tire, I got to get it fixed." That's the cortisol, right? And so oxytocin, I think, is You're right. You're 100% right. Like seeking joy and trying to find more happy, fun, joyful things in life. And hugs, long hugs. I make my husband hug me for 30 seconds. It's not, it can't be shorter. If he's if he hugs me and try and like goes to do something else, I'm like, "No, no, you must stay." We are We are and I try to explain to him the more that you nurture me, make me feel safe, make me feel beautiful, make me feel happy, the more my hormones will respond positively and you will get the beautiful happy wife that you deserve. If you don't, if you say things that are snarky or throw a wrench in the plans or whatever it is, you know, because sometimes he's a little stinker, um, you're gonna get a bitter, pissed-off, [\h__\h] woman with terrible hormones. So like because we I think the woman in the family and this is part of that menopausal shift is I have a point to this is our transition is really driving how the whole family feels and the health of the whole family and the whole operation. Oh completely completely and I do want to add in that you know you like you can't fix a hormone hormones without fixing your gut. And I like how you always say gut is ground zero. So, I want to just put a nail in that because that's so critical, especially for hormonal health and everything else. But I I will say too that, you know, during that time when I was like 48 and like dysfunctional and trying to figure out all this stuff, I um you know, I remember like my kids were always late to school sometimes, like we'd be late anyway, so I'm like, "Okay, let's stop for coffee." I mean, it was really dysfunctional. And then as I got my physiology, as I really empowered oxytocin into my physiology and got keto green, as I like to call it, um like I remember my girls being ready for the bus before the bus was even there, like giving me a smile and a hug before they went out the door. And it you as a as a woman, your physiology changes and your children really receive that. And um and I've witnessed that in my life over and over again and in my patients lives as well as they got healthier. Like I remember one woman, Kathy, 67 years old. She used to come home from work in the um in the um uh renal lab. She was a dialysis nurse and she would just be on the couch and her, you know, beautiful horse was out there for two years without being ridden. She hadn't she was thinking about selling it. She didn't associ like associate with her family. Her family didn't associate with her. But as she shifted her physiology, she wrote me. She goes, "Dr. Not only do I love being around my family now and I'm riding my horse again, but my family loves being around me. It's a shift to your entire household. And we say put your own oxygen mask on first. I mean, this is the real experiential transformation of that. Yeah, for sure. 100%. If you're the glue, especially if you're the glue. I'm the glue in my family. I'm the glue that and I when I'm not good, nothing's good. And it's like multiple households of people depend on me to be good. And if I'm too stressed out and it really is sometimes I have to intervene with exogenous oxytocin to get things back up to a level really like I said it kind of opens it's like opening the curtains up. It's like opening the curtains up and it's sunny outside and you're like I'm going to go outside and then you get outside and you're like I know what to do next. You know it's just that first step of moving yourself in the right direction. And I'm as guilty of it. I'm just sharing all this because I have been through the ringer this past summer for whatever reason and I um that pain that pain loop that I was trapped in that and it's still there a little bit but man it really was an alarm that something was wrong. >> I I was so succumbed by it and I thought man something is off. Something is really off here. I've got I've got to change course drastically or I'm not going to get the leg up. And I'm glad to hear that part of that antisocial tendency is due to this because I'm like, "What's wrong with me? I used to be so social and now I'm like, I don't want to go anywhere. I don't want to see anyone." >> Well, you know, I think that's where physiology drives behavior and then we can use behavior to drive physiology, too. So, it's like when you got up and danced, you were self-medicating. >> Yeah, totally. >> You look at it that way. And that's beautiful. And men and women receive oxytocin differently, too. And it's it's an important like understanding for especially during sexual intimacy. This is I work with a lot of couples for sexual health and I teach in my program sexual CPR. The number one secret men need to know about women if they want to have them initiate sex more and be more receptive to sex. It's that the effects of oxytocin. So for women it creates intimacy. But with a guy I remember a couple they were in their mid-30s and he's like she has great orgasms but she never initiates sex. And I was like well what do you do after sex? And he's like, well, thinks about it for a second and he's like, I roll over and go to sleep. I'm like, ah, the benefits of oxytocin on men, the effects of oxytocin on men. I'm like, well, let's just do an experiment for two minutes. Give her two minutes. the amount of time it would take you to, you know, lace your shoes, brush your teeth, shave, give her two minutes to like just really be in that moment, that oxytocin bubble, and share what you like about each other, what you loved about the experience, what you know, you know, just your your plans and your just share with her for two minutes and let's see what that does. And it totally shifted her response, too. Like she goes, I was surprised. I knew I needed something more that I was really surprised and I'm initiating sex now. And so that like just that little shift of just understanding those physiologic differences and then being able to voice what we need um really opens a whole another level of healing, bonding, emotional capacity that um we were missing. >> Yes. Yeah. It might just be spooning silently for a few minutes and letting letting you know her bathe in that oxytocin. I I will note that men listening to your wives or your partners talk even if she's rambling that's foreplay. >> That is foreplay, >> right? That that's a big one. Like just just listening. And my husband is so smart. He'll say, "Do you want me to respond or do you just need to be heard?" I'm like, "I just need you to listen. I just need to off gas this." And then I my cortisol comes down and my stress goes down and I'm much more primed to go. And it's uh and then just spooning, just a few minutes of cuddles, just rubbing her back. My foreplay is literally having my back rubbed. Like that's it. Just just I just lay on his chest and he rubs my back sweetly. Not not in any kind of sexual way. Just sweetly rubs my back. And that's that gets me going. And it like that's oxytocin. >> Yep. Yep. Absolutely. And I want to go back to like when you were talking about when your husband like if he says something critical and I look at it as are you throwing cortisol at me or you throwing oxytocin at me. Are you throwing at a are you throwing cortisol or you throwing this at me for a fight or you're throwing to hold space, trust and respect each other. So like cortisol versus oxytocin, I think of it as a dial, you know, like those um diagrams like those half circle diagrams and straight up and down being neutral, one side being cortisol, fear, hate, anger, distrust, and one side being oxytocin, love, respect, trust, you know, that emotional capacity like where is my dial in this conversation? How can I, you know, take a deep breath, get stimulate my vagus nerve, get out of my sympathetic into my parasympathetic and hold space for this conversation respectful way? Maybe it might not be right at that time. They may be like, "Give me an hour a day and I'll come back and have this conversation." But, you know, like to hold, you know, hold these um, you know, to really be aware of what we're doing to ourselves and the other person when we, you know, if we're throwing cortisol versus oxytocin. >> And then withholding oxytocin, even just silently withholding oxytocin from people. Like my husband, full disclosure, if if he if we don't have intimacy and intercourse like once every two days at the at the I mean we can't go more than two days otherwise he gets unruly and he gets very difficult to deal with. He also needs a lot of outside time. He's a farmer so he needs a lot of outside time. He needs to get dirty and work hard and exhaust. He's like a kid gota if he doesn't come home like dirty and worn out at the end of the day. He we you know he's harder to deal with. But if I when he just starts making no sense to me, I just grab his hand and take him into the bedroom and he he's good for like two three days after that. >> That oxytocin needs that oxytocin. >> It's incredible. Like he doesn't become docile. He just gets so much more manageable. He's like the Tasmanian devil otherwise and all of a sudden he just gets really manageable and I'm like this is amazing. So ladies like don't you know underestimate the val like we get it different ways. I'm just trying to back up what you said there is we get it men and women receive it make it with different stimuli. So >> yeah. >> Yeah. >> That's funny. >> So true. I think my ex was every three days. So you get unruly like okay. >> Yep. Time's up. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's just my life is a million times easier. So it's not a big deal. And then I get my back rub. So which is a big part of it, right? Like >> you get your oxytocin boost too. So it's Yeah. >> I always tell women too and sec and when it comes to intimacy and sexual health and that reigniting that pattern, it's like it's like your pleasure speaking up for what you like. And the first secret I I teach women is that you know, do you know what his number one turnon is? What's the number one thing that turns on guys when they with intimacy with their partner? >> When she's turned on. >> Exactly. Exactly. 100%. It's her turn on. And I want every woman listening to hear that because it's for you. Your pleasure is his pleasure and that your partner's pleasure. And that's like that's a phys physiologic boost versus our mirror neurons saying I I don't want him to see the side. I'm you know I have too many roles here. I'm not comfortable with this. I don't want to be here. In our head, I'm making, and this is myself, past history, making my grocery list, carpool list, to-do list, all those things in your head, they're mere neurons. And so, you know, like what are you transmitting? So, just to be in your body and that training, that exercise of being in your body, in the bedroom, outside the bedroom, what brings you pleasure in the bedroom, outside the bedroom are ways to improve your physiology, your health, your longevity. >> Yes. Yes. And I know alcohol is not good for us, but sometimes a glass of wine can help you get there. Whatever it is, if it's I I have been through periods where I was just like so stressed out that I had no interest in intercourse at all and a little bit of Well, it's kind of like when you give a breastfeeding mom a little bit of beer and her the hops calms her and her breast milk lets down, you know? It's like that kind of thing where it's just like maybe and maybe it's beer. Maybe just a little bit of something. I'm not promoting alcohol, but you know what I'm saying? Like if you got to get sometimes it's a gummy, you know, whatever whatever works. But like whatever gets your cortisol to come down so that you can go have some intimacy and stay present in those. I'm the same. I'll start checking out mentally and I'll start like twiddling my hair and thinking about something and I'm like no no come come back to my body cuz it's too easy to disassociate out of your body when you're stressed out. you know, you got to come back in and you got to be just sometimes I'll just focus on like smelling like what do I smell? What do I feel? What am I, you know, what am I looking at? Like making intimacy an event that's healing that's that's, you know, that I come out of it with better than I went in kind of thing like. >> Yeah, it completely. It was a a client of in my sexual CPR program. We had a live Q&A recently and it was a um 72-year-old woman and she said, you know, like she had found that that glass of wine and that CBD gummy is all she needs for receptivity. That's it. It was like her perfect thing. I'm like, who am I to judge, right? No, man. The gummies, you never know. And you can I like I like anything that I can um just break up into something smaller, you know? So I it's it's all dose dependent. It's you know so it's like whatever whatever just kind of and I don't know maybe it's just a little maybe we need to do a little maybe it's using a little oxytocin. It's just whatever it takes to get that cortisol to come to that place where I can like engage. I it took a drink to get out on that dance floor. But once I got out there the bliss just started blowing out of my head. So you know whatever. Alcohol is not good for you folks. Um okay. Okay, so since we're talking about sex, let's talk about vaginal health and transition there because you have such a great take on this and I agree with you wholeheartedly. I, by the way, learned so much from you. Every time I listen to you talk to you, I I watch your lectures everywhere I can find them. I just recently was pleasantly surprised. I bought the Harvard Women's Conference recently and the first lecture was you and I was like, "Yes." So, you made a great case for this there. >> Thank you. Yeah. Well, I think like, you know, we talk about, you know, want our health span to equal our lifespan. What about our sex span? And I think vaginal health is essential for life. Now, I'm a gynecologist, so my perspective is a little skewed, but I'm a gynecologist and a woman and I've suffered with problems. And let me tell you, when the vagina is not healthy or the vulvar vaginal area is not healthy, I mean, just think a yeast infection or a bladder infection. Life is miserable. And we don't want to deal with it in our 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s. Now I'm 59, let alone when I'm 60, 70, 80 or beyond. Like that is not the time. So an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. And vaginal health is so important overall health. And I will argue Dr. Tina that I consider vaginal health even as important as or if not more important than dental health. And gynecologist dentist. >> Heck yeah. A thousand%. Yes. A thousand%. I can do without my teeth. I've had my vagina go south on me. It's not fun. I I'll I'll preface this. So, I had atrophic vaginitis when I was trying to I I was in school. I was doing both programs concurrently. I had a little girl at home. I was in a horrific marriage that I needed to get out of and my vagina just shriveled up and left the the scene. It was gone. And then I got cytoolytic vaginitis which is essentially you probably could explain this better but the way I understand it is it was basically an overgrowth of my natural lactobacilli. Everything became very acidic and painful down there and my vagina completely rejected my husband. And I have seen this with patient after patient because I you know me I'm a straight shooter with patients. I'm like when when I can't get somebody out of a pain cycle sometimes I have to ask them the hard questions like how much do you hate your job? Do you hate your spouse? like what what do we do what are we dealing with at here at home? Like what's going what's driving this cortisol drain that's driving the pain? And uh I can't tell you how many and you've probably seen more of this as a gynecologist, women and men separate and all of a sudden 99% of her vaginal issues disappear. And it's not just cuz his flora is off or they're not work, you know, synchronizing. It's like it was a mismatch and now they have a happy vagina. So I went through a divorce. It was terrible and traumatizing, but my vagina came out the other side very happy. All of my issues disappeared. The flower came back, you know, it had shriveled to nothing. I was 33 and I had complete atrophy. Like, it was horrific. And the flora balanced itself out. Everything got great. And I can happily say it's been great ever since. Um, I do use a little topical, different hormones here and there, which maybe we'll get into, but I wholeheartedly have had my vagina check out on me. And it was hell. It was hell. And I I had no joy in my life because of it. So, I am I'm with you. I Yeah. Save the vagina, right? Save the vagina. Thank you. Thank you. I say the vagina is essential for life. I made everyone at that Harvard conference say it, too. But it is it is so it is so true and it like you know and also what you experience you know if the upper lips aren't talking neither will the lower lips right so like if you know our body can't separate the head from the body right and we're all connected and and that affects like when we're under high stress that affects our immune system when we're traumatized that affects our immune system that's going to affect our microbiome all throughout our body that includes the vagina and stress hormone like what happens is it plummets our our our progesterone and pregnentoolone gets suppressed and that's like these are hormones of life and nourishment and rebuilding and it's not just a hormone of pregnancy and it's not just a exogenous hormone to give if you have a uterus like with or without a uterus. We need you to make sure we've optimized our progesterone and pregnenolone levels. I mean it's critically important and not talked about enough. And so when it comes to vaginal health and all of these, you know, all these issues from um atrophic vaginitis to uh vulvadenia, lychen sclerosis, urinary tract infections, incontinence issues, anal fissures, hemorrhoids, I mean clitoris to anus, honestly most important real estate of our body. Let's keep it healthy. Committing now on this podcast to focusing on vaginal health forever more. So um so we want to look at that and also as our like the thing the changes with time because of hormonal changes with time we lose the elasticity muscular cell muscular growth and capacity the elasticity and the folds and the glandular secretions of the vagina. If anyone's experienced dry eyes, dry vagina is like basically the same reason. Loss of those glandular secretions and those glands are in the vulvar vestibule. So or the vaginal vestibule, the opening the out you just outside the opening of the vagina. It's rich in these glands which will atrophy at time decreasing your natural secretions which contribute to an acidic vaginal pH is what we want. It makes sense for the vagina to be acidic. This is an opening to our womb, to our body, right? This is an opening. So, we want an acidic pH to kill off bacteria, parasites, viruses, etc. And um and so it makes sense that it's that way. But it's also because of the healthy hormones and secretions that our vaginas, you know, um releasing and and the vulvar vestibules releasing these glands. Bartholin skins glands are are key. And this relates directly to the vaginal the microbiome of the vagina. So the bacteria the healthy bacteria of the vagina which is I always tell a client I can tell your overall health by the health of your vagina for sure. Right? But when we think of the gut microbiome we want that high diversity. But when it comes to the vaginal microbiome we really see healthy being a predominant lactobacillus species. But as the vaginal pH starts to creep up, become more alkaline, we get associated with more urinary tract infections, bacterial vaginosis, a fishy odor, mal odorous discharge and um an increase in the diversity of our gut bacter I mean of our vaginal bacteria which also contributes to overgrowth of HPV. We see an increase in HPV with a higher alkalinity and the more diverse vaginal microbiome. So like like to tell a woman we don't even need to do a papsmear or look in your vagina after a certain age or after menopause. It's it is not good medicine. It is malpractice in my opinion. And you know being able now to test for vag healthy vaginal bacteria is key. There's labs that are looking at the vaginal microbiome and being able to give probiotics for the vagina. I'm coming out with one soon that is specifically designed with these strains that are potent for vaginal health and restoring that hormonal balance to the vagina. So your body's naturally increasing these glandular secretions again. And of course like till we die. Pelvic floor exercises. Always do those till we die. >> Yes. Yes. I am a big fan of Pilates and kettle bell swings because they really force you to pull that part of your cylinder up and in and keep it active and strong. And I half the reason I strength train. Half the reason I exercise is so that I have a really healthy pelvic floor. Like having a healthy vagina matters a lot a lot a lot. And the the healthier It's funny when I got into Pilates, I was coming out of a really bad back injury and my Pilates instructor at the time, she said, "Watch out. you're gonna really start seeking out intimacy with your husband. Like you're gonna things are going to turn on and lo and behold like you get good pelvic floor integrity through movement and suddenly the vagina wakes up. It's all turn. >> It's all together. It all works together. And then you're so right like having good integrity down there, good tissue integrity. I had a a blip of time. So, like I said, my background was in all regenerative injection therapies. And I happened to have a patient come in who had lyen sclerosis and I was doing stem cell procedures for muscularkeeletal complaints. And she said, "Can you put stem cells in my vagina because I heard about this potentially being helpful?" And I said, "Sure." And she was a naturopathic doctor, so she was really healthy and she knew about her gut health and all of that. I think looking back, she desperately needed she's very lean. She I think she desperately needed some HRT, but wouldn't hear it. And uh we treated her and whether it was PRP plasma or stem cells with PRP both were effective. And then I started getting this whole following of people coming in from all over the world. And in most cases of lychen sclerosis there was severe GI dysfunction and severe bacterial overgrowth. Like I would see a lot of candida, a lot of IBS, a lot of IBD, just all kinds of stuff. But also, there was a significant amount of trauma in their history, like emotional trauma. And in most cases, these women had been abused in some capacity. And it was pretty awful to hear their stories cuz I it was heartbreaking, you know. Um, but their vagina was responding and turn. And it was very interesting. There would be some kind of like sexual assault in their teens and then years later when they hit menopause, their lychans sclerosis would show itself. And anywh who, I got out of that because I didn't love I didn't love it. It was it was a very difficult population to treat. There's a lot more to lyen sclerosis than the lykan sclerosis. You know, there's, as you well know, there's just a whole integrative approach that needed to occur that I couldn't always do with long-distance patients. And all that to say, um, once it starts going, it really starts going. And a lot of times it would start with something as simple as what you're describing like menopause or some atrophy from stress or you know it was just this feed forward mechanism into suddenly a place that was very difficult to get out of. So, I'm a big fan of like you said, if that I think that it's really a sign of vitality, a a happy, healthy vagina and breasts with good heft and good tissue integrity mean a lot as far as what your overall health is doing. >> Well, I think that, you know, I have a patient I think about her right now. She's now 67. She's been um you know she's been using one of my products, my Jelva product, which is topical DHA implant stem cells for now since 2016. She was the first one in my practice and um she a couple years ago she called me. She goes, "Dr. Anna, my gynecologist says I have the vagina of a 25-year-old." I'm like, "Well, there's no better marker of aging than that. Let me tell you." And another thing, when she was um 64, she got married. She had been um widowed for 20some years and she got remarried and and their sex life is good. And she goes, I attribute this to the health of my vagina and what we've been doing together because it's made entire difference in my life, my intimacy, my relationship with my husband. I mean, it's just made a huge difference. And I think we we underestimate that. We think, oh, well, that's just the superficial. It is not. It is deeply meaningful and essential and designed like the clitoris. Well, what else is it designed for but our pleasure? We don't want not want that to atrophy. We have to keep that healthy and using topical DHEA on that area makes a huge difference in that sensitivity, blood flow and that pleasure marker. So, absolutely, you gave me some jova and I use it. I keep it in my in my drawer and I put on all my face stuff at night after I take my shower and then I use my I use my Jva down there. Actually, I use it on my lips too. My my lips up here. I used it on both my lips and then I used it actually per your recommendation. I couldn't get my eyes to heal after my upper bluff. So, I started using it there and it worked great. So, uh it's a great product. I highly recommend people check it out. Why is it important? This is the conversation I wanted to end with is why is it important that we consider more than just estradiol or estriol for the vagina? Well, so this is the thing we know. We know studies way back in to the 90s that vaginal estrogen is safe and effective and including in women there was a um a study published in early 2000s that looked at 12-year retrospective history of women with breast cancer and vaginal estrogen and we can say okay vaginal estrogen is safe. But early on in 1999, I had a patient come in who was 63, had a history of a diagnosis of DCIS and had like lost all her sex drive, was had atrophic vaginitis, and she came in to me and she was quite intimidating. She was a CEO of a biotech firm and here I am a southern Georgia solo physician, right? And she's like, you know, Dr. Anna, I'm a woman of the 60s. My sex life is very important to me. I I feel like I'm dead down there. It hurts when we try to have sex and I'd rather die than live this way. Help me. And I took that really seriously. So like beyond estrogen, what could I do to really replenish and rebuild? Because if estrogen only works on the mucosa to help with that superficial moisture, what could I do deeper down? And because she was a CEO of a biotech firm and a scientist, we researched together DHEA, testosterone, what are the safety even in breast cancer, even though she had DCIS, not breast cancer. And so we looked at this together and you know and I put her on testosterone and DHEA what did it did sometime for some period of time with troies and and then topically transdermally to the vulvar vaginal area because it's the external area of the vagina we don't talk about but we think of vaginal estrogen but what is that doing for the clitoris? What's that doing for the vulva that is rich in blood vessels and nerves and very sensitive? How is that helping the anal tissue decreasing your risk of risk of hemorrhoids and anal fissures? So using that topically clitoris to anus made like all the difference in her life. And the other thing with her because she was 63 when I first saw her. I did a bone density scan repeated it 10 years later and her bones were you know the same as they were 10 years prior which you would expect at 73 to have lost some bone being postmenopausal and not on oral estrogen therapy or anything else. and perfectly. And then I saw her another so 19 years after I had started working with her and she was on crutches. I was like, "Oh my gosh, what happened? Did you fracture? What happened to your bone?" She goes, "No, I was skiing the black slopes. I'm good." I'm like, "Okay, that's what we want to do." At 82, she wrote her memoirs. Like, so I've been able to follow my patients over time at at different ages and see the health and benefit like restoring your vaginal bulbar health, sexual vitality, bladder health makes all the difference. The other thing that we don't talk enough about and it's certainly not on social media but urinary tract infections the asymptomatic and the symptomatic urinary tract infections and in menopause and beyond like that becomes a real issue increasing incontinence um causing cyitis causing bladder frequency decreasing your quality of life. But if we keep the urethal tissue, so the opening to the urethra and the urethral tissue, just like we keep the health of the vagina and the opening to the vagina and the vulvar tissue healthy and with of course pelvic floor exercises, we reduce that incidence of urinary tract infections preventing it. I had a a a girlfriend whose mother was a stroke patient and she was bedridden but was having constant was on you know antibiotics regularly. I said, "Start using Jelva and just just have her wipe it on and or have, you know, and do that daily." And she didn't have another urinary tract infection. So, there's something to improving the health of our microbiome that works to help defend us from these things that we, you know, think, oh, it's expected at our age to have incontinence or it's expected to, you know, have, you know, to run to the bladder. I'm like, no, >> no, >> no, it's not. we can do something about it. And and urinary tract infections or incontinence is the reason women, you know, get up in the middle of the night, fall and break a hip, right, on their way to the bathroom. Yes. And that's >> that's the straw that breaks the caregivers's back when there's incontinence involved. And I have four daughters. Do you know you know this, you've met a few of them. >> You have them any reason. >> You have beautiful girls. You have a whole gaggle of beautiful girls. >> Oh my god, they are. And I'm like, I don't want to give them any reason to tuck me away in a nursing home. keep my bladder, vaginal health, and urethal health. All the above, clitoris to anus healthy, quality of life, and keep my brain right there with it. >> It's a big oxytocin boost the brain. So, Yep. Yep. No, it's a big deal. I I have seen chronic UTI in young women, right? As I'm sure you've seen plenty of. And our first gumption is like, oh, they must have changed sexual partners and you know, some maybe they're not wiping from front to back or what is it? And these are women in their 20s and 30s. And often I started paying attention. Often they had just gone through significant weight loss. They often were very very lean or underweight. And I was like, "Oh, you're just missing estrogen period, you know, and hormones period because you don't have enough body fat at all." And then the other group I saw treated a lot of folks in their 80s for joint issues. And I would, this was terrible how often I saw this. I would often see patients that I knew very well that I had been with, you know, they'd been with me for years. They'd been with my mentor for decades. I knew these people, and I would watch them start to get low-key dementia, but it would always coincide with low-key chronic UTI. >> Absolutely. >> And they were often asymptomatic UTI. And so, I would test them because I'm certainly not going to put a needle in their joint if they have an infection in their body. So, I would do have them do a urinary dipstick in the office and it always came back with lucasytes. And I just started seeing this correlation of like asymptomatic UTI, low-key, and their family's like, I think they're going crazy. We have to put them in a home. They're losing their marbles. I'm like, I think they just need some hormones on their hoo-ha to start. Like, we need to start there. You know, this is this is important. >> Completely. Completely. And and yeah, not to underestimate that, you know, even asymptomatic UTI can cause neurologic symptoms and can be mistakenly diagnosed as dementia. you clear that up, you know, all the ways we do functional medicine perspective and you know, then they're sharper than ever. And the testosterone, the DHEA topically down there, something my mentor taught me a long time ago to use. And in fact, I will often reach for that before I go to an estrogen down there. So, because like you have said and I've learned from you as well, is that we have to keep the muscular integrity. like we're treating deeper than just that superficial layer of mucosa. So, I'm excited about the the idea that this is getting some play and we're seeing a lot of talk about it on social media, but there's there's more to it, right? And uh Juulva's available over the counter. So, there's that. >> It's a clean formula. Again, use it clitoris to anus, use it on the v vaginal orphice. And the other thing too, DHEA is one of the key ingredients in it with the plant stem cells, but um it's safe for men and they can use, you know, five times the amount. I used to say 10 times the amount, but I did have a colleague who's a chiropractor use a full packet of my 7-day sample of Jva. And he's like four hours later, he was like, "Do I need to go to the emergency room? I still have an erection." I'm like, "Use the whole packet? I mean, what were you thinking?" I was like, "I thought I could use that." >> This is You bring up an important point, though. This is one of the reasons I like DHEA and or testosterone for women topically vaginally because a lot of my patients are athletic, they're fit, they're healthy, they have very healthy sex lives. And one of the big concerns with topical estrogen is, are you going to get it on your partner? So, you put it on at night and you hope for the best in the morning, but I want to put testosterone on him or DHEA on him. I want to put something that he needs more, you know, that's going to be a little bit better for him. So I I like the idea of and you can get there in all different ways. I've used all three hormones down there and you can shoot I put progesterone up there sometimes. You >> I will say this and I just wanted to know your thoughts. >> I have women who when I'm using topical estrogen I'm sorry topical uh testosterone and it's not we're not getting levels up in the blood. I will have them switch from forearms or where legs wherever they're putting it usually legs I would say uh to vaginal because the mucosa of the vagina is so absorbent and so we have to consider that and I'm not saying that to dissuade anyone it's actually a bonus like we can use the vaginal tissue to uptake the things and so this leads me to that study of est topical or vaginal estrogen being safe for breast cancer patients it kind of makes you wonder like is estrogen period sa you know safer because we are getting systemic we have studies we're getting systemic levels in the blood increased when we use topical down there of any hormone. >> Yeah. So DHA and testosterone's preference and I always like you know my patients know like if you're going to use a testosterone topical like do not waste it on your inner arms or your legs like do not waste it there. ClariS, bulba, external tissue, bonds, pubis. I mean like you know vaginal. I mean this is good. This is a good space. And if you get a little extra hair growth there, it's okay. >> Yes. Thank you. >> It'll be an easier Brazilian wax since you've been using it there. >> I love it. Perfect place to close. I love you, Anna. Um, tell everyone where to find you because you're such a wealth of information and I just want everyone to know more about you. >> Thank you. Easy to find me at drana.com. So, drnna.com. I have uh my show Dr. Tina's been on my show at drana.com/show or anywhere you listen to podcast and on social media at the girlfriend Doctor. And thanks so much for having me. Oh, I did want to shout out though because we talk so much about oxytocin. I created an oxytocin quiz. Like if we were to test someone, do you need oxytocin? You want a good questionnaire, you want a good physical exam, you know, you know, plus or minus a blood test. They're really challenging. But this quiz, and sometimes you do a challenge test with a intramuscular dose of oxytocin. Those are some things that you can do medically as physicians to estimate, does a person need it? But the quiz can give us a really good idea and can give you a baseline. So, I do have an oxy a very quick short, you know, oxytocin quiz on my website, too, if you're like, "Huh, I wonder what I wonder if I am low in oxytocin and ask yourself those questions." >> Yeah, it's a it's a great resource. I checked it out and it's great for clinicians as well who are just getting into this and learning about this for the first time. Go check out that resource because it's beautiful. Um, and you do such a good job of showing folks once once they're in your world that of all the different offerings that you have because you are there's books, there's there's all kinds of good stuff in the Dr. Anna world. So, >> mess becomes your message. That's it. >> Yes. Yes. All right. Well, thank you so much for being on. Love you so much and thank you for sharing your knowledge with us. Thank you for having me. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcasttina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have, and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.