On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, we're going to have to have a talk because I am seeing an absolute disaster unfold and I want to make sure that I at least try to intervene before the train wrecks completely. Here's the thing. All the peptides you guys are being sold by the bro science guys online. All the hormonal advice that's being slung around. All the magical GLP-1 micro doing conversation that has gotten completely twisted and bastardized. And my original messaging has been completely destroyed and sold as some kind of weird vanity weight loss situation. None of it is worth a damn if you're not going to the gym and eating nutritionally dense food and doing all the things as I call it. So on this episode, we're going to break down what all the things means. So let's jump in. You are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. Okay. So, how do I know what I'm talking about and why should you listen to me? My background is in regenerative medicine. I've been doing regenerative medicine since I've been involved in it and engrossed in it since the '9s. In 1995, I got my undergrad in biology from University of Oregon. I ended up moving back home and getting a job as a receptionist for Dr. Rick Marinelli. Dr. Rick Marinelli was a prolotherapist. He did prolotherapy. I'll explain what that is in a minute. He was also an acupuncturist, Chinese medicine, naturopathic doctor, full-on Jedi. This guy was amazing. He was doing IVs back in the 90s long before anybody was setting up these IV drip stores, right? So, all this stuff is new again. And I've been in this world forever. I was his receptionist for years. I ended up going to school. I ended up getting both my licenses, my naturopathic license, my chiropractic license. And for those listening who don't think nature paths are worth a damn, you're confused by the fake NDs out there. There's several fake NDies out there on the scene. They have big followings. They call themselves doctor. They put NDF to their name. They are not doctors. They went through some kind of online health coaching program. I did a whole podcast episode about it. You can go back and listen to that. Um, a lot of the big ones that you guys trust and love, maybe not real. Uh, there's a lot of madeup board certifications. There's a lot of nonsense going around. So anyway, I actually have a medical license and I can stick 4-in needles into people's spines and I can prescribe virtually everything. There's a few um limitations on my formulary, but otherwise I've been doing this a long time, not a fake doctor. Here's the thing. Something that Rick, my men, I'm just going to refer to him as Rick. He passed away uh in 2013 and I took over his practice. He had HPV positive throat cancer which was really unfortunate and it was really sad and terrible and I might cry as I talk about him. But he taught me back way back then. I remember 1995 him telling me to get off the elliptical and start lifting weights. And back then that was we just had like little rooms inside bigger gyms. Like you go to Gold's gym and there'd be a pink room with pink little dumbbells and all the equipment was pink and it was ridiculous and nobody wanted to be in there. So I didn't listen to him. But anyway, he was always emphasizing waist circumference, talking about how waist circumference was the key to keeping your metabolic health in order. He was talking about strength training as the true, you know, anti-aging longevity tool. He was utilizing regenerative injection solutions in injectable form for joint injections. So, we were injecting ligaments, tendons, and intraarticular. I was his assistant. I got hired to be his assistant and I followed him around. I ran his medicary which was a huge room full of supplements and Chinese herbs. I did this for years and then I ended up getting my own training obviously. I went to school. I spent years and years and years in school and I got my licenses and then I actually went out on my own to practice because I graduated in 2008 when we were in a great recession here in the United States and he was not able to bring me on at that time and be just financial reasons as you know his understudy if you will or there were official residencies available but con it's a long story but the person in charge of the residency program the doctor in charge of the residency program at my school would not give us a residency cuz she I don't even want to stir up the pot with her. She may listen to this. Who knows? But anyway, all that to say, I didn't immediately go to work for him and then he got sick and I had to take over the practice. I was suddenly just immersed in such a busy practice. I had to put the big girl pants on. Like I had to do it. He was running four rooms simultaneously. He was seeing a plethora of patients for a plethora of reasons. I came into it a bit differently because I at that point had chiropractic training which is something he did not have. And he actually I don't think like chiropractors very much. There's a lot of turf war between the NDs and the chiropractors. And I wouldn't like chiropractors either if I was only an ND. And I wouldn't like the NDs if I was a chiropractor. Not when I went to school, we didn't even know the two schools were in the same town. They were both in Portland and they did not get along. Now it's different. They all started dating each other while I was a student and it all now they're all, you know, it's all intertwined. It's great. I'm glad to see it. But I had to basically pick up the pace on this practice. And I learned very quickly that everything he had been teaching me was 1,000% true. How you eat is going to dictate how you heal. how you move every single day and how you choose to live your life as far as how you treat your body as a vessel that you need to train and hone and respect and and stay active is going to impact how any therapeutic that is applied to you works. How you respect your sleep, how you respect your obviously nutrition, how you respect your relationships and your stress levels is going to dictate how your hormones play out. Like it's all intertwined. And so sometimes I know you guys think I'm hardcore, but I'm coming from a place of extensive experience. I've been in this world a long time. I have been doing this a long time. Before that, I was very intimately interested in health. I had read pretty much every I I grew up down the street from the library. And so I would walk, I don't know, it was probably half a mile. I'd walk to the library constantly and just read every book I could on nutrition because I was so interested in it as a teenager. So, like this has been my world. In undergrad, I worked at Oregon Health Sciences University as a research assistant. Um, I mean, it goes on and on and on. It goes all the way back actually to my great-g grandma. My great grandma was an herbalist and was healing people with nutritional supplements. I guess people now today would call her a health coach, but that's what my great-grandma was doing. So, I picked up a lot of this along the way via my mom and just the way that I was raised, right? So, he was right about all of it. And it has more recently gotten very popular. And it's very bizarre because I've been beating this drum for I don't even know how long. I've been online since 2016. And I've been beating this drum. Same drum. Back then it was not cool. They were, you know, the big health influencers were telling you to do yoga and eat vegan. And I was telling people to like eat steak and deadlift. It was not popular. There was no term for carnivore back then. I mean, heck, we just had gotten the Paleo diet, really. So, these things stand to the test of time because your metabolic health ultimately is what is going to dictate your overall health. And it doesn't need to be overly complicated. And this industry has gotten so out of control. The wellness industry is so, so gross. And I'm so grossed out by what it has become. And I'm even more grossed out that I am embroiled in it. And I, if you haven't noticed, I haven't posted on Instagram in over two months. I I keep up in my stories, but I haven't posted any posts. I've just accepted collaboration on other people's posts or even on my other I have a Dr. Tina show. I have podcast Instagram. You should go follow it. It's clips from the podcast. Um, I I I don't know. I hit a wall recently and I just I I'm so tired of saying the same thing over and over again because it's not sexy and nobody wants to hear it. Somehow Cali and Casey means popularized metabolic health and kudos to them because I don't know how they did it. There are many of us who have been preaching that same same dialogue for decades and nobody wanted to listen and for a blip in time they popularized it. I don't know if it made a difference. I don't really think I I think a lot of people are just collectors of information and very rarely are they actual action takers. Very rarely do they actually go and do something with the information that they have. Uh I found this to be true with my patients. I found this to be true with my business coaching. Uh I used to run high-end masterminds to teach doctors how to go online and build a business. And same thing like people want to talk a lot. They want to collect information and read all day and, you know, just doom scroll Instagram, but rarely do they take action. It doesn't matter what peptides you're taking. It doesn't matter what stack you're taking because none of it will is worth a damn or will work for you in 90 days time if you're not taking care of all the other pieces. And I know that's hard to hear and it pisses people off, but this is just the new sweetheart on the scene. You see, I have access to regenerative things that like exoomes for instance. I've had access to that for a long time. Long before many of you ever heard about it. None of the HRT, the Women's Health Initiative of 2002 did not scare me away from prescribing. Like, I've been prescribing the whole time. I didn't just discover menopause a few years ago like so many people did. I didn't just discover hormones and HRT as part of my practice. I wasn't one of those doctors who basically practiced for 20 years and neglected to treat their patients appropriately and comprehensively because they were scared or they didn't take the time to go learn. The information was out there. The training was out there. A lot of the folks you see online today are acting like it wasn't. It sure was. You just had to go look for it and you had to be brave enough to actually, you know, have pharmacists call you and chew you out and say, "What are you doing?" Right? You had to be able to stand your ground. And so, a couple of us, Carrie Jones, Dr. Carrie Jones, if you don't follow her, myself, I mean, a lot of us were practicing this same medicine. We've been doing this a long time is my point. I'm not trying to take any credit away from or give it to myself, but like I've been in the trenches a long time with this. And I'm telling you, you give somebody thyroid hormone and if they're not doing all the things, they bonk in 90 days. You start treating somebody's adrenals and if they don't do all the things, they bonk within 90 days. You put someone on a GLP-1, if they don't start doing all the things, they are going to bonk in a similar time frame. You give somebody a cycle of peptides and they're like, "This is amazing." And they're maybe they're taking action, maybe they're not. If they're not taking action, it doesn't do a damn thing. And I have access to things that most people don't like exoomes as I was saying and even those don't work in an unound body in a metabolically unound inflamed body that's malnourished even the exoomes even the fancy even the stem cells none of it works. That was a big piece of contention in my practice was I would turn patients away. First of all, you had to literally apply to be a patient. And I laughed because people thought I was such a witch for doing that. And it was like, dude, really? These procedures are not covered by insurance under any circumstance unless you're scamming insurance. They are expensive. They are invasive. They are potentially risky. And why would I put somebody through that if they are not going to be absolutely primed and ready to receive that treatment and have the best outcomes possible? Like that doesn't make any sense to me and you've no clue the amount of [\h__\h] I took from my colleagues saying, "Well, you're not giving access to people and you're turning people away and you're you're taking away hope." I'm like, "No, dude. Really?" Like, none of the things that I do, none of the tools that I have work in a sick body. Now, sometimes we use those tools to give people a leg up to get going, but it is contingent upon them to take the reins and ride the horse, right? I can put you on a horse. I can teach you how to ride a horse, but you got to ride the horse. And I took a just it was it's just been a it's been constant. And then I got called fatophobic the other day. I got just completely torn apart in my DMs because I put that podcast out recently that this micro doing for weight loss is a total scam. I never said that. That was never my intention. And it's the messaging that's come across because of the the powers that be. Who knows? It's so so gross and you're so being scammed by it. And I'm glad people are finally speaking out about it. Go back and listen to that podcast episode. I'll put it in the show notes. It's a must listen in my opinion. But the reason I bring it up is because that's a great example of something that if it does work for weight loss, it's not going to work for very long unless you're doing all the things with it. And so we can use these tools, but it's part of a comprehensive toolbox. That's really what my course is. My GLP-1 done university. It's such a beautiful course. It's really the culmination of over 20 years of clinical knowledge and expertise along with a multitude of expert interviews and eight modules with a bonus module on how to find a doctor who treats this way. I mean, it's juicy. It's a phenomenal course. The amount of money that you guys are going to spend hunting around trying to find help. This is the fast track. It will get you there faster. I promise. It's my clinical knowledge on how I treat comprehensively and what all of those pieces are and what they really mean. If you want the free quick and dirty version, there's I have a book. It's called Painfree and Strong. I wrote it in 20 I don't know 16 2017. I don't have it on my website. You guys can go to drtina.com/book and it'll be there and you can read that. That'll get you started. But if you want the how to do it, it's inside that course. And I say this because I'm seeing a whole lot of folks with absolutely no health credentials whatsoever telling you stacks of GLP-1, you know, co-eptites to take along with your GLP-1 or they're telling you stacks of peptides to take for a glow up or they're telling you stacks of peptides to take for this and that. And I'm telling you that even with access to stuff that rivals peptides by a thousand times, you still don't get results if you're not doing all the things. The reason these people are selling you peptides is because they can, right? They can. It's the girl who lost 80 pounds herself, so now she's a expert and she has an Instagram that grew because she was talking about a hot topic and she's selling you stacks of peptides or she's selling you into working with companies that will sell you peptides and she's getting a cut back, right? She's getting an affiliate cut back when pe and you got chiropractors. No disc to my chiropractors, but you got a lot of folks who can't get their hands on hormones because they can't prescribe them. So, they're prescribing you peptides and they're trying to convince you that it's the same thing. It's not the same thing. I even saw a post by a well-intentioned doctor, I'm sure, who was talking about how comparing peptides to hormones and how they were the same in many ways. And I'm like, no, they're not at all the same in many ways. Like, they're entirely different piece. And I say this as somebody who has 30 plus years in regenerative medicine. I have been in this world of I've seen everything come and go. I have been here a long time and nothing there's no magical there's nothing magical in a syringe. There's nothing magical in a syringe, you guys. There's nothing magical in a pill. There's nothing magical in a supplement. The magic is in the gym. The magic is the work that you're willing to put in. And I'm going to explain to you in a minute why you have to go to the gym and why this part's non-negotiable. And I'm even going to do it in a way that isn't this, you know, muscle first that I normally preach. I want you to understand why you have to have the spark. the spark. The spark is what makes everything that you're taking go. And you can be on the HRT, which I absolutely think is essential. You can be on the peptides, which I think are wonderful adjunctive tools, and they are powerful. None of them work worth a damn, and in fact might go down the wrong pathways and be doing damage to you if you don't have the spark. Right? If we're putting things into a system and that system isn't prepared to manage those things, we bonk. And bonking sucks. I bonked myself a million times. I You Somebody asked me the other day, "What does that mean?" What do you think it means? It means you hit the wall. It means you were flying. Everything was great. You felt great. All the therapeutics you were using were everything was awesome. And then all of a sudden you just hit a wall and it all stops working. And it doesn't just stop working. Sometimes it backfires on you. And all of a sudden you're gaining weight and you feel awful and you don't know what's happening and you're swelling and you can't sleep and and on and on and on, right? I've seen this so many times in my patient base. I've had experienced it myself personally. I've seen it with people I love. Um I just recently, funny story, last summer, my husband, I was I was putting a ton of peptides in the boy. And finally, I just got pissed. I was like, "You are not working out. You are not upholding your end of this deal. You are not eating as well as you should. you're not doing the things that I need you to do in order for these very expensive peptides that I'm purchasing in order for them to work. And he was like, "Oh my gosh, you're right. You're right." So, we just quit giving him any and all peptides until he decided to get his [\h__\h] together, which he did. And guess what? When you apply peptides or hormones or anything else to somebody who's got their [\h__\h] together and are doing all the things, you can use way lower doses and you get much better outcomes. And it's so awesome. That's how it's supposed to work. That's why we do it, right? So, none of this is a lecture. It's just a warning because you guys are getting sold a bill of goods that I think in many cases maybe the intentions are really noble in these online influencers who are trying to sell you these stacks of peptides, but they're not they they understand the tip of the iceberg. Not all of them. I mean, we got guys like Jay Campbell who've been out there forever. I don't agree on his dosing. I don't. I think it's, you know, for the average person, the average person is pretty sensitive. He, his dosing is for the oxen, and I say this with all due respect. The guy is a genius and and puts out great content. Um, I love Dr. Seeds. I have found his dosing to be a bit aggressive as well. Um, but you know, he's teaching when when when when we're learning from people who are teaching, they're teaching kind of standard algorithmic, right? they have to give you something to go on. And so I don't I don't diss any of these folks. I just have I really have found in my practice that everybody is so individualized. Everyone's so such their own entity that we really can't take algorithms or standard dosing to heart too much. We have to go by that person. what their short-term goals are, what their long-term goals are, what's their muscle mass like, what's their age, what's their gender, what's their nutrition level, what co-orbidities they're rocking, how did they come to me, what's their backstory all the way back. What's the backstory? How did they get here? What are their short-term goals and long-term goals? What are our plans once we get them going? Where do you go next? Right? And so you're taking advice from in many cases people who have absolutely no health credentials. And that's okay because you know there's the argument that we don't trust people with health credentials. We don't trust doctors. And shoot after 2020 through 2023 I don't blame you. I never trusted doctors. That's why I became one because I was certainly wasn't going to leave my loved ones to the system. There's no version of that where I wasn't going to come in as as informed as I possibly could be. But on the other hand, you've got doctors giving you hormone doses online, which is illegal, but they are anyway. And they're giving you generalities, right? And then you've got like bro science guys who are super jacked and they're giving you different doses, which is not illegal because they don't have any lensure. So they don't they're not held to any standards. They can tell you whatever they want. But it's super confusing because you're sitting in the middle and maybe you're a 120 pound woman with, you know, an overactive immune system and maybe you're underweight and or maybe you're overweight and you're eating only a,000 calories a day. You know, I mean, there's so many variables here. Maybe you're coming into this with severe hypothyroidism. Maybe you have severe adrenal fatigue. Maybe you have a severe testosterone deficiency and what you really need is to have that hormone replaced. Right? So, there's variables here. here. And what I have found with the peptides is if you apply them too heavy-handed, it's like putting on too much makeup. Your skin literally starts looking bad. Like you just start looking weird. You don't feel right. Um I've even seen it induce internal swelling like deep swelling. So pain increases all kinds of symptomology. Blood pressure goes up, pulsations in the head and in the base of the the skull. I mean things that are concerning because people are taking the advice of somebody online and doing dosing according to some big jack jock who by all means in his community that's probably appropriate. But for us pmenopausal menopausal girlies it's a whole different bag. And so I say this with warning and I know I' I've beaten this drum, but I just felt really inclined to talk about it again today because I've had multiple conversations with several online influencers and and health professionals who are also very concerned and we're all kind of like, "What the [\h__\h] is going on?" Like, "What is going on? There's these GLP-1 coaches who have absolutely no health credentials except that they have spent a lot of time in the gym and they have rock and bods and they're trying to convince you to micro do GLP ones for inflammation." Well, meanwhile, and then they tell you they're in a cut and they start showing themselves in a bikini and you're just like, it just gets confusing and I can see how it's confusing to the average woman and they want me to give them the dose. And then actually after I put out that podcast episode, I got a lot of people yelling at me. A lot of people were super mad telling me it was my fault that this whole thing has happened this way. And no, no, no, it is not my fault. I've been very clear from the start. I can't give you guys specific dosing because that's asinine. That's simply asinine. Giving you a standard estrogen patch dose is asinine. I would absolutely 10,000% need to meet you, do an extensive health history on you, look at your labs, look at your past labs, and then we have to sit there and nudge things along. And we certainly don't start all the hormones at once. That's crazy town. Like if imagine you start a bunch of peptides and a bunch of hormones all at once, which is what a lot of these tele medicine companies are doing, by the way, you get on a bunch of stuff all at once. You start having side effects and feeling terrible and you have no idea what's causing it. You have no idea. You have no idea what the side effect is from. And it might just be that you're taking a tiny little bit too much of the whatever peptide it is. Or maybe it's the estrogen or maybe it's the testosterone or maybe it's the progesterone. We just don't know. And so there has to be an approach, a hierarchy if you will. I go through this in my course in depth and I explain each tier of the hierarchy in depth so that you fully understand so that you can go in. If you're a practitioner, you will understand things much better. You will understand your approach much better. If you are the general public, you will absolutely be better educated so you can have an intentional and educated conversation with your doctor and maybe you'll find the skills necessary and the gumption to find a new doctor who can really help you because a lot of doctors don't understand this and I can't I've tried to teach them. I try this is what the course is for. This is go get the course. If your doctor you want your doctor to know have your doctor buy the course I can't explain it all on free podcast. This is clinical information and it it takes some nuance and it's got to be higher level than the pod, right? The pod is like I got to be teaching to the general public here. So that said, there are there's a step-wise process to this that can be elegant or you can just hammer them like gosh here. I'll give you an example. I was recently uh working with a tele medicine company and I started getting really angry at my husband. Like I knew I was angry. I knew the words coming out of my mouth were ridiculous and yet I couldn't turn it off kind of anger. And I he was like what is wrong with you? And I mean I'm a little spicy but like not like that. And I realized I finally turned around my testosterone bottle and looked at the dose and it was crazy high. It was crazy high. It was so much higher than I would ever ever start somebody on. And so I share that as an example because that's the standard out there. And you are not standard. You are an individual. You have individual needs and individual responses. And if you're just I I always say there's like the super sensitive and then there's the oxen. If you're an oxen, you can take standard dosing. You can take whatever someone's going to throw at you and you're probably gonna weave and dodge right through it. Those people are usually high metabolic health, high muscle mass, um good adrenal function, super healthy people, good microbiomes, just overall really healthy folks. Those folks do tend to have some cardiovascular disease though because they tend to run hot energetically. That's the other piece. Energetics matters here. Not to get too woo, but like I assess somebody energetically before I hit them with stuff because you cannot take a low energy person and hit them with high energy treatment plans. will that's no good. That doesn't go well. And then over here we have our super sensitive Nellies, right? And we have to just sort of like trickle in the therapies and see what sticks and see what happens. And we got to do it. And it takes time. It takes a lot of time. When I work with folks, I'm telling them like this is a 9month toyear commitment before we're even going to start moving the needle. And what's interesting is I've actually been working with somebody uh with money planning around wealth planning. And it's taken us almost a full year just to get me and my business and everything that we need, the moving parts, taking into consideration this upcoming move, the moving of my businesses, all of it. It's taken nearly a year. And he was talking to me today and he said, you know, he was trying to reassure me that we were making strides. And I'm like, dude, I'm a naturopath. Like, I get it. I'm an HIV doctor. This I get it. Baby steps, right? Baby steps. And so, for instance, uh talking to a colleague today, she's got a patient who had some very concerning labs. She sends them over. A couple of us doctors, you know, like naturopathic doctors who've been at this a long time. We're all in a group chat. were analyzing the labs and basically, you know, all the information came out about the individual as far as like this is her chief complaint. This is some of the big things that I'm treating her for. Here's her labs. And then I finally said like, what is her age? What is her body composition? And how metabolically optimized is she? Cuz that to me is everything. That's everything. That's all that matters to me. If if that answer is that she's a hot mess of health, and no disrespect, but a lot of folks are just complete hot messes of health. I'm certainly not going to throw hormones at that individual first. And I'm certainly not going to go high dosing on any peptides. I'm going to baby step in. Right? So, if I do use hormones, I do them in the hierarchy that I teach inside my course. And I say this because she's a very sensitive individual. She's got a sensitive condition that where her immune system is going sideways and haywiring all over the place. She's permenopausal age. She's deconditioned. She's under muscled. She's over atapose tissue. Uh she's metabolically very unsound. She's a a mess, right? And she's on estrogen. And I'm like, well, maybe the estrogen is actually causing some problems because estrogen in a body like that, maybe you've heard me say this before, estrogen in a body like that is going to go down some really wonky pathways and it's like trying to hit a moving target and things can get super messy super fast. So, it was just one consideration and I share this because I'm not hot to trot to give estrogen to an individual like that. There's work to be done and we have to get the body optimized. This is where I think GLP1s really shine and where I think they're just a godsend and they're beautiful because they clean up the terrain so well. They clean up the gut terrain. They clean up the immune system terrain. They clean up the metabolic health terrain. They clean up the atapost. They just clean up the terrain so we can actually get to work and we can get to work much faster. This is the strategy that I unveil inside of my course inside of GLP-1 Denight University. That's why it's called GLP-1 Doneright University is because I teach you how to go through this in a process that it makes sense so that the individual being treated or you yourself if because I'm letting the general public in as of still um you know what and why, right? So that you can do this systematically so that you don't bonk and hit the wall. And it's just all of these things culminated in the last few days. And so I felt strongly that I wanted to have this conversation with you guys. And I know some of you have heard it and some of you probably already turned this off by now and some of you might think I'm lecturing, but I'm really trying to drill this home. And some people get mad and say, "Well, what are we supposed to do? You're supposed to start. Go get my book. Go to drtina.combook and read it. If you don't like reading books, go listen to all 200 and something of my podcast episodes, but that'll take you a lot longer, right?" Um, I have the metabolic revamp toolkit available as a a very affordable course on my website. You can find that under courses at drtina.com. Just right up at the top, courses. You can go to drtina.com and click the word podcast on the upper tab and it'll take you to a page that's AIdriven and you can put in any word, any condition you're thinking of and if there's content around that, it'll pop up. Now, I don't have content around obscure health conditions because this is not that is not my platform. My platform is metabolic health, muscle, hormones, menopause, women. It's not some aberant random health condition that you might have. So, please don't send in requests for that because I I'm only going to create content that's going to help the masses, right? Not this one person with this obscure condition. No disrespect, but that makes no sense to do. Um, go under courses. I have got my strength corner. If you need to get started in strength training, go hit up my strength corner. It's awesome. um it'll get you started, but you have to start there. You have to start with the basics. You have to start with the [\h__\h] you don't want to do. You cannot start with the peptides and expect amazing outcomes. Now, that said, and I talk about how to do this inside the course, you can start with the peptides to get the leg up, but you have to be ready to get to work. So, I had somebody message me recently and she's a friend and she was telling me kind of where she's at and she really wants to start with micro doing. I told her micro doing is not appropriate for you. You you need standard dosing. You can use micro doing to ease in comfortably to the standard dose, but you're looking at a much more standardized dose because that's how we move the needle with weight loss. Micro doing GLP1s is not a weight loss strategy for the thousandth time. It's not. Anyone selling you that it is is scamming you. I heard some guy today, he called it GLP-1 ID. GLP-1 in it's a whole tele medicine company. GLP-1 individualized dosing, personal dosing. I'm like, "Oh my god, how many ways are they going to try to sell you this?" Like, how many ways are they going to try to sell you into this very basic concept that every human being is different? Are they just figuring this out and like repackaging naturopathic medicine? Anyway, um talking to my girlfriend and I said, "Are you ready to get to work?" And she's like, "What do you mean?" And I'm like, "I mean the work that you've been avoiding. Are you ready to get to work?" because there's zero point in you taking this peptide or any of the other peptides that I'm going to tell you about if you're not ready to get to work. Just no point. And in fact, I think they might like you might actually end up doing damage. And why? Because a lot of these peptides rev up AMPK pathway and that is a catabolic pathway. It's a wasting pathway. It's it's awesome for your mitochondria. It's awesome to get things going, but if you're not applying the spark, which is the exercise, specifically strength training, if you're not applying the spark, none of this will work for very long, and you'll just end up spending. This shit's expensive, you guys. I don't know if you've looked into the fact that like there's not a bottle of BPC-157 on the market below 100 bucks. I mean, this shit's expensive. And the other thing that no one's talking about is that many of these peptides the fact that they're many of them are regenerative in in their impacts whether directly or indirectly they're doing that by upregulating VEGF and VEGF I'm very familiar with it is one of the main constituents of platelets this is when we do platelet uh rich plasma which I've done a ton of I had a very very busy plateletri plasma practice so busy in fact that the rep for the company who sold me the kits came in one day and was like, "What are you doing? You are out selling everyone in this town. You are literally out selling everyone in this town." And some of the dudes in this industry in this in this, you know, regenerative medicine in Portland. I mean, I was down the street from one of the most famous regenerative medicine doctors in the world. And they had big huge multi-million dollar clinics. And here I am in my little clinic just cranking out PRP patients because I'm fast and I'm good at what I do. But veg F is one of the main growth factors in there. And VEGF is what cancer uses to metastasize. So when a tumor metastasizes and starts throwing mets, it's using VEGF to do that. And so many of these peptides either directly or indirectly upregulate VEGF. So why are there so many health influencers and doctors and noncredentialed people and everyone on the internet trying to sell you peptides and not telling you this and not telling you that you need to cycle them. And how do you cycle them completely depends on the individual and what we're trying to what we're using them for. What are we using them for? Now the bodybuilding community gets this like none of this is new information to that community. None of this is new information to a lot of the folks who've been doing this a long time because they understand we use the minimum necessary dose to get the job done and we cycle it. Everything's in a cycle, right? And I can't give you a cookie cutter answer of what that cycle is here. I go into the logic around that inside my course. You don't just stay on BPC57 forever. If you're taking that in a pill cuz some influencer told you to or some health coach told you to or some doctor who's totally new to this and has no idea what they're doing told you to, they're wrong. Like these are all progrow. They're all progrow. And it's critical that we have those conversations with our patients and that we carefully watch them and that we carefully analyze as we go and we we even dodge as we go, right? We see how they respond. We see if we need to tinker with the dosing any and then we cycle them. and we keep a watchful eye on them and we do it responsibly and that's how this works. That's the best version of this kind of medicine. And I understand that you guys want to access it and do it at home. And that's why I'm making this episode because so many people are accessing it. They're getting gray market peptides. They're literally injecting themselves with a bunch of vials from the internet and they have no idea where these things came from or how to do it. Now, I'm not dissing all the gray market research labs be it is com. By the way, doctors, those of you listening who are doctors, if you are getting gray market peptides and you are dispensing them to your patients, you are breaking the law and you will lose your license eventually. I It's crazy to me. There's whole research labs, I'm not going to name names, that are just selling to doctors, calling a medical grade, and they're only selling to health professionals. And these doctors are buying them and stalking them and dispensing them out of their clinic. And these are all peptides that have been put as uh basically I don't want to use the word illegal, but the FDA withdrew them from access. So doctors can no longer prescribe them. So in September of 2023, I believe the FDA came in and took a bunch of peptides away from us that we could no longer prescribe. So compoundingies could no longer prescribe them, but you can still get them from the gray market. And there are people getting them. There are doctors ordering them from these gray market resources. And many times they don't know, they don't understand that they're doing anything wrong. I had a sweet woman the other day messaged me, a physician, and she said, "I just love BPC57. It fixes everything." And I was like, "Oh, you know, what brand do you like these days?" Cuz we can only get it orally, you know. And she's like, "Oh, no. I I inject it. And I was like, "Uh, you have you can't do that." And that's You can't do that anymore. And she's like, "Oh, yeah. I just buy it from this place." And I I looked up the place and I'm like, "Oh my gosh." So this this doctor, this woman had no idea. So there's a lot of things happening and I can't control the conversation and I can't fix it. I can just inform people of some of the things that are happening and it's bizarro land out there. So, if you're with a doctor who knows what they're doing and you're getting the peptides that you need and you're doing it responsibly, congratulations and more power to you. There's a lot of doctors saying that they're micro doing GLP1s, but they're actually just standard dosing and their patients are getting really lean and feeling awful and not knowing why. And it's because they're on a standard starting dose, but that's covered in the other podcast episode. But even with HRT, like did you know that if you have a really messed up gut, if your gut health is really screwed up and you've got a lot of organisms in there that are spewing out lipopolysaccharides, that it could significantly impact the way that hormones work in your body. It could significantly flare histamine levels, which will significantly impact the way hormones work in your body, and not in a good way. I did a whole histamine 101 episode, too. We'll link that in the show notes as well. I'm trying to put together this puzzle for you. So, you have to treat the gut. You have to treat the adrenals. You have to treat the thyroid. If you don't treat the adrenals and thyroid, then the patient will bonk when you hit them with progesterone and estrogen and testosterone. There are things that have to be considered here. And I'm not saying the way I do it is perfect by any means, but it's comprehensive because, how do I say this? There's a lot of doctors right now on the menopause scene talking about how fantastic estrogen is and simultaneously dogging integrative health while simultaneously selling supplements themselves while simultaneously dogging integrative health. But I'm here to tell you there's absolutely no way to do hormones well and have the patient get the most ideal outcomes unless you take an integrative approach. There's just no version where HRT isn't part of an integrative approach if you want optimal outcomes. So that takes me back to my original point is if you're doing this on your own and you're trying to sort it out on your own and you're following health gurus on the internet and you're peacemealing it together. I can't even imagine. Like I run into trouble myself. I personally run into trouble with my hormones as I'm trying to balance things out. And I know what I'm doing because my body doesn't always cooperate with what I know, right? And what I know to be true isn't always what my body decides it wants to do. So I say this with warning and here's how we can level the playing field. Here's how we can. Whether you're dabbling by yourself, whether you're going through Bro Science University, whether you have a doctor that's completely new to hormones and they're trying their best to get you what you need, whether you have a doctor who has no idea what they're doing, but they're willing to prescribe to you and you're trying to sort it out yourself and you don't want to buy my course and you don't want to read my book, go to the gym. You have to go to the gym. There's no version where you get to take GLP1s especially, but any peptide or any hormone, in my opinion, you do not get to use them unless you're going to the gym. You will have them go down pathways you don't want and that you don't like. And I dare say I have seen way too many labs where the pathway is Dutch in particular and other testing systems I've done where or you just look at the symptoms. Hormones are going down the pathway. We do not want some of these pathways are not favorable for long-term outcomes and it's not just that the person doesn't feel well. I mean some of these estrogen pathways are procancer right? So if you exercise regularly specifically like getting on a sweat getting on mo movement mobility pilates is great yoga is great walking is okay I mean you got to walk that I don't consider walking exercise I consider walking like water it's just a non-negotiable uh the people who walk a long ways that is exercise for sure but the the rest of us just need to get our 10,000 steps in and not consider it that's not our workout for the day that's just a b baseline being a human Right. Um, if you go to the gym, you end up sparking and balancing different biochemical and hormonal pathways in your body that you wouldn't get otherwise. And so it's kind of the great leveler. You end up upregulating glute 4 receptors when just by the act of squee Well, I should call them transporters, glute for transporters. By the act of squeezing your muscle, you allow the transporters that are necessary to go to the cellular membrane open and receive glucose from your blood so your blood sugars come down. And you don't have to be completely insulin dependent because everyone thinks it's all about insulin and insulin resistance. And I know I talk about that a lot inside my course. I think it's module two. I go deep into the science of this and the biochemistry of this. But if we are just relying completely on insulin working, which it is not in good shape for most people, insulin resistance is like rampant, right? I would say the majority of Americans have insulin resistant easily, at least 95% just by the looks of things. Um, that's a really rough way to just depend on metabolic health working is be making it all dependent on insulin. And this is what the people who never exercise and just go keto. You see people like, "I was super overweight and now I'm really thin and here's myself and my husband and we're rail thin on keto and they never went to the gym." They're relying 100% on insulin doing the job and that's just too much pressure for the poor pancreas period. So I mean to me that's like taxing the pancreas as hard as you were when you were insulin resistant. You got to get the glute 4 transporters up there. And we can do that by autophagy or uh intermittent fasting which induces some autophagy. We can get thempk pathway going that way. We can get cert one AMPK. Um I don't mean to get too nerdy. It's just we can't get the cellular pathways revved nearly as well without the spark. And that spark comes from good well-trained skeletal muscle and movement. So, and squeezing of the muscles, actual squeezing of the muscles. And there's a lot more to this that I don't want to unpack that I do. I have a whole module on exercise inside the course where I deep dive into. I like nerd out on exercise, but you have to the bottom line is you have to go to the gym multiple times a week and you have to move and you have to get a sweat on. You cannot just rely on these peptides. They will waste you. There is a study, I haven't gone through it yet. I just saw a blip of it uh just came out showing that cardiorespiratory fitness declined in GLP-1 users and I'm guessing it was probably the non exercise arm. I have to look at it. Why? It's what I have been hypothesizing which is I do believe that they have a way of wasting you by overreving the AMPK pathway. AMPK balances with mTor. So when you rev up EMPK you decrease mTor and mTor is what we need to build. A lot of Americans are sitting sort of in mTor dominance and they need that amk bump. But I think when you go too far this way, if you're not and guess what it gets mTor to work, strength training and protein. If that isn't balanced, you get into a wasting state. And then another study just came out. It was on mice uh the University of Utah. I'm excited to read the whole study as well, but I just again saw a blip of it before I recorded this. And what they concluded was that GLP1s do not decrease muscle. They decrease lean mass, which I have been saying all along. It's lean mass loss. We're worried about muscle is part of your lean mass, but the rest of your lean mass is your connective tissues. It's all your soft tissues in your body. That's lean mass. Anything soft that's not bone is lean mass. And what they found was that while we lost lean mass, we didn't lose muscle as much as we lost strength. And what have I been saying again for years? It's the strength that matters. If you've heard me on any of these other podcasts where I'm on other people's podcasts talking about GLP1s, I often will say it's strength that matters more than muscle size, your strength, your ability to be strong is especially as we age, you guys, especially as we get older and we get more frail. If we lose muscle mass, it's not nearly as devastating as if we're losing strength. And GLP1s seem to be inducing some strength loss. And now I don't know at what dose is and I don't know what the co-ariables were and I don't know what anything about these mice and it was in mice. But it it I have had this hypothesis I've been trying to share with you this dark side of GLP-1 that I am very concerned about. And this is why I'm such a proponent of the absolute lowest doses necessary to get the job done. But I'm a proponent of that with hormones. I'm a proponent of that with any peptide. Like what is the lowest necessary dose to get the job done? Some people in the HRT community will argue, and I get it. They have studies to show that if we're not dosing estrogen high enough, we're not getting the bone benefit. We're not getting the cardiovascular benefit. Who are these women, though, that they're looking at? Who are the who are the subjects of these studies? Are these women strength training? Are they hitting their protein macros? Because I'm not worried about bone loss in someone who's hitting the gym three times a week and lifting heavy. I'm not I'm not worried about bone loss or brain loss or cardiovascular loss in somebody who's actually putting in the work. So much so that I really do think some women can get through menopause without any HRT. I don't know how good they're going to feel. I don't know how rough it's going to be, but if they're very active and they're eating very well, those women do much much better whether they're on HRT or not. So I I argue with the studies that say you need a certain dose of estrogen to get the benefits when it's like what are the other co-variables in that individual's life, right? So I'm not saying you don't. I'm just saying I am more interested in what are the lifestyle pieces that that person is doing because wearing your weighted vest around and hoping for the best ain't it. You got to be lifting some heavy [\h__\h] I teach you how to do that in the strength corner. I teach you what I mean by optimizing your metabolic health in the metabolic revamp toolkit. And I teach you how to put it all together clinically and what my clinical logic is and my strategies and what a comprehensive toolkit looks like with GLP-1 being but one tool in that toolkit inside my GLP-1 Done University. But all of that aside, you have to go to the freaking gym. This is the non-negotiable. I there's no ver there's literally no version where that isn't a requirement. There's not. I have so many people say, "Well, I can't because of this or what about this or what if I'm doing this or all of the good reasons." They might have a beautiful figure, beautiful figure, and they might even look decently fit, but if they're not putting load on those bones, if they're not putting load on that central nervous system, and if they're not putting load on those muscles and forcing themselves to increase strength, then we're not getting it. We're not getting the spark. And the spark is what makes all of this work optimally. So, I will leave you with that. If you want to check out my big course, you can head to drtina.com and click on courses. That's the version full price. If you would like a discount, I would love for you to jump into my GLP-1 uncovered, which is a four-part video series. I'm I keep planning on changing that up, but I'm I'm waffling if I'm even going to keep the course up to be honest with you. So, to be determined, but for now, it is. And you can get a discount if you go that route. you can get a discount on the course, uh, a decent discount if you go through the four-part video series. And the reason I want you to go through the four-part video series and just handle it is because you you got to understand how these work. This is a metabolic course heavy on the GLP1s. You have to understand how the GLP-1's work and I don't want anybody getting in there thinking the course is something that it's not. So, I'm very clear on what it is through that process. And I those are the people that get it the best, right? So anyway, you'll get a discount if you go through that. That's at drtina.commpic uncovered or you can go to my website and it's right up at the top and you can get in that way too. So that's it. That's the episode. I hope this is helpful. I know I'm I'm beating a dead horse. Free resources that I've got for you uh related to this drtina.combook drtina.comabolism. If you go to the website at drtina.com, you'll see a big red button right by my picture. Click it. It'll take you to a free assess your metabolic health uh freebie that is designed not as a diagnostic tool, but it is the international guidelines for metabolic dysfunction. And you can read it. You can check yourself against it. It's more designed to print off and take to your doctor and have a conversation. My courses are there. I've got hundreds of episodes of podcasts. Um I mean, I don't know what else I can give you. I've got so much free content. I've got lowcost content. I've got higher cost content. I've got the gamut. So, go forth. Enjoy. But get your [\h__\h] together. Get to the gym. Stop listening to these people trying to sell you into the magic stack. There's no magic stack. There's no magic hormone. There's no magic injection. There's no magic peptide. There's no magic supplement. Um, oh, before I forget, I'm closing down my supplement store. I have my reasons. It's part of this like midlife crisis I've had of just being completely grossed out by the wellness industry is a big part of it. Um I just don't want to do it anymore. So I love them. They're really high quality. They're really phenomenal supplements. I will miss them when they're gone. But there's only a few of everything left. So what you see in the store is what we have on stock. There will be no more restocks and they are going fast. So if there's anything that you are used to taking, go get a couple. They might be gone by now uh if you haven't heard this already. And if there's something in there that you want to try, grab a couple bottles because the store's closing and when the stock's gone, it's gone. So, I will bid you a do. Thanks for hearing me out on this one. I hope this one hits. I hope you take me to heart on this. Stop listening to the skinny minis trying to convince you to a micro dose for inflammation when you don't know what the inside of a gym looks like. Start there. Do the work first. The peptides will work much better and you can keep the doses much lower, which will save you a ton of money in the end as well. So, I will talk to you later. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcasttina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have, and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.