We get back thousands and thousands of testimonials from people saying, "You have taken the noise out of my brain." You are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I think I may have found nature's ompic. Now, hear me out. You know, I throw a lot of shade at the supplements out there claiming to be such, but I have come across something called Calurb and I have dug into the science and I'm going to share it with you today. I invited on the CEO and founder of Calicurb, which is a hops base extract. It's completely natural and it's been shown in clinical data to increase GLP-1 naturally endogenously by over 600% over baseline. That's pretty phenomenal. I've tried it myself and I have found it to work with appetite suppression extremely well. So, I want to go into all the data with you. They have multiple clinical studies that they've ran. This is a New Zealand company. It may be why you haven't heard about it yet. Maybe you have. Maybe you've tried it, maybe you haven't. If you have not heard about it, I highly encourage you to sit down and listen to this episode in its entirety. It's really fascinating information. If you want to try Calurb for yourself, you can do so and get a discount if you head to calurb.com. That's calurb.com/dina. Go ahead and use Dr. Tina at checkout and you will get 10% off your order. So without further ado, let's jump into this fascinating conversation. Sarah, welcome to the Dr. Tina Show. I'm so glad to have you here today. I have been sort of quietly stalking you and your company behind the scenes for a few years now and I was honored to meet you recently in Las Vegas at an anti-aging conference and I got to sit down and hear some of the science about what we're going to talk about today and I was thoroughly impressed and so after several months of back and forth I finally get to have you on the show so we can nerd out a little bit and tell everybody about Calurb. So welcome. Thanks Tina. Uh, it's great to be here. Yes. Yes. I think we're going to have a good time today. So, I want to tell the audience right off the bat, calurb is a GLP-1 stimulant and it comes from a hops extract. I'm going to let you explain all of this, but when I first learned of you, the reason I'm sharing this is because I was getting inundated when I came out on the scene and was talking about this concept of micro doing tiny little amounts of GLP-1 and the potential actually for a functional or even literal GLP-1 deficiency or maybe folks just having petered out L cells that were not producing any GLP-1 anymore for various reasons like leaky gut or some kind of, you know, bowel disease And I was inundated by people saying, "Is there something natural I can take? There's got to be something natural." And so, of course, the bourberines and the bitters and all of those things were coming at me. And this one was something that was suggested as well, Calurb. And I just brushed it off with all the rest. I was like, "Ugh, this whole nature's ompic thing, this is nonsense. This is not these are these are supplements and herbs that might, you know, might do something, but like probably nothing appreciable or we wouldn't be in the situation we're in. I've used gads of bourberine in clinical practice. I never saw anyone lose any weight from it. So, all that to say, uh, Calurb has very much impressed me. I've used it myself. And so, I wanted to have you on today because I think this is an important conversation for those who really do want to hear about something that actually is working to stimulate GLP-1 with clinical studies behind it and is natural. So, anyway, that's why I'm very excited about our conversation today. Thanks, Tina. Um, yeah. Well, I can I start um at at the beginning, I suppose. Yes, please. So, um yeah, so starting at the beginning, um th this is what um I absolutely love. So, just bear with me when I take you on a bit of a story. uh in 2010 uh a group of very talented scientists in New Zealand um had the hypothesis that they would find a natural plant-based tract that suppressed appetite. Now remember that was 15 years ago. Um so group of scientists but also the government employed. Uh all primary research in New Zealand is done by the government and supported by the government. So they had this there was a a couple of reasons why they had this hypothesis. Um in times of famine in the in the highlands of Scotland, Scottish people chewed very very bitter berries to suppress appetite. Uh in the high um in Kalahari desert they chewed very very bitter cactus before they went hunting. Uh and in fact you may remember that was sort of the origin or the genesis of Hudia. So they had this they they knew that they then um and there'd been some um animal studies. So they they applied to the government. They got a $20 million grant and the grant was uh it was called uh foods for appetite control and they got that back the $20 million. They did some amazing stuff. I won't take you too much through it, but they literally took biopsies right through the human gastrointestinal tract. They mapped out our bitter taste receptors. They could show where they all were. They then grew these out and they showed that in the upper douad or in the upper digestive tract they when stimulated these bitter taste receptors they expressed uh appetite suppressing hormones. So we all know GLP-1 but they um they express CCK and P Y. So they showed that um that they could get these to express. They then built a model this high throughput um model and they tested a thousand extracts. Remember this is all government not commercial or anything. They tested a thousand extracts on this high throughput model and literally only one extract worked as in um expressing enough of these appetite suppressing hormones that would actually make a difference and that actually came from a hop. Now it's not actually surprising. It's only one. And the reason being is that if we ate anything bitter and we stopped eating, well, we, you know, we just wouldn't be here. would have a cup of coffee and we'd stop eating. So, um they they found this uh and then they did a whole lot of other things on it. So, basically they found a natural herb when taken down to the upper digestive tract released appetite suppressing hormones. Um and this was great. So, that was all done in vitro. Remember this this then had taken about three or four years. All done in vitro. So they then had to take it to clinical to human clinical trials. So they formulated this extract um into a capsule. They put a vegetable oil with it. They did a number of things and they took it into their first human clinical trial. And that's what the really the one that was the the Eureka moment. Um they showed if given this capsule which we now call calurb an hour before um an eat to your full lunch um and an eat to your full snack. Uh we got these big peaks in GLP-1 CCK and P Y. Now these were at 600% above what we call baseline and these were and they got an 18% reduction in calorie intake. So long story short was they uh over over five years they did this extraordinary work. It was all novel. We've just received our patent a granted patent in the US and in Australia pending New Zealand uh and pending Europe. So uh very novel work. Um, and they showed that they could uh express from our little wee L cells in our gut these appetite suppressing hormones at a level that would make a behavioral difference. And the behavioral difference is an average. Now, I'm saying an average cuz some were higher. An average of an 18% reduction in calorie intake, which is significant. I mean that doesn't sound like a huge number to some people and to me it sounds like a big number but that's a that's a significant amount when you think about uh especially as women age in particular we increase our intake of calories just a little bit each year it seems due to hormonal changes and etc. And that little bit bitty change has really large repercussions over time and so an 18% reduction uh over a short period of time is It's around 200 to 210 calories. So I say it's like a um it's not a Big Mac, it's a Mac. Um and as you said, it's a Mac. Um and as So for example, when you um are on an injectable, right, a semiglutype, and you're injecting in a synthetic GLP-1, on average, you reduce your calorie intake by 24% a day. So you take calibb twice a day, it's 18%. uh to your point with women um is when you're a when you're in menopause or postmenopause, a woman has to eat 200 calories less a day just to stay the same weight, you know, because you know um your metabolism's gone down, your estrogen's gone down, your hormones up, you know, but you have to eat less calories. So I I often say with Calurb, you know, in post-menopausal women, we're just your helping hand. We need all the helping hands we can get. It's no joke. I I experienced it firsthand. That's what one of the main reasons actually I was leaning on studying GLP-1 in particular is because I felt like I felt like a switch had blown in my brain. And that's the only way I can describe it. And it probably was a decline in estrogen and other other factors. But I kept through the research of GLP-1 uh and then its impacts on the brain. That's what got me most excited was what's happening up there and not just in the gut. These these peptides are not just working in the gut. They're working centrally too. So, do you know if calur I'm I don't know if you have any data on this, but just from anecdotal and what folks have been saying who've been using it, it has to be impacting the I mean, at least I I guess if we're stimulating GLP-1 that GLP-1 is crossing into the brain and having an impact up there, right? I mean, that's that's how you get the appetite suppression in many ways. It's not just the gastro. It is your you know, we kind of we kind of say, you know, it goes up to your brain and tells you to, you know, you're full. So we always say full feel full faster and what it's doing is is doing that and in fact what it does interesting enough we we are we are triggering these little L cells as they go down through uh the gastrointestinal tract. So it lasts for 4 to 6 hours because it's triggering these and what it actually triggers is it triggers um these veagal nerves which then go up to the brain. I mean what we're doing and telling you what we're actually doing is we're super stimulating your natural response. So I always say to people, you know, when it's a natural response, we all have this gut brain access, right? When you eat a big meal, about 45 minutes later, you go, "Oh, I wish I hadn't eaten so much." And what's happened is you've digested your food. It's gone into your intestinal tract. You've started firing off your GLP-1, your appetite suppressing hormones, which is telling you you're full, which is telling you to stop eating. And of course, this is a natural response. We would pop otherwise. we we'd have no feedback mechanism. So what we're doing is we're with Calurb is doing, we're just super stimulating those before you eat. So if you take Calicurb an hour or an hour and a half before a main meal, we go down, we we we stimulate these little taste receptors and goes up to the brain. So when you start to eat, you just can't eat as much. I'll tell you a little story. When I first took Calurb, that would have been um when I was first showing it in 2018, I was out with a group of women and um we'd had just in and we had a a you know, I'm New Zealand, right? So, we had a a slowcooked, beautiful, slowcooked little shoulder of lamb in front of us and we'd all eaten. And you know how sometimes when you finish a meal and you're talking to people, you pick at some of the nice little crunchy bits and all the rest on on something and you you just do because you know it's your brain says, "Hey, that looks yummy." I looked at it and I went, "I just can't eat anymore." And this was the first time, you know, that I'd um you know, I'd taken it and I was just like, I'm full. I am full. I cannot. So, I couldn't even, you know, we well, I don't know about you, but I I had a habit of picking and I'd always peck at something after a meal. And that was the first time I'd taken it. what what um Tina made me and what always makes me laugh was of course um this was presented to me in 2017 and I was just like I I had never seen something with that amount of science and such a large problem um you know an issue that we have in the world. Um but remember 2018 was long before WGOI and the GP were introduced to the world. So, uh, yeah, I I was just I was in love with it. I was just like, "Oh my god." I'd never seen that amount of science, but trying to talk to people about it and tell them about it, it's like, "What? You're mcking with my brain? You're doing what?" Uh, and so, um, you know, we we sold, but never the same as when WGO was launched. uh and we were then suddenly uh the natural uh and I hate saying this but we are the effective uh and affordable alternative. We are working with the body. Uh we're super stimulating it. And you know you hear a lot about hey you know this stimulates GLP-1. Everything stimulates GLP-1. It is a natural feedback mechanism. Eat an apple and you will stimulate GLP-1. Uh however you have to stimulate it at above 400% to get a behavioral difference. And remember, you know, we were 600%. So, absolutely when different things you take say we stimulate GLP-1, they do, but everything stimulates GLP-1. You then ask the question, well, how much do you stimulate it? Oh, we do it at 65%. Well, just eat an apple because that's going to do the same. Just eating just a bolus of food, the mechanical pressure of a bololis of food will stimulate these. Sometimes it does it, you know, people say, "Oh, just eat the carnivore diet or just do this or just take the bourberine." And it's not appreciable. And that's when you told me that at the dinner, I that's when I was like, I'm listening. This is this is for real. I was even hesitant. Our mutual friend JJ Virgin invited me to the dinner and I was like, I don't know. I think that stuff might be a gimmick. And I'm just being totally honest here. So, I was hesitant and then I spent time talking with you. It is um you know the thing is we often get that it's too too good to be true and um and it does sound like that but remember um as we've talked about before Calurb is actually owned by the New Zealand government. Now whether you tr trust the government or not but it is owned by the New Zealand government and all the science we do uh is with the New Zealand government with their scientists. So, you know, we've got to be absolute uh in what we say and what we do. Uh and that's how we're supported with it. So, yeah, it is um and remember this was long before so long before WGOI was on the market. So, uh you know, I um yeah, well, I love the product obviously. Um but um I think we talked about as well one of the clinical studies we did was actually on women and um very little clinical studies are done on women uh because they're difficult. Women are difficult not because we're difficult but we are difficult because we have hormones. So we did this clinical study on 30 women um and um I'll talk about the clinical but 30 women but we did placebo low dose and high dose. So that's three times. So you're actually giving 90 treatments to 30 women. Uh and what the chief scientist had to do um is actually line them up in their exact same time of their menstrual cycle um on the same day of the week. So this is three times 90 treatments uh because you have to do it when the hormone levels are the same. And this was during co so it literally just about drove him nuts and I think I drove him nuts as well because you know I was ringing the whole time going have you got the results have you got the result and of course these are double blinded you know anyway a whole lot of things but the results in woman were just superb. uh this this clinical we were looking at hunger and craving and what we did we did the last 8 hours of a 24-hour water only fast because that's the time that you'll be able to measure hunger the most so we gave calurb at 16 hours and at 20 hours and then measured hunger and craving well I didn't measure the scientists measured it and with women we got 100% decrease in hunger so At 24 hours, they were no more hungry than they were at 16 hours. And and craving was the one that blew me away. We got 120% decrease in craving. So they were craving less at 24 hours. And if that wasn't enough, we gave them a rebound eating meal. So we gave them a calorie controlled meal. And the ones on the Calurb ate 14.5% less calories. So that was 4 hours after their last dose. So you know this is all measured. It's all done in controlled environment and that. So I was so super proud of that clinical because it was done on women and we got such incredible results. We get the same on men but we get about 80% reduction in hunger. But in women and they they think women are more receptive to GLP-1. uh and they hypothesize it's because that we will be protecting a fetus. Interesting. So your brain is more receptive to it. That that is the hypothesis. They don't really know but certainly our results. So that so you know as I said in post-menopausal or menopausal women just for cutting those calories down uh is fantastic. But the other thing is in women during their menstrual cycle uh during the lutil phase which is often called PMS you know um is premenstrual you know is um people will eat on average 250 calories more a day and some up to 600. This will make an appreciable difference if you're doing that a week a month. And um it's natural. You know that's what I always say to people. It's absolutely natural because your body is saying you might fertilize this egg and I want you to be really ready for it. So these are what these cravings are. It's not you just going h you know I don't feel so well. Your body is telling you you might fertilize this egg. So I want you to have these extra nutrients and I want you to have the sugar. So yeah, I just think calicurb can be really useful um you know in that PMS stage as well. So yes, I take it all the time, but you can come in and out of it. I I want to back up a second because I want to cover a few things you said to make sure that it lands with the audience. Uh the ludal phase of the of the cycle, you're absolutely right. That is when you start going for the foods and it's usually carbohydrates that we want. And so and there's a lot to the hormones, there's a lot to your serotonin, there's a lot going on there. So that is a really valuable tool. But going back to your study, the clinical study, so the rebound meal was a calorie controlled meal. Is that what you said? Yeah. So we measure and then prior you said 18% reduction in other in other studies, but that was an ad libbitum study, meaning they were able to eat as much as they wanted, right? That was an unlimited amount of food and they still had an 18% reduction. So that's big. That was an hour. So that was an hour an hour after they'd taken Calurb. So I'm really firing everything. The the the the appetite, the hunger and craving one was 4 hours. So what that showed us that it lasts for 4 to 6 hours. And what it does is it's a very potent um it's it's natural. It's 100% natural. That's why everyone goes really um but it does. And it goes down through the intestinal tract. And because it's only focused on the intestinal tract, as it moves down, it first of all it it it um triggers the release of CCK. Now CCK choleiccytokinine is a um isn't a very potent appetite suppressing but very shortlived and in your upper gut, right? So it fires off that then it moves down and it fires off GLP-1 and that's the one we all know. uh and then further right down further it does P Y. So as this um amarasate we call it but as an extract of hops move down the gastrointestinal tract it's firing these little elm cells or these ep these bit taste receptors as it goes down. So I always kind of think of it like this little bolus going down. Um and the other great thing about it is 99% of it is focused on the gut. less than 1% is um absorbed into your bloodstream. So it doesn't Yeah. So it doesn't affect So what we are doing is we are triggering your natural hormones. We're not doing anything in your blood. So we don't affect the liver or the kidney. So you know that's really important because people take other drugs and most drugs are metabolized through the liver, some through the kidney. So we don't affect that at all. We literally focus on the gastrointestinal tract, but the GLP-1 that it stimulates your L cells to produce and the other appetite hormones, those do go out into circulation. And that's the good part. This is the part that I want to be clear about is because that GLP-1 is now going out throughout your body and doing what GLP-1 does throughout the body, which is all the things I talk about. And that's 600%. Which is twice the postrandial or twice what you would produce in a meal. So we're I I kind of describe it as we're super stimulating them. We're kind of exercising the little L cells and we're super stimulating. So we don't put anything in your blood. We are super stimulating your natural release. So, when you're on an injectable, you inject yourself with a synthetic hormone. Now, nothing wrong with that, but you are injecting yourself with a synthetic hormone. Whenever you inject yourself with a synthetic hormone, um, you depress your natural hormones. So, you know, I kind of say they're like, well, I don't need to do anything because you're already giving me it. You know, it's like with testosterone or anything. You're giving me a hormone. I don't need to do anything. I'm off to the beach. So your indogenous goes down to zero. So um you know I say to people when they come off these injectable it's not what I say to practitioners it's not an if it's a must that you have calico because you must kickstart this gut brain access again because they've gone they've gone to the beach they're on holiday. Uh I think I sent you that clinical work that yeah let's talk about that. Let's talk about that study. um that so that was uh a 2020 study the effect of glucagon like peptide one analog lauracleide versus placebo treatment in circulating proglucon derived peptides that on and on I will I will link it in the show notes for everyone but the bottom line is is that it showed suppression of natural GOP 1 production which I that was the other thing that really blew me away I was not sure it and I dug and dug and dug because I've been asked that question multiple times online and I've dug and dug and I could not find the and I'm good at digging and I could not find the information and then you sent me that study and I thought oh my god this is this is even more reason if folks are micro doing to my whole argument with GLP-1 to stay at the lowest dose possible like keep your dose as low as humanly possible that's still effective because this ramping up GLP-1 thing into these crazy high doses I think is going to shoot people in the foot at the end of the day. Well, you you were just going into longer what I call longer term yo-yo dieting because what you know when you come off you have suppressed your natural GLP-1 right and and everything else right um right down to to zero and of course your hunger is going to go I think this is part of the reason for the rebound eating is you go down to this. So, um, you know, it's interesting you said you, Doug, we did exactly the same thing. We had a hypothesis, of course, when you have an external hormone, you'll suppress. We couldn't find it. And I think I said to you, this fabulous gastroenterenterologist came up to me and said, "Oh, you know, I've got the study. I I've got it." We're like, "Where? Give it to me." And it's so hard cuz they don't want you to find it. No one talks about your natural GLP-1 down to zero. and everything I read um they're like well no you just have to stay on these for life it's a chronic disease and now look in some cases it may be but I'd say in 90% of cases people do you know reach them um their goal weight they do reach where they want to be and they want to come off the drugs so what are they going to do then you need to kick this gut brain access and and the other thing we talked about And you know in hopefully Tina in 6 months time I'll be we're doing our fourth human clinical now which is the largest 150 people men and women uh sorry men and women BMI between 25 and 35 over 6 months and we measure number of biomarkers but the key one is weight and body composition. uh and I'm really excited this finishes uh in about July and um we then you know goes to the statisticians that's unblinded. We won't see anything till October but what our um what the scientists believe and that's what I'm the most excited about is that we actually upregulate these L cells not downregulate. So that means we're actually making them produce more. Um, and I kind of describe it as these little L cells. I'm exercising them like a muscle. Now any gastroenterenterologist would just diet my description, but you know, I'm exercising them. So the scientists believe that we're actually creating a better gut brain access. So, they're taking the levels. They've taken the levels before they started on um the calico, you know, it's it's double blind. We've got a placebo. And then they're taking it afterwards. So, I'm really excited about that because we can then show we're not only stimulating the endogenous level, we're also uh improving your gut brain access. And, you know, I I've been on, you know, of course, I've been on Calico for, you know, a long time. I take it because it's my it's my little it's my little helper. I say um I know that I no longer I I just get full faster. Mhm. And it's not about people say, "Oh, your stomach shrunk." It's not anything about that. It's your stomach doesn't shrink. Your stomach doesn't go from big to small, you know. It's about the these feedback mechanisms you have. So, absolutely. No, I think that's really exciting because that was actually the premise of my hypothesis in this micro doing because I never set out to use micro doing as a weight loss strategy. I thought of it as a you know my world as a naturopathic physician. We treat the gut first and everybody's guts compromised. Everybody has leaky gut. Everybody has inflammatory gut or irritable bowel disease or whatever. Everyone's got gut issues. And my thinking when I really understood the L cell function was and physiology was, oh my gosh, these people's L cells are probably petered out. Like I I'm betting that's why that's why I say a functional deficiency, meaning the body has functionally petered out the production of whatever it is we're talking about. And I think that that's happening. And then when you look at the study you shared with me, that 2020 study, that showed a 58% reduction in GLP-1 secretion and a 20% reduction in GLP2, which I did not know existed. And like that's that's sizable. And this is an older generation GLP-1 agonist, you guys. Like this is one of the older ones. Yeah. So it's one of the OG ones. So I just wonder what the newer ones are doing. And again, more reason to stay on the lowest dose possible. And then the real question is as a root cause physician, how do we get the L cells back online? And this I think I think this is it. Like I think this is one of the solutions of potentially tonifying and helping those L cells. It's not a prevention treatment or cure. It's like we're we're physiologically trying to stoke the body back into homeostasis. That's how I look at all of medicine. And we're not slamming them. And I think GLP1s at higher doses just slam people and then they're on them for an appreciable amount of time and then they want to come down. I've had many people, Sarah, ask me, you know, I've been on whatever for two years. I lost all this weight. I want to I want to do a micro dose. What do I do? And I'm like, I have no idea. Good luck. And there isn't. And this is what I say. And I read everything and um I I literally and they're saying there isn't anything. They are saying you've got to stay up for life. I do not. And to your point, it's about getting that body back and getting that gut brain. We all we are all hormonally driven. I want to say to people as well, you know, there's been what what I do like about um these injectables is they have educated people on the physiology of weight management and this whole thing with that and many people have been like I lack willpower. You know the stigma, the absolute stigma and dogma about it is you have no willpower and you eat less. What most people don't realize is hunger is driven from your hind brain. It's your hypothalamus. Oh, they've done some extraordinary extraordinary scientific things on that, but it's your hind brain. And this was an asset for us during evolution because if you reduce your calories by 25% per day, your hunger doubles over four months. And this was an asset for us because it made us get out of our caves. It was like otherwise we'd be in our caves going, "Hey, you know what? It's a bit cold. I'm not going out there. No, look, there's a big hairy mammoth. It could kill me. No way. I'm just going to lie here." So your hunger drives you. It it it thinks you're going into a famine, right? So this is what it does. So what was an asset to us in evolution is now a liability. And you have this willpower. I always do this. Here's your hindbrain, right? Your hypothalamus. Here's your forebrain. And you go, I don't need to eat that. I'm, you know, I'm strong. I can do this. And what happens? You put hormones on that. You put lack of sleep. You put tiredness. You put anything onto that. Stress is a huge one. Your forebrain falls off and your little hindb brain goes, "Woohoo! We're off." I always say to people, "How often have you eaten hot chips late at night after alcohol?" No, maybe you're really good and you haven't, but I know how many times I've done it. And that's my little hindb brain going, "Whoa, whoa, you know, you can do this." So, we have to help ourselves out and we have to get away. I hate myself. I've got low willpower. I fought with food my whole life. I went on my first diet when I was 10 years old. And you know, I have had this lovehate relationship with food. And I would guarantee there's so many women and men out there that have this relationship. You love it, but you hate yourself. I I love it, but I hate myself because I've eaten and I shouldn't have eaten all of that and I've got no control. Um, you know, and just understand this is physiology. Just understand this is your body. This was evolution. So, help yourself up. It is not your fault a diet fails. It is your fault, you know, if you eat the wrong things. But give yourself a break. And to bring it back to the scientific explanation beyond that, you mentioned that calicurb has an impact on the veagal stimulation. The vagus nerve runs from your gut to your brain. And when you are hypoglycemic or you're in a high glucose state due to type two diabetes or the fact that 94% of US adults have metabolic dysfunction, um it starts to literally eat away at your vag nerve. So you you get a pathic vag nerve. That's where some of this gastroparesis comes in in the GLP-1 world is because that vagus nerve is already compromised and then they're put on high doses of of the GLP-1 and that's how it goes. But the other thing is what you just said. When you reduce your calories, especially if you have weight loss with it, I actually was just talking about this on another podcast episode I did. There is an appreciable rebound of your metabolism slowing way down. Right? This is the metabolic adaptation that happens because a smaller body requires less calories. So, you've you've dieted yourself down or you've GLP yourself down or however you got down there. It doesn't matter. You got down there and now your metabolism has legitimately slowed. And if you've done it quickly and abruptly, your metabolism has slowed significantly more than would be expected. That's metabolic adaptation. And your leptin has now decreased because your leptin comes from your fat. And your leptin signals to the brain that you are full. That's it. And it so you're you have less fat. So you have less signaling. These people are screwed. They are in a terrible place. And the rates of success of keeping weight off are so abysmally small. They are at best case scenario about 10% from what I understand from the literature. If you've had appreciable weight loss, yeah, best case, maybe five. It's it's right up there with rehab. Rehab has like a 2 to 5% success rate. So does weight loss. I've seen it firsthand. But the other thing to note, going back to that Vegas nerve, because I'm I know I'm going down a trail here, GLP-1 is required for leptin signaling to happen appropriately on the Vegas nerve. So we need GLP-1 in the system for the leptin we do have to work. So the whole thing is an orchestra is what I'm getting at. And then when people say you want to work with the orchestra you don't want to you know you're 100% right. We're working with the orchestra which is what I love. You know we are super stimulating. We're exercising these little pill cells which as you said have been in so many cases we have dumbed down you know just in the food we take and the in the different drugs we've you know on you know we we treat everything pharm pharmacologically. So you want to bring it back into harmony. We get back thousands and thousands of testimonials from people saying you have taken the noise out of my brain and um I mean that's so you know go back to it how how uh practitioners are using calicurb they're using it as we talked about as an alternative uh if people can't take the side effects now remember these side effects are pretty drastic We're talking 68% gastrointestinal, so nausea, vomiting, and so on like that. This is with the injectables. Uh they can't afford them or they don't want to inject themselves. The second one is they're using it while taking GLP-1 injectables. Uh so they're doing the lowest dose with the GLP-1 and they're taking Calicurb at the same time. So you've got an exogenous but you've got an endogenous release. And then the third one is as you titrate off and we've talked about it, you just just it's it's a must for that because you have to kickstart that gut brain access. Yes, absolutely. titrating off is the key and then getting your L cells back online working is the double the double play there because it's I'm very concerned after reading the paper you sent me just I know we talked about it and I finally sat down I went through I printed it off and I went through it with a fine tooth comb and I'm very concerned now and I there's parts of me my message has been hijacked I'm just going to have a little rant here for a second my message has been hijacked I came out saying use these tiny little amounts of GLP-1 one, try to stay below the starting dose. I'm talking about using them for maybe PCOS, cardiovascular disease. Now, adjunctively, these are not treat prevention, treatment, or cure. I've never said that. We're using them adjunctively as a tool in the toolbox. Uh healing, metabolism, um you know, all all different varieties. And people took my message and ran with it. And now the whole world is saying, well, Dr. Tina says it's safe. And so they have bastardized my message. And now, yes, just yesterday, somebody sent me a message of another gal on Instagram giving specific dosing, calling it micro doing, and it was not. It's the standard dose, which I think is way too high for a lot of people. Some people need the standard dose. And I was so frustrated. I wrote this gal and I said, "You are misleading people. This is incorrect. Have you ever taken my course? Have you ever listen like are you listening to what I'm saying? You're not you're not conveying this message accurately." And this is one of hundreds of people doing this out there. And so now my concern is, did I open Pandora's box? Are people on GLP1s now at high doses thinking they're micro doing because their doctor or their pharmacist told them they are, which is a lie. And now they're going to be having potentially, you know, cuz some of them write me and say, "I'm micro doing. My doctor said it was a micro dose and I've been on the couch vomiting for a week." And I'm like, "Honey, that's not a micro dose. That's not a micro." And they I always ask, "What's your dose?" They tell me and I'm like, "That's just a standard dose." And in some cases, Sarah, it's like pretty high up on the tiers. It's they're two or three doses up saying they're micro doing. And so then to read this paper and think, oh my gosh, how much are these people turning down their natural GLP-1 production? You're totally downregulating all of your natural. So um you know, I we couldn't find this and people don't want you to find those papers and that was um really interesting. So yeah, of course you're not micro doing, you know, take it at a very very low and do do or just just, you know, take take I mean, you know, I try the calurb. Try the cala curb instead. Just Well, I you know, I've I've been, you know, obviously I'm the founder, but I've been on it for six years. Uh I probably take my calurb once a day. Uh and because I take I I'm I intermittent fast. It's just what I do, whether it's right or wrong. I'm just lazy. So, you know, I just take it in the morning because it means I can get right through, you know, I'm happy till lunchtime and and that's just easy for me. Uh I also take it in the evening, which I always do, you know, if I'm going to eat late, so I'm going out to dinner and I don't want to get to dinner and um eat all of the uh the the um eat all of the orurves or something like that. I just want to, you know, so, you know, I kind of pace mine. But I I literally it it it changed my life. I say now I'm at peace with food. Uh, you know, I'm I'm I'm good. I'm happy and I feel good and I'm I no longer have that lovehate relationship. Uh, yeah. Absolutely. And so, um, you know, they used to say Jin with mommy's little helper. I say calurb is my little helper. I love that. No, I think it's a great tool. I think it's a powerful I've used it. I think it's a great tool. Uh I tried it out before I months ago before I even planned this podcast just to make sure I wasn't, you know, blowing hot steam up anyone's rear end. But I I found it to be effective. I think the coolest part if people are listening to me talking about micro doing JLP1s and they are using them, I get messages all the time from people saying, "It didn't work. It didn't work. I'm trying it. It didn't work." And I say, "What are you trying it for?" And they say, "I'm trying to lose weight." I've never said it was a a weight loss strategy ever. I never I never claimed that. And then I ask, I probe. And usually what they tell me is, "Well, it's work." I'm like, "Okay, well, what else are you using it for?" And they say, "Oh, for my autoimmune or for my pain. It has a, you know, GLP-1 has appreciable pain impacts." And they'll say, "It's it's working for that, but I'm still hungry." And I'm like, ah, so you either have to dose yourself into appetite suppression, which isn't fun because sometimes, yeah, which is where which is where the side effects start coming in, or you could consider something like this, like I didn't know this tool was there, you know, until more recently. But something like this adjunctively, like you said, along with so maybe they're wanting to use a smaller dose for some other reason. It's working for that reason. However, they would like to also have some appetite suppression and maybe, you know, consequently from that appetite suppression, I know you guys are in clinical studies on weight loss and that those results haven't come out yet, but potentially the outcome of lower caloric intake is going to be, you know, weight loss. We've had thousands, you know, we we do it um we've had thousands of testimonials, but we can't claim anything unless it's scientifically proven. So, you know, that's why we're doing it. And interesting enough, we just did A-50 patient um incl clinic trial uh in in the US and Pennsylvania and had amazing with this um in conjunction. So lowest dose and probably with your point would even go lower lowest dose and using calicurb at the same time and of course when you come off the lowest dose you just carry on with the calico. So you've got that whole what I would call a a natural safety a and you don't when you inject yourself right there's nothing wrong with it but it you your levels are high for seven days you don't need high GLP-1 when you're asleep you know you don't need it when you're asleep yes it's uncomfortable when you're asleep actually that's not that's the worst time if I ever had side effects from micro doing it was when I is laying down at night. That's not when you want your gut. You're going to you got stasis. You got gastroparesis, right? So, you're going to get constipated. There's just a whole lot of things happening. Um and I do feel well, you know, they they literally it was released for diabetes control, which was is great. And then they noticed um you know, a lot the people were losing weight. So, Ompic and WGOI as you know are twins. It's just wgo is at a much higher level because you have to take it at a lot higher level to get this appetite suppression. And you know, as I said to you, your brain, your body does not want to suppress your appetite because it thinks you're going into a famine. So, you have to do it at a high level. So, you know, just work with your body. Um, yeah, that that's what I I I I kind of equate it to the first oral contraceptives. um you know back in the 60s when they were extraordinarily high doses. Yes, they stopped um you know they they stopped people getting pregnant but they did a lot of damage as well until they worked with them to get the right doses and so on like that. Um and that was you know that's taken what you know 60 years. Yes. I think I think the magic is in the dose with I think I think those peptides are miraculous but I think they are potential. That's why I have a course called GLP-1's done right because I don't think everyone's doing it right and that's my strong opinion. I I do want to ask you some questions though because I am familiar with hops and so these came up for me and I actually found that you guys had addressed them in some literature you sent me. So I'm going to ask them to the audience listening. Interestingly about hops, you know, many herbs are uh not necessarily direct stimulants of hormones. They're they're ton they're tonifying. they can tonify the system. So, we use certain herbs in herbal medicine because I'm trained formerly in herbal medicine and we use them to hopefully stoke the hormones to function. Hops is directly often can be stimulatory to estrogen. And so we actually give hops and one of the old school I know this probably sounds crazy to some people but one of the best ways that I was taught and I'm not giving any medical advice here. This is just for educational purposes but I was taught by my mentor when you have a breastfeeding mother give her a little bit of beer. The hoppier the better. You give them like an you give her a little IPA. It'll calm her down because the hops are calming, right? But also the beer it's not so much for the alcohol. It's for the hops. And so I've actually found I've found uh alcohol-free beer now that they have it's IPA that's very hoppy and it is it's very progenic. And so does this impact estrogen? No. Uh what we do is when we say it's a hop extract is so we take the hops uh and we extract it with superc critical extraction. So CO2 natural but CO2 supercritical extraction. So we take out all organic matter. So you're only left with the alpha and beta acids and a very very small amount of essential acids. So no phytoestrogens whatsoever. Uh it's interesting you say that I went down to see the hops been uh harvested about 3 weeks ago and it's the most extraordinary. They're beautiful but this hoppy smell is is is amazing. Um but no there is no phytoistrogens. It is literally just the extract. Okay, good. And then the other question piggybacking on that is would it cause that sedation effect that hops is known for? Okay, good. It's literally as I said it's the alpha and beta acids um no none of the what they call the pre uh I'm going to get it wrong the uh the flavonoids are taken out uh and all the flavonoids. So those would be the estrogenic, the sed sedative. So you're literally left with the alpha and beta acids. I'm taking all the fun out of it. No fun in my hop. My hop is no fun. My my hop is just is just and in fact it's not even fun that this was um before I got involved with the scientist. They called the extract amarasate. Amara meaning bitter and sate meaning satiation. And of course, this is scientist. Uh, no one in the world can pronounce it. I get these weird pronunciations of it. And you know, it's scientist. I go, you know, I didn't name it. The scientist did. They thought it was cool. So, I'm I'm just like, you just stay you just stay with your science. All right. Just don't try marketing. Well, I had to ask because that was honestly one of the first things I I did. I I kind of like I said, I kind of blew this idea off when I first saw it. I was like, I went on your website and I was like, it's hops. It's going to be proestrogenic. Because not kidding you, for those of you listening, if you're a man and you're drinking beer, you're drinking an estrogen tincture. And if you're a woman, seriously, that's what I've always men the men love the hoppier beer. The hoppier the better. They love the IPAs. And I'm like, have fun with your estrogen tinctures. And the women drinking the hoppy beer, I'm like, "Okay, well, if you start getting breast pain and your boobs start growing, you better look at your beer intake." This is not a joke. Like, this is for real. And so, I was It's a potent herb. I was really glad to hear that. And then I do have another question. Obviously, uh this we got to address this. What about blood sugar levels? Is there any data on calicurb impacting insulin or blood sugar levels? Yeah, we we show um that we drop the blood sugar uh um straight after and you know we do drop that and we also drop insulin but we think that's because we're slowing the stomach release but these are only done in acute studies. So um we will have a lot more information after this one 6 months but yes we do drop blood sugar. Okay. Okay. Those are all good good things to know because I I'm a nerdy little science girl and I was like I have to ask all the questions I want to know. Well, this is awesome. Um I I just really think it's a powerful tool. It GLP-1 is a tool. All of these are tools in a toolbox and I think the more tools we have available and like you said I think cost is an issue with GLP1s especially with the compoundedies. I don't know if you know what's going on in the United States. Have you been f Yeah. So, we're we're it's going to be get harder to get compounded. Although, I understand that it'll still be available. It's just a different story now uh with the big pharma coming down on them. So, there's that. There's people not wanting to inject themselves like you said. There's people who just don't want to be on something for the rest of their life because what if it works? You are depressing your natural hormones. Yeah. Whenever you take a synthetic hormone, you are depressing. you know is action reaction and you know and this this is your body I think the the important thing that you said is trying to get this homeostasis with your body and and you know whenever you're doing something externally so there's a whole lot of things that are going on uh so yeah that brilliant they work understand that hunger is a physiologically driven but try and work get your body in that homeostasis Amen. Amen. I love it. What else? Anything else that I haven't asked you that you want to make sure that we cover? One one thing I'd say people say, "What are the contraindications?" Uh we always say, "Uh what are the contraindications?" If you've got uh any type of inflammatory gastrointestinal, so you've got IBD, uh not even IBS, but IBD, Crohn's, or anything like that. No, you just don't want to put anything in your intestine um that's going to be in, you know, that's you don't so any sort of inflammatory. Um so that's just about everything else. So you're fine with drugs, you're fine with anything. The only thing I'd say is uh probably take your calicurb separate to uh you just don't want to compete for L cells. you just just take it, you know, a bit separate or an hour difference from, you know, maybe something that is absorbed if it's absorbed in the lower intestine. Um side effects really important. We're very upfront about the side effects. Um which is why we have an onboarding which is take one a day for 2 days, take two a day for 2 days and then get up to the dosage which is two an hour before lunch or an hour before and an hour before dinner. People say how do I remember this? Uh you know I it it's it's it can be an hour, it can be an hour and a half. It doesn't really matter. But you know if you're having a cup of coffee at 10:30 in the morning, take your Kelly Curb. you know that that 3:00 in the afternoon when you're suddenly like, "Oh, I need something." Well, you don't take your killer. So, um, but it is a biologically active product. So, in around 5% of people when they first take it, they will get a laxative effect. So, a softening of the stool, right? And that that I always say, hey, that's a good thing because it's showing it's working. You know, it's good. it's working. Uh but um you know, we're very um but that's why you're on board with it. That'll go in 24 to 48 hours. And also, you might be one of the lucky people that only needs one capsule, not two capsules. Everyone is That was me. Yeah. Oh, you won. Yeah. Yeah. I had to back down because I got everything got too loose. I was like, "Nope, got to back down on the desk." Yes. So, you actually have a really good functioning gastrointestinal tract. And that's what I say to people. Well, that's good. I mean, I'm AI'm a two person, right? But, um, a lot of people are um Yeah. So, just on board, follow the dosage. You know, honestly, does my head in and it's particularly males, and I'm sorry if there's male listeners, it just ties my head in. They're like, "Oh, you know, I'll take two straight away." And it's like, why? You know, you don't do that with a you don't do that with a drug. We say to you, you know, and it doesn't matter. And the interesting thing is it doesn't matter how big you are or how small you are. It is just about um it is about your um it's just about your physiology, how many L cells you have, right? Absolutely. I know guys like to muscle through things and go hard, but it doesn't always work out so well for them. No, absolutely. So, yeah. So, just remember, not if you've got any sort of inflammatory gut. I wouldn't do I would we focus on the gut and just remember you know follow the instructions it is biologically which we are releasing three appetite suppressing hormones so which is why our side effects are so much less we are doing that um and you know but that's what they think is just when you're injecting just GLP-1 um you know you got a very high dose of one hormone which is why they're finding trappite better um because it's two hormones. Well, we're actually doing three. Well, we actually think we're doing four because we're doing GLP2 as well. Interesting. Yeah, it's the orchestra. Like I said, we got to have the whole orchestra playing. And that is why we have to do all the things along with it, folks. This isn't just take your Calurb or your GLP one shot and call it good. you have to be strength training and making sure that you eat enough food and enough protein macros and doing all the things that we do for our health. It's everything works in conjunction and those health habits stack and then you put these tools on top and they work so much better and easier. I love your word orchestra. I I absolutely love that because you know if you've only got the trombone playing you know it's not going to make a good sound. So, I love that word and you know, as I said, I always say to people, if you go from 10 donuts to eight donuts, it's going to make very little difference. You know, it is a tool in the toolkit just to quieten that noise. Absolutely. Yeah. So, I always say if you're taking a standard dose of GLP1s, you're just slamming the bass drum, which doesn't sound good, right? And it it doesn't if it it's that might sound cool for like a song or two, but it's not great long term. It'll give you a headache. So, you know, we're we're trying to nudge I'm a naturopathic doctor. I want to nudge people's physiology into homeostasis. I just want to gently whisper to the right systems to work. And sometimes it's like pulling levers. You know, it's your health is like a spiderweb. And so, we're just some people are just all twisted up and out of shape. And we just have to pull a little bit and get it nice and round again. And that's, you know, that's why it's nice to use natural substances when we can. Yeah. Totally. So, you know, as I said, um, Calub, uh, I've got the weird accent, but it's, um, you know, c a l o curb b, uh.com. Go and have a look. All the science is there. Uh, all the story is there. Uh, as I said, we're owned by the New Zealand government. Um, so, um, Yep, it's Yep. And if you go to calurb.comdina, I believe there's a discount there for them. So, I will make sure that that I will make sure that link is in the show notes for everybody and go ahead and take advantage of that as a listener of our show. You guys were very generous to give that and I think that it's worth checking out, you know, depending on the the applications of this are pretty wide and broad and I think it's worth checking out if if it resonates with you. My husband, he didn't love take having to think about taking something two hours before and then he just sort of gave up on GLP-1 ones all altogether and he was like I don't he wanted to go all natural so I said okay that's fine. So you know whatever floats your boat but if you can if you're one of those people who remembers to take your supplements and you're really serious about getting this to work for you know it's just a little due diligence. Set an alarm on your phone. That's what I do. I just know when I'm going to eat and I set an alarm. It's not that big. We only say take it before a meal because that helps in your meal sizes. Like I just take mine automatically in the morning because remember I'm firing those L cells anyway. So I take it automatically in the morning so I don't have to think about food. We only do that to make it easy for people. Smart. Take it on an empty stomach though. Take it on an empty stomach. Yes, I learned that. You you taught me that. I was just taking it with food. I wasn't paying I didn't read any instructions. I don't follow them very well. I was like, "Oops, didn't didn't read the bottle." So, well, I just love talking with you, Sarah, and I'm so grateful. I'm so grateful you came on the show today. We'll have to have you back when that study gets published, and I want I want to hear all about it. I know. I'm starting to bug the scientist already, so I think I'll be put in a locked room for a while. Let me know. I will make sure you guys, the links are in the show notes. It's caler.comdtina. It's D R T Y N A and you guys can find all the science. It's right there on the page. Like I said, I sort of skimped through it at first and and you know, gave it no attention and I'm really glad that I finally met you and sat down and looked through it because this is legit and it's impressive. So, thanks for being on the show. Oh, thank you so much. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcasttina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.