If there was a demographic of women that we are we are easy to dismiss, it's going to be women in Perry. >> You are tuned in to the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I'm sitting down with my girl Dr. Mara Snyder. She is an absolute powerhouse advocate for midlife women leveraging 17 years as a practitioner, author, and speaker to spark a massive movement for women in pmenopause and beyond. Her upcoming book, The Perry Menopause Revolution, is the ultimate resource for women ready to take charge of their health and embrace pmenopause and resilience with confidence. And you can pre-order it now at drara.com/book. This was a spicy episode with lots of truth bombs. So, let's jump in. Dr. Mara, welcome to the Dr. Tina Show. I'm so excited to have you here, lady. And we are going to be talking all things pmenopause and your new book. So, welcome. Yes, I welcome to this revolution. I love that all of these things are having a moment. Perry menopause is having a moment. Menopause is having a moment. Metabolic health is having a woman. Women are having a moment. And gosh, um I can't believe we waited until 2025. So, here we go. >> Well, it it took it took all of us moving into pmenopause, right? Yes. >> For for it to and we all came into it. I think I'm a a few years ahead of you guys, most of you. But and we all uh you know >> the outrage >> we were like wait what this was getting dismissed. >> Yeah. >> No no no this we are no we are we are changing the narrative. We are turning the tide. We are rewriting midlife on our terms. >> Yes. Well it's a good time to be alive. I mean this is a good age. I I know there's some ups and downs but you know I I wouldn't I wouldn't trade it for my 20s. You know, >> I'm like, >> yeah. No, I wouldn't trade it for my 20s. I could maybe trade it for >> I'd take the energy of my 30s. Uh, I take the sleep of my 30s. I would take the high octane, have a lot more capacity 30s. Um, I don't mind that I get to ne like I be more discerning, have more boundaries. Um, but it's it wasn't I wouldn't say that that was by choice. I would say that >> it never is. >> This is just live and learn and tough and just make it work. >> Toughen up a little. Right. But you threw a wrench in the whole thing. You have a toddler basically. So I mean you you have a different route to on this one. Most of us are launching our kids into the universe and you know going out on our own solo again. So you've got a little bit different situation. >> Yeah. Our friend Cynthia Thurlo just sent her son back to college and I think her it's it's interesting how many friends that are either in Perry or early menopause are launching children or definitely have them launch and I just went to the prek meet and greet last night with all the other kids and the parents and yeah it was really interesting. I'm like huh. But you know what a lot of women are like me. we are having children later. And hence why I think one of the reasons why pmenopause is maybe hitting harder is that there really isn't a a gap or a pause or break between, you know, young children postpartum and then heading into Perry. >> Yeah. Yeah. I couldn't not imagine. My best friend had a baby at 40 and I was like, "What are you doing? We were supposed to escape together. We were supposed >> You have set us back 20 years." >> Seriously. I was like, "What are you doing?" He's a lovely child, but I it it was tough on her. That's a tough one. That was She's very She was excited about it at the time, but you know, like it's it takes its toll. These are not her 20s. >> Yeah. No. When they get sick, I was like, "Oh, oh, oh, I'm no more. I can't sleep. Don't you all know that sleep is going to make or break me the next day and I got a sick kid with a fever every month on the month because they're building an immune system?" Yeah. No, I you know I was asking my mom who had me when she was 18 19 and she's like yeah I don't remember the sleep stuff. I don't remember. I was like you were 20. >> Yeah. >> Like you know I'm 40. It's a very different 43 whatever it was. I was is a very different ball game. So yeah I I do see the benefit of having children earlier. I I get why we're having them later. But yeah definitely a different level of capacity when you're in your 20s and 30s. I always say if I wish that I had the patience and the knowledge and just the calmness that I possessed in my 40s when I had my daughter, it would have been a whole different I would have been a whole different level of mother. But that said, I had no there's no bandwidth at all that I could have fathomed in my 40s having a baby. I would have been like, "No, this is too hard. This is the losing sleep part alone is that was miserable for me in my 20s." Yeah, it's a hard thing. You know, I think we're going through a lot of we're going through a lot of transitions. We're going through a lot of levels. It's like leveling up, right? It's uh it reminds me of it. It really reminds me of just puberty only the older version, >> the older the the the reverse. I like I know I'm sure you've seen the term cougar a cougar puberty instead of second puberty. I I love that. But no, it is it is, you know, instead of ascension, you know, and not to say that there aren't things that we're contending with as teenagers or pre-teens, you know, the anxiousness, the you know, just trying to navigate the awkwardness of becoming, you know, even a teenager into adulthood like that there. It's very messy. I remember it being very destabilizing as a teenager. I remember not really understanding my body or understanding myself and no one prepping me really for my period. But very different ballgame when you are now mothering and you are you've got your career and you've got family and community and you're really holding all the things in the air and your body is in a way it feels like a bit of a betrayal at times. You're like wait whoa whoa I I I have way too many responsibilities that I need to be handling. Like I I need to be able to sleep. I need to have energy. I need to have some level of stress resilience. I need res I need power and strength to get through this phase. And it's it's all while it's beginning to crumble. Um and if you're not prepared or ready or no one told you or warned you, um it it gets really messy very quickly. >> Yes, it absolutely. I think for me the biggest issue was cognition. Like that's what I really started seeing slip and I thought am I getting Alzheimer's? What is happening? And you know realizing that I was just having brain shifts. It was my daughter. It was my adult daughter who said, "Mom, I think you need some estrogen. I don't know what that does, but I've been hearing about that in the brain." And I was like, "You're right that there is a very distinct connection there." And she's like, "I think you might want to try some." So, uh, leave it to the kids. >> Her looking out for you. Yeah. My son just finishes my sentences. Like I was telling you guys before we jumped on, I was trying to hand him grapes and I was like, "Here's your here's your blueberries, your cherries." He's like, "Graes?" And I was like, "Yeah, you're you're up in grapes." And I I wasn't saying that to him. It was more me frustrated with myself that I couldn't even get the word grapes out of my out of my mouth. And this is this is every day. I call it perry menopause in the wild where friends are forgetting words, friends are not remembering where they left something, friends are feeling irritable and stressed, and everyone's getting on their nerves. I'm like, "Oh, that's just permenopause in the wild." Like, I see it all the time. >> That's a good term for it. I like that. Well, so you're such a fierce advocate for women in general and I mean even as a friend, you're such a fierce advocate for all of us and I know that Pmenopause like you had a you had a few things going. You had a baby, you had a head injury, like you've just had a a time the last few years and what's come of this is this awesome book that's coming to life. You've birthed this this this great book. So let's talk about your Perry menopause experience. How has this been thus far? >> It has been a reckoning. let's just call it, you know, the book is really what I wish I had when I was going through it. Um because it's it's one thing and I know you've had so many patients in midlife in permenopause and menopause and it's one thing to be taking care of your patients and trying to help them navigate through all of these symptoms, especially the brain related symptoms. It's another thing when it happens to you and and that's what you're saying. You're like it was the cognitive changes have been so profound and I felt like I wasn't warned. I didn't realize it was going to be that bad. I think the brain injury didn't help at all. You know, talk about more oxidative stress. Um, and so in 2023, my son was two. I was still breastfeeding. And I remember I was feeling on top of the world. I was 43 years old. I had just turned 43 in September. And I decided to uplevel my training. I wanted to train harder. I wanted to train heavier. I was already working out sometimes two days a week or not sorry two days a twi two times a day not two days a week two times a day like we're talking many like I'll do like 15 minute in the afternoon 45 minutes but I was I was I just had the capacity so I I get the trainer I'm I'm I'm really training hard and I just become a puddle on the floor like my energy is gone my brain isn't working I start having and it wasn't like they were cyclical symptoms but I just it felt like early stages of burnout Again, it felt like my maybe my thyroid was coming offline. Maybe I needed to shift my medication. We actually did shift my medication and that didn't go well. I ended up feeling more hypothyroid than than anything. But I remember like I was trying to fill in the dots and I and I think a lot of women find themselves here. You know, I was just interviewing Dr. Jessica Drummond in the kind of the the interception of pmenopause and chronic illness and how many women are coming into pmenopause already struggling with insulin resistance or polycystic ovarian syndrome or burnout, you know, not being able to regulate their nervous system and they come into Perry and hormones begin to eradically decline and they're not binding to receptor sites the way that they're supposed to and it just it's like the it's just like the the I would say whatever is driving that fire to be even bigger like that's what permenopause feels. like and so for me I felt like I was coming out of postpartum and I already had I had Hashimoto's thyroiditis. I had these things that I had come in even to pregnancy with all of a sudden it felt like the fuel on the fire was this shift in hormones and um and I found myself kind of scrambling to figure out what was going on with me. Right when I was probably figuring it out, I got hit in the head twice. So I spiraled with postconussion syndrome. And on the back end of that, in the fall that year, I remember it was actually probably the same week that you interviewed me in 2023, I had experienced rage um for the third month in a row with bouts of like feeling that life was insurmountable, feeling flat, feeling disconnected. And because I was tracking my symptoms along my cycle, I realized it was like day 22 on the dot every every single month, August, September, October. And finally in October when I went back and looked at my own data, I was like, "This is pmenopause. That's what this is. I can't blame this on the head injury. I can't blame this on Hashimoto's." Like I I this is 100% Perry. And it felt so good to know what was happening. Um because I knew then I could start bringing in some of my tools and lifestyle strategies to kind of get it under control. >> Yeah, it's crazy the shifts that happen in your brain and the mood impacts. I mean, it's like talk about flat a effect. That's the other thing. When estrogen leaves the room, it the affect my a effect just goes. So, it's such a flat affect. Like, I literally could get in my car and drive away from my entire family and never see them again. And I would be fine until, you know, my because when you're in Perry, what I want people to understand is it's not just this like it used to be. It's like, >> you know, with the hormones. Some months I get estrogen, some months I don't get estrogen. >> Some months you're okay, some months you're not. You know, some, you know, I'm I'm I'll be honest, I'm 5 days out from my period right now. And yes, I've had multiple migraines in this ludial phase, but I haven't felt flat, thank God. I haven't felt dread and my rage hasn't come in. So, and mind you, I'm on hormone replacement therapy, but I will say that even with HRT, some months are not as good as other months. And there's a lot of things that I bring into the later half of my cycle to help support me. One, just being by myself, like you said, driving away from your family. Um, I just I just walk away from them. There are days where I've just walked away and I'll text Alex. I'm like, I I'll I'll see you guys in a little bit. >> Yes, I need a break. Well, it's, you know, it's the it's the progesterone and estrogen. Sometimes we get, you know, a good surge of progesterone and sometimes we don't. Sometimes we get some estrogen, sometimes we get a little extra bump, sometimes we don't. And that can be really challenging for women. So, how do you propose women? I mean, HRT is one conversation. I know last time we were together, I had a few comments back people saying, you know, they really wanted to know the details on HRT, which I I suppose we could discuss, but that's not really the point. I think the point here, and after reading your book, is more like we we have to prepare for this. I wish I could tell every 30-year-old 35year-old woman like start training now, but we need to prepare for pmenopause and there's so many lifestyle things that need to be in order before we ever even talk about HRT. So, let's get into some of that. Like what what do we need to what do we need to know? What what is what would you say to 35year-old you? >> What would I um what would I say? I would say number one, get your metabolic health optimized. Number one, like if every thought we have, everything we do is is the quality of our cellular energy, then that is number one. Number two, stop overdoing everything. It is not your fault. You are not broken. You don't have to like if you're not getting the result you're looking for in your body, don't keep over pushing because you're probably going to burn yourself out, which is exactly what happened then. Uh, I would say and another thing I think it's really important, a lesson that I wish my 30-some year old self would have known is that it feels good to feel good. Like you could just do something because it feels good to you, that it brings you joy. Like build more of that in. Um, move like your life depends on it. And I mean every day, all the time during the day, not just the one big heavy lift. I know like like if you're stressed, do some deadlifts. If you're if you're if you know if you ate a big meal to do some deadlifts, I want you I want you walking or jump squatting or doing something all day long. Like that one workout and then you're done for the day isn't going to cut it. It's not going to cut it in your 40s, your 50s, and surely not your 60s and 70s. So punctuate your life with movement and build your life around movement. And I would say that not just for the metabolic gains or the immune system gains or the even the the brain cognition gains. I'm more so I move for my mental health. I move for stress. I move to regulate myself. I would say I do that more than anything. And then the other thing is like get very serious about your sleep. Don't don't let it like get so get and I'm talking about sleep consistency. Yeah. like be disciplined about when you go to bed and when you wake up and because it's going to become what over 60% of us in pmenopause and menopause are going to struggle with sleep issues and I don't think it's all just hormones. I think a lot of it is that you still think you can get away with the things that you got away with in your 20s and your 30s and it ain't working anymore. You gone are the days where you can just run into bed and just and hope and pray that you're going to go asleep like you. We need a routine. You need a windown, especially when hormones aren't showing up the way that they're supposed to and you are deregulated and anxious and overwhelmed heading to bed because goodness knows you are carrying the weight of everybody on your shoulders. You've got to prime your brain for good sleep. Like you don't if you're not getting good sleep, let's say you're averaging five to six hours of sleep at night, you are going to make that up in calories the next day. What 15 to 20% in calories. And so your body's going to find a way to make it up and it's going to have an impact on your metabolic health and more importantly on your oxidative stress in your brain. The other thing I would say to my 30-year-old self is establish boundaries now. Establish no. Don't wait. You don't wait until your marriage is crumbling. Don't wait until relationships are struggling. Don't wait until you don't have any capacity. >> Yeah. Learn to say no. >> Yeah. Learn to say no earlier. being more discerning earlier. That way you come into the space and you don't feel like you get m trucked by perry menopause. I think the reason why we're experiencing the m truck moments at least I'm speaking for myself is that I I did I did freight train into perry menopause and gosh was should I have been surprised when it hit me really hard you know when I just had so much going on. If I had been a bit more discerning about my health and myself and my priorities, I don't think it would have been so destabilizing. >> Yeah, absolutely. I really I mean, you know, I was just thinking as you were talking, there were so many good points there. I was joking earlier with you, you know, you have a toddler, but I had a teenager, which is a whole other >> No. Yeah. First puberty and second puberty clashing together. It was like a >> two women. >> Yeah, it was like a gauntlet. It was like going through the gaunt. She just came out of it. It was a 10-year gauntlet. She went in at 14 and she came out around 25 and all of a sudden the prefrontal cortex. She even She's so funny. She edits all of my podcasts down for reals for Instagram and she's like, "Mom, I think my prefrontal cortex turned on. I now know what you're talking about." I was like, "Okay, good, honey." But I was between that, like talk about stress. I was between that, which I think a lot of women are. They're they're dealing with teens. My friends that I watch whose kids are in a lot of sports, they're like drive, you know, doing multiple sports. A lot of these kids are in team like travel clubs and so it's just all the time everywhere and then they never do anything for themselves. There's often a lot of alcohol being consumed at least I know because stress gets high. So alcohol intake, it's like becomes too easy to start sucking down wine. And then you have two, you know, say you have like one or two wicks of tolerance. You create a bunch more wicks. You light them on fire and you just keep telling yourself, "This will be fine." It's like that dog, that meme cartoon of the dog with a fire around him and he's like, "This is fine." You know, >> it's not fine. It's not fine. It's not fine because then you get hammered. >> Yeah. Yeah. You get massively hammered. Well, and you're that's already I mean what you described is getting hammered. >> Yeah. Right. Right. You're like trying to breathe and then all of a sudden bam, you know, >> estrogen leaves the building. I would say one of the first signs also for me was a lack of tolerance for stress. Just complete >> breakdown of tolerance for stress. >> And I think that's those are always when people ask me the subtle symptoms. And it's and the thing about the subtle symptoms is it's the symptoms that every woman's been told to just deal with. It's the symptoms that every woman has been told like you just suck it up. Like that's just what women tolerate. That's just what women deal with. And and that's no like there that low stress tolerance that is a signal. If you if you had all if you knew that you at one point maybe six months ago or a year ago, you had capacity. you were able to juggle all of that, that whole schedule that you just described, running your kids from here to there and everywhere that you remembered to, oh gosh, they have that permission slip that needed to be signed. Oh, you ordered their shoes. Someone needs shoes tomorrow because they lost a shoe yesterday for soccer practice. Whatever it is, and like you had it, and then all of a sudden it's you're it's not sticking. Like it's gone and your and your tolerance and your patience is out the door. That's usually pretty early and you're in your mid to late 30s, maybe early 40s, that's that's very early permenopause. Yeah. >> And and and it it needs to be because I'm telling you, if if we don't like attune to what your body's telling you, what your brain's telling you, it's going to get worse for for for many of us. >> For sure. And I think sleep disruption was another early symptom for me. It was not even noticing it. I I didn't even notice it. I found myself with these random bouts of insomnia, like real insomnia. The kind where you wake, you know, you either can't go to sleep or you get to sleep and you wake up a few hours later and you're like, I'm awake. And it was happening maybe, you know, that used to happen to me like once a year and then it was happening to me once every six months. And I thought, oh, this must be it's stress. And then it was happening once a month, and then it was happening once a week. And I am a sleeper. I am like a triedand-rue sleeper. and I will not let anybody disrupt my sleep or mess with my sleep at all. And I found myself having these bouts of really wild intense insomnia. And that's when I thought, okay, this is something's going on here. There's some hormones missing. They're they're starting to wayne. >> Yeah. I mean, yeah, you're talking what talk about progesterone just not showing up. And what a lot of women pay attention to is often insomnia will be cyclical. Again, it'll be when you know progesterone is supposed to show up and it it doesn't show up. you know, you'd had an an alvatory cycle and so it will, like you said, it's it's really can be very inconsistent, you know, and it may the first half of your cycle you're good, second half of your cycle, not good. So, that's worth paying attention to. And I think it just means that one, start talking to your doctor about potentially bio identical progesterone as a possibility. But there's other things that we can try, right? Try your magnesium. Get a get a some type of sleep supplement that you feel supportive of your um you know I even I'm doing Troscription Z's sometimes and progesterone. Um I have sleepy I have like I have sleepy tees that will knock me the f out like so. And then I'm also really a stickler about my sleep consistency. I track my sleep consistency on my Whoop. I go to bed at the same time. I wake up at the same time. I get my eyes in sunlight in the morning. like I'm willing to do all the things to guarantee that I'm getting good sleep. And so far, knock on wood, overall it's been fine, but I also make sure that I'm like stacking the deck in sleep's favor because I'm I'm just not because especially with the brain injury after the brain injury, I can't afford it. I can't afford to not sleep well. I I'm I'm a puddle on the floor. I mean, my my it feels like massive cognitive decline. like I have bad um word recall the next day. I have no stress tolerance. And not having stress tolerance when you have a four and a half-year-old, no thank you. Um and I just I don't have capacity. So sleep is one of those things where if if you're noticing that slipping, do everything in your power to get it back. Um you know, talk to the doctors, track your sleep, bring on the supplements, bring on the routine, bring on the breath work and the meditations. Like whatever it takes, like get that thing back and dialed. Um because it's probably the reason why your stress tolerances is is even worse than it had been. >> Yes. And that takes us back to what I was saying where I used to light all the wicks on fire. I kept thinking, "Oh, I'll have time later to figure out meditation. I'll have time later to figure out, you know, mindfulness. I was too busy. I I had too many plates in the air. I couldn't put anything down. I had to keep going." And this is also a time when our careers are often taking off, right? Like this is pmenopause years are often years especially if you're an entrepreneur like things start clicking and you start getting some you know ground and suddenly you're on planes all the time and you're all over the place and that is an absolute disaster for your circadian rhythm and you know taking it back to that sleep piece. So there's >> it's awful. >> Yeah, it's awful. I >> travel oh my gosh traveling in sleep and circadian rhythm I mean maybe some women still have good resilience in pmenopause. I have not found that to be true. >> Yeah, I was okay. I was okay until >> I mean I'm still in pmenopause. I'm >> I'm cycling pretty regularly still and every once like I just skipped a cycle. So every once in a while I'll skip a cycle. So I'm sure it's coming. The change is coming. And you know I'll tell you that my patients who were the fittest, my patients who went into pmenopause and menopause with the most muscle and the fittest sailed through the easiest. the ones who came in completely deconditioned, metabolically unsound. Absolute disaster. Absolute disaster. And so, and then I'm like the middle ground, right? Like I'm not My stress kept my metabolic health stress. >> Yeah. >> That's the other piece. >> Yeah. You can be metabolically dialed. I just had labs ran a couple days ago, full comprehensive panels and everything. I mean, you look at my labs, chef's kiss. Like, no, we didn't look at hormones. It was just all the metabolic labs. It was all the cardio metabolic labs and and inflammation labs and I was like damn like on paper that looks pretty damn good. I'm like but you know that that's not really taking into account the stress that's going on or the migraine you know there was other things. So it's really interesting how you can I feel like you can still be pretty metabolically dialed which unfortunately many of us aren't going into pmenopause. I just, you know, let's call it, you know, what is it, six, seven% of us, um, are metabolically healthy overall and women become a lot more vulnerable in this time, which to me makes so much sense. When things are destabilizing and you're just trying to get your feet under you, it's no wonder a lot of that starts to fall to the wayside. Um, but the other piece that I see is going to be the stress component. Like, if that's not under control, um, then I'm still going to see women struggling with a lot of brain related symptoms. >> Absolutely. It talk about labs. My labs were perfection. Not even a blip. No matter how crazy I felt or looked or I mean I could I was starting to edge into looking pretty metabolically unsound there for a couple years during COVID because I was so stressed out. Like stress will just destroy. >> Stress will absolutely >> your best efforts. >> Um but my labs look great. It was not until the estrogen started falling out that the and even with our best efforts ladies you will become insulin resistant. you will have your lipids, you know, your cholesterol and your other uh blood lipids elevate. You will have all these things happen to you no matter how hard you try. So, you I work with folks that are rail thin, six-pack abs, in perfect condition, work out every single day on HRT, and they're still having issues with cardioabolic markers starting to creep. So, this is just the game, right? And it's >> and I want Yeah. put a pin in that because there's a lot of there's a lot of people out there's a lot of talk out there that is saying that this isn't happening to women in this pmenopause transition. I'm like what were you never in clinical practice have have you have you never talked to one of your friends going through this? I think every woman who has tried their hardest again like if anything more calorie restriction more overtraining like this is what I see and yet blood pressure is creeping insulin resistance is becoming you know more prevalent. um lipids are going out of range, body composition changes, and I'm like there's and we know that as these hormones are declining, we are seeing these shifts happening. I call it the silent shift. And so yes, as f like future proof your health well before you get into Perry so that you've got some armor coming into this, but just note that you have still got to stay on top of it proactively because whether you know it or not, as estrogen begins to even not even decline decline, just starts not showing up consistently, bone is going to start to fall apart. Like you're going to start to lose your bone. It's not in early menopause that we we lose that that 20%. It's happening in pmenopause, too. It's not just in early menopause that your blood pressure is beginning to creep up. That is happening in pmenopause as well. So, as estrogen leaves the scene, and for some women it's going to be earlier in their 40s. For others, it's going to be in their early 50s. I don't know where you're going to land, but the more that you can stay on top of your numbers, the more that you can stay on top of your biometrics and you know your body. Like you demand and advocate for what you need because you know that whole mess of like oh women's metabolism isn't shifting or anything like that. I'm like tell the woman who's just gained like 10 pounds and she is busting her butt. Like something's happening. >> Something is happening. I think it's I think it's much more hormonal than true decline in metabolism. But that shift in hormones even subtly and the standard of care in the alipathic system is to put them on statins, give them some blood pressure medication or yeah, if they're lucky. I'm talking like when most patients come into my office and they were going through that pmenopausal shift and it was statin. Suddenly they're on a statin and they're like, "Should I take this or and or they're on some kind of blood pressure medication or being given it and then an SSRI that's like the the the trio combo on the >> million women on SSRIs right now. >> I just did a whole podcast about it. It actually creates bone loss. It leads to bone loss and it leads to cardiovascular issues and clotting issues." And I'm like, why is no one talking about I mean, aren't those the cardinal risks also as we start to go into menopause, you know, like and the standard of care is to give them an SSRI? And I'm like, why are we not treating or testing and treating their hormones? This is bonkers. >> It's crazy. Ev evidence-based evidence-based approach is what I hear. It's bonkers. No, it's it's super bonkers. We we we've got to do better for our for us. We need to do better. To me, that's that's I call that lazy medicine because we're not getting to the root cause of what's going on. >> Well, with that women's health initiative in 2002, everybody got scared off and then a whole generation of doctors just didn't even learn hormone replacement. >> Two generations of doctors haven't learned. Yeah, we doctors that are >> re So, yes, the gold standard is birth control and SSRIs. And not to say that there isn't a time and place. It is really nuanced where you've got women who can be in a major hormone transition and can still get pregnant. I I get I get the concerns and you know it that's why we really do need an individualized approach um to helping women. So for instance like getting pregnant is not going to happen for me. So so bioidentical HRT based on the symptoms that I'm dealing with and the labs like that is very much like I am the I am a candidate for that period. Yes. You know so like so it's it really so I would say advocate for yourself. If if there was a demographic of women that we are we are easy to dismiss, it's going to be women in Perry. >> Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. So, let's talk about that. That piece I hear this all the time from my people of, you know, my doctor said they're not going to test because I'm in Perry and it's going to look crazy anyway and then they won't give me HRT and I'm like, find a different doctor because I always I never stop prescribing. I always I mean I guess I was living in a silo. I've always been prescribing and I prescribe to whatever human is in front of me for whatever hormonal deficiency they're presenting with and whatever symptom picture correlates with that. Like you have to put the two, you know, you you run the labs to cover your ass, but you learn how to do this as a physician, right? So that you can actually relieve your patient's symptoms. And then when you have the two of those synergize, boom, we we figured it out. It's it's not easy, but it's it's a lot easier if the person's in good shape and good health. I'll tell you that. >> I wish they had a healthy host for hormones. >> That's a big big I mean that's why I love GLP1s because it really cleans up the train and gets the fat off and gets the metabolic health in order. But all that to and the they got to put the work in. That's why we're we're both I think >> inflammation. I you know GLP ones as well. I mean you know how many women have come to you who are doing all the things that you say that that they're like I'm training. I'm lifting heavy. I'm eating protein. I'm eating fiber. I'm trying to regulate my stress. I am prioritizing my sleep and yet I can't lose this weight. I can't do this. And I'm like, okay, well then we need to look at other we need to look at peptides. We need to look at GLP1s just to kind of help you out. I I think that always needs to be a part of the conversation as well. But yes, right now currently if you were to go to your OB/GYN or your primary doctor and you were to even ask them, hey, could this be permenopause or can you help me with permenopause or do you even prescribe hormones? It's most likely going to be a no. And so yeah, what do we do? How do we cuz you know it's easy for me to say hey go find another doctor who where >> I know >> and so you know I one of the things I say is go to your go to your compounding doctor or your comp sorry your compounding pharmacist and ask who's compounding who's actually doing it who's prescribing and and go from there. Um, or I mean there are virtual practices, you know, again, it's going to be more one-sizefits-all, unfortunately, to some degree, but starting somewhere, I think, is better than nowhere. >> Yeah. Absolutely. >> I mean, if we're really having an honest conversation about this, like I cannot tell you how many times I've changed my dosage of hormones, >> right? You have to. >> Yeah. >> You have to. I I I always give my permission uh my patients that permission. like seasonally it's going to shift, stress-wise it's going to shift. I mean, there's so many variables here. And in Perry, just for those listening, >> what your dose is >> Yeah. what your dose is one month is not what your dose is three months later. It's sometimes you got to go less, sometimes you got to go more. It's all over the freaking place. And it it's literally like trying to hit a moving target. But I always say like I'm in the gauntlet now. I'm just trying to get out of it so I can actually get to the point where all my hormones are exogenous and at least then there'll be some control. >> Yeah, there's stability. >> We talk so much about menopause being rough, but I think actually p menopause might be the rougher part. >> I I inherently I think it is. I personally, now that I'm in it, I'm living it and I think about all the symptoms that women I was like, you mean that the entire time these women were struggling with these symptoms, it was pmenopause. But until we were okay with them being in a low hormone state, you know, we weren't prescribing premer. I'm talking like even 60s and 70s and 80s and 90s, we were we're like, okay, not until you that the standard was until you stopped your period. Then we could prescribe for hot flashes, low libido, night sweats, maybe even sleep issues. Although we were giving things we're giving other things for that. But that's kind of our that was the standard of care that was the evidence-based medicine if we're talking about that. and and now here we're all this time and women were struggling with all these symptoms and we just kept gaslighting them. We put them on birth control until they finally got into menopause and and like if they were on birth control it wasn't until they were at least 53 or 54 years old that we would take them off. I mean it's just it was just it's been such a big mess. And so here we are. We have women who are symptomatic. Obviously it's a clinical diagnosis which is per pmenopause and are you know very clinically you know presenting for the need of hormones. So yeah it's it's but you still have doctors who are like yeah but she's still making them and so you it's really changing the narrative around prescribing for women in perry menopause. I think that that's going to take a while unless you're working with someone who's already been doing it. they're integrative in terms of how they how they do it and that they're willing to work with you. I think my big piece of advice too is if you get on hormones and they're not working for whatever reason, like shout it from the rooftops. Demand a different protocol. Demand a different dose. Figure something out. Like I was just given a 0.1 a 0.1 patch. I'm working with um um a really well-known hormone doctor and we're trying to mitigate my migraines, but then this patch is driving me towards symptoms of estrogen dominance. There's just times where it's just not appropriate. So we we had to get me another dosed patch for th that time because yeah those those symptoms of estrogen dominance were not serving me at all. It wasn't wasn't moving me in the right direction. And so now my I have a very multiaceted um dose regimen that I'm following. >> I just cut the patches up. >> Yeah, I can do that too. Yeah. >> To whatever to whatever they you know we need that week. I I want to add in there too that a lot of doctors >> don't have the first clue because endocrinology was tough to learn in school and a lot of people just skated through what they could get right and then secondarily there is no version of this and I want to be very clear and I know you agree there is no version of HRT as much as I respect Mary Cla Haver and and all of the menopausy for getting the word out about hormones and HRT there is no version where you get through this succinctly without an integrative approach. It doesn't work. There's just no way. I was I was just at lunch with Carrie Jones, Dr. Carrie Jones, and we were like, there's just no version where you c you can't you have to be integrative. You cannot just slap hormones on a patient and be like, "Okay, good luck. This is not one-sizefits-all. There's gut issues to contend with. There's thyroid issues to contend with. There's stress. All of these things that I know you >> There's lifestyle issues. There's metabolic issues. There's pre-diabetes, insulin resistance, inflammation, oxidative. I mean, all of that, all that is happening. Mitochondrial dysfunction. Yeah. And the fact that we can just pretend like none of that's happening and that, oh, just giving you an estrogen patch and a 100 milligrams of progesterone. >> Good luck problem. Good luck, girl. You know, I'm like, that is just not good enough. You know, I would say that I feel like, you know, who's really having a more nuanced conversation around this is probably Dr. Vonda Wright a bit. um really looking at that lifestyle piece. But yeah, it's it is multi I even myself as I'm navigating this, it's the protocols are constantly changing. I'm keeping an eye on things like I know what it feels like to feel good in my body. And please get to that baseline. I mean I know that your audience, Tina, they're dialed like they probably are hopefully in their baseline and this is just a beautiful reminder. We're about to head back into school season or or in the fall. Like get it, get let go of whatever summer habits you just had. The poor sleep, going to bed later. I know it creeps, eating, eating more sugar, maybe having more cocktails with friends. Like, I get it. Like, it's time to get right. Like, I'm hoping that what you're hearing from this, you're taking this away that, hey, I've got two months before the holiday season comes in. I'm going to go ask for those labs. I'm going to get more dialed in my approach. if if something I've been struggling with I haven't been dealing with like this is the time you have you're not only am I calling you out but I'm giving you permission to just take care of you and yes it's probably going to be a multiple tier approach that's that's health that's wellness that's what it looks like you know someone asked me the other day like when can I go back to eating Chick-fil-A or like something like that and I was like what never >> never >> never a friend of mine too you know pre pre-diabetic metabolic syndrome has got two young kids. She's like, "Tell me that you're not going to make me stop drinking forever." And I was like, "This is the deal. You are you're in a big danger zone. Like, I'm worried for you. You I'm flagging you hard right now. Your lipoprotein little A is 150 milligrams per deciliter. I don't want it above 70. Like, this is this is big concern." And I said, "I know you're drinking all the time. I know you're drinking with your husband and that's what brings you guys together and you're giving up alcohol for the next 45 days and I want to know at the end of that 45 days how you feel and that version of you. You got to ask that. Don't ask the version of you now like whether alcohol is in or out. I want the 45day version of you who's given all this stuff up, who's cleaned it up, who's gotten labs moving back in the right direction. Ask that woman what she's willing to do if she's willing to go backwards in terms of bringing the alcohol back in. Because I have a feeling that that version of you is a full body no. >> Yeah. Well, feeling like [\h__\h] just becomes a slippery slope. >> I know it does >> because you feel like [\h__\h] then you feel like more [\h__\h] So then you drink or you eat whatever and then you feel like more [\h__\h] and you just keep kind of down that trajectory until you finally pull it together. >> Spiral. >> It's a That is a good term for it. And I will say too, sometimes working harder is not the answer. Sometimes I I man, I can't tell you the amount of times I've told my middle-aged patients like, you got to stop going to Orange Theory. You got to stop trying to crush it at CrossFit. Like these workouts are way too intense and they're driving cortisol, which is driving fat, which is it's just a that's also a slippery slope. So like >> sometimes you just got to chill and go to Pilates and do some yoga and breathe >> or just walk, you know, walk, you know, I've been there. I was I trained orange theory too hard in my late 30s. That's when my Hajimoto's diagnosis came in. And I remember just taking a month off and just walking. I didn't stop moving even on days where I have migraines. I don't stop moving. Like I know that just because I have a migraine and I know people are, you know, if you're migraine suffer out there and you're a woman, God knows 80% of us are. I get how awful it is. Believe me, there are days where I'm like, "No one should have to live like this." And I know that my not tending to myself, my not moving my body, my not eating for my metabolic health, that's not going to make my migraines better, anything that's just a signal that I need to keep taking care of myself. And it doesn't have to be a lot, but it needs to be something. It needs to be consistent. I think that's the message, too, is that it's got to be consistent. Don't consistently keep burning yourself out, but consist be consistently prioritize you. >> Yes. And maybe take a nap, too. >> Sometimes. >> Can you take I'm curious. Can you take a nap? >> Oh my god. I take naps. You're a napper. >> I'm a big napper. I I try to nap every single day. I'm a huge napping fan. I you know the time of my life when I stop napping. I was miserable. I I for some reason naps left me a few years ago and I >> or I will at the very least lay down because I have chronic spinal pain. So I have to lay down a couple times a day just to kind of reset my back. It's it has to be de loed. So, I can kind of like wiggle it back into place. And I will uh I'll give myself a good 15 20 minutes. I'll set the timer and I I try to breathe into the backs of of my ribs and I or I might fall asleep. I give myself permission to do that. But there's there's good data. You know, nappers have bigger brains, >> lower cortisol levels because cortisol I just had Dr. Anaka Becca on my show and cortisol dumps out your oxytocin, right? You mentioned it right at the beginning of this show. Oh, you mentioned a few things that can help elevate oxytocin. And she calls it the mother hormone. Without oxytocin, the rest of it's like so, you know, these are like seeking joy and seeking companionship and community and hugs and petting your dog and hugging your children and preparing brightly colored food and being around other women and all the being in water, being out in sunlight, exercise, like all those things help your oxytocin, dancing, hula hooping, >> well, your HRV, your heart rate variability. >> Yeah. you know, um, you know, if you want to increase your heart rate variability, well, one, regulate your nervous system for one, but also I I if I want a HRV boost, uh, because I think trauma drives my HRV down. Yeah. >> And I'm not cuz it don't move, girl. Okay. It's on the low side. >> Me too. Me too. >> Um, is getting I mean, I'm really blessed. I live literally as a fivem minute walk to the beach or I just ground in the grass in my backyard. >> Yeah. You know, we have a beautiful kind of tropical backyard and I just I just ground there. But yeah, oxytocin, it's the only hormone that's going to trump cortisol. But but cortisol can hijack it. I mean, when you're talking about survival versus tendon befriend, like you're you obvious you're going to choose survival. I mean, that's what you're hardwired for. Your brain just wants to protect you. So, yeah, anything that we can do. I think you know what's gotten me through perry menopause that I have really anchored to is going to be my friends, my besties, my ladies, you sending you me memo, sending friends memos. Um the other day I was I had 15 minutes before I had I was an interview or I had something I needed to show up for or maybe it was 20 minutes and I could choose to unload my dishwasher which my future self would have appreciated like at dinnertime. Sure. Absolutely. Or I could go for a walk. I could get to the beach on I could get to the beach and back. And so I I I checked my phone and I happened to have three voice memos from three of my favorite people. And I was like, "Decision made. I'm going to go listen to these voice memos. I'm going to take my walk. I'm going to be out in nature. I will figure out the the dishwasher ain't going anywhere. That's just it. Your emails aren't going anywhere. The dishwasher isn't going anywhere. All the demands and everything from everybody like I can guarantee you those will be there when you get back." >> Yeah. >> After you've taken care of yourself. >> Yeah. Yeah, it doesn't have to be complicated. Yeah, >> it doesn't have to be This sounds like a laundry list, you know? I I I hear that from a lot of my followers, too, is like there's so many things we have to be doing. >> And I'm like, just start with one, you know, like what are your what would be your top five kind of in hierarchical order. >> Squats would be number one. Just get your butt up and do some squats, okay? Doesn't have to be fancy. You don't even have to be weighted. >> It you can be a jump squat. body can just be a squat in your seat. Just move your body. Yeah. Like it'll it'll reset your nervous system. It'll give you more energy. You'll have more more clarity. We know that if you move more, you will sleep better at night. Like the benefits, I don't I don't know what the the cost is there. Like I just could only see benefits. Number one. Two, reach out. Reach out to your reach out to somebody today. Send them send them a voice memo. Send them a text message. Give them a call. Schedule a call on a walk. Like just connect. You know, this is a time where we have been shamed into isolation about what we're going through. And sometimes you could, you know, when you're having that moment, you're thinking to yourself, is this early dementia? And then you talk to your best friend who couldn't remember where she put her sunglasses and they're literally on her head. You're going to be like, oh no, this is where it's permenopause. Okay. So, it's like there's something to be said about when you're talking to a friend and you realize, oh, you're not going crazy. Like, that is the win. Um, next I would say the next it would be protect your sleep like it's a million- dollar meeting. Yeah, Netflix is not important enough. You know, finishing those emails, they no, they're they are not those are not million-dollar tasks as far as I'm concerned. Like just protect your sleep. If it means, you know, you you got to go to bed a little bit earlier or you're spending a little bit less time with your partner. I don't do it. It's worth it. You know, I had a patient of mine who was like, "Well, my husband wants me to hold his hand while we're watching TV." I'm like, "Yeah, but you're clocking six hours of sleep at night. Like, I'm sure he would appreciate a a a more regulated, more well-rested version of you. >> Take him to bed and have sex." >> Yeah. Yeah. Do something else. >> That's easy. I just look at my husband like, "You want to go to bed?" He's always Yes. >> Always. >> And then we go to sleep. Easy. I start having the conversation just about, you know, finding that right doctor, talking about HRT, just open the door for getting the right provider and practitioner for you so that you've got someone on your team. I think that is so important. Unfortunately, I wish I could tell you that every doctor is going to like honor your journey and support you along the way. It's just not true. Like, you're going to have to find that person for you who's willing to walk the fire with you. And it's going to take a minute to find them. And the sooner you get started, the better because it takes four to six office visits for a provider to connect the dots between your symptoms and permenopause and menopause. >> Just go get your hormones checked when you're like 40 >> at the latest. Just start. >> At least get a DEXA scan. Get your hormones checked. Get a full panel. Just just start like get I always say there's no one no one's coming to save you. >> No. And then you have something to track. Like I always I every patient who walks through the door, I will try to talk and do a hormonal panel at at some point. If we can't quite get things right if especially if they're over 40, I'm like, we need a baseline. >> If you feel good, we want baseline. I'm not trying to sell something they don't need. And I hear this all the time. I hear so often from practitioners on Instagram who don't understand this and they don't understand like say the Dutch test for instance and they'll diss on it and I'm like okay that's fine but you clearly don't understand what it is we're trying to do here. It's called preventative medicine and I'm looking for early signals if you're if you're menrating healthfully. If you're say you're 38 years old, you're menrating healthfully, but you're starting to have some weird. Maybe they have some migraines. Maybe they have something going on. I want a baseline. I want to see what your estrogen's doing. I want to see what pathways it's going down. I want to see what your cortisol is doing. I want to see all these things. I want to see your cortisol awakening response because I just want to know when the wheels start falling off, which they will eventually. We have baseline. We have something. Or if they are like, I feel great. And people come in and request it all the time. I feel great. I want this. Okay, great. Let's run it because that it's so nice to have a booklet of labs of my history over the past. >> A timeline. Yeah. >> Yeah. It's it's huge. >> I have an Excel spreadsheet. I just track all of it. Yeah. Well, and it's there's a lot of there's a witch hunt right now against the Dutch test and looking at urine metabolites and because it's ne it's a clinical diagnosis, per menopause, which is true. I I get that it's more of a symptom driven diagnosis. I always say how to know is your age, your cycle, and your symptoms. Like that's how you're going to know. And labs can indicate as well, but it is nuance. You got to be able to read the tea leaves. Um, you got to have a provider who can do that, who's not just looking at the the green, yellow, red and saying, you know, that you're driving towards pathology or normal. That's, you know, and that's a lot of providers are just looking at whether you're pathology or not. So, you need to have someone who can really look at the new like the nuance of of your labs because your inflammation levels can tell us if you're in perrymenopause. There's a lot of things that can indicate it. Um, but it's often a clinical diagnosis. It's a subjective diagnosis as well. And that's why women keep on getting dismissed. But yeah, there's a witch hunt against the Dutch test that it's that's waste of money and waste of time. And I'm just like, it's data. It's data that we can use. I'm willing to use all the tools in the toolbox to kind of figure out what's going on with you. Yes. So, just a heads up there. >> It's just a it's just one piece of the puzzle. Their clinical history is far more important to me. I you know my background was all in regenerative medicine and pain. So pain anybody who came in the door for pain I was like and it especially if it was uncharacteristically intense compared to maybe what the trauma or insult was hormones were immediately testing hormones because what else I mean that's like the master switch for pain. So it's master chemical messenger these are these are immune system modulators. Can we give hormones their due respect? Yeah. >> They're not just reproductive hormones. This isn't bikini medicine that we're talking about. We're talking about the brain. We're talking about your blood vessels. We're talking about your gut microbiome. We're talking about your joints. We're talking about Yeah. your cartilage, your immune system. >> Yeah. This isn't And this isn't vanity either. When I was I will admit when I was working for my mentor, I had a great mentor in naturopathic medicine. And he always was doing hormones way back when. I was in this I've been in this world since the mid 90s. And I really did erroneously think that the women who were coming, so get this, it was always really beautiful women that were aging really beautifully and they would come in and get their estrogen and he was dispensing it out of his I don't know how the the laws were different then, but you he was able to get it compounded and then and then topically progesterone's available over the counter. Shoot, estrogen's available topically over the counter. So anyway, he was dispensing it and I really thought in my head I was like, "Oh, this is vanity. this is how. But now that I look back on it, I'm like, they were beautiful because they were taking really good care of themselves and they were eating really well and they were using hormones to as part of that comprehensive agenda, you know. It wasn't vanity. It wasn't like they were smearing it on their face just to be beautiful. They were putting it everywhere, you know. But man, we we get tissue atrophy in all kinds of places, including down there. And there's it's just ridiculous to me that there's this like you don't need it or you don't need it till you're this age. It's like no, we just if you need a little bit, it might be cuz your brain is different than my brain. And me having a dip in estrogen, maybe it's cuz I lost too much weight at some I've had that happen to me at some points and with patients. They lose too much weight and now their estrogen's gone and they're batshit crazy and they're anxietyridden and life is horrible. So there's times when we might just need a little something something. And that was my argument with GLP-1's like sometimes we just need a little something something. You know, this isn't like voodoo witchcraft medicine >> or it's not just black or white, >> right? It's just logic. >> And I think that's where it gets really messy. And like I said earlier, like if if you are working with, you know, a virtual company where it is static static dosing and it's the oneizefits-all. I mean, it's a place to start and to kind of start tailoring it for yourself. But ideally, in an ideal world, we're all working with someone that's integrative that really understands the nuance of how these work and how it's going to shift. It's going to shift. Like what you're going to need one day is going to be or one month. It may be a little bit different than what you're getting another month. Like I have I have 100 milligrams of progesterone. I have 200 milligrams of progesterone. I've got progesterone cream. I've got, you know, I just have I have all these options that I'm always playing with. you know, I'm like, I I want all the freaking tools in the toolbox because at the end of the day, I want to show up the way that I want to show up for the people that matter to me. And so, if that means I got to like kind of tailor make my own little situation, then I'm going to based on whatever my needs are. Like I said, like even with hormones, like some months are better than others. And I think it has a lot to do with, okay, what was my stress level? How many times was I on a plane the month before? Like all of these other things are playing a role, too. Some of these variables we can't necessarily control. I mean, I guess I could control not always getting on a plane, but like I said, if you're at the height of your career and you you have been putting deposits in your career where it's finally taking off in the stratosphere, you get to have that, too. >> Yeah. >> But we just have to work. We have to we got to get workarounds put into place. The number five, if I had a fifth thing, is alone time. >> Is what? Alone time. >> Alone time. Just >> be by yourself. >> Yes. Like, you know, if everyone's driving you crazy, if you're about to like choke choke out somebody, >> just go spend time with yourself. Like, I'm talking 20 minutes, five minutes, everybody can give you that and just let them know. I And also communi the other thing, the last thing about a bonus is communicate. >> Communicate with your partner what's going on. Communicate with your family what's going on. Let people know what you're going through. That way, you're not silently, you're not suffering in silence. They get to suffer with you. No, I'm kidding. But um in a way they probably are de facto. But um >> just let them know like I I told Alex knows where I'm at and in about two or three days >> it's I mean I'm holding the vision that I'm not going to be, you know, I'm not going to lose my stuff and I'm going to have some level of stress resilience, but there's a good chance I'm not. Um and so I'm just, you know, if I wake up that day and I'm just like I don't have I don't have it. Like can you please take Kingston for four hours or two hours or whatever? Can I just have time to myself? Can I just like because believe me, you're not going to want this version of me anyway. Nobody is, right? >> So, let me just be let me just do me. >> And I know this is not the option for everyone. And I I do want to say that I respect that, you know, the online version of hormones that some of these tele medicine companies, they they are very cookie cutter. They're doing the best they can, but that's expensive. And finding a skilled clinician is expensive. It's usually out of pocket. It's rarely covered by insurance. these doctors are smart enough to not have to deal with the organized crime that health insurance is. So, they usually opt out. And then on top of it, like finding alone time, you know, like the other day, I woke up and I thought, I don't want to do anything today. I want to stay in bed. And you know what I did? I stayed in bed and I canceled everything. I've canceled every speaking engagement and travel trip for the next three months because I don't want to do anything. I just I don't want to do anything. I just want to chill and get myself moved to Arizona. So, I realize that not everyone can do the things that we're talking about here, which I wish this was available for everyone, but I will say like, let's talk about maybe that person who is feeling really hopeless right now and they're like, well, I can't find a doctor. I would encourage them to keep looking. I would encourage them to, like you've said, I think that's where your content and your book, like empowering yourself through knowledge is so critical here, right? like this is how we move the needle forward is is is owning the information. >> What's the alternative? I just just going to say I mean I get that you know you may not you may be I get how frustrating it is to have a doctor who's not listening to you. I get how frustrating it is for a doctor to gaslight you and tell you that you just need to suffer through it. I understand. I've been there. Believe me. Um you know when I was dealing with my head injury the response I got when I was describing my symptoms was that you've been struggling with this for almost a year now. I've got nothing for you. And I was like, believe me, I've been knowing that. I just need you to run some labs because I'm paying insurance for it, you know? And so I I've been there. And the only way is through. Like I had to find somebody else. Like we all we've got to find someone else. And a big part of what the P menopause revolution is is really giving you the scripts to find that practitioner, giving you the tools. Like again, find the compounding. Go on Google, use chat GPT, find who's the compounding pharmacist in your area that is working. Who are those doctors? You know, then how to have that conversation. Maybe it is Midi Health, maybe it is my alloy, maybe it is Joy Wellness that you've got to work work with, you know, you joy wellness or whatever they're called now. They'll run a full comprehensive panel for 150 bucks if you don't have insurance. I mean, lot there's more and more options than we've ever had before. But and if when it comes to HRT and really having someone look at your labs, like my mom, my mom can't get her doctor to run, she can't even get them to run a more comprehensive cardiovascular panel at at 64 years old. And I was like, "Okay, we're >> we're not dealing with this. We're not waiting for them to do something that they're never going to do. Let's this is you're going to have to pay out of pocket. It's 200 bucks. There's a full comprehensive cardiovascular panel. Like there there you go." And I'm like, "Mom, just do it because what's your what's your what what are you worth?" >> Yeah. Amen. That's what I wanted that's what I was getting at. I just tell these people like, "Try harder. You have to we have to you have to keep going. We're giving you all the tools. This knowledge and information has never been so readily available. The fact that so many of us influencers and podcasters are talking about this. This has never been this out in the world. So, this is a very fortunate time to be alive. That's what I was saying. Like, there's never been a better time." And on top of it, there are so many resources in so many of these tele medicine companies and you have to keep advocating for yourself. You have to keep looking and searching. If you get gaslit by a doctor, go find another doctor. They're not God. You there are other people on your panel maybe even with your health insurance you might find that might be helpful. I've got so many messages from people saying, you know, I >> I brought your information in to my MD and have an educated, kind, knowledgeable conversation with your doctor. Don't come in like throwing, you know, studies down and demanding [\h__\h] Be nice, but like they've come to their doctors with knowledge and education or said, "Hey, can you listen to this podcast Dr. Tina did?" And then those doctors were happy to prescribe them a micro dose of GLP1s. Like most doctors want to do less than more. You know, they want to be conservative. So, you really have to advocate. It's it's it's education is empowering and that's the goal. You have to you have to take the time though. Get off the freaking Instagram and come listen to like the people who want me to answer them on Instagram when I've done four podcasts on the subject. I'm like, go listen to the podcast. Go learn to read. Go read some blogs. Go read some books. There's great knowledge out there. Empower yourself. And then you can go in and have an educated combo and then your doctors will be hopefully much more receptive. >> Yeah. I mean it's you're you're always going to be advocating. I my son we just went to a pediatric dentist super well reviewed. He has a little cavity. They're talking about sedation. They've gave me a protocol plan that I was like what is this? And immediately I was like this ain't it. Like I'm getting a second opinion. So I called a bunch of other places. I asked a bunch of other referrals from friends. Like I was it did I want to put in that kind of time? No, no, I I'm just trying to take care of myself over here. Like, and so, but I did I called I I talked to four other dentists, found one 30 minutes away, and I was like, "Okay, I feel like this is worth the the second opinion." Went and got the second opinion, a completely different protocol that was so in alignment with what I knew to be true in the research that I looked in. And I was like, "Thank God." Like, "You know, think about how you're advocating for your children. Think about how you're advocating for your partner or even your parents. You deserve that level of advocation for yourself. >> Yes. Yes. And you can get so much stuff now like lab I was just telling somebody yesterday another influencer friend. She's like I can run my own labs. I said yeah there's multiple places. >> Oh my gosh. Quest Labs, Joy Wellness, Function Health. Gosh, even WOO is about to start running labs. Levels. I mean there's so many places that you can go and order. We live in a time of bioservability. We live in a time where you can look at your own labs. You can run your own labs. You can collect data on yourself with a Whoop or an Aura or even a Fitbit. You can put a continuous glucose monitor on yourself. You can get data about yourself in real time. Now, occasionally, Whoop does gaslight me a little bit, but for the most part, it's pretty much on point about what's going on with me. And the numbers don't lie. Like, it is very clear when I have not gotten the level quality of sleep that I deserve. And that's on me. Like that's on me to make the changes. That's on me to bring in the support. That's on me to be more consistent. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. It's like, "Whoops, I ate too late last night." Or, "Whoops, I shouldn't have had that glass of wine." >> Yeah. Exactly. Or at least I do scroll too long on Instagram. Like, let's own it. Like, I think there's there's something to be said about really taking ownership. >> Yes. That's the word. Yes. Amen. And I think you embody that so well. You're such a you're such a great friend. You're such a great advocate for women in general. and you provide so much information. So tell us about the book. Tell us where to find all your things because people need to know about your world. >> The Perry Menopause Revolution, as I mentioned to Tina earlier, it this was the book I wanted when I was going through it. Even though I had been taking care of patients for 15 plus years, I was like, can someone just spell it the freak out for me? It is it points it really shows how it's more of a systemic silence shift than we've ever been told before. It connects the dots between your symptoms and your future health outcomes because I don't want you to think that this is you're just this is just a phase of chaos and then it's over. No, it's a continuum. I just I want women to know that what happens in this zone of vulnerability, this this this in this moment of chaos, it's going to keep going. Like, yeah, maybe some of the symptoms are going to die down, but the silent physiological systemic shifts, they're going to carry through menopause and beyond. that it really really highlights that in a big way. And then I'm really I want to equip you with advocating for yourself. So if you're having a hard time telling your doctor or you feel like they are interrogating you, I want you to feel like you really have agency. So I walk you through that process as well so that you actually get what you want, that you've got someone on your team. And then I move through the pillars. This isn't this isn't like these aren't these are tried and true pillars. This isn't like I don't have anything that you don't already know in there. It's about balance your blood sugar, getting your metabolic health in line. It is about movement. It's about community. It's about understanding the the basics of HRT so you can have that conversation. It's about understanding the mental health changes and the cognitive changes that you're going to go through so that you feel equipped to address this time wherever you are in the 10-year continuum. whether you're on year one, which God bless you, or you are at like year nine and you're almost at menopause's door. And then last, there's a fiveweek program that puts it all together. And I just want you to know that although it's a program quote unquote, it's a lifestyle. Don't think that at the end of five weeks that you're going to be done doing any of those things. Like you you saddle up for the next 40 years of your life. Like that's what it's all about. I want you to know that what you do now is going to determine how you feel 40 years down the road. So, let let's make this time quality. Let's let's I always call it double dipping. I want to be I want to be honoring my body and feeling alive now, but I also want to know that the deposits that I'm putting in are going to support my 40-year-old, like my 80-year-old self 40 years down the road. >> Yes. I love it. That's such a great way to This is seriously I wish that we'd had this. I wish I'd had it because I I started all this before all y'all did. >> That's true. Yeah. Before we were talking about it and I was like, "What about me? what is going on? Well, I was like, what is going on inside? Like, what is happening? And I I we are our own worst patients, right? So, it took my mom and my daughter to give me some insight. I have to shout out to my mama. She >> was on this tip so long ago. She was using bio identical hormones and fighting to keep her uterus and her ovaries decades ago when I was a teenager and completely not appreciating it. but she really really was doing this stuff early and was a very early adapter. And then I was honored enough to work with my mentor and see a lot of these wonderful women. So there were women that came before us. They just it was underappreciated. So I'm so excited and honored to be like fighting this good fight beside you because I think that it's time that Gen X is not going down quietly, you know, >> kicking and screaming. No, we we hard-earned wet lessons, hardearned life. Like, you know, we are no, we're done tolerating. We're done accommodating. We we we demand a new level of support because we deserve it. We've worked too hard to get here. I'm not blowing the next 40 years of my life. No, thank you. And shout out to my mom who is training for a marathon right now at 64 years old. Go. Shout out to her for moving her body and being a mother effing freight train. She is redefining what menopause and postmenopause looks like. She is metabolically healthy. She is still working a full I mean she is killing it, taking names and just on her terms. And I love I love watching her. She does overdo it a little bit. You know, there's there's that response. But but for the most part, man, she is resilient. She is going to be the 80-year-old woman who is running the race who you're going to be I'm gonna like I want to be her. >> I love it. I love it. Is there is there a place for people to go? >> Yes. >> Is there a website to send them to? >> Dr. D r m a r i za.com. Energized with Dr. Maresa um is a good place. But all the resources there on the website and then come come to Instagram. D r m a r i za draresa. If you want levity, if you want to laugh about what you're going through, if if you if you want support as well, like that's that's a beautiful place to come to come find me. >> Your page cracks me up. I it randomly pops up and I start laughing and then I look and I'm like, of course it's Marissa. Of course, it's great. You make light of it and it's good times. Okay, awesome. Well, I love you so much and I'm so glad you came on the show today and this was a great conversation. I hope it was very helpful for people and hopefully very empowering and uh I'm hope everybody goes out and grabs your book. >> Yes, that's I mean that's step one. Step one, grab my book. Step two, do some squats. >> Yeah, I love it. I'll do it. I'm going to take that to heart. All right, I'm going to do some squats next time. I'm feeling funky. I'll be I'll send you a voice memo. >> Yes, please. >> Thanks, lady. >> Bye, honey. >> Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcastdtina.com. That's D R T Y N A. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time, and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthcare services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.