No one in all of the years of all of the experts and practitioners and that I'd been to had ever said even once to me, you might be mineral deficient. You are tuned in to the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I'm sitting down with Carolyn Allen. Caroline is a health survivor and mineral enthusiast. She's also the co-founder and CEO of Bmin Minerals. After I tried her minerals recently, I met her on a Zoom call where I picked her brain for an hour and then I had to get her on the show. Caroline comes from a background career in corporate and found herself struggling with her own health issues and she sorted them out on her own. She since devoted her life educating people about how minerals operate in the body and the benefits of natural humic and fulvic, which are plant-based complex natural compounds that contain trace minerals, amino acids, vitamins, and nucleic acids. You may have heard of them. I needed to know all about them and how they worked. We had a fascinating talk and you're going to want to listen to this one for sure. Let's jump in. Caroline, thank you so much for coming on the Dr. Tina show today. I'm very excited to have you. Uh big fan of your product and I wanted to bring you on to talk about it because I don't think most people understand the benefits of fulvic and humic and you've explained it so well to me. So, welcome to the show. Thank you so much for having me. I'm really excited to hang out with you. Yes. So, I for years have been seeing Fulvic and Humic in so many different products out there. And then I came across your product and I had to get some in my hands because my friend Natalie Jill and I both had upper bluff surgery at the same time and she healed so well and so fast and we were texting each other the whole week and I had a terrible time. my immune system went sideways and mine was really swollen and puffy and itchy and just I did not breeze through it like she did and I know a lot of that has to do with individual overall health but uh I'm just kind of a swelly itchy girl as is. I'm kind of a high histamine girl and she was spraying this stuff on her face the whole time and I was like what is that? So big fan she is and she said you got to get some. So then I connected with your people and I got some sent to me and I loved it and then you and I had a great talk and I wanted to bring you on the show because I don't think people understand a lot of people are pounding fulvic and humic and I don't think they know what it is or why and so I thought we could talk about that today. That would be exciting. It's of course my my most exciting topic. I love talking about minerals and most people it's like well minerals are rocks how boring. But to me they're very very exciting. Yeah. Yeah. So, how did you get into this? What tell me your story. Yeah. So, what happened to me was about it's it's actually wow it's actually close to 15 years ago. Uh I was in a corporate career in in the tech world. Uh and I burned out of that and I had I had two young kids at the time. Um I had been single parenting. I was working A-50-hour a week job and I was in very ill health. I had flatlined adrenals which I'd had for over a year. I had really bad inflammation in my gut even after being gluten-free for about seven or eight years. I could not get over the bloating, the discomfort, the elimination issues. I had really bad inflammation in my mouth with uh gum recession, bad gingivitis, deep pockets and bone loss in my teeth. I had recurring sinus infections that came, you know, every six six weeksish. Um just I could never get rid of it. Uh and then I also could not sleep through the night. I woke up three to four sometimes more times per night. So, I met my my friend who is now my business partner, and he had these liquid minerals, and I'm not a big supplement taker in general. I just I just don't I I hate taking pills. And these were liquid. They tasted like water. And so, I took them. I was like, "Okay, sure. Minerals, whatever." you know, and I started taking them and I didn't notice a huge difference. Mainly because even though I had flatlined adrenals, I'd had them for so long, I was at AI'm I'm a very driven person and I would just make myself, you know, I was a disciplined person. But about two months in, I went to my dentist and she and I had my teeth cleaned, which was usually very painful. She looked and there was no pain, no bleeding. And then I when she looked in my mouth, she was surprised and said, "You know what's changed? The tissues in your mouth are all pink and healthy and the pH seems to be completely different. What has changed?" And I couldn't even really think about it. I mean, I could I was I thought for a while and then I said, you know, I think it might be these minerals. So, she was like, we'll keep taking them. Then four months in, I went to my naturopath appointment where we were doing my regular check of my adrenals. At my last appointment, she had wanted me to take hydrocortisone, which I was not going to do. And but that's how grave the situation was. And she looked at the results of the test and my adrenals were one-third of the way up the chart with their natural saw to pattern. And she was like, "This is fantastic." I mean, we had been trying for over a year to get any kind of activity in my adrenals. They were at times below flatline. So, this was a huge change. And she's like, "That looks like the hydrocortisone is working." And I said, "No, I'm not taking that." She's like, "Well, what are you doing?" I said, "You know, I think it might be these minerals I'm taking." So over the space of about eight or nine months, all those symptoms that I mentioned, including the dispiosis and challenges in my gut, the elimination issues, the sleep issues, the sinus issues, the gingivitis, all resolved. And I was like, wow. I mean, I had gone to so many practitioners. I've spent I've spent probably over $100,000 on my health over the years trying to get well. I also have autoimmune and I've also had a really bad mold exposure event in my life and I also had long COVID of course much more recently. But all of these things affect have affected my s system and and the gluten intolerance of course throughout my life but then the the long co more recently. So I as a result of this change, I just started researching because I wanted to know how it could be that after trying so many different things that this little cup of liquid could make such a difference. Yeah. Yeah. So that's, you know, you and I met and talked about this and I was like, this is such a common story. You actually got the test done and the answers to know what you were dealing with, but I cannot tell you how many patients have walked through my door with that exact picture of just total burnout. Just flatlined burnout like a dream. I I've been there myself. Like I remember getting my lab test back once, my hormonal lab test. My dog had just been It's crazy story. My dog escaped. My border collie used to jump the fence. She jumped the fence the week that I was doing finals at two different medical programs concurrently. I had my naturopathic medical uh finals and my chiropractic finals and I had to take board exams on top of it and my dog jumps the fence. She ends up in a shelter for three days. And then I finally get her home. I finally find her. Right? So like three days of hell can't find my dog. Finally find her. Get her home. I kid you not. She's in the backyard. She's caked in some kind of nasty goo from wherever she was had been staying. She smelled to high heaven. I looked at her and I said, "I'm going to go run a bath. Don't you jump." And I mean, such a highly intelligent dog. She looked at me out of spite. I closed the slider and I heard the clunk clunk of the fence. And she had jumped the fence and I blasted her with so much anger mentally like I mentally just was like, you know, and boom, I hear squealing tires slam. My dog I hear my dog scream. And then I I run out to watch a guy drive down the road. So, it was a hit and run and I follow this trail of blood to the park and there's my dog with her back leg all mangled up and she's like looks at me like, "Oh no, I did something like I'm in trouble." And I picked her up and I was carry running her back to the house and right then my husband pulled up. My husband at the time pulled up. I hopped in his car. We took her to the e the doggy ER. They had to transport her somewhere else. Anyway, she has to get her leg removed. Uh, I come home, I'm covered in like blood and whatever the scum was that was on her from the thing. I open up my email before I get in the shower and there's my lab results. And I print them out and I remember looking at them and everything was zero. Like estrogen, testosterone, progesterone, adrenals, everything was zeroed out. And I was like, "Oh [\h__\h] I didn't even know what to do with that." You know, and like I'm I'm a medical student, but I I'm pretty wise at this point. I'm, you know, I kind of know how to handle these And I was like, I don't even know what to do with this. And I remember putting it face down and just I I was like, I got to come back to this. So when you told me your story, I was like, I' I've been there. I feel that it's it's like a special kind of I'm dying feeling when your adrenals are that flatlined. So, and then I have been on hydrocortisone on and off for decades. So when you told me that you were able to pull your adrenals out of the hole with these minerals, I just like I had to talk to you. So what is in this magical liquid then? What what am I what is it that I'm spraying all over myself and drinking all day long? You know, so one of the things that happened to me when I started researching is I went down the rabbit hole of looking at the body instead of as parts and pieces that have to be fixed, you know, when when the adrenals are out or the hormones are out or the gut is out or the gingivitis or the sinus. is like we we try to look at each s symptom as a problem that we need to fix. And what happened was as I began to research and I was unlike you, I did not go to medical school. So I was starting at the beginning. The beauty of it was that because I wasn't coming from a medical lens, I was able to look across many silos of information and kind of what I the term that is from software is kind of gro the whole thing. And what I what I saw is and what galvanized me to bring this information to the world was that our body is completely made of single cells. completely made of single cells and these cells all operate together like in this m seemingly magical way. I mean heart cells know their heart cells and eye cells know their eye cells and and not only that they all work together to allow me to talk and think and move and as well as hundreds of autonomic processes in the background that are just happening without any conscious thought on my part. So just that alone, you know, the fact that a human, an adult human has between 37 and 150 trillion cells. So that's the first kind of huge aha that I had. And then I started asking well you know I what's inside a cell and that's when I encountered mitochondria and mitochondria being these powerhouses which generate most of the energy in the body and they are inside the cells. Now, the thing that blew me away though was that, you know, most people, even if they've heard of mitochondria, they think, well, there's one cell, there's one mitochondria. But the scale of mitochondria is phenomenal. So, on my back of my hand, I might have 1 to 200 mitochondria. In my heart, oh, in a single cell. And in my heart, in a single cell, 5 to 8,000 mitochondria. In my brain, one single cell might up have I mean a a neuron might have two million mitochondria. So the number of these tiny powerhouses that are working all the time to generate all this energy that makes it possible for me to function is unbelievable. But then the final question that blew it up for me was, well, what fuels mitochondria? And it's two things, minerals and amino acids. The body makes a lot of amino acids. It makes no minerals. They all have to come out from the outside. And that knowledge alone made me go, well, no wonder there must have been like I must have been so mineral deficient that I was unable to generate enough energy in my body. And my body was operating in like a like a city in a brownout. And so it had to pick and choose which functions it was going to do. It was going to keep my heart pumping. It was going to keep my lungs going. It was going to keep some level of cognitive function going, you know, it's going to keep my eyes working, you know, the very important things. Um, but it couldn't clear the inflammation, you know, my hair not so important on and on, you know. So, and no one was talking about that. No one in all of the years of all of the experts and practitioners and that I'd been to had ever said even once to me, you might be mineral deficient. And it's I think it's because we think of minerals as in isolation. And so we give minerals in isolation, right? We give a certain form of magnesium for this and a different form of magnesium for that and we give zinc for this and we give iron for that. And I think that's where we get lost in it is this idea of trace minerals, which I will tell you there were pe a few people in my a few classmates and a few professors in my program in naturopathic school who were way into trace minerals. And they were I thought they were nuts. This one guy was like, "Yeah, you just put a small amount under your tongue and hold it. You didn't even it wasn't even about volume. It was about the fact that the trace minerals even and he loved to do what's what he called drop dosing. I call it micro dosing, but it this is where I got my idea for micro doing GLP-1s, by the way, was from this guy because he taught me about drop dosing and I thought he was insane. Uh he taught me that you could take tiny amounts of Prozac and have an completely different impact on the brain than you would if you took macro amounts. And so he taught me and that's the way I practice now, which is crazy all these years later. But he was the guy that was all about the super lowd dose trace minerals. And I was like, how is there even anything in there? you know, and then just the other day I saw there's some PhDs I follow on Instagram and I love their content. They're like very super sciency, you know, and uh but they don't always get it. Like they don't get the nuances and this guy was going on and on about minerals and how there just wasn't something about he was like disentrace minerals saying there just simply wasn't enough there to have any impact on the body, right? So, like let's talk about that because there's something really magical when you get the symphony of minerals together and you don't like super dose just one in isolation. So, this is the thing I I love to talk about this because this can completely change people's paradigm of thinking about their body. So, if you think about the body, let's just look at the gut. I mean, the whole body is is an ecosystem. Your body is a natural ecosystem with all these microbiomes. Your mouth is a microbiome. Your gut is a microbiome. If you're a woman, your vagina is a microbiome. Okay? So, each one of these microbiomes is an ecosystem unto itself. And our gut as an example has all these um microfllora and fungi and beneficial bacteria and um all micro all sorts of different um organisms and and microfllora. So I like to use the metaphor of a forest. So, like a forest, when your gut is in balance and healthy and there's enough nutrients coming through and enough water and and everything's just happily going. It's like a forest that is lush and there's things that are rotting on the forest floor that are delivering their nutrients back into the roots and and everything has what it needs. There's enough rain. Even the air carries nutrients. Now go take a wheelbarrow of magnesium and throw it into the forest anywhere and what is going to happen to those microorganisms and the plants in that area? They're not going to flourish. And so this is the misunderstanding about minerals, particularly minerals, is that they are ecosystem tools. They do not work alone. They are meant to work in balance. Every single mineral of the 17 to 22 depending on who you talk to that you need in your body operate in a in a particular natural ratio and balance with 1 to 10 other minerals. So yes, you do need a lot of magnesium, but if you start throwing large amounts of magnesium into your gut on a regular basis, what your microbiome says because it's an ecosystem, it says this is a concentration of magnesium. I need to eliminate a lot of this, which is why women often use it for elimination because it will help you eliminate because your body says, I've got too much and I need to get rid of it. The other thing that it does is it says I need to balance this with phosphorus and calcium because there's too much of a concentration of magnesium here. I need to balance it with these two other things. And where does it get those? From other places in your body, from your bones. So, as an example, some trainers that I work with of elite triathletes, they came to me because they're athletes who have been using large amounts of magnesium and potassium have developed osteopenia and osteoporosis because they've done it on a daily basis over long periods of time and it is literally taken the phosphorus and calcium from their bones. So, you know what I say is scientists knew that mineral deficiency was going to be a problem because they looked at our soils and they said, "Our soils are mineral deficient. Our foods are going to be mineral deficient and we're going to need to be putting minerals back into humans." And so, they went into their labs and they did their testing and they came out with what we call recommended daily allowances. But the problem is that recommended daily allowances have absolutely no reference for you or me or the 6'4 athlete or you know the 94 year old grandmother or the 56y old woman in menopause or the permenopause woman or the puberty person entering puberty. So you see every single body has different genetics and epigenetics and lifestyle and eating profile and activity level that require completely different minerals. So the idea that I could try and hack my body by giving it the minerals that I think it needs it's ludicrous and it it doesn't work. No, that makes total sense. I remember now what this uh PhD was talking about. They were talking about sea salt and how sea salt was unnecessary because there was not appreciable amounts of mineral. Like why are you worried about the sea salt having a full mineral profile if there's not appreciable amounts in there. And this is what you're getting to is that when in the right ratios and optimized ratios, preferably from a more natural source, you you get a better absorption because they dance together, they absorb together. If you take the for all the people taking calcium magnesium supplements, I cannot tell you the amount of patients, almost every patient was taking that calm product, you know, that Yeah. Yeah. Mhm. And I would take all of them off of it because I'm like, "Your calcium is directly competing with the site, the receptor site for the magnesium. So, you're not getting any magnesium in you." And and I I do I I sell magnesium products from my line. I don't take them every day. Um I I try to do kind of a balanced dance with all of this, but sometimes when we like I I think of it like super setting. If I super set some highdosese minerals, you know, I know what I'm doing. But I think that you're so right on about this. Like this is this is it. And then this takes us back to the forest floor because that's where the fulvic and humic come in which I never understood. I had all these different products that had been sent to me over the years by companies and they had fulvic and humic and I was like what am I taking? I I know of them as potentially binders is how I first understood them. Um, I knew of them potentially as detox help, but I didn't under ever understand them as like a multiaceted mineral trace mineral source. Yeah. So, let's talk about what they are and how they how they work because I call them mother nature's mineral replenishment and detoxification technology. So they are truly once I describe how they work you'll understand they're a technology and be and what's beautiful is that mother nature you know the the way things develop in nature it's like as above so below. So if your body needs to receive minerals in a particular ratio formula mother nature goes oh we better create this substance that has that same ratio. So that's what that's what humic and fulvic represent. They first represent all of the minerals that your body needs in the natural ratios that your body utilizes. So lots of magnesium, calcium, potassium, the the macro minerals, but also all the ratios of the micronutrients that are also extremely important. So where do they come from though? So um humic and phobic come from the decomposition of freshwater plants not sea based plants but freshwater plants and most the the humic and fulvic that is used in in supplement products and health health and wellness products all comes from ancient decomposed plants. So imagine 65 million years ago when the dinosaurs lived, a meteor hit the Yucatan, it killed 75% of all life on Earth in a matter of hours. And all these rainforests around the earth as well as dinosaurs and lots of animals died and decomposed and became a strata of earth below the surface. there and there are different substances around the earth that are humic humic substances and I'll explain I'm not going to say humic and fulvic at this point let's just say humic substances there's something called chiliget in the Himalayas it's like a a pasty um tar it's like a tar yeah and it oozes from rocks then we have pete in the in the British Isles and it's it comes out of bogs ancient bog areas as lowland areas. Um it's this kind of a clumpy soil. Then we have terapreta in the in the Amazon and the South America. And then we have something called humate and leonardite in North America. And these substances substances are that we use it's the humate is a black crystalline incredibly mineralrich substance like so mineral richch that uh in the powder form the amount that you would need to take in a year is less than a cup. Wow. So it's that mineralrich because you have to imagine an entire rainforest if you've ever seen one with you know four 200 foot tall trees and vegetation chalk full all decomposing into this strata of earth bringing all of their mineral content back into this substance. So, so beyond providing all these all the minerals that you need, humic and phobic have these incredible capacities. So, just to be clear, hum the humic molecule is a pretty large molecule relative to it's much larger than a cell and ultimately the fulvic molecule comes out of the humic molecule. Okay. Okay. So I say it's kind of like a birthing. It's extracted from the humic. So when I talk about humic, it actually will always have some fulvic associated with the molecule. But humic in particular has specific capacities. It hangs out in your bloodstream and or in your gut and it's an incredibly effective binder. It's a really interesting molecule because on different places on the surface of this molecule have different polarities. So it can attract molecules of multiple different of you know positive or negative polarity. So, and it's incredibly effective at gathering bow-waste toxins like glyphosate, nanoplastics, spike proteins, um even um graphine oxide, um heavy metals just in general now as well as scesscent cells. I mean, all sorts of different um dactus that your body is ready to get rid of. It's lit. I call it mother nature's janitor because it literally just hangs out in your bloodstream in your gut gathering up the stuff that you need to get rid of. How about lipopolyaccharides from gut bacteria? The endotoxins that certain pathological gut bacteria. Yeah. And you know I am not sure about endotoxins and somebody asked me that recently. So, I don't want to make that claim um without and I've done I've I have that on my list to do some research. I'm not sure anybody's done any studies with endotoxins or micotoxin um relief. My my gut feeling is that it definitely would support the detox of those, but you know, I I can't say that because I haven't done the research. Okay, that's fair. So the the other cool thing so ultimately this molecule this humic molecule gets so heavy because these different things are are chemically bound to it that it falls out of solution and like precipitates out of solution and it leaves the body through all the elimination channels. And that's really key because most elimination and detox products require certain channels to be open. But the beautiful thing about humic and it makes sense because it's a natural detoxification tool. It works on fields. It works it I mean there's a story from a scientist who worked in the um the big where was the the big Russian nuclear accident. Oh Chernobyl. Yeah. Chernobyl. And they were trying to get plants to grow. They gave a hectaria of land to different scientists and they said see if you could get something to grow. And the only hectare that grow grew was the one they put humic on. Wow. They spread humic over it. So incredibly effective natural detoxification agent. It uses every elimination channel including your tears, your snot, your sweat, your breath, your ear wax, your uh just sloughing off cells. Um, so which is great because it doesn't only rely on liver, the liver process and and urine and feces, kidney and bladder. So yeah, which is helpful because not everybody's pooping every day. I mean, a lot of a lot of people get blocked up with toxicity because they're just not pooping every day and and a lot of a lot of livers are really messed up as well. For sure. So this is a really great thing. And you know, people often notice when they first start taking it that their sweat stinks, things like that, like suddenly they have really stinky sweat, as an example. So the other thing that humic does, which is really cool, is it hangs out in the bloodstream and it interacts with the cell membranes. And what it does is it increases cell wall permeability. So I like to describe it like if you're in a room and you have a door and a window. If you had four doors and four windows and they were all open, more things could go in and out more efficiently. So, it works to increase the efficiency of cell membranes by increasing the permeability of cells. And this is really important now when we have things like you know seed oils which can clog cell membranes and and and affect u mitochondrial function because you're not getting enough nutrients into the cells and it it can it can affect just the efficiency of cells. So that's that's the humic molecule. So the other piece of the puzzle is fulvic. And so humic and fulvic are these synergistic molecules. Fulvic is a super super super micro molecule. It is much smaller than a cell. It carries with it 70 plus minerals in those natural ratios that your body needs. And it's the one of the most effective flavonoids, meaning that it's an intercellular transporter, but it's unlike any other flavonoid because it has a capacity that no other molecule on Earth has, which it can ch which is that it can change polarity. Oh, cool. So, it gathers and it's extremely high. It's a very strong electrolyte molecule. So these minerals and other nutritional elements cling to the molecule. Your body recognizes fulvic as a as a beneficial substance. So when it hits the cell wall and the channel opens, it doesn't require a gate. The body says this is a beneficial substance. Let's let it into the cell. So it goes through the cell membrane and then it changes its polarity and like a magnet it drops its bolus of minerals and nutritional elements into the cell. That's so cool. Literally a delivery system. And it makes sense when you think about nature and cellular life on this planet. If mitochondria are in the cell and the minerals and nutritional elements have to get into the cell, you bet that mother nature would design some sort of enhanced process for getting that those minerals and nutrients into the cell so that cellular life on the planet would thrive. Yeah. Because there's always been all sorts of non-beneficial environments for cells. So there had to be for for cellular life. So there had to be this this tool both the cell wall permeability enhancement from the humic and then the the um carrying of the full spectrum of minerals into the cell and the dropping them off. Now the fulvic has a new role. It's dropped off its bolus of nutrients in the cell and and it's changed its polarity. Now it travels around in the cell gathering up bow-waste, toxins, heavy metals, nanoplastics, free radicals, glyphosate, um all sorts of of other uh viral detritus, etc. And now the channel opens in the cell wall, it carries those out. And this all happens through a scientific process called diffusion, which I'm sure you understand. So basically the the liquids inside your body wants things to be equally uh distributed. So it says it the channel opens and it carries those those bow-waste and toxins etc out of the cell and then it changes its polarity again and it drops those things in the bloodstream where now the humic molecule can gather them up and remove them entirely from your system. So this fulvic molecule I mean some of the people who are the the people who know the most about it in the world who I've talked to they call it the god molecule because when you start really studying how it even does its changing of polarity you get into quantum mechanics and it's it's extremely complex and they they really don't know how it does what it does and so it comes from humic you said it it is extreme racted from the humic molecule. Yes. So the humic is basically the the pete and the debris of plant water water plants and everything else that's decomposing. Let's actually call it the result of decomposition. So it's actually just so we're clear. It's actually like a set of microbes. A very specific set out of the hundreds of thousands of microbes that you might have in a cup of soil or more. Probably millions. I don't know how many um and it's but it's a very specific set of microbes that go through a process of you know metabolizing one another and excreting and the metabolizing excretion and etc and they result in this humic molecule. Got it. And then from that comes the fulvic. Yes. Exactly. Okay. So, why do so many um Well, first of all, you have products that have both the humic and the fulvic separate. Um, and I see fulvic a lot on different supplements that I've interacted with. Why one or the other? Yeah, I know you I know you just explained the differences in how they work, but like just from my point of view as a as a consumer, like when I turn around a bottle and I see it says fulvic and not humic, um what what is the purp why is it there? So yeah, so I like to the reason I like to describe how they work is because it helps people to understand that you've got tools here. Yeah. You have you have a full system detoxifier with humic and you have a nutrient uptake enhancer with fulvic. Okay, that I like that. Now, it's definitely also doing intercellular detox. But so what I say is if you're an athlete, if you're a person who deals with struggling with energy in your life, you know, the crash in the afternoon or just finding the energy, that fulvic is your first go-to. And the beautiful thing, one of the things about actually let's talk about humic for a moment. One of the things about humic is for people who have autoimmune, I'm one of these by the way, who have autoimmune who've had mold exposure, limes, um they have extremely sensitive um immune systems that will herk detox symptoms very very easily. So humic, the only way that I can use humic is in my glass of water here. I have to um I drink like a 16 glass of water with less than a half an ounce of humic because otherwise I will start to get pimples or I'll get a rash. But the the point is that these kinds of symptoms occur when those things are leaving your body. That's why a rash because literally my body is saying I'm going to get bring it out the these toxins out through my skin. But you don't get any um of those kinds of symptoms when you're having that intercellular detox that fulvic provides. Yes. So, so the beautiful thing is you can use fulvic like you know I have a whole thing about salt-based electrolytes that you know we don't have to go into but the point is that if you want to give yourself an immediate boost of electrolytes that happens in like 30 seconds no digestion required have a shot of fulvic liquid because it doesn't require digestion or absorption. through your gut lining. It absorbs through any tissue that it touches. That's why we have this why we have a spray. This is what Natalie was spraying all over her face when her eyelids were healing. And I was so jealous and intrigued because I was like, "Why does she have no swelling and why are my eyes this big?" And she was just blasting uh the tissues with that. And I she was like, "No, I swear by this stuff." She's texting me and she's like, "I swear it's the B minerals. They've kept everything just under control. It's so true. So, if you think about how it's working, you're spraying it on and let's say you have an injury or you have had surgery or you've had you are literally giving the cells in that local area. all the all the mineral fuel for the mitochondria in that area as well as the ability to get the toxin that inflam those inflammation um causing elements out of the cells. It's it's just ideal. Yeah. So, and this is what I say. I said, you know, mother nature is so wise. You know, all all we have to do is harness the tools that mother nature has created. And that's what humic and fulvic represent. The reason you'll see fulvic in so many supplements is because they're using it as a carrier molecule to increase ah see as to increase the bioavailability of whatever element they're using curcumin or whatever it is right yeah that makes sense and they talk about it being charged a certain way it is exactly okay okay that makes so much sense now the actual answer is people say that just so you know the trick is people say so how what What charge does a fulvic molecule have? Now, if you're really knowledgeable, you'll say it it can either be positive or negative. I say it depends, right? And that's the only molecule on Earth that has that capacity. Wow. Okay. This makes so much. I'm like I'm just sitting here picking your brain for the audience. I love it. I love it. There's no script here. I'm just nerding out and I'm like, ah, getting answers. Yeah, because Fulvvic came on the scene a couple years ago and it was all the rage and I and Sheila and all of that and I I I understand mechanistically what they do and what their um purpose is, but I didn't understand it at this level. I I'll be totally honest. And so I I've been I've been suspect because well and you know marketing is so good around some of these things and so you're you get caught up in it but then you're like what am I really taking? So tell me about something like um I mean would is zeolyte I'm not trying to bring up competitors but is zeolyte a similar type of thing is that a fulvic or humic product well so the only thing about zeolyte and this is the interesting thing about humic and I've been reading some studies recently about this so zeolyte is is like um it it's it's not discerning you see it will just it it's just a permeable sub substance that just gathers crap and carries it out. So, it can also, you know, take out things that are positive. It's it's I'm here's what I'm going to say about detox products in general and and I'm I'm actually coming out with a book in the spring of next year and I talk about this, but there are different ways to detox. There are, you know, short-term intensive detox practices and protocols which at times are absolutely necessary if if you are in a really deep need and and you're working with a practitioner, this is a really important thing. Um, when you're doing but there's as soon as you finish that protocol, you're again encountering environmental toxins. And so one of the best things to do is to use humic and fulvic as your natural tools for your bodily ecosystem to support everyday continual continuous detox. That makes more sense and it's a lot more elegant. Uh the reason I ask is I had a few patients who were zealots about zeolyte but they were so depleted. They looked so depleted all the time and they swore by this stuff and you know and everybody runs into the thing that changed their life and and changed the course of their health and they get excited about it. I understand. Um but they looked so depleted and I was like I don't know. I just could never get on the zeolyte bandwagon with that one that just and I I'm not a huge fan of big detoxes. That's why I was excited when when I got sent these. I was like wait I always thought of hum and fulvic as detox. I never or binders like I said I never considered them as mineral as I never considered fulvic as a mineral delivery system. So I was like why is this called B minerals that's why I got on the phone with or the call with you because I was like wait what am I what am I missing here? So this makes so much more sense and you need a really robust mineral millu when you're going through any kind of detox. Like it's the dance, right? And it's talking to you sounds like talking to a naturopathic doctor because you get it. Like it's terrainbased care. Like it's you have to you have to bolster up the terrain of the individual before you start doing things to it. You know, it doesn't go well when you start slamming. That's why I drives me nuts. These parasite people, these people on the internet with absolutely no health credentials who have tons of followers who are selling parasite cleanses and I'm like, do you know what could go wrong when you start slamming people with hardcore even like hardcore mold detox or hardcore gut detox? you can herx people into because once I was just talking to my podcast producer this morning about this once you set off this certain toll-like receptor on the cell this alarm system all hell breaks loose and it's becomes a feed forward mechanism and so once you start licing bugs in the gut and you start releasing lipopolysaccharides and endotoxins and you start the histamine blow you know it's like the histamine blow I call it like once those mass cells get primed if you will to just like you could touch somebody and they blow up. Um, it starts to feed forward itself. So now the LPS is setting the system off, the histamine setting the system off. Now the hormones are involved and it just becomes a complete shitow and it can be very dangerous and it can be really uncomfortable and there's an elegant way to do this and there's a really terrible traumatizing way to do it and I don't think people have a clue that there's a difference and so I like this concept of this sort of slow and low which you know it can be intense though. I I emailed you and I was like, I have a rash all over my chest. And you were like, stop the humic, slow your roll. You know, because there's a and the the also the thing I like about it is it's liquid. I mean, I know you have the capsule version of the phobic, but you have these liquids which is really beautiful because that you can slow the roll like you can micro dose them into people and get people who are maybe very sensitive to a place where they're feeling a bit more stable where you can start to get work done. Exactly. you know, and so many people, you know, our our medical system, um, including alipathic doctors, um, have been trained in in a certain way of looking at the body. And I'm I'm not saying there's never a time to look at the body that way when you have specific issues. But if we start to really go back and think about our body as an ecosystem, it begins to change the way we think about what we're putting in it. And so people are always, you know, one thing I love is our customer service people are amazing because they've really learned about the minerals and so they can really talk ed in an educational way to people. And people constantly come and say, well, how much magnesium or how much potassium or how much whatever do you have in your minerals? And we're like, wrong question. Yes. Right. Exactly. It's the quality of the question. It's I you know we used to say you are what you eat but I say you are what you absorb. You are what you assimilate. So you may take a lot of you know single mineral meggaos minerals and you know most of them are made with rock from rock shells and bones you know then there's the salts that's they have other aspects or issues but just the rock shells and bones how well do you think your body uh digests those even though they're in powder form they have to get down to such a tiny molecular level to be absorbed but let's say some portion of it gets actually broken down enough to be absorbed. Now it's in your bloodstream. But how much actually gets into your cell? Do you know it is 7%. It's a very very 7 to 10%. It's a very very small amount. So what I what I say to people is if you're going to do nothing else for your health, if you just put fumic and fulvic in your body, it is a great place to start. Now you're going to start getting more new more uptake of the nutrients from the foods you eat. Yes. And the supplements you take. Yeah. the supplements you take and and all of the other protocols as a practitioner that you're you know we the reason we even have a practitioner program is because practitioners came to us and they said we need you to have a practitioner program because we've gotten to the point where when our clients come to us with their multiple chronic symptoms that people now are presenting with just have we just say well you need to start with the minerals first because if you start with the minerals first then all the other protocol calls and practices and tools that are that the practitioner is using then take hold. The the the patient or the client ends up really gaining momentum, feeling better, which is, you know, very very quickly. Yes. Well, it's a subtle nudge, too. And if we can get people, especially people who are either really sensitive or really sick, I don't think people realize how bad they feel, truthfully. You know, a lot of people feel really rotten and I hear from my followers all the time, it breaks my heart. I made a post about histamine the other day and it went crazy. I had no idea. I was like, whoa, what Pandora's box did I just open? Because the answer there is not simple. And so I just did a whole podcast episode like the, you know, 101 version about histamine and it is such a multi- complex. It's a it's a tough that's a tough one. I'm a histamine girl and I'm a autoimmune girl and like trying to quiet down those systems is tough and so having something that we can gently nudge the body with like you said in the right ratios I think that matters so much. Um well and especially since co haven't you seen a huge rise in histamine issues with your patients? Oh my gosh it's everybody. It's everywhere. Yeah. The last five years have set off well just go watch TV. I don't watch normal TV, but every time I'm in a hotel room or, you know, if I'm I just happen to have normal TV on, it trips me out. I I'm so not used to it that my husband and I, we travel a lot for work and um we'll just have something on and I'm like, "What the hell is going on? Every other commercial is for eczema or psoriasis. Every other one is for a pharmaceutical for eczema or psoriasis." And I asked I'm like, "When did everybody blow up with eczema and psoriasis?" Oh, maybe in the last five years. you know, like something's going on, especially since the, you know, mandatory intervention that so many people parttook in. Like some immune systems are going sideways and very, very hyperactive. Um, and that's just a shitty place to be. I've lived it my whole life. We didn't have the term MCCAST back in the day. We just, you know, I just had histamine issues. We didn't have POTS. I just had, you know, I just fainted a lot. We didn't we didn't have any of the we didn't have any any of the fancy terms, but I had the syndromes. Um, and so I while I appreciate that there's terminology for it, what people really need to understand and what my listeners need to hear me say if you're new to the show, if you're not new to the show, I think you get this. There is no one answer. There's no one simple solution. There's a multitude of tools and not all of them are tolerated by everybody. And so I do individualized medicine. This is why I couldn't answer people when they were when I was trying to talk about GLP1s. Um because they're mass GLP-1s act as mass cell stabilizers in a way and they do really incredible things on the immune system and then everybody's like what's the dose? What's the dose? Right? And there's never any one answer for for everybody. It's like it depends on who's sitting in front of me and what is going on like what I don't treat conditions. I treat people, right? So each ecosystem is different. Yeah. Exactly. And an example is a couple years ago I moved into this house and out in the country with my husband. He's lived on this land his whole life 51 years. Um when I moved here that summer I moved here right when we got hit quarantine with COVID. And that summer this huge crop of red clover came up and it was like it was so beautiful and it was waist high and there were bees everywhere. And when I was a kid, I was a really sick little kid and I used to have a lot of medical interventions done on me. And I used to cry and cry and cry. And my mom would always be like, "Go to your happy place. Go to your Well, they were poking and proddding me with needles, you know. And my happy place was a field of daisies, like waist high daisies. And I remember the first time I walked through this clover and it was waist high and there were bees everywhere. Normally I'm terrified of bees, but they were all super chill because they were doped out on clover, you know? I'm like, what in the And I remember thinking like, this is this is what I've had in my mind all my whole life. When I go to my happy place, it's like this moment right here. It was like out of a movie. And then that next year they tilled the field because I guess they use the crop to, you know, uh, whatever they do to the soil. And then so they tilled it out to to to, uh, plant grass. And oh my god, that tilling. They tilled it so fine that it was like powder. And then the this huge field behind me, which is not doesn't belong to us. It's like an ocean. You can't even see to the other side. It's so big. They tilled that field and then they had to water the crap out of all the fields. Massive watering. All this sediment was running off. Our land got changed shape just because of the field behind us and how much that, you know, top soil they lost. Their crop grew. our crops didn't grow. So, and I told him I'm I'm kind of um well, I'm not kind I'm pretty clairvoyant. And I remember walking through the soil and I started cry when they first tilled it and I started crying and I was like, "You killed the soil." And he's like, "What are you talking about?" I was like, "You guys killed the soil. You killed the lungs of the soil. It's not going to grow." And he got so mad at me. He was like, "You don't know if it's going to grow. You're not a farmer." I'm like, "Dude, nothing's growing in this." And so, they had to fertilize it and then replant it. And it finally grew grass. and it was beautiful grass and it was whatever it then I find out it's for grass seed. Like I live in the Wamut Valley where we're the number one grass seed producers in the world and literally fields and crops of grass being grown for seed for golf courses. It's beautiful when you drive by it, but what a waste of I mean I'm sorry that's I I I don't want to like [\h__\h] on anybody's work work, you know, the work that they do for a living, but like what a to me I just as an outsider I'm like this is a monumentally weird phenomenon. But anyway, my long story that season, cuz I'm a biologist, that season, the whole ecosystem changed around here. The year that we were trying to get this grass to grow after we took the clover out, we had stinging bugs of all varieties, and they were pissed. They were super aggressive. The honeybees kept stinging me. I've never been stung in my life, and here I am getting like I got four stings that summer. The wasps and yellow jackets were pissed and aggressive. Um, the whole bug ecosystem changed. The mosquitoes went nuts. That end of that summer was like the worst. The blackberries, the that year when I first moved here, the blackberries were lush and beautiful. They've never recovered. Every year since, they've been tiny and hard and not sweet and not really that very good, which I'm sure is impacting the deer and all the other things that live out in the forest behind my house. Um, we're losing deer. We have more coyote than we've ever had. Like I'm not saying it's all related to that one thing, but like everything changed after that and the entire ecosystem shifted. And I'm just sitting there as like a naturopathic biologist going, "Dude, you guys f this up. Just you you wreck the ecosystem." And this is just uh a good example of what we do to our bodies when we we start blasting. We go in and as my mentor, my naturopathic mentor would say, it's like trying to, you know, take out flies with a shotgun when you you have a fly swatter. Like, what are you doing, you know? And I think of a lot of I do use the salt electrolytes and I do use highdose magnesium, but I'm not like an all the time girl with them. And I definitely I I also take trace minerals every day, you know, so I and I've been using your product now for months and absolutely love it. I spray this stuff. I have the big bottle and I get out of the shower every night and like douse myself in it before I put my body lotion on. And then I this sits on my desk. So I This one you guys have several um scents like you have one that has lavender that lives by my bed and this is Bergamo and it sits on my desk and they are amazing. I think the topicals are my favorite honestly. They really are. They're they're phenomenal. They're phenomenal. Yeah. Let's talk about them. Why are these so good? I know that you said that absorption is like very easy with the phobic but so the so the installites which is the one that has no scent at all is just allowing you to put minerals where a full spectrum of minerals wherever you need it. So we people use it like I have runners who use it and they're when they're running like a marathon and they spray and breathe it in for a very quick instant um electrolyte replenishment. We I spray it. I blow dry my hair with it. I spray it on my face when I'm doing my, you know, my facial things. I um if I have a sore muscle of any type, whether it's a tension headache or a sore muscle from working out, I spray it on. Just spray it on. It works incredibly well for menstrual cramps. If women have menstrual cramps, and and by the way, you know, cramping is mineral deficiency. So we have so many women who have stopped having their painful periods from just taking B minerals for 2 to four months. So it's inc and same with leg cramps. You know if you have night cramps at night um that is a sign that your body's mineral deficient. So, yes, you could wait until you get the cramp and spray the spray on, but even better, spray it on before you go to bed and then you won't get the cramp because all of those minerals will be already absorbed through the skin into the muscle in 5 seconds. It it takes a very short period of time. So, then we have you know the bergamont one. So um bergamont for most people when you smell bergamont it actually triggers the release of endorphins. So that is so it can change your um your neurotransmitter wash in your body. So if you think of a mood like when you're happy or when you're feeling um anxious or panicky or depressed these are neurotransmitter washes in your body. So you can shift that in like 5 to seven seconds just by spraying and breathing that in. For people who that happy lights um which is the bergamont product is our third favorite product. It is like it is beloved by people. We had a sale the other day and people were buying like 10 and 12 bottles of our This is this is the stuff you guys. This is on my desk because I, you know, if I catch myself going into the spiral for whatever reason or I feel my cortisol elevate, I just start dousing, you know, just I just start it's like I'm trying to ward off evil spirits, right? Exactly. I just start going I spray my dogs like it's all this is my age. Teenagers also love it. Like don't spray it at them. Um you just spray it around them even angry husbands. But again, you just spray it when you're around them and then they're like, "Hey, what's that?" You know, and they end up with it. So, what's your second favorite one product? Well, the second one I love is Boo Boo Light. So, Boo Boo Lights is it has kind of a um lavenderish. It's a mix of oil of essential oils, but it's incredibly effective at removing the itching or burning of burns, bug bites, bee stings, um also um many skin rashes, hives. Uh incredibly effective. I get devoured by the mosquitoes, so I and I have it sitting next to my uh I usually use lavender oil for mosquitoes, but I have it sitting next to my mosquito bottle of oils. So I will start doing both because that is I use it I use it at night like I spray the pillow I well spray the husband I spray the everybody gets the it's like my nighttime you know doussing everything and lavender is very calming so it's also good in that way and then um we have resperites and so respirites is for those seasonal allergies it's got you know again a blend of essential oils that is kind of in the eucalyptus range so it really helps open the airways. Um and also because that fulvic is doing when you're breathing it in, it's also doing the inflammation removal or um remediation I should say. So um it's incredibly helpful. Actually recently um we have some people who've been using it on hand um they doing a lot of work with their hands and they've been spraying it on their hands and finding it incredibly helpful. So, and I I want to do some research on the the the essential oils in there, which are some there's some interesting ones, and see how they are for like tendons and and um because I feel like the issues they're having are kind of tendonitis types of things. So, we'll I'm going to check into that. Um those are those are really we don't have a lot of products, you know, we have our our electrolyze, which is our fulvic ingestable. We have our microboost which is the humic um ingestable and then we have our capsules which are we really recommend for travel um or if you're an if you are an elite athlete um they are uh also used for for athletics um in in addition to the liquid I think that the the the so the pills I because I was using the liquid I forgot you'd sent me the pill the capsules and I was using the liquid a lot and then I get I forget cuz we go traveling and then I get off of it and then one day I found the bottle and I was like oh gez I should just take these with me and stay on it because the fulvic I think has been a big game changer for me. I'm been a little leerary of the humic just because I I probably just need to come back in gingerly cuz I was having some uh thyroid issues and so I didn't I had messaged you about that and I didn't want to set off my autoimmune thyroid even further. So I was like you were like pull back on the the humic for now and did I send you the slow introduction method? I don't know. I'll look but that would be great. Yeah, I I'll send you the slow introduction method and and it it is if you scan the QR code on the back of the bottle, it will take you to the um product detail. I mean kind of the product usage and there is a slow introduction method written in there. And it it's, you know, since we had COVID, just as an example, before COVID, we maybe had one person every six months who might contact us and go, "Hey, I think I might be having a detox response." Since COVID, we get five a week. Wow. So, everybody's immune systems are fired up. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's that's wild. It's really crazy what's going on. And I I have friends whose entire clinics have now completely transitioned to dealing with long COVID and and outcomes from COVID and from the intervention because there's just a lot going on. There's a lot happening. You guys have some cool bundles too though. So you can get you can get the fulvic and the humic together, the electrolyze and the microboost. And then you can get some sprays. Like you guys have some cool bundles by category. Yeah. It's, you know, a lot of times, um, you know, we're not a company that has lots of products. Instead, what we've done is created bundles of of the existing products that what what I say is there are different conversations. If you're a woman in menopause, it's going to be a completely different conversation than if you're a woman who's pregnant or if you're a woman who or if you're a guy who, you know, 60-year-old athlete or you're a 24 year old athlete. You know, there are different conversations. And so we've created um kind of sets of products that are focused for things like we have a cramp relief kit with a 100% guarantee that if you use that kit, your your cramps will be either so greatly reduced that you're good or else completely gone. Otherwise, we will give you your money back. So, we've kind of put things together for people to understand how to use Well, once you explained it to me, it made so much more sense because I got this beautiful care package from you guys and I like didn't know what to do. So it and your website is very helpful actually once I got in there and there's a learning there's a tab at the top that says learn and it takes you into blogs and podcasts and um you guys explain it really well in there. So I've been I've just I love it. I'm a big fan. That's why I brought you on. I I think that the way you have explained this is so helpful to those who are using Fulvvic anyway. So, I mean, regardless of what they're using, but I I would love to talk about sourcing a little bit because I feel like people are going to ask about that, like where does it come from and is it clean and are we worried about heavy metals? And those are the things that my followers want to know. So, that's I'm so glad you asked that. Um, first of all, our products are sourced in the United our our base material, the humate is sourced in the south from the southwest United States. It is taken from the earth. It's about 10 to 12 feet below the surface of the earth. It's immediately bagged and brought into this facility. So it doesn't have any contact with acid rain or anything. It's in an extremely remote area completely away from any kind of you know where you might have effluent or anything from from manufacturing or from cities or from cars or anything. Okay. So, incredibly pure and clean. Now, let's talk about heavy metals because this is very important. And recently, we did have somebody post um about heavy metals in our products. And I've in my book, I've written a whole section to help people understand this. Here's the interesting thing. Because humic comes from the earth. If you pick up a you know uh if you dug down 10 feet and took some earth um out of the soil out of the earth there would be heavy metals in it. Okay. So and because this is the result of all these trees and plants decomposing it has it does have heavy metals in it. Now here's what I want people to understand. This is why humic and fulvic are being studied around the earth. The heavy metals that are associated with the humic and fulvic molecules they the the term that we use is they have no veilance. What that means is they have no ability to come free from the molecule. This is the interesting thing. So when when that fulvic carries in the nutrients into this into the um uh cell the beneficial minerals are delivered the nutrients are delivered the the heavy metals stay associated with the molecule. This is why literally these molecules are being studied around the earth. about probably six years ago now. Um, a world-renowned heavy metal detoxification doctor called us and I was a little nervous when she called. I was we were much younger as a company and I was like, "Okay." And she I was like, "Oh, hello." You know, let me let me talk to you. and she said, "I want you to know that I have tried so many different agents to and and products and tools to remove heavy metals from my patients and your products, particularly our microboost product, is the only product that has moved the dial on lead toxicity and mercury toxicity in my clients." Wow. And this is the this is the humic product, right? And this is the humic product. Right? So what we have to understand is that and and I've written a whole thing to help people understand heavy metals. So heavy metals are a problem in your system when they are free roaming and they are just floating around loose in your system as part of the humic molecule as when they are associated with the humic molecule. They have no negative effects in your system. And I know it's hard for people to understand. I tried the woman who who posted about us. I tried to engage her in a conversation. I've engaged people in the past who've also done this kind of thing and help them un to understand the science behind um humic and fulvic and and you know I'm not going to do it here but I talk down to the deep scientific level with them so they can truly understand it and send send them the scientific studies. Um the fact is that uh humic is incredibly effective at lead tox at lowering lead toxicity. I I believe that and I have chilated many people for heavy metals and it is again a process of being very gentle and very careful because I I shared this on my last podcast. I was chelated too fast too hard introvenously and orally and uh I ended up I don't know what happened. I don't know if it just set off a histamine hell storm or my theory was that I it because your heavy metals that you do have that you've accumulated bioaccumulated are in your fat cells and so I don't know if I just released them from the fat stores and they got stuck in my skin but I ended up with hives for nine months Caroline nine months of itching and like welts and I was it drove me insane like I wanted to I wanted to end my life at one point I was so itchy like you can't itch that bad for nine months and not go crazy and I when it was all over I was like, "Oh, there is a gentle way to do things and this was not it." So I that itching thing I had AI had an autoimmune skin problem as a kid. Um and it returned it would it had a seven-year cycle every seven years and it would cover my whole body with itching welts. It's terrible. It's the worst. And so when you can I started to then clinically keate my patients orally much more gently much more slowly much more carefully and this makes complete sense and I I do know people who are using humic for um heavy metal detox and the other thing I'll say to the people who are throwing you shade what every single week I wake up and there's heavy metals in something and what people don't understand is that like oh there's heavy metals in your hemp, there's heavy metals in your pea protein, there's heavy metals in the chocolate. These are bioaccumulator plants. They are literally on the earth to pull [\h__\h] out of the soil. That's what they do. So all of these things there there is heavy metals naturally occurring in the soil. It's not just cuz somebody contaminated the soil. And then there's going to be heavy metals in the plant life that grew there because if they're a bioaccumulator, that's what they're going to do. And then we're bioaccumulators and and so on. And so the issue is is are you living a life of adequate detoxification, sweating, movements, uh, good phase one and phase two liver detox because you're getting enough protein and you're getting enough nutrients. Like, it's all a dance. It's not a, "Oh my gosh, there's a little bit of, you know, the mineral waters are what got me." Do you remember when everybody went crazy a few years ago because there was heavy metals in certain brands of bubbly water of mineral water? It's like, yeah, because it's a mineral water. Like, what do you People don't get it. That That's what That's what minerals are. I mean, they're they're not mercury, but and they're not all heavy metals, but like these are rocks that exist in nature that have been pulverized and broken down. And so anyway, all that to say is we're going to continue to find heavy metals and things that come from the earth, period. And you know, one of the other things that I learned about heavy metals, it's also really interesting, is you could have something like arsenic, and there are inorganic heavy metals and they're organic heavy metals. Organic heavy metals are associated with carbon molecules. Inorganic arsenic comes from manufacturing. It's extremely um you know toxic. Yes. Organic arsenic really not toxic. Yes. It's the form. So when you you know look at something like a humic molecule that's an organic arsenic that might show up there in there at a very very small parts per million. You see, so we're we have a lot more to learn. And I understand, you know, we have these things. We raise the flag. Oh my gosh, heavy metals. But now we get to learn more. And that's part of what I'm trying to do is is bring bring knowledge about minerals and how they work in the body. And the body is an ecosystem and and you can't just throw things in there and expect your ecosystem to be in balance and on and on. Right. Well, and the way to get rid of heavy metals elegantly in a in a patient is to make sure they have tons of minerals in their body. Like we have to get their mineral situation handled first and then we can start talking about chelating them because when you chate somebody or you start pulling heavy metals out, you pull necessary minerals out with it. So, it's it's a dance. Again, it's nothing is so simple. And if we're talking about like ancient plots of ancient decomposed earth dirt, it's not like there was a factory over that dumping arsenic into it. You know, it's not this is a different beast is what you're saying. And and I completely agree with you. It's like mercury. You know, I I used to avoid I still do because I don't love the taste, but like shellfish. Uh I used to be terrified of shell shellfish and seafood because I was like, "Oh, they're full of mercury." Yes. But they're also they have like self-correcting enzymes in their bodies to turn it into a form of mercury that isn't super poisonous to us. So it's like nature finds a way. And I don't know if that makes people feel better, but fair warning, we're going to keep seeing these reports coming out each week that there's arsenic or heavy metals or mercury in all of our favorite things because if they came from the earth, you can bet there's going to be some heavy metals in them. I know people are going to ask dosing and we can't give dosing, but I'm a big fan of slow and low and I think that the way that you've shared with me for my own health journey was slow and low on the humic like you mentioned with the diluting it in a big glass of water because I was doing shots of it when I first got it. Yeah, it comes in these great big bottles with this cool cap and I was like shots. So, you know, we're starting we're we're actually about to um we're just getting it printed now. a new welcome kind of booklet that people can read to and really understand more which I think is going to be really helpful that way. Okay. Just you know we never use the word dose. Yes. Because I really I I just say recommended amount and the reason is you know if you have a megaos mineral you you have to have a dosage because you're creating a concentration in the body and you can get too much. If you take too much magnesium, it'll make you it'll give you diarrhea, as an example. So, um, but when you're dealing with trace minerals like this, you don't have to really worry about getting too much over a long period of time, particularly with a humic, you can have, you know, the detox response, which is why you want to be able to go slow and low um, and introduce. But the main thing that I want people to understand is if you think about your body as an ecosystem, I don't care if whatever supplement you take, you probably don't want to start just throwing them down. Maybe take a little bit and see how it feels, you know? Yeah. Because if you're treating yourself gently as an ecosystem, you might change lots of practices. Yes. Yes. It seems like the fulvic though is is pretty safe to just sort of have at it if you feel like you're loving I I'm a big fan of using your intuition. So if you're feeling like you want to spray the heck out of yourself with it or you're using the oral liquid or the capsules like that one has been very at least for me it's been very well tolerated. Um I just know people are going to ask me and ask you. So I'm just trying to give examples here. I can never I'm never talking prevention, treatment or cure. This is all for educational purposes. I'm just sharing my own personal experience. Um, but the humic I definitely realized that like I got to slow my roll on that and be a little more careful and kind of gingerely tiptoe into it like you've already talked about. So, I just wanted to throw that in there. I was thinking of anything and everything that we want to make sure we cover because I know the questions we'll get and I want to address them head on. Um, just you know that the the capsules are humic. Okay. So, they're actually the humate material. Oh, are they? The base material. Now the thing that you that um the reason you probably didn't hurt her when you use them is because you'd already been taking the other products and they also they have much lower bioavailability because they have to be digested. I kind of think of them as a slow introduction method in their own right because they slowly digest and break down in your system. So um but I I I wouldn't recommend somebody who is has a sensitive system to ever start with the capsules. It would be always best to start with the fulvic maybe 10 days with fulvic then start introducing the humic the micro boost slowly over time. Okay. Okay. That's that's good information to have because the liquid is seems like it's going to be quite absorbable versus a capsule like you just said. So, that's good information to have. Okay. Well, I think we covered it all, my lady. We did great. Thank you so much. It's I'm I'm truly on a mission to help people understand this stuff because, you know, years ago, nobody ever heard the word microbiome or, you know, knew what a probiotic was. And somebody had to bring that information to the front for and that's what I'm um that's my job. That's your mission. I love it. No, this is it's always so fun to talk to you because I learn a ton and even hearing you repeat it just cements it in my brain. So, I really enjoy it and I thank you for taking the time today. You guys have been generous enough to offer my listeners a discount and you guys can find that at beamminerals.com and the coupon code is Dr. Tina Dtna and that'll get you a really nice discount. I highly encourage you to try at the very least start with the sprays. It's a very gentle way to ease in and I love them. I truly love them. I've sort of replaced my obsession with essential oils with these instead because I get I get the hit I get my essential oil hit and I get my fulvic which is it's just really refreshing. I use it to set my makeup. I know you're saying you put it in your hair when you blow dry. Like I set my makeup with it or I do it in between layers of skin care just as a little sprucer upper and um I feel better. It's it's a it kind of gives you just like a a lighter feeling. It's a refresher if you will. So absolutely. It's awesome. Yeah. Okay. Great. Well, I will make sure that all the links are in the show notes. People know where to find you. People know where to find the information. And thank you again so much for coming on the show today. Thank you so much. And I it's been an absolute pleasure to talk to you as always. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcastdtina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time, and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.