The thing about retinoids is that in many people, your skin can learn to tolerate it. If you're using a gentle retinol and you're doing great with it and you're done with the the tube or bottle, then then consider stepping it up slightly with your next one. You are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina show. I am sitting down with triple boardcertified dermatologist Dr. Mamina Tergano. She is my go-to skin girly. I found her on the Instagram. You probably know her as Dr. Mamina over on Instagram and Tik Tok. She has a huge following. But I found her during my journey of the middleage skin change. It happens for you in pmenopause. And so you middle-aged ladies and men, this episode is for you. Things shift as our hormones shift. Our skin health is completely dependent on our internal health and we discuss all of this because Dr. Mamina is very holistically minded which is one of the reasons I like her so much. We talk about your skin barrier. We talk about skin care and how it needs to be simplified and how all of these multiple steps are often very unnecessary. We talk about peptides and stem cells in skinincare. And we talk importantly about retinoids. I think this is a conversation that I wish somebody would have had with me early on when I started playing around with retinoids. I share my entire story. I share how I really got into a fiasco with these. So, I hope you enjoy this episode. I think you'll find it very informative. It is the middleage guide to skincare. So, without further ado, let's jump in. Dr. Romina, thank you so much for coming on the Dr. Tina Show today. I'm so excited to have you here. >> Oh my gosh, thank you so much for having me. I have been a fan. So, this is this is a dream. Thank you. >> I'm a fan of yours, too. And you were so kind to have me on your podcast recently, and we had a good time, and I thought we got to get you over here. So, all right. All right. So, we got a lot to cover today, and I we talked about this beforehand, so you agreed. I I'm not picking your brain here, but I am going to share a little bit of my backstory for the audience because I think that my story is really relatable and I want to make sure that they understand that some of these changes that are happening within their skin. We're going to talk about skin. You are a world famous dermatologist. Your Instagram is huge and amazing and and I actually followed you for years before you had me on your show. So, I was like >> fangirling you. >> Oh my gosh. vice versa. Like same here. Yes. >> So you're a dermatologist. Tell us what you specialize in. Like what kind of dermatology? What's your favorite part? >> Yes. Well, I am a general dermatologist. I do both medical dermatology and cosmetic dermatology. The majority of my practice is medical dermatology, but I have an overlying huge interest in taking an integrative approach to skin health. I'm really interested in just holistic dermatology. So when a patient comes in, I mean I I practice a lot of conventional dermatology, but I do like to look at somebody's diet. If somebody is concerned about prescription medicines, we'll talk about supplements that can be helpful and we'll talk about other lifestyle factors, too. >> I love it. That's why I wanted to have you on in particular because >> I know that you get it. You get the integrative approach and I think that that's a huge part of skin health. I mean, your skin's like a mirror to what's happening on in the inside, right? >> It definitely is. That's actually one of the reasons why I was drawn to dermatology. I was planning on going into primary care and then like doing an integrative medicine fellowship after that. And when I was doing my internal medicine rotation and like saw these patients with autoimmune diseases specifically like lupus and dermatomyitis with these skin issues, I I was so drawn to them and I was I was like I could see that the skin is such a representation of what's going on inside. >> 100%. So my whole shtick was always if your skin is a mess then your health is a mess. Like I firmly stand by that. And when patients would come in and say, "What have you got for acne?" I'm like, "Well, your acne is the least interesting part to me because to me that's a symptom, right? That's just an outward expression of what's happening on the inside." And so we would do the full kitten kaboodleoodle, you know, the hormones, the gut, the whole thing. Run all the labs and sort it out from there. Often gut related. But I started having a funny situation happen. And this is actually when I found you because I my skin exploded on me a couple years ago. I was living out here in the country. I live in I live around a ton of acreage at this I'm moving to Arizona as everyone knows, but I currently live in the grass capital of the world, the Wamut Valley. >> So there's it's all grass grown out here and it's grass grown for grass seed for golf courses and stuff. So, >> oh, >> the >> literally grass >> grass tree. Okay. >> So, the natives the natives called the Wamut Valley the valley of death because the allergies out here are so insane because of all the grasses. >> So, I I moved out here my first summer out here. It also happened to be like COVID time and I was sort of pushing back on the narrative and having a lot of stress. So, I was having a lot of stress during those days, but the skin issue cropped up and I did not know what the heck was happening. And it started with this like prickly rash. Mind you, I'm just, you know, halfway into pmenopause, kind of at that point. I'm starting to realize that the hormones are a little wonky, but I get this prickly heat rash and I get my mom had rosacea and I started to see it and I was like, "Oh, no. This is this is very characteristic of what my mom went through." And that's when I found you. I I went digging for all the dermatologists online cuz I was like, "What is happening? I need help." >> So, >> yeah. >> So, anyway, is that a pretty common thing that happens in middle age? Do you see skin conditions pop up? >> Yes, we do. Especially if there's a genetic predisposition. And, you know, just because you have a genetic predispos predisposition does not mean that you're sentenced to have this this condition, but you're just more likely to present with it. And we definitely can see it present later on in life during pmenopause, menopause. And a huge part of what rosacea is or just if you just have a compromised skin barrier with sensitivity, it's related to the the skin barrier. Um people with rosacea prone skin, their skin barrier is a little bit different from the average person. Your skin is also more reactive than the average person. your vessels will react more readily to stimuli. Um, part of that's genetics, part of that is also there's a big interplay with your immune system and your gut health, too. But, but the skin barrier is the biggest thing that we focus on in those with rosacea. That's the first thing we try to address. And when you're going through pmenopause, menopause, your skin barrier is also starting to get compromised. Your your epidermis gets thinner. there's less oil production and you know oil, sebum, that's a huge part of your skin barrier. There's like lipids, proteins, your microbiome, those are all components and when there's like less lipid production and when there's like a thinner epidermis, you're definitely um going to see more issues with your skin barrier. >> Okay. So, it was like the perfect storm then because I had this immunologic reaction to all the grass that was being grown around me. And then that winter I went to Mexico and I picked up a parasite. I got an amoeba. So, I came back really sick. So, my gut was a mess. My allergies were going nuts for the whole summer. I mean, harvest season out here is like something else, you know, and >> there it was. And I and and I was like right just ripe for it with the hormonal shift. >> Yeah. Yeah. No, you had the perfect storm, it seems. >> Yes. And auto autoimmune disease does creep up also as the hormone shift for women. So, it's just AI I saw that a lot in practice, too. That middle-aged sort of skin out of nowhere, perfect skin turning into just I don't know, troublesome skin for women, you know, and they're like, "What the heck is going on here?" So, >> yeah, definitely. And, you know, with you brought up the parasite infection. Um, yeah, disturbances in your gut health. We definitely see in studies that well SIBO has been seen more so in rosacea and another bacteria higher rates of H pylori and those um with rosacea too. Um but essentially any kind of disturbance in your gut microbiome um there's a correlation. Yes. So then the third part of this is I was getting all of these wonderful products sent to me by lovely companies who make natural products. So all natural skinincare, lots of essential oils in there. And I started I went from like the girl who used Dr. Bronner on her face. >> That was about that was about as extensive as my skinincare routine was >> like no moisturizer, just Dr. Bronner. Never wore sunscreen. Just just was I was just raw dogging it. And then uh >> and then I start applying all of these different steps of all these different natural and I'm trying all different kinds of things at once. >> M M total disaster. Like my skin just my eyes. Oh, and I had fake lashes at the time, too. So, I got this terrible allergic reaction to the eyelash glue. My skin was like a prickly heat rash. My podcast producer, I'd have to call him and be like, "I can't do the podcast today because you should see my face. It's a It's a mess." >> Oh my gosh. So, >> yeah. So, there's a lot of parts to that. Um, you know, whenever introducing new products to your regimen, we tell people one or two products at a time. And then then there's this whole sphere of like quote natural products or products that have potentially like less toxic ingredients in it. And that's that's a whole conversation. I think dermatologists struggle a lot with that because because we say, well, poison ivy is natural, but that does craziness to your skin. And I'm a hippie at heart. like I totally understand the you know the attraction towards products that have like minimal ingredients that could potentially be harmful um you know internally and whatnot. Um but something that we do see so much as dermatologists is reaction so easily to these products that potentially have like that are worse for the skin. So, essential oils, and there there's some great ones out there, of course, but there are some that are just so terrible and irritating to the skin, especially if they're in like the citrus family. Um, even tea tree oil can be really irritating and bergamant. And uh it's it's so it's yeah, we we we we see a lot of cases of like irritant contact dermatitis from from essential oils. So, we're very cautious about about those ingredients. We're all about like minimizing even fragrances in products and even extra botanicals. There's a lot of amazing botanicals that have wonderful antioxidant properties and skin nourishing properties. But like if you are starting off with a regimen and you're trying to work on nourishing your skin barrier, it's we say just keep it super basic like with just a very simple moisturizer and a gentle cleanser. Well, I learned my lesson and I I have since turned away a lot of money from skincare brands because I'm like I'm like I'm not going to take your offer. You're either the product caused me a rash. It's not their fault. It's my crazy immune system. But I have turned down many many many brand deals because I'm like I'm just not I I'm not going to promote something I don't use or that I don't love. And I I can't I'm not even going to risk trying it because where I have ended up is straight up Vanny Cream daily moisturizer is >> the best. >> We love We love that one so much. >> 10 bucks and it's so good. And then I think uh a Caravee cleanser, a gentle creamy cleanser, which I've also adapted to my hand wash. I have that as my hand wash everywhere too, so my hands don't crack in the winter. >> Yes. I love Sarah. Yeah. serve as a hand wash. >> And then Lar Ro Pose has a couple products I really love and the seca blast that they have that seca blast balm. I you know like whatever it's called slugging I guess I >> all of that I really I think I just love the dimethylone. Is that what the ingredient is that I'm >> there's there's some dimethone but there's also zinc in there which is soothing and panthanol and then so that's what the B5 it's cycoplast balm B5 and it's a panthanol which is soothing and then cycoplasta has sika in it. Sentella Aiatica, which is a wonderful soothing ingredient, but also bonus points, it also is nourishing to the collagen. It can help with collagen remodeling and also help with potentially wrinkles, too. >> Oh, nice. Okay. So, when that's my that's my regimen. I am AI am a drugstore product girl now, and I love it. I can get it anywhere I go, and it's so easy on my skin, and my skin healed, and I quit messing with my barrier. I think I destroyed my barrier. And then I, you know, of course, what do you do? You get the prickly heat rash, so you start to exfoliate harder. Uh >> oh. Yeah. No, >> let's talk about that. Let's talk about the overexfoliating of the world. >> Yeah. So, the purpose of exfoliation is to assist your skin cells with their turnover as we get older. So, normally our skin cells turn over once every 30 days. And it just gets a little bit more sluggish as we get older. And that pres presents more so with like dull skin, sometimes a little bit of flaky skin. And so, so exfoliation, of course, there's a purpose and a place for it. But if you're having flaking because of a compromised skin barrier, not because it's like a buildup of skin, but if it's compromised skin barrier, then you definitely don't want to exfoliate because your your barrier is it's it's almost like I'm trying to figure out how to say it. Too much barrier is like we're trying to help keep your barrier at a at a good level where it's not too thick, not too thin. But when your barrier is compromised, it's too thin. And so exfoliating is going to just make it more compromised. >> Yes. Yes. I I turned I just turned it all into a big hot mess. >> That's that's what I found you. I was like, I'm following these genius dermatologists and they and you all kept saying the same thing, which was this really basic skin barrier concept. And I was like, duh. I mean, it's all about I mean, duh. Because I I treat internally. I'm I'm trying to balance the guts barrier, if you will, right? That's my goal is always to calm and nurture that gut lining so that >> we don't get so much immune reaction through from a leaky gut. And it's kind of the same thing with your skin. I was just creating like leaky skin, right? >> Exactly. Yeah. We actually kind of almost call eczema leaky skin. Um, people with eczema prone skin also have ju just genetically they're missing certain um proteins in the skin barrier and so so their skin is just unfortunately more compromised and so it's easier for things to get into the skin because it's more leaky and it's easier for bacteria like unwanted bacteria like staff bacteria to hang out. Um, so yes, there's definitely um like a pattern or connection with skin, leaky skin and leaky gut. >> Okay. Okay. So there I was missing the boat on of all people who should know what was happening, it would have been me, but I was not. I was Well, here's the third part, and this is really why I wanted to have you on was this conversation about retinols and retinoids and what we should be doing as middle-aged women. Um, I react really strongly to those and I was that was all part of this mess that I made was I was playing around and dabbling with the I think a retinol product. Um, I get cold sores even if I stay out of the oral area and I go nowhere near my lips and I slug my lips with Vaseline first, I still get cold sores from go retinol and I it's the weirdest thing. So anyway, I >> have sort of had to give that up and I went to Buchananol. Is that >> Buchial? >> Buchial. Um anyway, I went to that. So maybe we could talk about all of that because I think that's probably something that my listeners are kneede in and >> probably don't know all the differences. >> I know it's it can get so confusing because they all seem to sound the same and then buchiel is just a crazy word. But I would say, yeah, retinoids is sort of like the overarching umbrella term of these vitamin A derivatives. And the reason why it's talked about so much on why derms love retinoids is because there is so much evidence and we've seen it firsthand how retinoids can improve skin health. One, by increasing your skin cell turnover. So, it helps keep an even skin tone. It keeps your, you know, it keeps your pores clear. That's how it helps with acne. And then it works deeper on the collagen level to remodel collagen. And that's how it can help smooth out your skin and help diminish fine lines and wrinkles. And within the retinoid family, there's a lot of different types. And I think the one that we know most often are retinols because that's the most commonly available over- theounter. Retinols and retinaldahhides are the two I think most common that are over-thecounter. Retinol has to get converted into retinaldahhide. And then retinaldahhide gets converted to what's called retinoic acid, also known as tininoan, which is the active form of a retinoid. And tininoan is a prescription form. And there's cousins of tininoan like tazeritine and adapylene. But um those are the active form. So those are going to be the most irritating as well. Um whereas retinol and retinaldahhides could be less irritating. they could, but there's still a lot of irritation potential with with all of them. And then there's other there there's other precursors to retinols, but they're not as common and they're much more mild. And I would say it's interesting that you brought this up because you know it it's such a commonly recommended ingredient or product by derms, but you have to be very cautious when you start getting into the per menopause menopause stage because your skin barrier changes with less estrogen. You have less sebum. Your epidermis gets thinner and and you have less hydration in your skin. And so I'm more cautious with women using a retinoid during um at that time. I think it's still possible, but I think also with you, you have since you have this predisposition to to rosacea and some sensitivity. Um I think that you need to take extra caution. I like buchialol. So buchialol is a plant alternative. Some people say it's like a plant retinol alternative. I still don't I still don't think it compares to retinols and retinoids in general um in terms of its efficacy. It's still I think it's great and I mean I use it as a pregnant person. Um but it's it's it like it does some collagen remodeling. It does some skin cell turnover, but it's not to the same degree. But we like it because it's much more gentle. And yeah, there's there's but yeah, there's other fun things too that you can use if you want to work on wrinkles. >> I want all I just need I need a facelift. >> Oh no, >> I need all the things. Um, no, I uh I went straight to Trenton. That's why I >> ah >> and it was a disaster. And so >> yeah, so I I got off everything except for my literally I was down to Vanny Cream one product and my seca blast. Like that's all I touched for probably a year. And I do do um estrone on my skin. I'll do I I'll do uh I'm sorry, estriol. What am I thinking? I'll do estriol on my skin. And I those were that's all good and fine. I have backed way up to just some weak over-the-counter um retinol. And I don't know if it's doing anything. This is what I wanted to ask you. I get asked I get I get asked all these questions and I'm like I'm not a dermatologist. I don't know. There's sort of there's a couple myths out there. One is that retinol thins your skin. I understand that to not be correct. But can you explain that myth and why that's perpetuated? >> Yeah. Well, yes, I do want to say that that myth is false. So, don't worry. It does not thin your skin. But I could tell you why people think that. So because retinoids work by increasing your skin cell turnover, it's focusing on that top layer of your skin barrier, which is your stratum corneium. And it can actually thin your stratum corneium. It regulates it so that it's it's a little bit more compact and you don't have like excess dead skin on your face. So that's what people are thinking when it potentially is making your skin thinner. But your epidermis as a whole, so the stratum corneium is just one layer. That's just the top layer of your epidermis. But your epidermis as a whole gets thicker and your dermis which is where your collagen sits gets thicker too. So it's the opposite. Your skin gets thicker. And I think you know people say oh but you have to like avoid the sun. You have to wear sunscreen when when you're using a retinoid because yes if you are if you are uh changing your stratum corneium there could be a little bit more sensitivity. I mean, it's part of your skin barrier, especially when you're first starting a retinoid and you don't you don't you're not regulating the skin cells or the skin cells aren't regulated or at an equilibrium state. So, um your skin can be more sensitive to the sun and yeah, it's always important to wear sun protection when you're when you're using a retinoid, but your skin is going to be healthier and thicker. >> Yes, that's that's what I understood it. and explain to the listeners kind of how the skin works because I don't think most people realize that you've got multiple layers and they're constantly shedding out and that sometimes that stratum corneium things get kind of glombmed up like if you're hypothyroid and you know there's different there's different situations where that upper layer just isn't sloing off the way it should and it's a balance that you have to achieve right >> yes exactly yeah I mean I would say that when we're the ages of like 9 through 12 uh that's like when our skin is perfect like or actually no sorry I'm thinking of a baby you know when people say like smooth as a baby's bottom or smooth as a baby's butt because babies have like the best cell turnover their cells are turning over faster than like every 30 days and so that's why their skin is so smooth and as and basically so so there's three basic layers to the skin there's the epidermis dermis and then the subcutaneous layer which is where your fat is and then below that is muscle and in your epidermis there's the basil layer which is which is where they produce your keratinocytes. Keratinoytes is another word for your skin cells that are in the epidermis. And then as they rise up the I mean you know depending on where you are on your body there's different number of layers to go through but you you get to the top layer where essentially like the skin cells are dead and it's it's just the keratin and that it serves as part of your skin barrier and your keratin is what naturally sloughs off but but like I said as we get older if and also with like hormonal changes, thyroid issues. Um, I'm trying to think of anything else that can play a role. It's it's mainly age and decrease in your hormones and thyroid that can play a role in your in your cell turnover. Um, >> I think metabolic health could be thrown in there, too. >> Yes, you're right. Like even people with like diabetes, we see really slow Yeah, definitely slower cell turnover for sure. Yes. And so so yeah, so that's where things like exfoliants and retinoids can certainly help keep that that turnover at a healthier rate. >> Got it. So it keeps it in more of a homeostatic balance. >> Yes. >> And in a good rate. Um what about the skin mantle? I know that in my world, we address skin issues via the mantle, via balancing fatty acids in the body. We might use fish oil. Sometimes fish oil makes people break out. It kind of depends, but that mantle is really important. And the acidity and or pH of it, I should say, is important. Is that part of the skin barrier conversation? >> Yes, exactly. It's part of the skin barrier. So it might be kind of confusing but mantle essentially is is the skin barrier. Got it. >> So I mentioned that the stratum corneium is part of the skin barrier but there's other components like the yes the acidity. So it's like the acid mantle is is I think the the term that's mainly used to refer to the acidity of your skin barrier. That's important. You know our skin is naturally a more acidic. So when you're using like harsh soaps which are basic which were more popular you know 20 30 40 70 years ago those can totally disrupt your skin barrier because our skin wants to be more acidic but so anyway so there's the acid there's the pH level that's part of your skin barrier and that's part of the mantle the microbiome so the bacteria that's on your skin is part of your skin barrier and then the the lipids and it's it's yeah the combination of like fatty acids, cholesterol. Um there's ceramides, there's there's a whole collection of them that it's like you want that right ratio and balance and everything to kind of live together in an ecosystem. >> Yes. So you can throw it off when you start throwing all these different topicals on top. >> Exactly. Yeah. So, like when people use like harsh antibacterial soaps and whatnot, that throws off, you know, your microbiome and that could throw off the pH and it also strips like, you know, can strip some of the the sebum like the oils. So, um yeah, >> it's easy to make a mess out of things. What I think it's this right now though culturally we're in this weird place with the internet where people young girls are using like 13 steps. >> Oh my gosh. So that's why I was I was mentioning that age 9 through 12 where all these pre-teens are so obsessed with skincare and I'm like y'all this is this is your skin's not going to get any better than this like don't do anything to your skin please cuz this is like the best age. I mean, yes, some some girls are gonna or, you know, kids at that age can notice start noticing like increased oil production and some acne production, which I feel like we're seeing a little earlier, you know, than starting earlier these days, but but otherwise, yeah, just a gentle cleanser, moisturizer, SPF. Um, you don't need to exfoliate, you don't need to use a retinoid, you know. Sure, if you want to use like a fun hydrating serum, go for it. But you don't need peptides and all those other activives. Vitamin C, you don't need >> I even see women I follow all these different accounts on Instagram of middle-aged and older women doing makeup, too, you know, cuz it's like that whole thing changes. Your your makeup application strategy is completely different when once everything starts drooping. So, um, I've had to completely relearn that whole process. And you know what? What that it's it's wild. But these even these women are putting five or six steps on before they even start with like a concealer or foundation. And I'm like, is it really? This all seems very complicated and unnecessary. It's it's unnecessary. I I kind of get the appeal as like a self-proclaimed skincare junkie. I do get it. Um, but it's unnecessary and potentially can be harmful. So, it's something that derms usually advise against because it's we end up seeing more issues when you're introducing more ingredients to your skin and and a lot of products can have a lot of overlap. So, it's it's either excessive, which can lead to irritation, or excessive, unnecessary, and expensive. Um, you know, when it comes to somebody who is an adult woman, I recommend some kind of antioxidant serum in the morning, vitamin C is the most it's the most wellstudied antioxidant out there. So, that's why we recommend it all the time. And then follow that with a moisturizer and then a sunscreen or use a sunscreen that already has a moisturizer in it. You don't have to use too many products in the morning. Um, yeah. >> And just keep it simple. Keep it simple. Yeah. >> And then what does nighttime look like? If you're going to use your antioxidant or vitamin C serum in the morning, what what would you suggest as like an active for night time? >> Usually at night. So you're So, you know, in the morning, we we recommend products like an antioxidant because that's going to defend your skin against the oxidizing, you know, elements of our environment, whether it is UV rays, pollution. And then, of course, sunscreen also helps protect against that. And then at night is when our skin goes more so in repair mode. Um so our skin cells are actually working a lot at night. And also we tend to lose or water evaporates more readily at night too. So that's when you want to use certain you you want to use activives to help with the repair work, but you also want to really seal with a with a more I guess I guess thick or effective moisturizer. That's when you can use heavier things if your skin tolerates it. But the main active so we recommend I I'm a fan of double cleansing. So you know some people I mean if you can if you at least cleanse your face once that's that's a huge win because cleansing your face is such an underrated step. People think like yeah I mean duh like cleansing your face but really it's so important to remove all the things that you're exposed to during the day. We live in a crazy world with a lot of pollution. So washing your face and I'm a and if you wear sunscreen and makeup like I am a fan of double cleansing like using some kind of oil-based cleanser first followed that by like a gentle cleanser. Once again you don't have to do that. Washing your face with one product like if you can do that we're we're happy. And then when it comes to activives the main one we do recommend at night is a retinoid. Um and then you follow that with a moisturizer. Now there's like I mentioned earlier if if you can't tolerate a retinoid um there's there's there are are other things out there uh we talked about puchial but there's also peptides that can increase collagen production growth factors stem cells um like other antioxidants and you can use vitamin C at night too like that can help do some collagen remodeling as well um but it I think you get a lot of bang for your buck if you use it in the morning, too. >> Okay, that makes sense. That keeps it simple. Um, let me back up a second. The double cleansing I I use a balm like a Oh, I love Clinique has a balm, a cleansing balm that is like my I've tried I turned into a skincare junkie during this whole process trying to figure out what worked and what didn't work and I probably spent way too much money. But I I that one I think is my favorite because it gets a little bit milky when you add water to it. So it it's awesome. And then I follow that up with either a Caravee cleanser, like a cream cleanser or the Lar Ro Pose has one that's a cream cleanser. Anyway, all that to say, I cannot get my makeup off if I skip the balm. Like there's enough and I don't put hardly any makeup on, but I really am with you. I think the double cleanse is the way to go. And it's so uh gosh, it's such a wonderful ritual. Like it feels so good. I use it as a chance to massage my face and give myself some lymphatic drainage and like really make it luxurious at night and it's my little ritual at night and it just takes the day away. >> Yeah. No, it I think we don't realize how much that's huge when it comes to dissolving makeup, sunscreen, um that you need that oil property actually. But but it's important to follow that with a regular cleanser because in some people the oil the oil component can cause them to break out. So it's that's why we say to to use a second cleanser after that. >> Yeah, for sure. It's great. I I used to just use oil cleansers by themselves and then I started breaking out because I did not know what I was doing. So I'm glad you said that because this is it all seems so simple but it really it took me a hot minute. I was like a total newbie novice and here I am, you know, online and I'm supposed to be this influencer and I'm like, I do not. Everyone's like, what do you do for your skin? I'm like, I have no idea. Good nutrition. I mean, that's really I think your best skin secret is good nutrition and good health. But >> when I started dabbling, I sure did make a mess of things. So, >> well, your skin looks great from what I can see. >> It's good now. It's good now. And I I am back to holding to that. when my skin breaks out or when my skin acts funny, something is wrong internally. I immediately go to an internal check. Like, where are my hormones at? Where am I in my cycle this month? Um, what what's my stress level been like? What's my sleep been like? What have I been eating or not eating, you know, enough of? And it's it's just a quick tally of like, okay, here's something is causing a disrupt. It's like a there's a disruption in the force, if you will. Like, that's how I think of it, you know? So, you know, I'll throw in the magic bullet that I have seen time and time again and I've as I've mentioned to my listeners and they've responded back to me because you and I are in unique positions. We have a lot of followers. We have a lot of people who give us information. So, even if we're not seeing it in our clinical practice directly, we're we're hearing right from people. Um, micro dose GLP1s are amazing for acne. So, something to consider. >> Yes. You know what? I really want to and and I I know because I feel like you're the guru of um micro doing GLP1s, but that's something I really would love to um incorporate into my practice. There's there are some germs who are doing that, which is great because we do see yes, we do there's some skin issues where they benefit from like the regular dose of GLP-1 like psoriasis and retinitis. But um but yeah, I would love to explore that for sure. It's just, you know, a micro dose is just anything subclinical. So like anything below the standard starting dose because not, you know, someone like you or I is not going to tolerate the standard dose. It's it's too much. And so this is where that idea came from. But it really depends on the patient and what dose they tolerate. But sometimes just the tiniest little droplet will and that was the whole intention of the micro doing for those who are just new to listening to me. It was never a weight loss strategy. In fact, it's not a successful weight loss strategy. was always meant as an immunom modulator in my world. Like that's always what I was trying it for. And I think it's because we're we're getting a double whammy. It directly mitigates the immune system which is in you know part of the acne issue but it is also directly mitigating the metabolic health and the insulin issue. So that which is you know you know low-key PC a lot of women are rocking low-key PCOS and not even aware of it and it's manifesting as acne and skin issues. So, and the neuro neurologic benefits are profound. And so, it'll I've seen like it helps with that those of us who are sort of a little bit neurode divergent, a little bit ADHD, it helps assist with that, too. And so, and I think it's all kind of all part of that inflammatory response that we're all rocking. You know, we get low-key neuroinflammation, our OCD gets worse or whatever it is that people >> whatever people are dealing with. But >> I think of gut and skin and hormone. All of it goes together, right? And so >> totally >> GLP-1's kind of blanket across the board. I will say though that even with micro doing, I've seen GLP-1 GLP-1s definitely we have the literature on this. They they can very much uh end up in SIBO because we're slowing gut paristalsis. And so this is something that I've been really I haven't talked about it anywhere yet, but I am like kneedeep in the research on this because it flared my SIBO and when my SIBO flares, I get pain. I get chronic pain and so my skin reacts and then my joints react and it's all the same thing. So I think that the GLP-1 conversation and this is something I talk about inside my course and I've talked about on my podcast is like we have to support the gut. But what does that mean? That's a whole other conversation and that's a deep conversation. But I do think that that could be problematic. So keep an because that's going to make the skin worse ultimately. And here's the terrible part about higher dose GLP1s if they are leading to SIBO in an individual or worsening someone's underlying SIBO. SIBO ultimately drives insulin resistance and obesity. So like this is why I'm not a fan of highdose GLP once. Anyway, that's my tangent. >> That's Yeah, I think that's such a great point. So yeah, I'm glad you're bringing that up because and I remember our conversation on our podcast too. It's like you got to also make sure other things are optimized before even getting on GLP1s or while you're on GLP1s because it can potentially bring out unwanted things too. >> And SIBO definitely worsens skin conditions of all sorts I've seen. So from like psoriasis to acne to eczema to all of it. So >> yeah. So anyway, it's like I'm sure well I was looking at um actually low dose I I took a lot of what was itin when I was a teenager. >> Oh yeah they used to do that back then. Yes. >> Yes. And they don't anymore which I want to ask you about but I just wanted to say this. I was looking at lowd dose urethrammyosin. It's a proinetic and at 50 milligrams they use it to stimulate paristalsis in SIBO patients because we got to get that that that motor complex going. We got to get paristelsis going. >> Yes. Um, but it can again it's like the treatment can worsen the condition long term. And so anyway, that got me thinking about my years on urethrain. What what was that about and why did they stop doing it? >> Well, yeah, ariththramy was a commonly used antibiotic for acne back in the day, more so in like the I would say more so in the 90s. >> Um, >> and and the reason why we don't do it anymore is because there was just so much resistance that got developed to like the tetracyc. But I'm happy. I feel like there's this movement so antibiotics in general. Um just cuz we're just seeing a lot of the long-term issues, the gut issues. And yeah, um I'm hoping that that there's less and less, but we still use it a lot. Unfortunately, antibiotics are used a lot. All those antibiotics you just mentioned all mitigate the immune system in some way or another. So we use >> they do. Yeah. >> Which I wonder how much of it is the actual killing off of bacteria versus is it just an immun working as an immune modulator and that's what's helping the skin clear. >> Right. Yeah. Exactly. So that's that's why we love doxycyc because we're like if it's like it can help if it's inflammatory or if it's ant bacterial. Um so we'll we will use it a lot in those situations. And there are I even know of a derm, she's a pretty big derm, who will take the lowd dose doxycycline because of its anti-inflammatory effects. Like she takes that daily as part of her anti-aging strategy. >> Yep. >> Yep. No, it's a it's a thing. And again though, if you've got low-key SIBO, >> it's it's a hard one because I >> it's a hard one. >> I go on people get UTI with lowd doxy, you know. >> Oh no, >> that's rough. I feel amazing on doxy. >> It's good stuff. I know. I' I've had to take it as prophylaxis for stuff and I was like, this is great. >> I feel so good on it because it is it's that low-key SIBO kind of driving the I don't know. It's such a mess. Um, so interesting. Okay, let's go back to retinoids for a second because I know a lot of women want to use them. What would be a good onboarding strategy that you might suggest for the general public if they're maybe concerned about sensitivity or they've had reactions like I have? Yeah, I would look for pro I would probably not do a prescription retinoid. Um, and and there are there are different retinols and retin over the counter that that are great for sensitive skin. And um I know I'm like I could throw brands out there. >> Oh, you don't have to. But I think over the counter like a retinol over the counter is going to be fairly gentle, right? Then there's >> you're going to be fairly gentle, but there's a wide range too. Like some are cuz cuz cuz there's it depends on the percentage of retinol and some of you don't even see that on the packaging too. So it's like it's hard but but usually with drugstore retinols they're pretty gentle >> and you can do that sandwich technique where you put on a >> Exactly. >> Talk about that. So, um, when starting with a with a retinoid, um, or retinol, um, you definitely want to be BFFs with a moisturizer. Um, we typically tell people when starting with a retinoid to use just a P-sized amount. And it doesn't seem like a lot, a P-sized or a chocolate chip amount. It's so funny, some Gen Z people like they don't know what a P size is when you're like telling them. And it's like I don't because people aren't eating peas as much these days. Anyways, a green peas amount or a chocolate chip. And you would you're going to dab it in five places. I usually say forehead, nose, cheeks, and chin. And then you rub it in. It seems like it's not doing anything because it seems like such a small amount, but it does. And I tell people to start it two to three times a week, you're going to follow that with a moisturizer. Now, if you're doing that, like if you're doing it two nights a week or three nights a week, followed by a moisturizer and you're still noticing like dryness or potential irritation, you could do what you brought up is the sandwich method, the retinoid sandwich, where you you start with a moisturizer as a base or a buffer. Then you use your P-sized amount of your retinoid all over, and then you sandwich it with another layer of moisturizer. And you know, if you can tolerate that two or three nights a week, the goal is to eventually get to five to seven nights a week. You don't have to necessarily get to every day seven nights a week. But like if you can do even like five nights, six nights a week, um that's the goal. Now, if you're still irritated um and you're like, I just spent all this money on this retinol. I don't want to like throw it away. There's something called short contact therapy where you just when you come home from work or whatever it's like still 4 or 5:00 p.m. or 6 p.m. you can put your retinoid on top of your makeup >> really >> and like leave it on your face for you know until you wash your face for night for that night. So like four or five hours. So that's why the other thing too like we say we tell people don't use it on damp skin. I mean, you have a if you have a moisturizer, there is that kind of more buffered thick layer, but but if you use it on damp skin, um there's a higher chance for irritation because it'll even it'll penetrate even more effectively. Um so, use it on dry skin. Like I said, if that doesn't work, then do the moist, you know, the renoid sandwich. >> I love this idea of the short, what did you call it? >> I called it like short contact therapy. >> I love that. That's a great idea. I have a whole cabinet full of >> expensive retinoids >> that I was like and I'm moving right so I'm purging and I'm like should I throw all of these away cuz they like these were okay and those were not okay but I think that you're because what I wanted to ask the last thing was >> I have heard and is this a myth um that you have to actually use it enough for it to be useful that if you're only able to tolerate it once or twice a week you might not really be getting anywhere. Is that how do you feel about that? >> I agree with that actually. I think you want to try to get to five nights a week if you can. Um, you know, the three nights a week is is more just like the on-ramping process. So, if if you really can't get past three nights a week doing like the moisturizer sandwich or even the short contact therapy, then you you probably should switch your retinoid, >> okay? >> To something even more gentle. >> Okay. So you want to So what I'm understanding is a gentler version or a short contact method or whatever it is so that you can get more days in >> Exactly. >> is going to be preferable to you trying to like duke it out with something harsher one to two or three times a week and not really getting anywhere. >> Correct. Okay. Okay. >> The studies have been the studies are have been done with it being used pretty much almost every day. And I think it was you who taught me that because I remember you doing I think it was you you did a real about um kind of that like backing up on intensity because if you're you know sitting there with a Trenton Owen and you're like I'm going to make this work. I'm going to get through this like you're not doing yourself any favors if you can only handle it once or twice a week. >> Exactly. Exactly. But it's it the thing about retinoids is that in many people your skin can learn to tolerate it over time. So like once you're done with it, like if if if you I wouldn't force it, but but once if you're using a gentle retinol and you're doing great with it and you're done with the the tube or bottle, then then consider stepping it up slightly with your next one. Um, and gradually marching up. >> Okay. So, it's a slow and steady. >> Slow and steady for sure. >> We're micro doing retinoids. >> Exactly. I know. I love how micro doing is like the the phrase of 2020 of the 2020s. >> Oh my gosh. Well, I I uh So, there's this concept in in naturopathic medicine. It's German medicine actually, of low dosing where you use the low and this makes sense and it makes sense in your world. you use the lowest effective minimal dose to get the therapeutic outcome you're looking for and that might be below the standard starting dose. That's why we have compounding, you know, you for for for anything, right? And so this we just made the point with this with this retinoids. It's like sometimes you got to start with the gentler, kinder version and you can step yourself up as tolerance builds. Um, and some people don't even need to go there necessarily, right? And so that's the idea, but I I don't know a better word for it because when people think low dose, they think that I there's there's low dose and then there's this world far below that is that can still be effective for people in all different kinds of medications. Like it's not just it's, you know, it could be the case for supplements or even herbs. >> It's just whatever the individual tolerates and you have to do it. It's this is all individualized. I think your I think your industry really does understand that concept of individualized medicine like you because the skin is not going to mess around. It's going to respond exactly how it wants to respond. You have to sort of made it >> can be so personalized. Um that's why I sometimes have a hard time even with social media like giving like blanket advice because I'm like well it will also ultimately depend on your skin type too. >> Yes. >> Um but yes it is very personalized. So, does this funny pmenopausal skin situation balance itself out in when women become post-menopausal, >> you know, or does it get worse? >> Okay, so it it usually gets worse. I'm sorry to say that. Um, great. >> In terms of like So, in terms of crazy ups and downs, you're not going to see that. Like, I think pmenopause is when I see people are like, why the hell do I have acne right now? like why am why is my skin more oily? Like shouldn't it be getting more dry? And um there's more like craziness. So there's you're not going to experience as many roller coasters once you're substantially in the post-menopausal period, but um but because I mean I you know unless you're doing like HRT the you're that low estrogen it results in Yeah. Like I said earlier, thinner epidermis, you have less you have less hyaluronic acid in your skin, so your skin's less plump, your collagen's less plump. Um, your skin barrier is weaker. Uh, you have less lipids. So, um, and so that you have that the thinner epidermis shows up as like that crepiness, that like kind of tissue paper, uh, the thin wrinkled skin. Um, so yeah. Um, >> the tur you lose the tur when you lose the estrogen. Totally. Yeah. And some more so than others. It's interesting. I see such a wide range. Um and but but it Yeah, it it happens postmenopausal. Well, something I was taught by my mentor was if your skin is getting wrinkly, you can bet your bones are too. So I I I believe that if your skin really is showing itself, like I went through an abrupt aging situation right around that time that my skin was acting crazy. I also and I think that study that came out last year showed you know it's around 44 and then again around 60. I went through like a definite marketked aging but I was under a lot of stress too so who knows but it happened and my everything changed. I look different. Everything changed overnight and uh I started to notice that thinning of the skin and I was like oh heck no. This is give me the hormones. >> Yeah. >> More please. is let me tell you like I'm pregnant right now and it's I I'm one of those weirdos who really likes being pregnant because I just feel like my hormones are optimized. I'm like, you know, being in my 40s, I'm I'm like actually I kind of need this right now. >> Yeah. Well, you look glowing and gorgeous. So >> Oh, thank you. Um but yeah, no, it's it's it's it's huge. The hormones play a really big role with skin. >> Yes, 100%. And I've had patients, well, my patients taught me, I had these little old lady patients that were so beautiful. And I will tell you, the ones who aged really, really well, because I got to follow my mentors patients. They weren't just mine. I got to follow some women for 20, 25 years. I I knew them in in practice. And they the ones that did the best were all on HRT. And it maybe wasn't all of it. Some of them were just on progesterone, and they swore that's what made their skin beautiful. Some of them were on progesterone and some testosterone. Some were on they love their estrogen. It really, you know, depend. I mean, they always took progesterone on top of it, but it was a, you know, anyone's guess what their HRT consisted of. Always some thyroid usually, and that was kind of the cocktail. And they all did, and they were all very active, and they all knew if they stopped moving, they were going to lose the ability to move. And they all knew that their nutrition was paramount to keep their brain in good health. And so, I would I'm guessing that's probably who are your most beautiful aged patients, too. >> Yeah. Yeah. I can tell who's on HRT and it definitely helps for sure. >> Yeah. Yeah. And then the cognition part is right there with it. I I watch cognition decline abruptly in my patients who chose not to go on HRT. And it just is this slow and it's really subtle. But what I would say is if there's things that you could do 5 years ago like mathematically that you can no longer do or your stress tolerance is running out too quickly. I I notice this a lot in pmenopausal women. They start to feel crazy and they are for it's not just forgetful. It's like I'm a boss babe. I can run, you know, I can have 10 plates in the air and now they're all crashing down around me and I can only do one thing at a time and oh what were you saying and oh why did I go in this room? Think about HRT, ladies. It's a sign. >> Yeah. Right. You just you just don't feel like yourself. Like that's Yeah. One of the first signs. >> Yeah. And pay attention to your skin because if it's acting crazy, there's probably some stuff going on. So, >> okay. Well, anything else? Any any other tidbits of info that you want to leave the listeners with? >> I would say that if you Yeah, I mentioned this earlier. if you can't tolerate a retinoid and I'm I'm more so to recommend this for you know post-menopausal women is there are still other things out there that can help build collagen so don't lose hope or you could use them in addition to retinoids like I I think that if you are postmenopausal looking for a moisturizer that's incorporating peptides like a multifunctional moisturizer um you know or antioxidants in a moisturizer growth factors so um there's there's other things out there. >> Yes. And we'll have you on again, but when you come back, we're going to talk about micro needling and other things that people can do because I'm sure there's like a whole other world >> that simulate collagen. Yes. >> That's part two. >> Yes. Yes. >> That's where I'm headed next. I'm moving to Arizona and I swear there's like a laser uh aesthetic clinic literally like two or three in every mini mall there. I mean, it is so apparent. There's a lot of Yeah, there's a lot of aesthetics. >> Yeah. So, I'm going to I'm going to get down there and find some lasers and >> Oh, yeah. You won't have a hard time. >> I'm going to call you and ask you what I should What should I What should I do to this? >> Yes. >> And then we'll have you on the pod and talk about it. >> Let's do it. >> Okay. >> Well, Dr. Mamina, where can everyone find you and all the wonderful resources that you have? >> Yes. Um, so you can find me at DR.mmina, dr.mmina on Instagram, Tik Tok, YouTube. I also have a website, drmina.com. I do actually I'm a co-author on a book called the holistic psoriasis management and nutrition guide. So for those who are dealing with psoriasis and we we go through all the conventional medications that are available that a dermatologist would prescribe. But in addition to that, we go through all the data that's out there for other environmental factors and supplements that um play a role or could be helpful for psoriasis as well as a nutrition guide. So, >> I need to read that. I have psoriasis. So, >> okay. Yes. Yeah, it's on Amazon for I don't know. I feel like it's been on sale on Amazon for the last year. It actually just got released in April. So, yes. And then um yeah, that's how you can find me. And yeah, I'm all about this stuff. >> Okay, I will put the links everywhere because your content is so great. Your Tik Tok and your Instagram are like they have helped me so much. So, thank you for >> So glad. >> Yes. Yes. It's been a journey. Like I said, I had no idea. I Well, I grew up in a hair salon. You think I would have known, but I somewhere along the line just, you know, everything is different when you're over 45. That's all I have to say. >> Things definitely change. Yes. >> Yes. Well, so fun to talk to you and we'll have you back on and we'll have you come in person after you have your baby and you'll come to Arizona. Okay. All right. Thanks, lady, for coming on the show. >> Thanks so much for having me. >> Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcast at drtina.com. That's drt ty na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthcare services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have, and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.