 col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col col they? Number one, we need to be walking. All right. That's your bonus quadrant. Actually, it's five quadrants. You have to be walking every day. We are ambulating animals. So we have to be ambulating. This is a non-negotiable. Just think of it this way. Look at Asian cultures. Look at how much they walk. I grew up in a suburb of Portland that was highly, highly, like with lots and lots of Asian descent immigrants living there. And I went to school with a lot of first generation born in the US. And we had a lot of Vietnamese folks, a lot of Chinese folks. It has since changed and shifted in that suburb, but it was like highly populated by the Asian community. And they walked everywhere. They walked and walked and walked. And all I would ever see is these little old men and little old ladies walking everywhere. And I would go to, I would drive to school in high school and I would see them walking and I would drive home and I would see them walking. This taught me very early that longevity is connected to walking. All right. So let's just put it there. If you look at the blue zones, I think the one thing they really had in common that very few people talk about is that they were all up on hills. Like they all had to huff it up hills all the time. They can talk about the food. They can talk about the sun. They can talk about the community. They can talk about multi-generational living. They can talk about all those things in the blue zones. But I'm telling you, I did a whole podcast on why stairs are important. I think it's because they're huffing up and down these hills. All right. So walking, the first quadrant other than the bonus quadrant of walking is strength training. The second quadrant is going to be your cardio. Everybody loves cardio. I am a girl, I'm an eighties baby, eighties and nineties girl, right? And cardio, cardio, cardio, cardio bunnies everywhere. Lots and lots of cardio. Everyone just did cardio. We can't just do cardio. The third quadrant is high intensity or explosive plyometrics. So explosive, highly metabolic explosive movements. You could put power lifting in there, sprints, plyometrics, high intensity interval training, anything. I realized that plyometrics and high intensity interval training are not the same thing all the time, but I'm putting this here as an explosive bouts of movement. Sprinting, think of it that way. A lot of people like to hang their hat exclusively on sprinting. It's amazing, but it's not the end all be all. And then what I will categorize as isometrics and controlled movements like yoga and Pilates. And I'm going to go through each one of them. So let's just talk quickly about strength training, right? This is, let's clean the glasses. This is resistance training, strength training, lifting weights, whatever you want to call it. Now we can get granular here and we can talk about bodybuilding versus strength training, which are two different things. I'm talking about strength training. I want to be strong AF when I get old so that I don't fall and break a hip. I want all of my muscle fibers working in my favor. So the primary focus, this is truly the foundation of aging well and truly the foundation. If you want good metabolic health, the primary focus, lifting weights, resistance training, hypertrophy training, whatever. The muscle fibers targeted are type two fibers and your type two or your fast twitch. We lose these as we age. These are the fibers necessary to generate force and power, but they atrophy the fastest with age. And so we're trying to hone those as well. Why this matters is because strength training prevents sarcopenia, which is wasting and frailty and wasting and sarcopenia are the kiss of death, period. If you're frail, you will get dementia. If you're frail, you will potentially fall and break a hip. If you're frail, you will get taken out by the latest, you know, upper respiratory virus that's running around as comparison to if you weren't frail. So frailty is not something you want to go into anything with. We do not want to go into battle with frailty. All right. We lose metabolic flexibility as we lose muscle. You guys have heard me beat this drum, so I'm not going to go too far into it. We want good bones. We want good muscles. We want that nice glucose sink to take up the excess glucose that we're eating and turn it into something we can use, right? I've talked about this. Put a meat suit on your body, like build a slab of muscle on that meat suit. Strength training and immune health, importantly here is that we have the data to support this. I have seen this anecdotally. I will just put it this way. Your immune system will function far better if you have muscle and not just muscle that you are blessed to have, but trained skeletal muscle, muscle you're using actively on a regular basis. I saw this time and time and time again in my clinical practice. And if you are going into anything, whether it be the two C's, you know, the virus that shall not be named and the big C of cancer, we have data going back. I don't even know why this is a new conversation or why people haven't heard this before, but you absolutely have to have muscle on your body if you're going to go through anything. And you've heard me say the only way out is through. I would like to have muscle as I go through. So I will leave it at that. Plus it lowers inflammation because muscle secretes myokines and myokines are awesome. Myokines are anti-inflammatory and they do a whole host of wonderful things in our body and we can literally build a suit of them. So I for one will be building a nutrient dense body of muscle. I'm feeding myself well. I'm building that muscle. I'm building mitochondria. I'm building a good immune system and I'm building a suit that secretes anti-inflammatory molecules. It's wonderful. All right. Okay. The next one, let's talk about cardio. So cardio, obviously we need good vascularity. We need good heart health. It's not just about heart health though. We need our whole vascular system, the entire tree out to our fingertips. We need good perfusion. We need blood to get out distally. So proximal distal, we need blood to get out there. We need to pump it and use it. Another great place for cardio is when we want to give our nervous system a bit of a challenge. We want to give our lymphatic some flow. We want to give ourselves a bit of a hormetic stressor and not just from the sense of lifting heavy shit, but also can we run away from danger for a prolonged period of time? Now it doesn't have to be an all out sprint for a long period of time, but I need to know that I can pick up a clip if I need to hustle. Like, can you hustle? Not just hustle in a sprint, but like if we need to jog somewhere. I just always think of things in terms of primal medicine and I need two legs that ambulate well if I need to go track down prey. You know, just basics. Like I'm not talking fast. I'm talking zone two. Zone two is, go look at Dr. Peter Atia's work just for the sake of time. He has great information around zone two. I actually saw him in Vegas at a hotel doing zone two when I walked into the gym. I'm like, oh, there's Peter Atia doing zone two. He really believes in it. He talks all about it. It boosts mitochondrial activity and density. It increases your VO2 max. These are highly linked to longevity. So zone two is going to be, you can find it in a myriad of different ways, but I like to think of it as cardio that you can talk through. That's the easiest way to do it. You can do math. I think it's like 180 minus your age, but really just cardio you can talk through. Can you hold a conversation? That's your zone two. And this is going to help with all kinds of wonderful things in our body. Most notably, just good turgor in blood flow, like tissues that are perfused look better, right? So you're going to be more beautiful. Yes, you can get some of this in with strength training in a way, but also let's be able to like pick up a clip and hustle. So I think these translate into zombie apocalypse efforts, right? Then we've got our high intensity sprints, plyometrics, explosive movements, maybe power lifting in there. This is fast twitch fiber and power and fall prevention really. So also bone density. So I think of this as like box jumps. I think of this as sprints on the rower and high intensity interval training. I think of this as sprints, sprint intervals on the treadmill. Unless you're really solid footed, don't go sprinting outside. That's a great way to just bite it unless it's really flat and you're well-versed at it, but it's a good way to tear things and just bite it. So make sure you are in a controlled environment, especially for us older girlies and maybe our tissues aren't as pliable or maybe we're really estrogen deprived as we're going through this transition and we don't want to tear things. Get your estrogen dialed in, please. You've heard me talk about that, but I've got lots of podcasts on it. You are tuned into the Dr. Tina show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina show, the quick and dirty, I am going to present to you my insanely simple guide to fat loss, longevity, and fitness. And we're going to be discussing the four quadrants of exercise as I see them. I get questions all the time from super confused people.