And then I think a big problem that I saw in clinic, I'd love your thoughts on is the and I I saw this more often with women who had pelvic floors that weren't really in good shape, you know, they weren't they weren't in good shape in general is and it happened to me when I was in really bad shape. I was really skinny and out of shape. Um they don't void completely. So they do like what they think is a full void, but then they don't completely void. And then those women end up with a lot of urinary tract infections. And I actually I was it was happening to me in medical school and I had the lab tech, the head of the lab at the clinic. She said, "You have to do the the final pee." And I said, "What's the final pee?" She goes, "You sit there and you relax and there will be a final pee. You have to get that out because it'll sit there in your bladder and and get infected." So, I've learned to get that little bit out too with intention. But I'd love to hear your thoughts because maybe I'm doing this all wrong. Yeah, it's a great point. So, normal voiding would be every two and a half to four hours. And when we sit down to pee and poo technically, we need the pelvic floor muscles to relax in order for the bladder to contract or the rectum to void. And if we are not relaxing completely, then it can hinder that and there could be there's always going to be a small residual like the bladder is constantly filling. So there's always going to be considered normal amount of of residual. Not a huge amount, but um not not enough to signal that you would need to go anymore. But so we we should sit down, relax the pelvic floor, bladder contracts, pee comes out, and it comes to an end, and we're done. That's what should happen in people who have tight pelvic floors that aren't relaxing. They're it may be difficult to empty completely. The bladder is kind of is trying to contract, but the pelvic floor is not relaxing enough. There could be residual that's then kept and some people notice that they feel like it's empty and then they stand up and then there's a little bit more that dribbles out. So that could be tight muscles. It can also be pelvic organ prolapse. So especially if the bladder has shifted out of its optimal position, it starts to bulge in the vagina, creates a little pocket where urine can get trapped. So that can make for that sensation of incomplete voiding or that you know stand up and then a little bit more comes out because the bladder then shifts now that it's empty and you stand up and and move around. So double voiding is not what I say that everybody should be doing. However, if you notice that you feel like you have to push to pee, you shouldn't have to push to pee, you should not push to pee. If you notice that there's that postvoid dribble, if you notice that you pee, but it doesn't feel like it's completely empty, you can do a second void, like a double voiding strategy where you sit and empty, and then you stand up, do a few little hip circles, tuck, untuck, sit back down, take a breath in, relax the pelvic floor, and see what else comes out. So, that's kind of like that last P that that you were told about. So, not a strategy I would say everybody should adopt. But it's something that if you notice some of those things, then you can do that. But I would also then go figure out why that's happening. So, go see a pelvic floor PT. Is it because you have prolapse? Is it because your muscles are non-reing? Is it because of the posture you have on the toilet that's not allowing things to empty completely? So, you want to have an understanding as of why so that you can then choose the right path to fix it. and holding my bladder for I I guess it's two to four hours. That's I would say yeah it's reasonable. I just I I try to override if I do if I have just urinated and I feel the need to urinate I I try to override that. I try to hang on because I think that I I think of it as a nervous bladder and I don't want a nervous bladder. I want a bladder that I control. Yeah. Absolutely. And it could be nerves, it could be anxiety, it could be tightness, it could be constipation, it could be low estrogen, it could be dehydration, could be bladder irritants. Like there's so many things that could create that inappropriate symptom. And the strategy you have is, and a lot of people I have go through a bladder diary where they're tracking what they're eating, what they're drinking, how much water they're drinking, how much fiber they're eating, when they poop, when they pee, what the volume is, because they can start to then notice the habits. They start to notice the foods that are triggers for them. they start to notice, you know, I don't drink in as much water as I thought I did. So, dehydration is going to come and play a role and holding like you're not using a bladder diary. You just have this awareness. But some people don't. So, they use the bladder diary and it says, "Well, I just went an hour ago. I haven't had any bladder irritants. I haven't had a huge volume of liquid. This is an inappropriate signal." So, then you step in and you do you can do selft talk to the bladder. You can use distraction techniques like curling your toes or doing calf raises, doing some pelvic floor activation or relaxation to help calm that signal. And within, you know, 10 to 30ish seconds, it should ideally be gone. And then you just carry it on a winter