I worked so hard for this version that you see here and here I am in 2025 and I'm like, God, do I really want to be a health influencer? Like, is this what I signed up for? So, I guess you could say I seem to have a problem being satisfied. But, uh, back to 2015, 2016 getting out of clinical practice, that that is when the overwhelm really really hit and I was basically running two businesses simultaneously. One business was my clinic and one business was my online business. And it was coming out of a divorce, coming out of the death of my mentor. Um, clinic was popping. I was so busy in my clinical practice and I just really had hit some kind of burnout and I wasn't able to put my finger on it and there wasn't anyone to talk to about it because you don't have a wildly successful practice and then complain about it, right? Because if you try to talk to your colleagues, your colleagues generally are not even having the success you're having. And so then they're like pissy with you if you try to talk to them about it. And I mean that's in any you any of you who are successful know this, right? Like you can't talk to anybody who hasn't done what you're currently doing or better if you want any kind of guidance that's helpful. And then um on top of that I was just having a lot was going on with my daughter, with myself, with my health. And so those years were just wrought with trying to keep up. Just a lot of travel. Uh my career was taking off. I was getting invited to speak on many many stages, many medical conferences, many stages across the world and I just couldn't keep up and I was trying my darnest. Then in 2018, I got a hit. I get I get these um I used to think they were clairvoyants. I now realize they were honestly just messages from God. and I got a hit in 2018 to get out of clinical practice like urgently. I I don't know why. So, I started unraveling that, which took a minute. And that's again, I'll save that for an episode if I ever feel like talking about the whole shutting down of my actual big clinic. I still see patients. I still consult. I still work with a lot of clients here and there. Um, I consult often with colleagues regarding, you know, dosing and strategies and treatment plans. I just don't have that big brickandmortar running patients through all day kind of business. So, I'm still staying clinically relevant by having, you know, VIP patients and having a a tight-knit closed practice, but back then it was just like all day every day, tons of patients and started unraveling that and getting out of clinical practice. And it was hard because a lot of patients didn't want to leave. Like, they didn't want to go away. They were like, you know, pe a lot of I can't find a doctor that thinks like you. I can't find a doctor that will treat like you. I can't find a doctor that will put this together like you. And I'm not bragging. This is legitimately. It took two years. You can ask my assistant. It took two years for us to really get everybody to understand that I wasn't coming back. And then COVID hit and I was in Oregon and there's no version where I was going to play that game. So, I got out and that was my that was a lot of people's outs. I don't know if you guys realize, but a lot of people left clinical practice in 2020 2021. a lot of people like I used to run a high-end mastermind where that is specifically the goal for most people was to get out of clinical practice and so um I mean the burnout rate is unbelievable. I I won't share it all because if I did you guys would get really depressed because whenever I share it on Instagram I lose a bunch of followers and people say well what are we supposed to do if all the good doctors are quitting? A lot of good doctors are quitting. Um take really good care of yourself. That's what you do. Take really good care of yourself and you educate yourself. This is why I put out courses. This is why I put out a free podcast. Um, this is why I have my GLP-1 done right university. It really is like how I approach clinical care regardless of what issue you struggle with, regardless of if you're interested in GLP1s at all. Um, my clinical rationale is inside that course. And so, it's worth every penny to understand what it is that you need to these are the boxes you need to check off if you want to make it through this gauntlet um called life, right? And so it's 2020. I don't I'm not even going to go into that story. I I went hard against the narrative and I paid for it dearly. So I was harassed by the censorship industrial complex. Um and the administration at the time, it's been shared out that they have they were indeed targeting individuals. Um this is public knowledge now. So I pretty sure I was on some list somewhere. And I was getting my ass handed to me in so many ways and there was this s so all of this was happening and in there I moved. So I I moved from my apartment out to the country to be with my soon tobe husband. Uh we met November of 2019. So you can imagine like we got I got quarantined out here with COVID. So like we got deep fast like we had to go deep fast and because we got quarantined together and we were virtually strangers. So you know we we got to know each other very quickly. We didn't get married I think until 2021. Yeah I think at the end of 21. Uh but anyway we there was that move and then there was the move of my clinic out here. Like I had to move everything out to the country and a lot of stuff went into storage units. So that's how I ended up with a multitude of storage units. And I had also all of my mentors clinical stuff. So I had boxes and bo document boxes full of multiple document boxes full of all of his records and his things, not to mention all of his patients chart notes. And so I we have to keep chart notes for, you know, x amount of years. And so I had so much stuff to contend with and a lot of it wasn't even mine. And so I just kind of been hauling this stuff around for ages. Back to the move. I am moving here shortly as we speak. And I was trying I should have been moved already, but I decided instead of doing this winter summer thing, I'm just going to move to Arizona. I'm just going to move all my crap and get it all there because I'm not getting any younger. And if anything happens to my husband, I'm not going to rem I'm I don't I don't want to be here in Oregon. There's like no version where I ever want to come back to Oregon to be completely honest with you. I don't ever want to step foot in the state again. I know that's a bold statement to make. I don't ever want to see the West Coast, which I can't believe. I have so much heartbreak uh around what's happened in Oregon. Some of you are seeing it currently. You're seeing some, you know, you're seeing the curated version that the mainstream media wants you to see and then sometimes you get to see the videos of like what's actually happening in Portland and it's a disaster. So, it's been a disaster a long time. I have tried to shine light on this. I have been mocked for it. I have been harassed for it. I've gotten unaliving threats for it. Um, but something sinister is, you know, that movie Something Wicked This Way Comes. Well, something wicked came to Portland a long time ago almost a decade ago and it it has it has it is the hell mouth. Portland is a hellmouth. Do you Did you guys ever watch Buffy the Vampire Slayer? Remember she moved to Sunnyale and it was the Hellmouth? Portland's the Hellmouth.