! the show today. I am so excited to have you here. You are my money guy. That's how I refer to you. And you have helped me tremendously over the last year, get into some situations that I really wanted to get into, like homeownership. And you've been a guiding light for me. So I wanted to bring you on the show today because I am getting a lot of questions from my friends like, Tina, what are you doing? You're clearly winning. And you're my secret in my back pocket. So thanks for coming on the show today. Really happy to be here. Thanks for having me, Tina. Yeah. So can you explain to the audience who you are and kind of what you do? Because I'll butcher it if I try to give any description. Well, there's the version of me that loves art and racing sailboats. But the part you're talking about is that I am a tax and wealth strategist. I'm the founder of Big Life Financial and started the company because I worked for someone else. We did a lot of strategy for small business owners. And I just became really, really passionate about helping people figure out how to turn their business income into personal wealth and freedom. Because making a bunch of money running a business and being super stressed out, that part of it's not so great. I mean, running your own thing is cool. But a lot of people, it turns into a prison instead of the freedom they wanted. And so my goal, because I've been there with previous businesses that I had, is to help people break out of that. And that's really what I do is help people put systems in place so that you can methodically make more money, keep more money, be smarter with it and build things that are going to create freedom for you rather than making your life worse and more stressful. Yes. And that all sounded very appealing to me when I met you. So that is why I promptly hired you and got to work. I was really scared of money when I met you. I was making decent money, but I was scared of making it. And I don't know why. I couldn't honestly tell you why. Probably because I grew up in a blue-collar family where my parents, my mom kind of understands what I do, but my dad has no idea what I do. Like he doesn't get that if you're not in a building, you know, if I'm not there treating patients, how on earth am I making income? He doesn't understand the internet. He doesn't understand all of that. And once I met you and you started helping me just sort of get a handle on things really and get systems into place and get organized, a lot of that fear dropped away. And I didn't necessarily make more money that year, but within that year, I've now purchased a house. I purchased a house for my parents. I bought a building space. I really just, I don't know, being organized and having the right team around me that you helped introduce me to has been so monumental in me actualizing my dreams and living in paradise, literally. So thank you. My pleasure. What I see a lot, Tina, with that is when you don't know what's going on with your money. And I hear this a lot, people like, I make all this money, but I don't, I don't know where it's all going. Right. And I think of it like this. If you're up on a, you live in Arizona, you're up on a Mesa, right? And there's a cliff out there and it's kind of foggy. You can't go very close to the cliff. You have to stay way back. You have to be super cautious. You're kind of scared all the time. What if I take the wrong step? So you don't really want to go anywhere. And what happens is once you get a little organized and you start to understand what's going on with your money, that fog lifts. And now you can see where the cliff is and how much money you have and how to use it. And you can go much closer. You can just be so much more effective because you know what's going on. Right. And when, when you don't know, it's just very difficult to be effective. So that's what I see a lot. That's the word effective. And being able to use my money. I mean, one of my big goals is to start either a foundation or a nonprofit and be able to help people in much more generous ways. I really believe in the, I believe for me, I had a coach once, a business coach say, you are the most non-money motivated person I've ever met who yet still has such great success. And I was like, that's because money is just a tool. And for me, it's quite literally a tool for freedom and for comfort. And I want that same freedom and comfort for every single person directly in my life that I love. And I feel like I've gotten to a place where I can offer that. And now I want to make sure that I can be generous with my brain and with the knowledge base that God has allowed me to acquire over the years in other ways. And I, I feel like it's just a stepwise process. I don't know the steps you do, but that's why, that's why I keep working with you. But there's a stepwise process in actualizing that and making sure that, um, that, that tool gets used effectively. Is it? Yeah. Cause there's different steps to money, right? There's different skills. One is, like you said, you could even put the first step is like create value, be valuable in some way. And people give you money for that, right? Then once you get the money, and that's what most people think the game is, get the money. But the problem is then you have to keep it, right? We all know about taxes. And if you've made much money, like we primarily work with people who make at least $300,000 a year, cause that's when taxes start to get pretty expensive. Um, and usually business owners cause they have more levers to pull. But the next thing is how do we pay a lot less tax legally and do that in a way that makes sense? Now, what I see happen all the time is, oh, go buy a new car. But if you're spending a dollar to save 40 cents, that's not a good trade unless you needed a new car. Like I, I literally have a client. She's like, I have this brand new beautiful car and I love to drive it, but like, I didn't need it. So she spent a hundred thousand dollars to have a car as a tax write off, but she spent a hundred to save 40. That doesn't math very well, right? So, so the second skill is keeping the money you make through tax efficiency. Third, then you now have money that you've gotten through the tax window. Now we need to take that money and put it to work. And, and really what this comes down to is buying assets. So what are assets? Things that go up in value or create cashflow for you or in some way get bigger and better, right? Now that could be buying equipment for your business, right? Like you, maybe you bought a bunch of podcast stuff, right? And that helps your show be better. That's one version of, of growing your money. There are lots of other tools out there. There's all these investments and insurance and entities and business ownership and a million other things, right? But you need to have a plan for that. Um, and that's the next skill, right? Growing your money. And then you need to be able to protect it, right? Because as you make more, there's more stuff out there. We all know about cybersecurity, there's life events, there's health, there's, I mean, I think you know a little about health, right? Uh, and the things that happen there. And so you want to have protection mechanisms in place as you build this wealth to take care of that. And that's a whole nother skillset. And then the last one is how do I pass it on? Whether that's through a foundation, passing it onto your family, but really creating true legacy that will live beyond just you being here physically and, and making a difference there. And each one of those is a different skillset. So what I've been helping you do is just get organized. You, you got the making money piece figured out. Then it's like, okay, let's help you keep more of it. Let's have structures that, uh, that build for you protection we're working on and then moving into legacy. Right. And so what nobody ever tells you about wealth, Tina, is that it's all about automating as much of this stuff as we can put on autopilot, the better, right? Like if you have to manually remember to save money, if you have to manually remember to work on taxes every month, nobody wants to do that. Right. But if you get these systems in place, then you're able to get those things working in the background for you. And you can just focus on creating value, focus on building your business, focus on helping your family. And these things are happening in the background as a system, just like your marketing system might for your business, or just like your, your promotions team or your production team for the podcast, right? You show up and do the podcast and then you have people behind the scenes who do the editing and do the posting and do all the optimization and do all that stuff. That's all happening in the background. You want to set your money up that way so that if you don't do anything extra, you get richer. And that's, that's a big part of it. Getting richer is always a good thing. Well, I'll tell you what, when you start making any kind of appreciable money, you don't know what to do. So you spend it all and you don't know where you're spending it. You're just trying to reinvest it in yourself. I think that was something I did a lot of. I spent a lot of my, my, most of my career, I spent most of my money back into myself, either furthering my education, furthering my expertise, making sure everything was top notch, not wasteful spending by any means, but just, you know, doing all the things. And that took a while, like it took a while to get to the level in the regenerative medicine space, for instance, that training is always exceptionally expensive for the most part, if it's any kind of quality. And so, you know, making sure I was literally the best at my game in that arena. And that was 10 years, you know, I probably, people don't believe it. I probably spent half a million dollars on my education and then spent another half a million just on extra stuff, getting better at what I did, you know, and whether it was marketing business, trainings, regenerative medicine trainings, continuing education, et cetera. And I finally hit a point where I was like, okay, I had not considered this legacy. That's the other piece that's the most important to me is, will my family be taken care of if anything happens to me? And will they be able to maintain the same level of comfort that I have? I mean, my goals are really simple. It's not to get rich. It's just to build enough comfort into my family legacy so that they can continue to live a standard of living that they've grown accustomed to through me, you know, and that's all I think about. And then again, further out from that is the legacy. I used to think that my legacy was just my brain, like making, that's why I went online. Truly, I went online. I don't think people know this. I went online because my mentor had just died or he was dying. Yeah, he had just died and I was wrecked and I didn't know what to do. And all of his videos, all of his slide decks for his presentations, all of his genius had been living on his website. And somehow, for some reason, I don't know why his website went down and it was all gone. And there's no video of him anywhere speaking, lecturing, teaching, because he was just that early wave before this was all so easy to do, you know? And I cannot find footage of him anywhere doing any of his magic. And I was so horrified by all of it that I started a Google document to my daughter in case anything ever happened to me. I wanted her to know, and I hate the term biohack, but you know, that wasn't really a term back then, but it was just the idea of like, I know how to fix this and let me tell you. So if anything ever happens to me, you can open this document and here will be, like, this is how to keep your, I know her body. I know my body. I know what I went through. I know what I didn't want her to have to go through with her health that I had to go through. And, you know, kind of the secrets to the universe document. And I started the document and it hit me like a ton of bricks. Like, I have to tell the whole world this information. Like, everybody deserves to have this information. And so that's what this podcast is about is, and everything I do, I mean, the amount of free content that I produce and the amount of cost that I occur to produce this free content. I'm not saying that for any kind of, you know, people to be like, oh, thank you. I just want people to realize the amount of energy, time and money it takes to put this volume of free content out to the world is enormous, but I feel an obligation to do so. But I can't spend all my money to do it, right? And so there has to be, my family has to be taken care of at the end of the day. And that was really why I hired you because I, that's my long-term thinking. And then can I, can this legacy continue? Is there a way to keep this information on the internet if I pass? Like all of these platforms cost money to run, you know, and if I die right now, would my husband and my team be able to afford to keep it up? You know, so that anyway, that's what I think about. Yeah. And I think a lot of that is, you know, comes down to why you're a doctor, right? You love to take care of people. You love to help people. You love to solve problems. And so that's really coming through in your legacy as to why you do what you do. And I think this all falls under quality of life, right? You were saying money's just a tool and it really is quality of life, not just for you, but for the people around you. And I would argue that the quality of your life is directly dependent on the quality of the life of the people around you. If they're happy, if they're fulfilled, if you can be part of that and your heart's full because you know you've been a piece of that, I think we all want that, right? And money is just a tool in that direction. And you're getting, you're going in the direction that I always urge people to. If more money means your quality of life comes down, then that's a bad trait. The whole reason for money is a better quality of life, right? And what I call return on emotion. I know you and I talked a lot about this. It's not just about how much can I make on this, but how do I feel about this, right? So some people see buying a house as an investment. Other people see it as a place to live. For you, you know, it was, it was a really emotional decision and something you've wanted for a long time. And this, even if you looked at it and say financially, if you do the math and run the spreadsheets, it doesn't make sense. It doesn't matter because your life's better because of it. You feel better. You wake up every day happier because now you have this space that you've wanted and been able to create the way that you want. And that's really where the tool comes in, right? Is it gives you that return on emotion that I think is what we all really want, but it's easy to get mixed up on the internet or the rat race or all the other stuff that's out there about more, more, more ROI, which is return on investment. But nobody really talks about the emotion money, which I think is really, really important because it's the whole reason we want it. We want to feel safe. We want to spend time with people we love. We want to do things that we feel like matter to us, have those experiences. It's, it's everything to me. I feel like I, I feel like, I mean, I truly, if people really knew my story, I mean, I'll just share. I, when I was just getting out of medical school, I still had to finish my chiropractic degree and I ended up getting divorced. I had a really messy divorce. I was a single mom and I had to file bankruptcy within the first few months of that all happening. And then I built my practice and that was also 2008, which was the recession, right? So I couldn't get a small business loan. Like you couldn't even get the small business administration to answer the phone. It was so bad. I had no credit cards because I had no, I was in bankruptcy. My parents don't have any money. The gift that my parents gifted me was actually for my graduation was the money that my grandmother had left me after she died. My mom paid for me to get licensed because I didn't have enough money to take my board exams and get licensed. So my mom, that was my gift. And I mean, bless them for doing that for me. Right. And then a little bit of money to buy some supplies. So I had no credit. I had no small business loan. I had a clinic that I was renting and I had to buy every single piece of furniture. So every single bit of money I made went back into purchasing furniture, went back into purchasing equipment and supplies. And my daughter at the time, we had no money. I was skin and bones. And the only money I had, I would feed her with. I would literally feed, give, buy her high quality food because that's everything to me. And I would go without. And then she being a little girl who was rebelling against her mom and didn't want to eat healthy, would trade her healthy, expensive food that I had home cooked for like garbage snack, you know, processed foods that her friends, they would trade their lunch boxes and it drove me insane. Anyway, I remember when she was, the year the Nintendo, that little Nintendo flip came out, that's a little, the little bitty one. They were $175. And I, that was my first year in practice. It was like 2008. I worked my butt off to come up with $175 to buy her a Nintendo flip thing. And it was pink and she loved it. And I look back on that now, like that amount of money was everything. I mean, we were using coupons. I was driving a car that would break down every time I would turn it off. We'd have to jump the battery. So I'd have to ask somebody to help me jump the battery. And it's Oregon, it's raining, it's horrible. I mean, it was, I can't believe, you know, that was where it started. And I worked my ass off for years and years and years and years. And I, everything I have, I built, I actually was at a conference recently and I had a good friend who now owns this company and he was hosting this big event. And he was like, this woman right here, I knew her in the beginning, 100% self-made. Like there was nobody, a lot of these influencers you guys see on the internet have massive funding behind them for whatever reason. And so when you see them skyrocket and come out of virtually nowhere and end up everywhere, there's usually some pretty decent funding behind them. And I had none of that. This was all just grind and push and grind and push. And by the time I met you, I was so ground out, just fried. And I'm in Oregon and I'm like, I fucking hate it here so much. My soul was crushed every morning to have to wake up there. And bless my husband for, I lived in a beautiful house out in the country. I cannot complain, but I was so not in alignment with where I was supposed to be. And my health was suffering and my stress level was through the roof. And finally it was, I had just worked with you, I don't even know, like a few months. And I made the executive decision to get the frick out of there. And I told my parents and my family at Thanksgiving or Christmas, I can't remember the first year we were, because we started in the fall together. And so just a few months later, I told them all under no uncertain terms will I be here in a year. I will not be coming back. You will not see me on these holidays. I will not be here. I will figure out how to help all of you move if you want to come with me, but I'm going. And I don't think anyone believed me. And we didn't break it to some people until like the middle of summer. But I had a hit from God that if I didn't get out of Oregon by winter, that I was for some reason not going to make it. I don't know how else to say it. I didn't think I was going to make it. And so I hustled and my husband didn't even believe me. He packed like two bags of clothes and threw them in the pod and then drove me in our SUV with a trailer behind us and my dogs down to Arizona. And he got here and he's like, I don't have anything. I said, well, did you not believe that we have a big ass house that I've been paying a mortgage on? Like we're here. And so he settled in really beautifully and his nervous system is handling Arizona so beautifully. He's so calm and tan and happy. My best friend in the whole world just came to visit for a few days and she's like, I've never seen him like this. I'm like, I know the desert and the sun, very good for him. And I am so happy. So that return on emotion, like I cannot emphasize that enough that I think I just needed you as a catalyst to tell me it was okay and that it wasn't frivolous to go. And I, best decision ever. I only regret not doing it 15 years earlier. I totally understand, right? Like in hindsight, it's so clear. It's like, oh, this is what I've been fighting this whole time. And then once you do it, you move, you took a ton of action. I was really impressed by that because a lot of people, they have dreams, but they hold themselves back for other people or a million other reasons. And you can always find a reason it won't work. You just need to look for the one that will work and you have to believe it. And if you're like you are, Tina, you're a doer, you're a creator, you just move with purpose and you create as you go, right? You just build it as you go. Think of it as building a bridge as you're crossing it. And you know, sometimes you fall in, you get your feet wet, whatever, but like, that's just sort of how it goes, but it's the only way you'll cross the bridge. Yep. So kudos to you for having the courage to do it. Cause I know it was a big thing, right? You were well-established there, your family's there, you've been there your whole life or most of it. It was a big thing, but it was super clear that you needed something different and you knew that. So. Yes. Love that. Thank you. I, I, uh, I wanted to get out of there 15 years earlier and I, it was really weird as I was purging and packing. It all became very clear that I had, it was one thing after another, after another that kept pulling me back in. And I, I, my best friend was here and I've never had a house before now, like, you know this, but the audience, I've never owned a home and this was my first home and it's beautiful. And my best friend was like, I'm so proud of you. This is such a, like, you're a grownup now, you're adulting. This is such a beautiful home. It's so peaceful there. It's so, I mean, I hope I grow old and die there happy, you know, like it's a great place. And I, when I bought it, I had in my head, like I saw grandchildren playing there and I saw myself getting old with my husband and, you know, like the, I am happy there. And, uh, she said, she got all teary eyed and she said, I've known you since sixth grade and you have always lived your life for everybody else. Like you've always lived your life out of obligation for everybody else. And you've always worked your ass off for everybody else so that everybody else was happy. Like you do with very little concern over your own health, you know, for your own wellbeing. You're just, and I looked at her and I was like, well, I, boy, I've been called selfish a few times, you know, but I, I really, I am, I, I am always thinking of other people trying to make sure that they're comfortable and happy and that, that all their needs are met without any, um, concern over the fact that my health was failing. It was failing. And I, here I am on the internet telling people to like do all the things. And yet I could not figure out why, even though I was doing all the things I was, I felt like I was dying in Oregon. I think it was lack of sunlight. I think it was living under tyranny. I think it was getting the shit tax out of me under tyranny and knowing that my dollars were, and this isn't about politics. It was about truly bad leadership and them taxing us to no end for it. And, uh, it just was eating my soul out from the inside. And God kept telling me like, you gotta go, you gotta go like urgently. Like if you don't go, you gotta go. And so I went and I think I knew it was going to be super disruptive to my family, but I also knew that they would follow me because I'm kind of the glue, you know? So I went, my daughter, I fly in next week. We jailbreak her out of Oregon next week. So I'm so excited about that. We're going to get two dogs and a cat on a plane and ship the car and put the rest of it in a pod and get her here. I just closed on a house for my parents and my daughter to live in down the road. So my parents are coming in a couple months and it is very disruptive. It's been really stressful on them, but also my daughter was so overwhelmed, but now she's so excited. Like she's thrown almost all her stuff away. She said it was the best feeling and she's so excited. And none of this would have been possible if I truly hadn't found you and you had just literally held my hand through some really basic, that's so funny because we really haven't moved the needle tremendously on investments or anything yet, but like you've just given me the courage and the wherewithal to take the energy and the money that I have made and use it in different ways rather than just sit there and fear and do nothing. Well, and this is a misnomer, right? Like a lot of people think, and truly this is the case, I think with a lot of financial people is they're really just focused about money and they have this one or two products to sell and they're like, you just need to buy this thing because it's the thing we sell and that's it. And I see what we do here is completely different. I think of what Big Life Financial is, is a lifestyle company because the whole point of the money is the lifestyle. And you were going through this life change that was very clear that this is something that was very important to you and needed to happen. And, and so why would we be talking about investments when you're investing in a house, when you're investing in your, your health, when you're investing in all these other things that are far more important than putting some money to work that might make you a little bit more money. You had to build a foundation first. And so, yeah, we, we had to focus on what was most important. You know, if you're looking at someone and their health, you're going to be taking care of what's most important, not like, Hey, your fingernails are a little bit long. It's like, yeah, we'll get to the fingernails, but you know, we've got to get your, your life, your, get things aligned and get things to where you're building the life that you want to live. And that's kind of when I started the company, like why I named it Big Life Financial, not some money word, because to me, I was like, I kept asking myself, what's, what am I doing here? What am I actually doing? What is the point or purpose of this business? And it was to help people build a big life, right? Something that was the, I use the term self-expression, right? But their ultimate self-expression, being able to be the human that you want to be because you've got money out of the way. And, and so you had enough money to be able to really follow what you as human being needed. And now you'll, you'll do the next layer and the next layer as you continue through this. But a lot of that is just, you got to give yourself permission. And I found after working with almost 2000 business owners, it's amazing how often I just need to give them permission to do the thing that they want to do. Yeah. It's okay to want to move and go a place you're going to be happy, right? And so many people don't have that person in their life that, that will give them permission. And that's, that's a big part of what we do is just trying to be there for you human to human, not just like your money guy, uh, and, and treat the, the human and talk about the money stuff. But a big part of that is just, what are you trying to accomplish? Okay, let's align your money to that. Well, gosh, it's been like, we've had meetings where I just cried through the whole thing because I was so overwhelmed with whatever was going on. So, I mean, I think in some odd way, you've played therapist as well, which is really funny because that's what money is. It's, it's similarly with health, you know, patients, people pay me to give them permission to do the thing they need to do to get their health improved. It's, it's, it's so, I mean, literally I joke that the bulk of what I do with patients is I get them pooping and I get them hydrated and urinating regularly enough that they can actually, and just like the foundations so that they can actually take the peptides or take the treatment or take and handle and optimize whatever it is that they want to do. Because, um, without those foundations in place, really basic, boring stuff that I'm just sitting there facilitating that it's, and sometimes, I mean, gosh, it takes some people like nine months to get pooping regularly, just every, pooping every day. It's, it sounds so simple, but that is such a necessary step to be able to handle the next several layers that we need to apply to get them to the next level. And, uh, it's, it, it was very much like that process. And then every buddy you introduced me to, whether they were directly on your team or they were somehow adjacent and associated to you have all just been the most stellar, honest, smart people. Like everybody's just super efficient, super honest, super smart. And I have the interesting thing for me that I realized with working with you was much like my patients is that, and my clients is that the onus of responsibility to learn is on them. And so I'm just the guide. Like they actually, at the end of the day, have to learn nutrition to some degree. They have to understand strength training to some degree. They have to start to learn these processes so that they can own them. And so I have been sort of in the university of money since starting with you and working with Brecken and like figuring out these legal tax strategies and understanding them and understanding different. I mean, I have been down the rabbit hole till three in the morning, sometimes really trying to understand these concepts. And then I bring them back to you or I bring them back to him. And, um, he's like, yeah, right on. You got it. Like you figured it out, you know, and that in chat GPT has been really helpful too. And just kind of understanding and the new, um, you know, love them or hate them, but just the changes that, that Trump brought in with the tax laws and bills and just really understanding how to make my money optimized for my goals. Same as health. Like how can people don't need to live their life like I live my life, but they need to figure out how to optimize their health for their goals. And it's like the same, same, same. A hundred percent. I know that I tell people this all the time. I'm like, I can pave the road and line it with flowers, but you have to walk it yourself, right? If you don't take ownership, just like if you hire a trainer to get in shape, you still have to take ownership of your health. You're not going to get stronger if you don't eat well, if you don't sleep well, if you don't hydrate, even if you show up and they tell you do this for this 45 minutes or hour while you're here, like it's better than doing nothing, but they can't carry that health for you. Right. And it's the same thing with money. I can talk to you, Tina about, Hey, you can do this or you can do that, but you have to actually earn the money. You have to save the money. You have to put it to work. You have to pay attention to, Hey, wait a minute. This seems wrong. Let's figure that out. What's going on here. You, you can go to someone else for leadership. You can learn from them, but ultimately nobody's going to care about your money as much as you do. Right. And, and you have to take complete ownership. The clients I have who take ownership, see incredible results. And the people who come and they're like, okay, make me money. They don't ever do anything and nothing happens. Right. And I try, we try to weed that out on the front end because if people aren't willing to change and I do have clients, they're like, okay, we want all these tax breaks and we're like, okay, first let's do this. No, I don't want to do that. Well, let's do that. I don't want to do it. Let's do that. I don't want to do it. We're like, why are you here? You know, don't, don't, you don't need to waste your time or my time. If you don't want to make any changes. And I find a lot of people are willing to do more of the same, but they don't want to make the change. Right. Yes. They're on a diet that's not working. And they're like, well, I'll just do that same diet harder. You're like, well, but it's not working. So you're going to have to change. And, uh, and I find change is a really odd thing. Some people are really willing to embrace it and others aren't. And our job as people who help people is to try and figure out like who is actually willing to change because you don't want to waste anybody's time. Well, in medicine, it's pain and vanity. Those are the two, I found those to be the two biggest needle movers. And interestingly, vanity doesn't always work. It depends on the person, but pain like physical or emotional pain tends to move the needle. And I was in a great deal of pain physically and emotionally in Oregon. And now I'm here and I'm like, woohoo. I feel like I'm on vacation every day. I was just driving here and I was like, I just say a prayer every day and thank God because I can't even believe, I cannot believe where I live. I cannot believe how beautiful it is. I cannot believe how sunny it is. I cannot believe I get to look at massive saguaro cactus all over. I live in a saguaro cactus forest and it's insane. I go for hikes every day with my husband. We go on like a 30 to hour long hike every single day if we can. And we were hiking through like basically like the redwood forest of saguaros yesterday. I mean, these things are massive. You touch them and it's like touching a majestic whale. It's crazy how big they are. And I was like, I can't believe I live here. How did this become my reality? And it was because like you said, and you've reiterated this a lot. I think a lot of the clients you work with are other practitioners like chiropractors and dentists you said, and they're really good, especially I went to school with those guys. I know they're really good at making money. They're really, really good at like just, you know, a lot of these guys I went to school with had families. They were, they were building their families while they were in school, which I don't know how they kept, you know, I don't do not know how they, they dealt with like multiple newborn babies during that process, but they did. And they are some of the hardest working. I will say the naturopathic profession is vastly different than the chiropractic profession in that. I went to school at both at the same time and the naturopathic profession were predominantly women, very different, very, just very different. The men though, man, they hustle and they work hard and they get out. I've watched them all. I've watched them all grow their practices now, and they're all very successful. And I knew, I knew in school who was going to be successful in 10 years and who wasn't, I could just look at them and tell. And it's sure enough, a hundred percent. I have not been surprised. I haven't, there's not been, there's not been one person who really broke out and did exceptionally well that I didn't know was going to. And there hasn't been one person who isn't totally fricking broke and not making any money that I was surprised about. And in all of that, we're never taught or we don't, not that we should be taught. I'll say this though, not to segue. It wasn't, no doors would open for me. Like banks wouldn't help me. Nobody gave a shit until I hit a certain amount of income. And the minute I walk into anywhere now, knowing, you know, showing them any kind of documentation, proof of income, all of a sudden, everybody bends over backwards to be helpful to me. And it's frustrating because if I had had some kind of basic education as a single mom in bankruptcy, you know, I knew how to get, I knew how to make money to get out of it, but I didn't know what to do from there. And, and that was such a stressful place to be. I mean, it was so, it was years of that. It still haunts me. It doesn't matter that it closed and it was over. Like still to this day, when I go to get a commercial loan, they'll be like, oh, you have this on your record. I'm like, yeah, from like a million years ago. But there's no, there was no door open. There was no banker that pulled me aside and said, let me make this banking process easier on you. Like, let me just simple stuff, like having someone to directly call and say, hey, I need whatever, a copy of this document from the bank. I had one nice gal help me out, but it just has been surprising to me how little support there has been through that system. And when you start making real money, somehow you've like broken a threshold and they decide you're the real deal. And then they just roll out the red carpet for you. Yeah. Yeah. Banks are, I don't know if everybody realizes this, banks want to lend you money when you don't need it, right? Because if you need it, you're a risk and banks are in the low risk business. So if you haven't proven yourself, if you don't have a bunch of money behind you, they're like, there's a chance this won't work. We don't want to do that. Or we want your first born in your house and your kid's house to, to allow you to do that. So banking is, is really funny. And I try and tell people, especially if they have big dreams, go out and get credit before you need it, right? Build your credit. We're looking to acquire additional financial firms and stuff. And it's like, I'm building my credit now so that in one, two, three years, as we're buying these things, I have established credit because the banks, they, they, once you need the money, they don't want to give it to you. And it's just such a, an awkward thing. But like, even with you, when you were buying the building, right, your, your office space and you, for the first guy you were working with was just a knucklehead, right? And he was telling you it was all difficult and you needed all this stuff. And I was like, Tina, it doesn't need to be this hard. Call, call a different guy. You, you said the realtor was good. Call him and ask him. And it sounds like his mortgage guy was way better. And I think just having someone who's done this, cause I was a real estate investor. So I, I've been done about 300 real estate transactions. I knew that it didn't need to be that hard. But if you didn't have someone who was like, no, this guy's the wrong guy, go to the other guy. He's a good, good one. From what you're telling me, talk to his people. And I find good people work together. Generally, it's just, you get the new people or you get the people who don't really know what they're doing, who are just kind of, you know, trying to hit their quota or trying to survive so they can pay their bills. And I get it. Everybody starts there. Those people are tough to work with. And just having someone with a little bit of experience to be able to say, Hey, that is not the way, you know, let's do the Mandalorian thing. This is the way over here. Like it just saves a lot of frustration, right? And there's no cheat code to that other than just being around people who, who kind of have experienced it. And, you know, when you don't get to start there. So yeah, to your point in the beginning, you do have to make your own way, but as quickly as you can, if you can align with good people, smart people, other successful people, or people who are building with you, it gets easier. So if someone out there listening to this is just getting started, just know there's not a shortcut, right? There's not a shortcut to getting in shape. There's not a shortcut to building wealth. The shortcut is get started now, do the work, don't try and skip it. I'm amazed at how many people try to, they do more work trying to skip the work than just doing the work. Like, I know you see it, people doing this, this mental gymnastics around how to get around eating a certain way, and doing all these other things. And it's like, just, just do the thing. It's way easier than all of this song and dance you're doing over here. Well, they'll inject themselves with thousands of dollars worth of gray market peptides from China, having no idea what's in them, and don't want to do any of the foundation work. And then, and then, I mean, same thing, like, there's predatory actors in all of this. I remember, I mean, you know, in the peptide space, and in the health space, there's so many predatory people online. And I feel like middle aged women right now are being really preyed upon. I'm working on a program to try to help with that, because I'm just, I'm so grossed out by what I see. And similarly, in the, in the money world, it's, I, I dated a guy when I was in, finishing up graduating, I dated a guy. And just for a short time, I broke up with him. And he was like, but I love you. And I was like, well, I don't love you. And I'm, we're moving on. And a few months later, I mean, I started my practice, and I needed merchant services. And so I asked this guy, or this guy turns out, he just started working for, you know, I didn't know anything about anything. And so I, this guy gets me a contract and gets me set up with merchant services. And I was like, so grateful. He made it so easy. And boom, I could take, I had payment processing, I could take credit cards, I was open for business. And years later, as I was finishing up with that contract, I actually went and read it. And he had charged me like, three grand for the machine that was originally $270. But he said, oh, but you can finance it if you can't afford to buy it right now. And I couldn't afford to buy it right then. So I financed it for almost three grand over the course of that, you know, four year contract. And it's just stuff like that. Like there's so many predatory people out there. And having, like you said, knowing somebody good and honest, who knows other good and honest people, who knows other good and honest people. But I will say that door wasn't open to me. I tried, I really did try. And that door really did not open up to me until I started making more money. Again, hitting that threshold. It's like once you get over, you know, like the $500,000 mark, suddenly people start paying attention and start being helpful. But there's still a lot of, I mean, even in my space though, like in the online space, there's a, there's a whole group of us women who are all online influencers. We're all friends. We all communicate with each other. And we keep coming across the same bad actors, you know, the same social media teams and the same different, different contractors who will just hose you completely because you have big numbers and you're desperate for help and support. And so I think there's bad apples in every category, but just find, finding you and finding your team and the people that you have referred me to, even outside of your team, even with, you know, no profit to you. You have referred me to some really incredible, honest people who have all been very patient with me and explain things to me. And I'm a smart cookie. I'm like, give it to me straight. I don't know anything about this, but I'm not a dummy. So like, let, you know, I can go at a certain speed. And it's been really fun because I feel like I'm supported, which opens up the possibilities for the future in ways that I had never considered before. And I actually feel like I might be okay at the end of this journey, you know? Yes. You're, you're going to get there. Uh, and, and you are along the way. So yeah, but you're, I think that's the big thing for people. They think there's some end result. Honestly, I learn new stuff all the time because I work with hundreds of clients and, you know, dozens very intimately and something comes up, right? They're out in the world. They're getting approached by different things. New strategies come along. Like you said, there was a new tax bill that passed in, in July last year. So that's opened up some new things. I'm seeing new things all the time. And like, I've been doing this for 20 years. Right. And so it's a, it's a continuum. There's not necessarily a finishing point where you're just like, now I just know everything because the truth is even things like banking. I worked in banking when I was first out of school. Banking's different now than it was, right? Like we have the internet. When I got out of college, we really didn't. I mean, it was there, but not really. Um, and, and the way trading works and the way investing works and the way business works and how fast things change, it's, it's always happening. And the key is just to be on the path, in my opinion, be learning, be growing. And one of the secrets and, you know, all the financial people out there will probably hate me for saying this. Like truly you can learn a lot. I'm not saying that it's the answer, but like chat GPT or AI can help you curate a ton of information really fast. Now it may not be perfect because honestly it misses some of the details. It doesn't get some of the nuance. It's going to give you some generic stuff, but it's going to keep you from making a right turn when you should be going straight. Right. And if you don't know anything about it, ask it to teach you like a fifth grader about a thing and it'll get you 80% of the way there. I think AI is really good at 80%. And then that should get you to where you can ask intelligent questions and see, is the person I'm talking to snow jobbing me or are they really here to help? Right. And, and that's, I think the bulk of it is just getting past a bunch of those bad actors who know like that hook. They're like, Oh yeah, I know if I say this thing, people will give me money. But like, once you start to understand the topic a little better, you're like, wait a minute, what they're saying isn't even real. Or they're exaggerating. You know, I watch these, I have clients send me webinars all the time. Oh my gosh, this other financial guy, he's doing this thing. And I just put in 20,000 a year and I get $26 million in retirement. And I'm like, okay, let's just turn on your brain. If that was real, why, why would this guy be the only one who knew about it? Like that's not real. I get that they can show you some numbers that add up to that. And I've gone in and broken some of those down, but like you do have to use some common sense, but AI can help you to sort that kind of stuff out too, at least first layer. And hopefully it can get you to a level of competence where you can get over the hump you're talking about faster, right? Cause you do kind of have to get over that hump. I'm going to say something here that people may or may not like, but it's the real truth. It's, it doesn't pay very well to work with people with no money. Yeah. Like broke people can't pay you. And so unless you're a charity, it's really hard. And the truth is like, if I'm a financial guy, I can't do a lot for someone who's broke. Yeah. Like business building type of coaches or whatever, they can work with broke people and hopefully help them make money. But the truth is until somebody makes money, what I do with taxes, with growing your money, with protecting it, if you don't have any money, no, those things matter, right? You got to make the money. And so it's really hard because the most underserved group of people is the group of people that needs it the most. And so that's why I do YouTube videos. That's why I put a lot of content out there. There are a lot of people who could really benefit. Maybe they're not perfect for our tax firm, right? But like I have a tax book on our website that has 15 ways that people can break down their taxes. I would say nearly everyone with a family and a business can probably save 15 to $25,000 on the low end from the strategies in that book, right? And that's why we give it away for free because I don't want to charge people to work with us when you know, they're paying $15,000 a year in taxes. Well, me saving them $15,000 helps, but not the same as the people I'm working with who are paying hundreds of thousands of dollars and I can save them that. So I'm like, let me just give this information away for free. That's sort of our way of like giving back and helping people. And then maybe eventually if they make more money and need more help, they'll work with us. But ultimately that's been my answer to that is if I can give it away, like you're saying on YouTube, if I can give it away in PDFs or books or different resources that we have on our website to help people get to the point where now they really do need the help that we provided a little higher level, then that's kind of the approach that I've taken because working with people who can only pay a hundred bucks a month, like there's just not enough hours. Right. You can't do it and it doesn't scale and it kind of sucks, but it's, it's true. So nobody wants to hear that, but it's like the reason nobody tells you to pay off your credit cards, they tell you to invest in your IRA or the stock market is they get paid on that. They don't get paid if you pay down your credit cards. But the truth is you're paying 29% on a credit card, even if you're getting 20% in the market, which happens some years, but dozen others, it's a whole nother topic. But at the end of the day, why would you be paying 29% and only making 20 and consider that a good idea? The reason you get that advice, people get paid for this. They don't get paid for this. Right. And so we have to be clear about the fact that you'll only get people to really help you at a high level if there's something in it for them because they have to make a living and you have to kind of really stop and use common sense or, or work with someone who maybe you work in a group setting, right? Like you've probably done group coaching either received or given. And that's a way where you can get much higher level advice for a lot cheaper, right? Like a business building group, we do that way because to work with our, our guy who's, you know, done four and a half billion dollars of exits, it's expensive, right? It's six figures a year to work with him one-on-one in the group. It's more like 15K for the year, but you can still get direct access, right? So you got to find ways when you're early in your career to, to do those things if you can't afford the one-on-one and it'll get you further. And then you can make more, keep more, build more assets, and then you can take that big jump to what you really need ultimately. So I don't know. That is part of what's broken about everything industry-wise is people got to make a living. And if you don't have any money to give them, it's going to be hard to get help. It's the same in medicine, unfortunately. You know, if you, if they can't, if people can't afford the price of entry, they can't afford the peptides and the hormones and all the regenerative and all the things. And it's, it's really frustrating. And that was one of the big reasons I went online and I try to be as transparent as I can. There's a lot of things I can't say to the public for free because it's, you know, crosses the line into medical advice potentially, or it could be misconstrued. And so it's been a really difficult journey. You know, people really, and I'm sure it's the same in your industry, people want this black or white answer. And the answer is always, it depends. Always. And especially in my medicine, in naturopathic medicine, we're treating the individual, not the disease. I'm far more concerned about why the individual is presenting with that symptomology than I am about some title or diagnostic code they got. And so that really makes it hard to practice algorithmic medicine. A lot of doctors just sort of, if then, if then, if then, and that's how you're taught in school, but that's not a systems-based approach. And that's, you know, it's, it's not, health is not linear, nor is money. And so each person's situation is very particularly individual. I totally agree with you. The truth ticket to my success, my career took off and I started making real money when I started joining masterminds and I started joining groups and I started joining networking opportunities and opportunities to just be in the room with some of these people. And maybe I would have a chance to eat lunch with them or, and really going in with this open-mindedness of like, I am, I always want to be in the room where I'm the dumbest person and I don't know anything. And then I can get a pearl or two, you know, or maybe just meet a person, not in a way of like, what can I get out of them? But like, how can I bring value to them? How can I add value to them? And then in turn, the universe always reciprocates, right? So I think that joining cohorts of other people, especially other people who are trying to do what you're trying to do is so powerful because then you have accountability, you have community, you have friendships that get built inside those programs. And I, that is 1000%. Like I remember the first time I hired a coach in a mastermind, I paid $10,000. I had no money. I was so broke. I was still in bankruptcy. And I was like, I am going to spend this money because I needed to figure out how to, I was, I had built a group. It's so funny. I'd built a group on Facebook. I'd open free Facebook group of like, I had like 350 people in there and mostly women. And they really wanted something from me and I didn't know how to launch an online product. I had no idea how to do it. And so I hired this gal, I get in her mastermind and I, she teaches me how to do a launch. I do a launch. I make 15 grand like that. And boom, just paid off that investment. And then in that program, I met some incredible women who were all kind of, we were all just starting out online. And some of them gave me, you know, you're sitting there in your, you can't get out of your own way. You're just there trying to figure something out. And then they, it's not even the coach or the experts, the coaches bring in. It's like the person sitting next to you, who's also trying to build their business or whatnot. And she gives me an idea like, well, why don't you just do this? And then I go launch that and boom, make, you know, multiple six figures year after year off that one idea. And like, that's the beauty of, of working, I think with teams like yours and coming in to some of these smaller group coaching programs and, or just even spending the big bucks to get the expert to give you their ear. Like that is so worth it because it is, um, you usually just got to get out of your own way and same with health, same with business, same with building wealth. Yeah. What's the quote? I don't remember exactly, but it's like, you can't solve a problem with the same kind of thinking that created it in the first place. Yeah. Right. You, you thought up a problem or you did the best you could and you hit the ceiling and the same thinking that got you there isn't going to be able to get you out of there. My, my quote that I have, I don't think I have my wallet here anymore. My old wallet, it is in there that says to become what you can be, you must let go of what you have been. Yeah. I think about that every day. The thing that got me here won't get me there. How do I continue to grow? What do I need to do to be better, to be different, to continue to improve? And to your point, I've done the half million or million dollars of investing in myself over the last 25 years and all the masterminds and all the groups and every single one, you get all these little strings, right? And eventually you end up with something that makes music, but it does take time, but it's, it's a hundred percent, the best investment. And I get this question a lot from business owners. They're like, if I just reinvest in my business, like that's the way to make wealth. And, and I agree, but I think once people hit maybe 150,000, 200,000 of income, you need to start peeling money off outside of the business because things happen there. It's the five D's, right? It's, it's death, disability, divorce, disruption, or disagreement. If you have a partner, like stuff happens, you work in health all the time, health happens. And so having money that's been peeled off, that's working for you outside of your business builds a really nice safety net. And I see too many business owners do what athletes do, reinvest, reinvest, reinvest, reinvest. And then they blow out their knee their senior year. They never get the contract and all of it was for nothing. I don't want to say that's going to happen to people, but if you're looking to get rich for sure, the one thing you said, everything comes down to depends. There's one thing I can say for people that is a for sure. Automate savings, save first. If you just do that, you get richer, richer every month, even if it's 5% or 10% of your income. When I was broke as broke, I spent, I saved 10% of my income. At the end of the month, I had to go scoop half of it back out just to live on and eat my not high quality food to get through the month. But then the next month, I did just a little better and I didn't have to scrape quite all of it out. And then as I made more money, I was able to keep that 10% in there. And then as I made more, I went from 10 to 12 to 15 to 18 to 20. Now I try to save 30 cents on every dollar I make after taxes. And it really makes a huge difference. But if you just automate savings, that's the one thing, whether you can invest it a million different ways, but if you just set money aside to build wealth, that is one thing that's not an it depends. If you do it, you will end up so much further ahead than someone who doesn't. If you have to remember to save money, if you have to physically write a check or remember to transfer it, your chances of doing it are way lower than if it's just on autopilot. Yeah. And that's the things that we teach people how to do is layer these things in that over time, you're working on your business and all of it's getting built in the background. Yes. That's phase two for me. I just spent it all. Well, and we've talked about it and you know it's there. But you had to cross this Rubicon right now, right? Which is buying the house, making the move, getting your family here, getting everything established, getting the office space, you built your foundation and then you go from there, right? Yeah. But yeah, I think you know the map. You just need time to execute because it takes time. Building wealth does not happen overnight, just like getting healthy. You can't lose 100 pounds in 100 days, right? You just can't do it. You can't build a lifetime of wealth in six months or a year. It just takes time. So that's the reality of it. Well, I think the biggest win is having a map in front of you when you had no map before and then having somebody guide you along that map who has done it themselves and has brought multiple people down that path as well. Hundreds, thousands. I don't know how many clients you've serviced, but with me, with patients, my rates are my rates because I can get them there faster and a lot less pain. In medicine, there's a lot of people right now in the medical space who are practitioners who are very excited about starting to prescribe hormones, starting to prescribe peptides. They're learning, but it's real messy if you don't do it in a really elegant, hierarchical pathway. There's a really gentle, kind way to take people through things without blowing their immune system up and all kinds of other things that can go wrong. And I have that experience. And so that's why I charge what I charge. And I make it a much more comprehensive, enjoyable, efficient pathway. And I think that's what you've given me is this, like, you're like, here's the map. Here's where you are on the map, but don't worry, we can get you there. And I can guide you along this like I have with countless other people and myself included. And that's, that like takes the anxiety down about a million notches. The year before I met you, though, I will say I'm very proud of myself. The year before I met you, I had been carrying around, I'd been saddled with about 300 and well, almost $400,000 in student loan debt. And the year before I met you, I realized I made a spreadsheet. Finally, I got serious about it, put all my loans and the interest rates and everything in there. And I realized that I had spent over $100,000 over the course of a decade and paying down my student loans. And I hadn't touched the print, the balance hardly at all. It was all interest. Yeah. And I remember sitting on my floor and just breaking down in tears, spending $100,000 over 10 years when you didn't really have any money to begin with, and realizing that you still came out owing the same amount. And so I made a spreadsheet and I put everything by interest rate. And so I just started aggressively throwing all my money, like to the point where I'm like, I will live off of, I will live as a low income person until I get this paid down. And I aggressively attacked that student loan debt and I paid it all off by the time I met you. So when I met you, my next phase on that path was like, okay, get myself a house, move where I want to move so that I can be creative. I can't be creative and do cool things and create awesome content for the world and be of service and be in purpose if I'm miserable where I live. I just can't do it. I tried. I tried. I really did. People are like, oh, you just have to suck it up because we don't all have the luxury of moving where we want to. And I'm like, I understand, but I've been working towards this my whole life. They're like, this was my goal was to live where I live. So did that, check that box off. And like you said, get all my ducks in a row, get my family here. I just closed on a house for them. And then now it's time to like hunker down and really build that wealth. But I just know that's going to be a sprint. And I understand how the work that's ahead of me, but I also know it's going to be so much easier now that I got all this. I got the debt, that student loan debt, you feel like an indentured servant. I can't even tell people like when you're half a million dollars in debt from student loans and there's no way out. I mean, I joke, it's not funny. I had to stop being a doctor and actually launch an entirely separate business, multiple businesses in order to get out of my student loan debt from being a doctor. It's just crazy how they screw you. I would highly encourage no one to go into medicine at this point with the way it's structured. But once I got rid of that, like just the shroud of, and it's, there's shame with it. There's, there's just a horrible feeling and to get, to throw that off and then to be like, you know, now I'm in debt with a mortgage or two, but like I got something to show for it and I'm, it's serving the purpose I want. I don't feel that shame. And then from there to be able to get myself my, like I said, what my goals were, but I really want to get to a place where I have enough invested, making me money, all automated so that I know that when I, when it comes time to retire, that I can, well, you know, I, I joke and I don't think the internet understands how hard it is to be on the internet. But like my main goal in life is that Homer Simpson meme where he just backs into the bushes. That is my vision board. Someday you will not see Dr. Tina and you'll be like, where did Dr. Tina go? Um, Derek's going to get me there faster. It's a nice option to have, right? To be able to know that if I want to stop running so hard and fast right in front of everybody and falling on my face and sharing my successes that I can stop doing that if I want to. Yes. And that is, to me, that's what money gives you. It gives you options, right? Yes. You can choose what to engage or not engage with. And, uh, it's, it's very freeing for sure. And, uh, yeah. So kudos to you for, for knocking that out because I do know for doctors, that's a huge one and it is, it comes with a lot of emotion. It's the worst. It's the worst. It's such a scam. The way that the interest compounds on student loan debt is such an utter and total scam. I mean, I know that, I know that, uh, that there's a lot of changes. I, well, I mean, gosh, I, I, things are crazy in the world right now. I feel like I'm watching some kind of weird dystopian novel, but, um, I see the love him or hate him. I see the work RFK is trying to accomplish and the hurdles he's having to cross. And people are like, well, why isn't he doing this? And why isn't he doing this? And I'm like, where's the person that's going to step up and actually disclose to the world, the scam that the higher education system is and the scam that the student loan system is, because it is creating a whole, whole cohort of people who are just saddled as indentured servants. It's insane. So anyway, that's, I had a doctor tell me, get out of your student loan debt as fast as you can. And I'm like, how am I supposed to do that? Like I truly, Derek, I thought I was going to have to, I thought somebody was going to have to die for that debt to go away. Either a parent or myself was going to have to die for that debt to go away. And, uh, then I just attacked it head on. And once I did that, I was like, woohoo, I can do anything. But then I felt a little unruly. So I hired you. Yeah. Right, right. Well, like that's a very clear goal, right? Like I have this thing and I need to get rid of it. And once you get rid of that, like you come above water and you can breathe and you're like, what do I do next? Right. Where do I want to go? And that is like, we, we did the wealth gap conversation of giving you an idea of, okay, here's where you're at now. And here's what it takes to retire the way you want. And we know there's going to be some ups and downs and some stuff along the way, but at least you have something to shoot for. So you can start swimming in that direction. Right. I feel like a lot of people I use, I love to sail, right? So I use this analogy of a boating thing, but you know, you throw up the sails and you start going, but they just don't have a rudder. They're like, we're making money, but why? Where, where is this taking us? We don't really have a plan. So if the wind happens to blow the right way, they might end up in the right place, but the odds are, are against that unless you have some sort of plan. And having worked with, like I said, a couple thousand business owners. And one of the questions we ask all the time is on a scale of one to 10, one being I have no idea and 10 being, I know exactly where I'm going. How confident are you that you'll be able to retire and take care of the things you want to financially in your life? And most people are somewhere between a two and a five. Oh, I bet. I bet most people have no clue. They really don't. They're like, yeah, I'm saving some money and, and I'm putting it away, but I don't really know how much I need to save. I don't know how much I need to end up with. I don't know where to put it. Just doing something, which is way better than nothing. Yeah. But, but it is, it's one of those conversations that a lot of people avoid. Kind of like when you're putting on the extra weight and you're just like, yeah, I'm just getting older, but you don't want to have that conversation with yourself of like, what is this really going to cost me in quality of life? Right? Like a couple pounds a year, all of a sudden turns into a pretty big deal. So we want to try and avoid that. Yep. Yep. So those are the confronting conversations. Well, you have been so helpful to me in that, and they've been, the way that you guide me and teach me has been invaluable. So I, the best, one of the best investments I've made, I've joined a lot of masterminds. I've joined a lot of groups and working with you has been hands down. Like, you know, people say, oh, when you join this mastermind, you're going to get 10X on your investment. And I've had that happen a few times where, you know, like I said, I've gotten a great idea and ran with it, but working with you as like, I have more peace of mind and I'm not afraid of my money anymore. I'm not afraid of the IRS. I'm working with the tax codes, not just, you know, blissfully ignorant of them and living in fear all the time kind of thing. And I understand how it works much better now. And I know that I have people in my circle that can help me, guide me, and I can use ChatGPT to get, you know, 80% of the way there. And then have those educated questions with the professionals that I've hired to help me. And it's been just a total game changer. So I feel like I'm on the winning team instead of being like, just scared to breathe. I just was, every time I opened my bank account, I would have just massive anxiety before I met you. I can't even tell you why, but I don't feel that way anymore. Now it's like a fun game. It's like a video game. Well, that does my heart so much good. It's why I do what I do. I really love it. So I appreciate you sharing that because it makes me happy. Yeah. Well, I appreciate you. So how can folks find you? Where are all the places? Well, obviously we have a website, biglifefinancial.com. And like I said on there, there's different trainings. There's the tax book. I also have a YouTube channel. If you just look up Derek Vannis, there's no other Derek Vannis. I take it back. There is one, but he spells his name different. So thank goodness I don't have to deal with that. And I do, you know, I'm on Instagram and other things, but primarily YouTube and the website are the best ways. And we offer a wealth gap assessment, which is kind of the, where are you, where do you want to go? What does it take to get there kind of conversation? Really just helping people understand that map. And if people go to biglifefinancial.com slash drtina, all lowercase d-r-t-y-n-a, they can get a free wealth gap assessment with our team and kind of see what makes sense from there. It could be tax savings, could be filing for research and development credits, which we didn't touch on, but really can make a huge difference for a ton of doctors, dentists, medical people, construction people. Like if you do something innovative or where you're consistently trying new things, you're probably qualifying for credits and you don't know it. Um, but I mean, I have a doctor right now, they're going to get like $550,000 back for the next, for the last three years. So yeah. Yeah. And one of your mentors got a couple hundred thousand bucks back, you know, but, but it's very typical for people to get 15 to $50,000 a year. And right now we can file, we can go back three years. So a lot of people are getting three years at once, which is, which is pretty huge. Um, yeah, but we can do whatever makes sense on the wealth gap assessment because part of that is taxes, protection, growing your business, whatever you need, uh, because it really does all work together, just like health, right? You can't just do one thing. You have to, it all really works together synergistically. So we really try and take that approach. Yes. I love it. Okay. So biglifefinancial.com forward slash Dr. Tina. Uh, you guys, if you are a practitioner, I have a lot of practitioners that follow me. I highly suggest just getting on a call with these guys, even if you're not quite, if you think, Oh, I don't make enough money. Just trust me. There's, it's, it's a very fine line between struggling and actually thriving. And sometimes you just need a little guidance to get there. It's not that big of a deal. So, uh, and then for everyone else listening, don't, don't be fearful of your money, like learn how to use it in your favor. And, uh, the tax codes are written for entrepreneurs. So from what I understand, so if you're an entrepreneur, like it's really great to get hooked up with, and you guys are super honest, like that is, I invited you on here. Like you did not hit me up and ask to come on the show. I invited you on because I feel like you have been, you have changed the course of my life in monumental ways and the course of my family's life. And so I was like, and like I said, my colleagues were like, what are you doing? Like, you're clearly winning. What do you, you know, what are you doing? And I'm like, I actually didn't have some like huge jump in income. I just quit being afraid of my money with your help. So anyway, I really appreciate you coming on and sharing your info today and you guys, his YouTube, check it out. Uh, tons of information in there. So thank you so much for coming on the show and for being my friend and for helping me. Absolutely. I've, I've loved every bit of it. And, uh, I just appreciate you being someone who's willing to work hard at getting what you want. That's so admirable. And I, I don't know, it inspires me. Thank you. Well, we will have you back on when I get to phase the next phase. We'll talk about it. All right. I hope this was helpful to everyone. I was really transparent on this. I mean, sharing my money information is not something I planned on doing, but I feel like it's so important, especially right now, like, especially for women, it's the women listening. I know a lot of women listen to the show, a lot of middle-aged women, and I, I don't want middle-aged women to live in fear. I feel like they're just, you know, we all work so hard. Our hormones have a very difficult time dealing with grinding constantly. So having a team of honest people around you that can help guide you has just significantly improved my health as well. So you guys go check them out, biglifefinancial.com forward slash Dr. Tina. If you want to rate, review, subscribe to the show, you can do that on any of the big platforms. Make sure to check out my YouTube as well, because we're growing over there and it's been really fun. If you guys want to watch this on video and we'll catch you next week. There are people who don't tolerate standard dosing of hormones. That doesn't mean it's not for you. And it doesn't mean that you can't handle estrogen or that you don't need estrogen. It's starting to lead to depression. That is estrogen leaving the building. And I highly encourage you to seek out help from somebody who knows what they're doing. I will tell you that estrogen leaving the body causes the hair shaft itself to become thinner. So it's just the diameter shrinks.