If your skin is a mess, then your health is a mess. Like I firmly stand by that. And when patients would come in and say, "What have you got for acne?" I'm like, "Well, your acne is the least interesting part to me because to me that's a symptom, right? That's just an outward expression of what's happening on the inside." And so we would do the full kitten kaboodleoodle, you know, the hormones, the gut, the whole thing. Run all the labs and sort it out from there, often gut related. But I started having a funny situation happen. And this is actually when I found you because I my skin exploded on me a couple years ago. I was living out here in the country. I live in I live around a ton of acreage at this I'm moving to Arizona as everyone knows, but I currently live in the grass capital of the world, the Wamut Valley. >> So there's it's all grass grown out here and it's grass grown for grass seed for golf courses and stuff. So, >> oh, >> the >> literally grass >> grass tree. Okay. >> So, the natives the natives called the Wamut Valley the valley of death because the allergies out here are so insane because of all the grasses. >> So, I I moved out here my first summer out here. It also happened to be like COVID time and I was sort of pushing back on the narrative and having a lot of stress. So, I was having a lot of stress during those days, but the skin issue cropped up and I did not know what the heck was happening. And it started with this like prickly rash. Mind you, I'm just, you know, halfway into pmenopause, kind of at that point. I'm starting to realize that the hormones are a little wonky, but I get this prickly heat rash and I get my mom had rosacea and I started to see it and I was like, "Oh, no. This is this is very characteristic of what my mom went through." And that's when I found you. I I went digging for all the dermatologists online because I was like, "What is happening? I need help." >> So, >> yeah. >> So, anyway, is that a pretty common thing that happens in middle age? Do you see skin conditions pop up? >> Yes, we do. Especially if there's a genetic predisposition. And, you know, just because you have a genetic predispos predisposition does not mean that you're sentenced to have this this condition, but you're just more likely to present with it. And we definitely can see it present later on in life during pmenopause, menopause. And a huge part of what rosacea is or just if you just have a compromised skin barrier with sensitivity, it's related to the the skin barrier. Um, people with rosacea prone skin, their skin barrier is a little bit different from the average person. Your skin is also more reactive than the average person. your vessels will react more readily to stimuli. Um, part of that's genetics, part of that is also there's a big interplay with your immune system and your gut health, too. But, but the skin barrier is the biggest thing that we focus on in those with rosacea. That's the first thing we try to address. And when you're going through pmenopause, menopause, your skin barrier is also starting to get compromised. Your your epidermis gets thinner. there's less oil production and you know oil, sebum, that's a huge part of your skin barrier. There's like lipids, proteins, your microbiome, those are all components and when there's like less lipid production and when there's like a thinner epidermis, you're definitely um going to see more issues with your skin barrier. >> Okay. So, it was like the perfect storm then because I had this immunologic reaction to all the grass that was being grown around me. And then that winter I went to Mexico and I picked up a parasite. I got an amieba. So, I came back really sick. So, my gut was a mess. My allergies were going nuts for the whole summer. I mean, harvest season out here is like something else, you know, and >> there it was. And I and and I was like right just ripe for it with the hormonal shift. >> Yeah. Yeah. No, you had the perfect storm, it seems. >> Yes. And auto autoimmune disease does creep up also as the hormone shift for women. So, it's just AI I saw that a lot in practice, too. That middle-aged sort of skin out of nowhere, perfect skin turning into just I don't know, troublesome skin for women, you know, and they're like, "What the heck is going on here?" So, >> yeah, definitely. And, you know, you brought up the parasite infection. Um, yeah, disturbances in your gut health. We definitely see in studies that well SIBO has been seen more so in rosacea and another bacteria higher rates of H pylori and those um with rosacea too um but essentially any kind of disturbance in your gut microbiome um there's a correlation yes so then the third part of this is I was getting all of these wonderful products sent to me by lovely companies who make natural products so all natural skincare lots of essential oils oils in there. And I started I went from like the girl who used Dr. Bronner on her face. >> That was about as that was about as extensive as my skinincare routine was >> like no moisturizer, just Dr. Bronner. Never wore sunscreen. Just just was I was just raw dogging it. And then uh >> and then I start applying all of these different steps of all these different natural and I'm trying all different kinds of things at once. >> Total disaster. like my skin just my eyes. Oh, and I had fake lashes at the time, too. So, I got this terrible allergic reaction to the eyelash glue. My skin was like a prickly heat rash. My podcast producer, I'd have to call him and be like, "I can't do the podcast today because you should see my face. It's a It's a mess." >> Oh my gosh. So, >> yeah. So, there's a lot of parts to that. Um, you know, whenever introducing new products to your regimen, we tell people one or two products at a time. And then then there's this whole sphere of like quote natural products or products that have potentially like less toxic ingredients in it. And that's that's a whole conversation. I think dermatologists struggle a lot with that because because we say, well, poison ivy is natural, but that does craziness to your skin. And I'm a hippie at heart. Like I totally understand the you know the attraction towards products that have like minimal ingredients that could potentially be harmful um you know internally and whatnot. Um but something that we do see so much as dermatologists is reaction so easily to these products that potentially have like that are worse for the skin. So, essential oils, and there there's some great ones out there, of course, but there are some that are just so terrible and irritating to the skin, especially if they're in like the citrus family. Um, even tea tree oil can be really irritating and bergamant. And, uh, it's it's so it's yeah, we we we we see a lot of cases of like irritant contact dermatitis from from essential oils. So, we're very cautious about about those ingredients. We're all about like minimizing even fragrances in products and even extra botanicals. There's a lot of amazing botanicals that have wonderful antioxidant properties and skin nourishing properties. But like if you are starting off with a regimen and you're trying to work on nourishing your skin barrier, it we say just keep it super basic like with just a very simple moisturizer and a gentle cleanser. Well, I learned my lesson and I I have since turned away a lot of money from skincare brands because I'm like I'm like I'm not going to take your offer. You're either the product caused me a rash. It's not their fault. It's my crazy immune system. But I have turned down many many many brand deals because I'm like I'm just not I I'm not going to promote something I don't use or that I don't love. And I I can't I'm not even going to risk trying it because where I have ended up is straight up Vanny Cream daily moisturizer is >> the best. >> We love we love that one so much. >> 10 bucks >> and it's so good. And then I think uh a Sarah cleanser, a gentle creamy cleanser which I've also adapted to my hand wash. I have that as my hand wash everywhere too so my hands don't crack in the winter. >> Yes. I love Sarah. Yeah, Sarah is a hand wash. >> And then Lar Ro Pose has a couple products I really love and the seca blast that they have that seclass balm. I you know like whatever it's called slugging I guess I >> all of that I really I think I just love the dimeamethicone. Is that what the ingredient is that I'm >> There's there's some dimethone but there's also zinc in there which is soothing and panthanol and then so that's what the B5 it's cycoplast balm B5 and it's a panthanol which is soothing and then cycoplast it has sika in it. Sentella Aiatica, which is a wonderful soothing ingredient, but also bonus points, it also is nourishing to the collagen. It can help with collagen remodeling and also help with potentially wrinkles, too. >> Oh, nice. Okay. So, when that's my that's my regimen. I am AI am a drugstore product girl now, and I love it. I can get it anywhere I go, and it's so easy on my skin, and my skin healed, and I quit messing with my barrier. I think I destroyed my barrier. And then I, you know, of course, what do you do? You get the prickly heat rash, so you start to exfoliate harder. Uh >> oh. Yeah. No. >> Let's talk about that. Let's talk about the overexfoliating of the world.