œœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœœ I don't know of other peptides that do that. I'm sure you know the neuropeptides better, but man, it's pretty cool how we can just take even the smallest dose in many cases and wind things down. And like you said, it doesn't work on everyone, but it can just sort of wind down the noise of all the noise across the board and then give them this window of opportunity, this neuroplastic window where they can relearn new behaviors and rewire them in. Anyway, that's how I see it. Yeah. And I think you're right on target. I mean, it's all relative to, you know, most, we always learn things from, we either learn, we've learned a tremendous amount about these metabolic and molecular pathways through normal cell function with good exercise, good diet, good sleep, and so forth. And then we learn the other extremes of the disease states and how these things occur. And then when you have that information, you know, like you indicated here, you know, you had people that pretend, that weren't really in a state of where you felt they needed this, this for weight loss in particular, where we're actually, you know, these GLP-1s are, they're, they're originally were studied in, in the mechanisms of cell efficiency, right? In cell flexibility of improving metabolism. And it, it always comes down to metabolism and cell redox of, of everything. And, and so with you, you're not wrong in looking at the top down because the, the, if let's say people are compromised by not, so, so one thing that you, you should know too, is that you also have the capability of producing a little bit of GLP-1 in the brain too. You, you can, it's not in the gut. And, but the, the predominant production of GLP-1s, absolutely, like any other cell signaling aspects, like, can be influenced by aging, disease states, and so forth, you know, environmental things, epigenetic influences, right? Higher allostatic fluids, all of those things can have an influence. So you, you, you touched on something where you thought, well, maybe this may be something that I can, I could improve by just improving the, the potential of getting back to the normal endogenous production of a GLP-1. So those GLP-1s in the brain, you know, from looking at, you, you mentioned in the, in the brain, if you're working on cell efficiency, let's say the microglial cell, which is a cell that influences significant cytokine, chemokine, proteases that are influencing astrocytes and neurons that create this inflammatory state. They change, they phase change, right? Into, into a, um, an inflammatory type of, uh, of, uh, uh, propagator in the brain. And if you're influencing the GLP-1 receptors, which by the way, microglial cells have, astrocytes have, neurons have, if you're influencing that metabolism in particular, influencing the mitochondria in, in making that redox state better, that then influences not just ATP and NAD production, but you're influencing the signaling of those cells, which is so important in influencing PGC-1 alpha, the SIRT gene activation, NFR2 production, all of these things that play a role in what? Controlling inflammation of the brain. And so absolutely that you're, you've got, uh, something that is, uh, I think critical again, not just in the brain, but in the kidney. I mean, here, here's just another thing to throw at you, you know, years and years ago, they said, oh, you can only use GLP-1s for stage four kidney disease, maybe stage three, got to be careful because this could be, this could work against the kidney and cause kidney failure. And those of us at that time said, well, that's complete bullshit because if we're improving the aspects of cellular function, um, in the parietal cells and, uh, uh, uh, in particular, um, the mesangial cells of the, of, uh, of the kidney were, and the podocytes, well, wait a second, we should be improving, um, uh, kid, uh, glomerular filtration and, and kidney function. And in fact, what have we seen now? Oh my gosh, the literature now is, hey, how do you keep somebody from a kidney transplant that is in kidney failure? You put them on a GLP-1 and you're going to preserve that longer. So look at where this has come. And so I think it definitely, you know, resonates with what you've said. It's like, hey, here you, you've kind of hit upon one of those pathways of a peptide that plays a significant role again in redox control, cell efficiency and, uh, um, flexibility. And, and you mentioned, are there other peptides specific that can do that? Absolutely. And they're different all around the body, but the GLP-1 is one of those really cool ones that has so many different areas it works in. And that's, that's why it's always caught my attention and why we've been so focused on trying to teach, uh, healthcare providers this information for over 10 years. And just all of a sudden now it's like, everybody wants to know about it. I'm like, Jesus, where was everybody 10 years ago? I think, I think the whole, I mean, that's a whole other topic, but people are fataphobic. And the minute you start talking about weight loss, they don't understand. I, it's very odd. And you're right. I mean, going back to what you said at the end of the day, this is about the metabolic health of the cell at the cellular level in the brain, which is leading to all of these wonderful impacts. So, you know, people just don't want to go back that far into their thinking. And I think the community at large thinks that it's just, if you just eat less and move more, all this will work itself out and the cells will all reset themselves into a beautiful state and they, they don't get it. Absolutely. And I think, I think really where it's gotten even more fascinating is on the research side of where we've seen, we know, like we knew GLP-1s were the beginning, but it was, what are the next steps in the evolution of these GLP-1s that can even improve that cell efficiency even further to mimic normal, um, uh, cascades of, of different pathways that need to be activated when GLP-1s are working efficiently. And that's where it's gotten really amazing, you know, in introducing the terzepatides and which are the dual agonists. And then, yeah, I can, I'll never forget, uh, when they introduced, uh, um, uh, I think it was in, uh, the research, the first research was, uh, presented in, uh, in Portugal on, um, this red and true tide and adding glucagon. And at the time when people said add glucagon, we're thinking, wait a second, glucagon. Are you, are you kidding me? You're going to put glucagon in when we're trying to inhibit glucagon, but wait a second. Oh, wait, wait, wait. If you really think about these mechanisms and you're like, oh my gosh, you know, how could we forget, you know, glucagon is this incredible hepatic kind. It's, uh, meaning it, it does something in the liver that is so important in upregulating something called FGF, um, or, um, FGF 21, which is crucial to PPAR alpha, uh, gamma, CREB activation, all of these things that work systemically to improve what fatty acid oxidation, ketone body production, insulin sensitivity. Um, the thermogenic gene expressions that we haven't even discussed in beige adipose tissue. And I mean, even that aspect of suppression of, of those things we talked about in the CNS, right. And, um, the metabolic behaviors, glucagon plays a role by its activity with this upregulation of, uh, FGF 21 in the, in the, um, liver. So what I'm trying to say is it's only going to keep getting better as we keep, as this research really gets to hone in on something that is so pivotal in changing metabolic function. Dr. Seeds is a board certified orthopedic surgeon that's been practicing for well over 25 years. He is the founder of the Seeds Scientific Research and Performance Institute.