So because retinoids work by increasing your skin cell turnover, it's focusing on that top layer of your skin barrier which is your stratum corneium and it can actually thin your stratum corneium. It regulates it so that it's it's a little bit more compact and you don't have like excess dead skin on your face. So that's what people are thinking when it potentially is making your skin thinner. But your epidermis as a whole, so the stratum coronium is just one layer. It's just the top layer of your epidermis. But your epidermis as a whole gets thicker and your dermis which is where your collagen sits gets thicker too. So it's the opposite. Your skin gets thicker. And I think you know people say oh but you have to like avoid the sun. You have to wear sunscreen when when you're using a retinoid because yes if you are if you are uh changing your stratum corneium there could be a little bit more sensitivity. I mean, it's part of your skin barrier, especially when you're first starting a retinoid and you don't you don't you're not regulating the skin cells or the skin cells aren't regulated or at an equilibrium state. So, um your skin can be more sensitive to the sun and yeah, it's always important to wear sun protection when you're when you're using a retinoid, but your skin is going to be healthier and thicker. >> Yes, that's that's what I understood it. and explain to the listeners kind of how the skin works because I don't think most people realize that you've got multiple layers and they're constantly shedding out and that sometimes that stratum corneium things get kind of glombmed up like if you're hypothyroid and you know there's different there's different situations where that upper layer just isn't sloing off the way it should and it's a balance that you have to achieve right >> yes exactly yeah I mean I would say that when we're the ages of like 9 through 12 uh that's like when our skin is perfect like or actually no sorry I'm thinking of a baby you know when people say like smooth as a baby's bottom or smooth as a baby's butt because babies have like the best cell turnover their cells are turning over faster than like every 30 days and so that's why their skin is so smooth and as and basically so so there's three basic layers to the skin there's the epidermis dermis and then the subcutaneous layer which is where your fat is and then below that is muscle and in your epidermis there's the basil layer which is which is where they produce your keratinocytes. Keratinocytes is another word for your skin cells that are in the epidermis. And then as they rise up the I mean you know depending on where you are on your body there's different number of layers to go through but you you get to the top layer where essentially like the skin cells are dead and it's it's just the keratin and that it serves as part of your skin barrier and your keratin is what naturally sloughs off but but like I said as we get older if and also with like hormonal changes, thyroid issues. Um, I'm trying to think of anything else that can play a role. It's it's mainly age and decrease in your hormones and thyroid that can play a role in your in your cell turnover. Um, >> I think metabolic health could be thrown in there, too. >> Yes, you're right. Like even people with like diabetes, we see really slow Yeah, definitely slower cell turnover for sure. Yes. And so so yeah, so that's where things like exfoliants and retinoids can certainly help keep that that turnover at a healthier rate. >> Got it. So it keeps it in more of a homeostatic balance. >> Yes. >> And in a good rate. Um what about the skin mantle? I know that in my world, we address skin issues via the mantle, via balancing fatty acids in the body. We might use fish oil. Sometimes fish oil makes people break out. It kind of depends, but that mantle is really important. And the acidity and or pH of it, I should say, is important. Is that part of the skin barrier conversation? >> Yes, exactly. It's part of the skin barrier. So it might be kind of confusing but mantle essentially is is the skin barrier. Got it. >> So I mentioned that the stratum corneium is part of the skin barrier but there's other components like the yes the acidity. >> So it's like the acid mantle is is I think the the term that's mainly used to refer to the acidity of your skin barrier. That's important. You know our skin is naturally a more acidic. So when you're using like harsh soaps which are basic which were more popular you know 20 30 40 70 years ago those can totally disrupt your skin barrier because our skin wants to be more acidic but so anyway so there's the acid there's the pH level that's part of your skin barrier and that's part of the mantle the microbiome so the bacteria that's on your skin is part of your skin barrier and then the the lipids and it's it's yeah the combination of like fatty acids, cholesterol. Um there's ziggo ceramides, there's there's a whole collection of them that it's like you want that right ratio and balance and everything to kind of live together in an ecosystem. >> Yes. So you can throw it off when you start throwing all these different topicals on top. >> Exactly. Yeah. So, like when people use like harsh antibacterial soaps and whatnot, that throws off, you know, your microbiome and that could throw off the pH and it also strips like, you know, can strip some of the the sebum like the oils. So, um, yeah, >> it's easy to make a mess out of things. What I think it's this right now though, culturally, we're in this weird place with the internet where people, girl, young girls are using like 13 steps. >> Oh my gosh. So that's why I was I was mentioning that age 9 through 12 where all these pre-teens are so obsessed with skin care and I'm like y'all this is this is your skin's not going to get any better than this like don't do anything to your skin please because this is like the best age. I mean, yes, some some girls are gonna or, you know, kids at that age can notice start noticing like increased oil production and some acne production, which I feel like we're seeing a little earlier, you know, than starting earlier these days. But, but otherwise, yeah, just a gentle cleanser, moisturizer, SPF. Um, you don't need to exfoliate. You don't need to use a retinoid, you know. Sure, if you want to use like a fun hydrating serum, go for it. But you don't need peptides and all those other activives. Vitamin C, you don't need >> I even see women I follow all these different accounts on Instagram of middle-aged and older women doing makeup, too, you know, because it's like that whole thing changes. Your your makeup application strategy is completely different when once everything starts drooping. So, um, I've had to completely relearn that whole process. And you know what? What that it's it's wild. But these even these women are putting five or six steps on before they even start with like a concealer or foundation. And I'm like, is it really? This all seems very complicated and unnecessary. It's it's unnecessary. I I kind of get the appeal as like a self-proclaimed skincare junkie. I do get it. Um, but it's unnecessary and potentially can be harmful. So, it's something that derms usually advise against because it's we end up seeing more issues when you're introducing more ingredients to your skin and and a lot of products can have a lot of overlap. So, it's it's either excessive, which can lead to irritation, or excessive, unnecessary, and expensive. Um, you know, when it comes to somebody who is an adult woman, I recommend some kind of antioxidant serum in the morning, vitamin C is the most it's the most wellstudied antioxidant out there. So, that's why we recommend it all the time. And then follow that with a moisturizer and then a sunscreen or use a sunscreen that already has a moisturizer in it. You don't have to use too many products in the morning. Um, yeah. >> And just keep it simple. Keep it simple.