I watched my mom go through hip replacement surgeries when I was pretty young and it thrust her into metabolic dysfunction. And really looking back at the end of the day, I knowing what I know now, I can honestly say that she it was due to a precipitous drop off of estrogen as she was in pmenopause. And it that's what started it all, you know, and it was just surgery after surgery. And it's it's insane to me. Well, you know, it started when she was 12. This is you're going to this is crazy. When she was 12, she was her dad was in the Air Force. So, she was on a base in Hawaii and they actually her hip was having some kind of issue. We we're not sure what it was. Uh but they used cadaavver bone to try to rebuild and they cut her sartorius and graasilus which is crazy. She doesn't have a sartorius or graasilus on one side. It's wild. So anyway, my mom's had hip issues her whole life. And the way the reason I got into all of this was because I ended up working for a naturopathic doctor in the early to mid 90s, right out of undergrad. And he was doing regenerative injection therapies. He was doing prolotherapy at the time. That was it. And he was an acupuncturist. And I was like, "What are you doing back there?" Because people were coming in in wheelchairs and they were walking out on their own accord. And I was like, "What is going on?" And so, and he's like, "It's it's sugar water. It's dextrose." And I was like, "What?" And so I started getting into it and lo and behold, and that's a really palpatory skill to have. Um, prolotherapy isn't so much about ultrasound guidance as it is about finding the pain generator with your fingers, with your thumb, with your hands, and then you if you can regenerate the pain with your hands, you can inject it. And it's it's often just small little little regions of the muscular tendonous junction or the anthesis point. And really profound results. Anyway, all that to say is Prolo turned my mom's life around and but through that process, the estrogen drop led to the hip issues which is really common and then she ends up with surgery after surgery. all the while she's gaining a ton of weight because she's going rock like you know like just slamming into menopause and that was back when they were they just wanted to take your uterus out her ovaries or all of it's crazy what they they still do that to women anyway my mom was thrust into menopause and she her muscularkeeletal system is what got hit and so for me my approach has always been like very multifactored in that I always take into consideration the hormonal millu because that has so much to do with pain and so much to do with recovery and so much to do with tissues tearing and pulling and yet the hammer that most doctors have is cortisone injections and surgery and then they hang their hat on these damn MRI reports which are just like catastrophic reporting. It's like misinformation almost sometimes, you know? It's crazy. I I I actually I really really agree with you on the hormonal side of things because especially for uh well for me for men too because men's testosterone definitely drops off as as does their estrogen. Uh but for women especially especially around menopause age um that drop off in estrogen and testosterone as well is huge. Like it's super important to keep track of and most women don't know to keep track of one let alone both. and how to actually request from their doctors like when if if they have to get referred for blood work like their doctors don't even do full profiles. It's true. It's it's crazy and it's I think it's criminal honestly. I think it's an ethical issue because if that's the driver I'm always looking to discover what the obstacles to cure are and I'm always trying to figure out what's the pain generator, right? Like I know you're looking for the pain generator, too, and we can bone it up to low protein diets, deconditioning, all the things, but at the same time, if your estrogen's dropping off, you and your testosterone, you're absolutely right, you've just lost your anabolic side to things. So, you're not regenerating anymore. And then your tissues are more prone to tearing because your estrogen is what's responsible for that juiciness and elasticity. And so, we start and it can happen years before menopause. Like you don't have to be menopausal to be having some of this symptomology. You could just be a woman in her 30s that gets too lean. Like you just get really really lean. Or you have a man who's I saw this with patients uh you know young men who'd had multiple head injuries from hockey or from football or whatever and all of a sudden their testosterone bottoms out because they too many head injuries and then it's just like chronic pain, chronic injuries, poor recovery, poor healing. and they're in our offices and they've got these atrocious looking MRIs and I'm like, "Hold up, we got some work to do." Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And that that's exactly right. Like I I've been checking my hormone levels, everything since I was about 22. Like I I want to know I want to know my baselines like as early as I wish I could have done it earlier, but you know, whatever. I have them now. Um, I recommend to every single patient regardless of age to like, hey, if you're going for a blood panel, like make it a full one, right? Whether you're 20, 30, 40, doesn't matter. Like, get like here are the tests that you should ask for from your doctor to put on your referral. Get this, right? And then like not only the hormone, but even the markers like apo B, apo lipoprotein B. Like nobody checks that. Why not? Why do you only check cholesterol and lipid profile? You need to check the apo as well. Like there's so many tests that aren't tested that is critical to someone's o like health and well-being whether it's for pain relief or just overall longevity and and preventative care. Like if you know if your Apo B value is super high, your chance of a heart heart event is increased. Why not? Why don't we try to manage and drop it