I did not like looking back on my year. And I'll tell you the truth. Literally, I think of failure as a way to just reroute and reconsider. And so, it's an opportunity for a win down the road. It's pretty hard to set goals when you don't have them laid out. It's very hard to hit something. Buying the house is a big investment. I've never owned a home. Very proud of myself that I I'm I'm giving you guys my wins. Very proud of myself. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, we are going to wrap up 2025 and set our sights on 2026. [music] And I wanted to just take a moment for more of a reflective, you know, type of episode, different from the rest. Normally, I'm talking [music] at you and trying to educate you. And in this case, I would love some group participation. And I think that you'll find it really beneficial. So let's jump in. I do this every year. I try to sit down and take a look at the year behind me. I have to do it financially because if you are a business owner and you are running multiple LLC's and you know weaving and dodging like I am, you have December's a big deal for your money because you are making sure that you make the most of the year for tax planning purposes. And so I used to be so disorganized with my money, you guys. I am so embarrassed about it. I was so afraid of money. I was truly afraid of it. And then I started making it and I was even more afraid of it. I can't even explain it. So I did not like looking back on my year. And I'll tell you the truth, the last many years have been quite rough. And so looking back emotionally, looking back physically, looking back has been very hard. But when you sit down and you're introspective and you're trying to deal with your finances, you you have to think about the year, right? And so I have made this a ritual every year. And I started out very simplistically. And so I want to invite you to do that as well. But I want you to take tally of what the year has been like for you. What were the highs? What were the lows? Maybe, you know, what were your wins? Very important to start with that, the highs and the wins. You got to learn to brag about yourself. And also, where did you screw up? Where could you have done better? You know, I don't think of screw-ups literally. I think of failure as a way to just reroute and reconsider. And so, it's an opportunity for a win down the road. To be honest with you, I I really look at failure as an opportunity for another win around the corner. But I think all of those things are important. And then looking forward into the new year, what do you want to carry forward? And what do you want to leave behind you? That could be in your business, that could be, you know, career. It could be personal, it could be where you live, it could be all, it could be your behavior, it could be your habits, it could be all kinds of different things. And so, we're just going to kind of walk through this the way that I do. And I hope it's really helpful for you. And I'm also going to tell you why I'm pulling all of my courses down in just a few days. By the time you watch this, my all of my courses that are on my website are going away. My big GLP-1 course, my free GLP-1 course, my metabolic revamp toolkit, my strength corner, it's all coming down because I'm going to sit with it and I'm going to decide what I want to be when I grow up and decide what I want to bring back and share with you in 2026. And right now, as that all stands, I've decided it's a bold move. Uh, it's a it's an income generator for me for sure. I am going to take it all down and I'm going to see what I want to do and I'm going to talk to you about that a little bit and what that means to me and why it might be helpful for you too to hear about it. So, I've written some notes. I was listening to a podcast with Amy Porterfield lately. I love her. If you're listening Amy Porterfield, I love you. I've been a big fan for a long time. And I she mentioned Michael Hayyatt and the best year ever book and I was like oh I have some exercises from that. I think I have that book back in Oregon actually. I was like okay that let's let's find my notes. I had notes on that. So I brought those notes into this and kind of ran it all through chat GPT so it was more organized and we're going to talk about it because I think this is a really great way to look at how you've been and what you want to do going forward. It's pretty hard to set goals when you don't have them laid out. It's very hard to hit something. I'll give you an example. I like numbers. I was talking to my CPA recently and he was throwing around kind of a vague idea and I was like, I need a number. Like, I need you to tell me an exact number. I will hit it. I will surpass it if I have a number. If I don't have a number, who knows? So, I throw out crazy numbers. I was just talking to my podcast producer a month ago, month and a half ago. And I told him a goal I had and and the amount of time I had to do it in. And it was lofty. And he just looked at me and kind of laughed like he knows me well. He knows I can pull miracles out when I need to. When I really need to like put my foot on the gas and go, I can do it. But I was pretty tired after that move. And I was like, "No way, man. I got to do this." And I surpassed it by leaps and bounds what the goal was cuz I just put my head down and, you know, blinders up, head down, hoodie up, and you go. and I'm good at that, but I get so focused on going that I don't always organize what's behind me. And so this year, something I'm really proud of is in the year before in 2024, I decided I was done being an indentured servant. When you have massive student loan debt, like anyone who comes out of any real medical program, you are an indentured servant. It is criminal. the way that the student loan system is set up in this country and the way the interest compounds, it's criminal. And after well over 10 years of paying down my medical school loans, I owed almost the same. I had paid over $100,000 by 2024. I graduated in 2008. I'd spent over $100,000 in interest. And so I made a spreadsheet, which I love. I made a spreadsheet. And you can put little check boxes in the spreadsheet so you can start checking off as you go. I love checkboxes because then I feel so accomplished. I made a spreadsheet and I said, "F this. I'm not going to have this anymore. I'm not an indentured servant. I'm not going to die this way. There's no way." I I will tell you the truth. There was one point when my daughter was young and I was so crushed by my student loan debt. I was crushed financially by it at the time that I considered unaliving myself because it was so overwhelming. It seemed utterly impossible at the rate I was going. Being a doctor is not very profitable. Even when you have a big successful I had a very successful practice. It just wasn't a huge I couldn't I couldn't make the kind of money I needed to pay off the debt of becoming a doctor. Isn't that insane? Unless I really wanted to scale and have a bunch of doctors underneath me and blah blah blah, which was such a headache. So, and the more the weird thing about medical clinics is the more money you're bringing in, the more you're spending, your your bottom line just gets huge. So, I was like, you know, I didn't really have the bandwidth. I was like, I'm going to figure out another way to pay off this debt. So, it took me a while, but in 2024, I decided to pay off my student loan debt aggressively, and I did it. And I'm so proud of that. But 2024 was kind of a [\h__\h] show. It was the year I was on podcast tour. I was flying all over the place talking about GLP1s and micro doing. I was getting my butt handed to me. It's a long story. I had some lady write a podcast review and she's like, "Dr. Tina always plays the victim." No, no. I despise people who have victim mentality. Truly, I I have no tolerance for it. When somebody starts playing the victim, I won't even entertain it. I'm like, I'm out. Bye. I don't even feel sympathy for it. Um, I have been victimized though by the system. And that's I'm I'll probably write a book about it someday. But I have pretty severe PTSD because obviously this person didn't know what I went through from 2020 to 2022 when that administration decided to bring down the full power of the censorship industrial complex. And knowingly, we we now know they spent well over a billion dollars on propaganda to silence all of us. So it was concerted. There's a whole report about it. There was a big congressional thing. You guys can go look. It's very upsetting. Um, but it really happened and I was part of it. I was on the receiving end. And um, that sucked. And so then I came out from underneath that. And then in 2023, I opened my mouth about this GLP-1 thing, this micro doing, which everybody's gotten wrong and twisted up. And like, I'll tell you what, 99% of you who think you're micro doing, you're just actually standard dosing. You're just taking a regular old dose. Sometimes you're somewhere up in the tiers of that dosing uh, tier and you are not micro doing at all. And in fact, people who've taken my course who have decent sized platforms talk about micro doing with their that's what they're selling all the time is you into their micro doing program and they're standard dosing. They're not micro doing. So that's false advertising to me which I think is unethical. Um and then I hear pharmacists that I really respect compounding pharmacist talking about micro doing standard dosing. That is not micro doing you guys. That is they've completely missed they missed it. They missed the boat. completely missed what I was trying to lay down. It is not a weight loss strategy and you just take lower doses and call that micro doing. That is not it. But I digress. So um but I I was an N of one. I was one person at least with COVID. There was like a small army of us standing up against the machine. With this it was me. It was me, one person. And I got hammered, you guys. I just got beat on and beat on. It was like every morning I woke up and it was like damage control. Which, you know, which publication, which which media outlet is going to slander me today? Which influencer is going to put me on blast? Which MD is going to slander me and put me on blast on their social? Like, it was just getting drugged through the mud constantly. And I'm sorry, but until you've been on the receiving end of that at like volume and on a large scale and like you're everywhere you go, people know who you are. Um, it's I people can accuse me of playing victim all they want, but they have no idea until you trul you know what it was Teddy Roosevelt like until you've been in the arena then like shut the f up because I don't want to hear it. Like unless you've had your ass handed to you and your teeth kicked in repeatedly, you don't know. So 2024 I had written off as like a really rotten year. I was like I did not like that. That was not a fun experience. I went off this train. And so in 2025, I jumped off. I got off. I was like, I'm not going I'm not traveling anymore. I'm not going on any more pods. I canceled any and all speaking events. I canceled all um invitations to speak on stage at conferences, etc. I canled all the podcasts. I canceled everything. I was just like, I'm going to chill for a while and figure out what I want to do with my life. And then I was in I was at that time I was in Oregon and I was my health was this is early 2025. My health was very poor at that time. My stress level was through the roof. I was not happy when I did this exercise at the end of 2024 or version of and I think I did a podcast about it. I can honestly say that 202 I came out of 2024 significantly less happy than I went into it. But I did pay off my student loans in 2020. I'm very proud of that. I feel so much it's so different to not be just straddled with those um or saddled or whatever the term is. And then in 2025 I made an executive decision. And I got a very I I get clear hits from God. People can call me crazy, but I get very clear hits. And I got a very clear hit that if I did not get out of Oregon by winter, that I was not I was not going to make it. Like I wasn't going to be alive at the end of it. Like truly, I don't know what that meant, but I felt this incredible urgency take over me that I had to get out urgently. And so I listened. I was like, "Okay, I hear you." And I in the middle of the summer, I came here and I bought a house. [laughter] I didn't get to move into the house for months and months and months and months, but I bought a house and I started purging my life and I I took a sbatical in 20 this last year. I took as much as I could. I had to keep the lights on. So, I I stepped away from as much work as I could. I kept the podcast up, but again, like I said, I canceled everything else and I did as little as I could. I was on a few pods of like good friends and, you know, different opportunities here and there, but generally speaking, I was doing as little as possible. If you're on my email list, you didn't hear from me much. I let go of most of my team by August and it was just me and like we're my daughter and my assistant and we were like we're just raw dogging it. And all my colleagues who are also influencers were like, "Oh my god, you're crazy. Like, what are you going to do for money? What are you going to do?" And I I will tell you, I'm not an idiot when it comes to business. And I have myself set up well enough that I was fine. Everything was fine. And I was a It was the first time in my entire life that I took a break, but it wasn't really a break. It wasn't like a hey, let me go travel and have fun. It was literally, hey, now I have to deal with my life, which is at the time two storage units, one for my clinic, one for my life, and because I'd moved around so much. I mean, cra I've moved like 39 times at this point. 40, I don't know. Um, I tried to tally it all up the other day and I I I lost count. I had to go through everything. thing. I went through everything in my life and I reorganized it and I did what's called Swedish death cleaning and I did a whole podcast about it. Something about I I'll put it in the show notes. It was about me purging my life. But it's basically this idea that you can't take it with you and will it bring the person who you're going to leave it to joy. And for me what was most important is if I were to perish tomorrow that my husband and my daughter could easily go through my stuff. And at the time that was not the case. I wanted to make sure that they could go through my stuff and they could like here's a box. It's labeled clearly. It's or um me, you know, it's just rinky dinky memory stuff for me. It's just it it it's my emotional baggage in this box. My little rinky dinky stuff from my childhood or whatever. It nothing of value. Throw it away. Who cares, right? Or this box is important. These are all the documents that you need for whatever. And so I did that. I had to look at every single piece of paper in my life. And you can go listen to that pod. It was very emotional because I lost my mentor. He died of cancer in 2020, I'm sorry, in 2013. And so I had basically put all of his stuff away in a storage unit to come back to another day. And so I had to go through all of that. So it was like a lot. I really hadn't gone through my life in that kind of detail in well over a decade. And it was a lot. So I wasn't having like a super fun time. I pretty much had my hair up in a ponytail on my head. And if you go through the videos or the podcast videos on you here on YouTube or wherever you watch vid the video, you can see at times like my face is really puffy because I had spent days crying and then um I had to, you know, put on some makeup and do a podcast. So because it was just a purge. It was like the ultimate emotional and physical purge. And I highly encourage you to do it because it I feel so much better. So, student loans are paid off. All my [\h__\h] is dealt with. [laughter] Like, I had my [\h__\h] handled. Lot of stress. Buying the house is a big investment. I've never owned a home. Very proud of myself that I I'm I'm giving you guys my wins. Very proud of myself. Very, very proud that I went through all my clinic stuff. That alone was a massive undertaking. Very all of my mentor stuff, all of my stuff. very very proud that I went through all of my stuff. All my childhood stuff, all the stuff I've been carrying around, got it all super organized. Still probably have more things than I need back in Oregon. But it is organized and I know what's what and I can point and say, "I know what's there. I know what's there." So, if I were to sell it or purge it or pitch it or whatever, I at least know what I'm in instead of like boxes of stuff all disorganized. I decided in the middle of the move that I was going to buy a building cuz why not just add a massive amount of stress on it? But I wanted the Dr. Tina Show podcast studio and I wanted to up the game and buy all of the camera equipment and lights and have a real studio where real people come to. That was one of the, you know, a few upsides from 2024. I shouldn't throw the whole thing under the bus. I met some incredible people on that process. So, the the people I met, the podcast hosts, you know, I got to meet um gosh, I mean, so many amazing humans and their crew and their assistants and just that process was phenomenal. And so 2024 was really magical that way for connecting to other human beings which I absolutely loved. The travel part and the hotels and the eating outside of my home and all that was not so good for me. But um and the stress like that was I was really early to that conversation and the world was not ready to hear it and it it and then it got twisted into some crazy stuff and it was not fun and now it's just crazy and to be truthful the FDA is coming down hard on all of these gray market like this week has been nuts. I I won't even report because I don't know all the details, but I have been hearing some rumors and from some credible sources. And then there's a bill being introduced called the Safe Something Act. And uh they're really going after compounders. Bottom line, big pharma is after is just after anything that isn't conducive to their goals. And I don't want to be caught in the middle of it anymore. I don't want to be a part of this conversation anymore. So, I'm going to step away from the GLP-1 conversation. I I'll tell you a little bit more about that at the end. Um, so 2024 was great that way. Bleeding into 2025, I got all my [\h__\h] handled and my health really, my fitness, I will say, I I let my fitness go. I gained some weight. Um, I went into a deep, deep spiral of chronic pain in the summertime. I did a whole podcast about that. That was rough. I came through that, the other side of that. That was probably the most pain I've ever been in in my life. And I came through it. So, I was a little beat up in the fall, you guys. I'm not going to lie. And I had to pack a pod and pack a trailer and drive the dogs with the husband drove and but the dogs and the I had to orchestrate this whole thing because I didn't want to put any of that on him. I just had him be the technician. I was the whole planner. And I had to do all of that, keep all the businesses running, um, manage the house, get this building. Like, he is so helpful. I mean, he's been out there for days and days and days and days doing like 10 years worth of lawn maintenance that needed to be done. He's so great that way, but like when it comes to organizing things and the details of such, he's not that's not as high point. So that was all on me. And I'm really proud of myself for that. I'm really proud of how grown up I was. And I will say the biggest thing I'm proud of this year was I got on top of my money. Instead of just making money and spending money or making money and hoarding money or making money and not knowing where to invest money, I got on top of my money and I hired some folks that I worked with and I ended up building a really incredible team or having it built around me actually. And I will share those guys with you someday if they will allow. that I worked really hard to get on top of my money. And it was amazing because without any extra effort, all of a sudden the whole world opened up because I wasn't afraid of it anymore. I wasn't afraid of abundance. That's it. I just wasn't afraid of abundance anymore because I got all my [\h__\h] handled because I got my debt paid off, my big debt. And maybe that was dumb, you know? Maybe throwing all that money in 2024 at debt like that was dumb. I paid, you know, I'll tell you the truth. There's good debt and there's dumb debt. Anything above 7% is dumb debt. You got to pay it off. So, I just that was it. I was like, I'm just going to pay anything over 7% off. And, you know, not the best tax planning strategy, but it worked out okay, fine. And 2025, all of a sudden, without any extra effort, I am sitting at a beautiful home in the middle of the most beautiful town I've ever seen. And I own a beautiful building space that is also in this beautiful town with beautiful views of mountains all around me. And I'm organized and my life is literally organized too. Like my boxes are organized, my files are organized, everything's organized, my clothing is organized. Like everything is organized. And I can't believe it. And it is just the amount of flow and abundance that has come to me emotionally, financially through that process has been incredible. And it all occurred to me, you know, that terrible event of losing Charlie Kirk in such a horrific way in September. I don't care if you hated him or loved him. That was horrible. And um and it was horrible that we witnessed it. And I cried for three days on the couch because I was just like, what what has this world come to? Where what am I living in? Like what is this? What is what is this? Right? And I you know I if you know me, you know I I duked it out with the demons during CO and that was a demonic a demonic situation that was definitely good versus dark. And it kind of like came to a crescendo for me emotionally uh when Charlie Kirk got assassinated. And I and then just like the fallout from that and the way people behaved and the the polarization and it just was and I'm in Oregon. Oh my god, you guys. I hate Oregon so much. I love the state and I love the nature and I it is truly God's country. But I kid you not, that whole region, the Pacific Northwest, which Washington is like underwater right now. It's horrible. I don't know why the media is not covering it. Those poor people. I pray for them every day. But that whole region is the hell mouth. Like energetically, that is the hell mouth. And if you have been there in recent years, you felt it, too. It is just atrocious what has become of those states and what has happened through very poor management. I don't care what side you're on. This is not a political issue. This is a poor management issue. Um, and so my heart was broken and I was mad and I hated it there and the people were just getting weirder and weirder and weirder and the homelessness was just like in my tiny little town in the middle of nowhere like the Beyond Thunderdome, you know, RV caravan had arrived and was staying and I was like I I got to get out of here because they just keep raising the tax situation there is insane. It is the most highly taxed state for income tax if you're in Multma County. Portland Multma County uh is where Portland is in in the nation. It's above California and New York relative to when they start taxing you because they start taxing you I think at like six figures. Whereas in California and New York, you have to be like a multi-millionaire before they hit you with that massive tax bracket. And then on top of it, Multma County was starting to bleed over into the surrounding counties and were taxing other counties employees to pay their way. It was a It's just a It's a mess. It's not my problem anymore. Um, but just so you know a little bit about what's going on and why I feel so passionate about this cuz I was like an OG Oregon Portland girl. Like I was a Portland girl to the core. So that was very upsetting and I was having a lot of emotions about leaving and I got out. But the thing I am most proud of was in that whole process in the in the packing and the purging and the uh losing Charlie Kirk and the pain the chronic pain that I went through and all of the things. Um I don't know. [clears throat] I had a moment with Jesus. I just I don't know. Something clicked and I was like ah I get it. I don't know. Like for the first time in my life I get it. I get it and I'm in. And I'm like I am team team Jesus. Like I am in. I'm in. I get it. And it's a relationship with God. It that's it. Like it's not a going to church thing. I know you got to do that for community. And it's not just reading the Bible. And I know you got to do that so you can understand the scripture. But like more than anything, it's just a personal relationship with God. And I get it. So I let God into my heart and all of a sudden I'm crying because it like filled up with light. everything filled up with light and I was like, [sighs] I get to go live in the beautiful sun and live in my beautiful house and live my beautiful life. Because up until that point, things have been really hard. I'd had AI'd had a some I've had a challenging um I've had a challenging life. I mean, truly, I'm not saying I'm like, "Oh, poor me by any means, but I have had just a kind of a relentless massive amount of stress for a long, long time. And so I choose light and I choose God and I choose peace and I choose abundance and I choose flow and that is what I'm going to bring into 2026 because that's all that matters. And so with that I'm going to close down all my courses. All my courses are going away and I'm going to sit with that material. I'm going to go through it. It's beautiful material that GLP-1 done right university is beautiful. If you have access to those courses if you purchase them you get life lifetime access. So don't worry about anything. But if you have not purchased them, your ability to do so will end on December 31st of this month of this year. So, just in a few days of this public uh this this episode being published. And I I'm going to go through it with a fine tooth comb and I'm going to decide what I want to keep and decide what goes and I'm going to decide what that looks like or if I even want to put out any courses into the world anymore. I love being a teacher. Like that's I have doeri tattooed on my wrist. It means doctor is teacher. I I love teaching more than anything. Um, but I don't know if courses are it for me. So that GLP-1 done right university really at its core is my clinical methodology. It's not about GLP-1s. It is there's a lot of GLP-1 in there, but it is literally how I approach patient care. And I um will not be opening my practice to new patients from the public in any version of this lifetime of reality. So I do take high-end VIP clients that I consult with. I do have patients. I do still have a clinical practice for all the haters who love to say, "Oh, she doesn't even see patients." Oh, man. I've seen a lot of patients in my career and was a very I was probably busier than 99% of my colleagues as far as patient load went. And I have seen a lot and I I don't love doing patient care. I don't love being open to the public. I don't love having people have access to me to be I'm very introverted and private person and I don't love ultimately I don't love chasing people around because what 90% of patients do is they make their lack of planning your emergency. So, it's a thankless job of chasing around prescriptions and refilling prescriptions because people didn't plan and then they don't get their labs done and then I'm liable and my literally I have liability on my head at that point because I don't have up-to-date labs and you can't let a patient run out of medication because that's also not ethical. So, it puts the doctor in a real conundrum. So, a little pearl for all of you, be a better patient and do not wait till the last minute because the amount of time and energy that doctors spend doing free [\h__\h] outside of actual patient visits is crazy. Any other profession would charge for it. Any other profession, my lawyer, my lawyer charges me by six minute increments. [laughter] Every email is like a $60 bill. There's no version where any other profession would do what doctors do. And yet patience can be very difficult. So, um, I will not be taking patients from the public anytime. I would, as I would tell my husband, I and I said this on Instagram the other day, I would rather have my eyeballs tattooed. I love people. I don't love the logistics of patient care. And I don't love um I don't love liability like that either. It's not fun to constantly be concerned if you're going to get sued because it just takes one person who's Miffy. It's not fun. Being a doctor is not fun anymore, unfortunately. Anyway, um I am going to choose peace and flow and I'm going to create some great stuff for you guys. I am so excited. We got the podcast studio coming. I'm going to launch uh some cool stuff around the podcast in this year. I am going to revamp my Substack because I built a Substack during CO days because it was the only place, literally the only place that was uncensored, 100% uncensored that I could talk freely. So, I have taken a lot of those posts down because I just don't feel like being witch hunted anymore. But, I'm going to clean that up and revamp it and relaunch it. If you want to go check me out on Substack and get ahead of the group, you can. Just go look for Dr. Tina. I'm in there. Right now, it's just all my podcast episodes up until like April of 24, 25, I can't remember. But, um, there's going to be some great stuff happening there. Uh, let's see. I am going to enjoy the heck out of living here in Arizona. There's lakes to paddle board in and there's just outside all the time and super fun and I'm going to have a lot of fun with my husband and I'm going to move my parents here and I'm going to move my daughter here and I'm gonna I have to go back home to get a few more loads, but I hope that I never have to go back to Oregon ever ever ever again once that's all done. So that's my goals and I'm very excited about that to be honest with you. As I packed up my life, I realized how completely and utterly depressing that place was. Not just in the last few years, but actually always I have pretty much always hated living in Oregon. So I moved there from Southern California as a child and I cannot stand that lack of sunlight. And I am so much happier in the sun. It's it's just remarkable. It's remarkable to go outside and drink your coffee in the morning sun with your dogs and then go out again at noon and get some more midday sun and then watch the sunset in my backyard with my husband. It's beautiful with all the sonor and cactus and just beautiful. So, I am happy. I am I'm proud of myself, too. I I did AI bought my first house. I bought a building. Paid off my student loans. Packed all my [\h__\h] up and got my stuff organized. And I'm going to rebuild this body and rebuild my health. So, I'm excited. Thank god I had a lot of muscle underneath because it it hung in there for a while. [laughter] I'm starting to resemble a middle-aged woman right now. So, I'm like, I gotta get back at it. But anyway, I want to take you through some reflection here. Okay. So, oh, before I do, if you want to hop off now, my courses, you can find the link in the show notes and they are all on discount and Pam Adam, they are going away. hard stop. December 31st at 11:59 p.m. They're gone. And as of January 1st, midnight, they're gone and they're not coming back and I'm not going to accept emails asking, "Can I have one more day? Can I button?" It's it's gone. You can finance the big course through the options on the checkout page. Um that's the only we don't have financing options in house because it's just it's incredibly uh difficult to do that. So third party financing options. I think Clara and Afterpay are on there. It's if you're a clinician or healthcare practitioner, it is a write off and it's there's not CEU because of the way it's structured. It was very difficult to get CEU. So I'll keep that in mind for future endeavors that to make sure that I structure things right because there are rules you have to follow. I didn't know about entirely. Um it's great. It's my entire clinical rationale. And since I'm not taking patients, if you want to know how I treat, that's it. If you are the general public, you are still in. If I do bring this content back, I am going to make it a a clinical cohort. It'll be however many weeks long. It'll be more of a mastermind live teaching case review and it will be for licensed people who can literally prescribe. If you cannot prescribe, if you cannot write a prescription, I cannot let you into the course. It will be for prescribers only. That is because of liability and because people who are prescribers have a different level of education and frankly they don't want lower tiered practitioners in there. I'm not I didn't make up the rules. I just have trained hundreds of doctors over the years in regenerative injection therapies, in hormones, in functional medicine, in business, and I'll tell you they just want what they want. And I've heard this a million times like I wish we could go faster. I wish you know they want the the nomenclature. They we have a different language in Dr. land and um I'm going to I'm going to do that. I'm going to do a clinical cohort for that and that will be at a higher price point to account for the fact that there's live teaching in there. And so if you're a health coach or a nutritional therapist or anything like that, buy the course now because I don't think there's going to be a version in the future for everyone else. And if you're the general public, I'm not letting the general public into my clinical courses from here out. So, I I'm glad I did it. It was really difficult for a lot of reasons and it was biting me in the butt the whole time and it was frustrating. A lot of frustrations came through that. So, I know it seems like, oh, it shouldn't be a big deal, but it was. And so, moving forward, those things will be kept separate. So, grab it if you want it. All right. This part's for you. It's all about you. Take out a notebook. This part's for you. So, I want you to reflect on the last year. not so much make resolutions but reflect. The reason being is that people rush into goal setting without understanding what actually happened already. And we have to be logical, right? Like we're not gonna we're not going to lose 100 pounds in a month. That's a ridiculous resolution. Committing to going to the gym three days a week for the month of January, that's a better resolution, right? But we have to reflect. How did we get here? Right? It's not nostalgia, it's data collection. And we kind of have to look at the highs and the lows like I mentioned and I just mentioned several of mine and I shared that to be completely transparent with you. So if you don't tell the truth about the past year, you will unconsciously repeat it, right? And if you don't look back with insight, not self-criticism necessarily, but truly insight like where were you the problem, right? Sometimes we're the problem. It's like that audio that was going around the internet like am I the problem? Sometimes we're the problem. It's true. So, if you're a high performer, you're going to review before you revise anything. You're going to review what has happened truthfully, the highs and lows. Because I had to sit there. I was making my list and I was just so down on myself at the end of 2024. And my husband's like, "But didn't you do this and didn't you do this and didn't this happen and didn't" and I was like, "Oh my gosh, I was not taking account of all the wonderful things that had happened, too." So you one thing you can do is like a Benjamin Franklin list where it's just one page and you make a line down the middle and on this side it's like all the great things that happened and then this side was like all the shitty things that happened and how much were you responsible for how much were others responsible for it good and bad like how many how how much like me me I had a huge growth spurt right in 24 and that wasn't just me that was my team that was my podcast producer Drake hello that was my PR gal Liz that was so many people helping me ascend end and we got to take account of all of that. We have to be honest about it. So take an honest look at the year that was. There are clues there about your current energy, your current state of flow, your current happiness, your current unhappiness. And we have to look at all of it. So we have to separate facts from stories. What objectively happened? You guys, this is important. Write that down and underline it. What objectively happened? what really happened? Because it's easy as we turn past events into memories to turn them into stories that are not true where we were the victim or we were this or we were that and that's our brain. Our brain always wants to go to default mode for our brain is negativity is the because it's trying to protect us. But we have to really look at it and be like, okay, what was objectively happened here? Maybe talk it over with friends or people that are close to you. Like what really happened there? Where did progress occur that you did not fully acknowledge? Right. As my husband helped me with, I'm sorry you guys, my lips are so chapped. I just got over a head cold and I blew my nose so much that I filled like a garbage bag full of tissues. And I feel like the Sahara Desert is my face. [laughter] Like, I feel so dry. I put so much face cream on and then I put makeup on it. It still looked like the dry Sahara Desert. And then my lips are like deciding that they need to exfoliate themselves. Where did you put in a lot of effort but your results didn't really pan out? Where did you crush it? That's really important to acknowledge like, dude, I crushed it in some places, right? You got to give yourself a high five. What surprised you about the year, both good and bad. You know, what what crept up and surprised you and what patterns showed up more than once? I think that's really important. Patterns are signals. They might be signals to shift or change. They might be signals to stay the course, but what showed up repeatedly? That will tell you a lot. Something that showed up for me a lot was a similar pattern to bickering with my husband. And so we're really trying to we he always says to me now, this is our new thing. He's like, "Okay, Tina, we're best friends, so we have to go through this situation as best friends." And I'm like, "Okay, you're right. We're best friends. We're on the same team and we're learning how to talk to each other." Which is crazy. Like, we've been together 5 years, but we still are learning to talk to each other. and how can we talk to each other that actually helps and gets the other person to remain calm and it's effective versus how do we talk to each other and it ends up lighting the other person up, right? And are we doing that on purpose? Are we poking on purpose? Right? Identifying wins that actually matter. Wins are not only outcomes, but they include decisions, boundaries, and behaviors. And I think that's important. And I have had terrible boundaries in the past and I've had really fierce boundaries almost excessive at different times as a protective mechanism. We have to think about these things. What achievements required you to really stretch or to really show courage? What are you so proud of that maybe no one else has even noticed? What are you so proud of? I like I know that people my family realized I cleaned up and went through all my stuff, but that was my I'm so proud of that and I'm so proud of this very personal relationship I developed with God. I'm I'm really proud of those things. Which wins aligned with your values? Not external validation, but like your actual wins. I think that that is just a very personal thing, right? That's a very personal thought process. Which wins came with hidden costs? So, were relationship strained? Did you not have any fun? That's something I'm really seeking in 2026 is more fun. I need more fun. Absolutely need more fun in 26. But the amount of burnout that I've had, but how much of that burnout was self-inflicted, right? How much of that was me, my trauma response of overworking myself, right? Taking on more than I could, biting off more than I could chew, taking on more than I could do. It's kind of an ADHD thing too where you like take on more than you can actually handle and it leads to significant burnout. But that burnout's not anybody's fault really at the end of the day but myself, right? And when I say I've had some difficult times in my life, I I kind of just intentionally overworked myself there for a long time as a trauma response. So think about those things. What are the hidden costs to some of these wins? Number four, naming the misses without being dramatic about it. Like I said in the last episode, failures are just a chance really to reroute. It's just fall forward, right? Just fall forward and reroute. Like I don't look at failures as some big thing to beat myself over. It's like, okay, that happened. Very good. What can I learn from this? How do I not repeat it? Moving on. And maybe that's the estrogen leaving my brain. And the whole cool thing that happens when, you know, that is the cool part of heading into menopause is like you run out of Fs to give. You just run out. I'm like, I'm out. I don't care. Um, almost to a fault sometimes. Like sometimes you got to put a little estrogen back in so you can actually be, you know, at least empathic. But you have to realize that failures are just an opportunity to keep trying. And I look at my dog. He's such a terrier. He just he I always said this to my coaching clients like I am a terrier. I will get my bone. I am that is what kind of dog I am. What kind of dog are you? Right? Some are golden retrievers. Some are German shepherds, but I am I am Murphy, my dog. [laughter] We are the same. And I will I will he's much happier than I am. He's much more spritly. But I will go after that bone in eight different ways, even if I bloody my nose. Again, sometimes to a fault. But we have to think about sometimes we're going to miss and you're like, "Okay, it's just another chance to try a different angle." Very good. So, what goals were set but quietly abandoned? I have a few I I I have a few on my list. Where did you overestimate your capacity or underestimate the complexity or the amount of work? I had a couple of those this year where I was like, "This is so much more work than it's worth even." What habits or commitments worked against your stated priorities? I have a bad habit of sitting around too long in the morning. And because I spent my whole life getting up so early and working so hard at such an early hour that when I got out of my cl big big clinical practice when I closed down the brick and mortar, I promised myself that I would not do anything or take any meetings until 10:00 a.m. and then I started pushing that until noon. [laughter] I've dialed it back, but um I do I have a habit of sort of like letting the morning get a little too leisurely for me. So you miss a lot of great work time if you do that and then you end up working late in the day and it kind of screws up the whole flow and then my husband's like, "Where are you? I want to hang out with you." You know, so then it impacts your relationships. You got to think about these things. And then what are you avoiding addressing that continues to drain your energy? For me, it was living in Oregon, period. I had to get out of there. I had absolutely 100% had to get out of there. And it was such a hard push, especially at this age. You think, "Oh, I mean, I I had a million moments of talking myself out of it throughout that whole process up until the point where I got in the car and I thought I looked at my husband and I I said, "I just want you to know I took a tiny little bit of Xanax, like the tiniest little dose, because I thought I was going to completely melt down as we drove away from that farm and drove on our way here." And I tell you what, we got an hour away and I was like, "Yes, I am so glad to be out of there." And then the next day I woke up in the sun in the desert and I was like in Nevada and I was like this is great. There was not a tear shed. Not a tear shed. So you never know. But staying there was killing me. Literally it was killing me. It was sucking the life out of me and sucking my soul dry. So I was avoiding doing the work to get myself where I needed to go. And I want to encourage all of you and I've done several podcasts kind of on the process. go back and listen to them because they're just there for you because so many of you I know are trying to leave the West Coast. You're trying to escape. I mean, living on the West Co. I feel like I escaped from behind enemy lines. It's been wild. I haven't even really talked to that many people here. And again, that's not a political statement. It's just how completely different people here are happy and they're nice. They're happy and nice. They are not happy and nice in Oregon. I mean, how can you be like everybody's in the rain all the time and being having every single extra dollar they have taxed out of them? Energy as the ultimate metric. This is huge. Energy reveals what goals never will. Your energy level tells you everything. Um, what are your energy levels when things get difficult? What are your energy levels when you are relaxing? I I used to be like I had to go take a nap. If I sat down for a second, I fell asleep. That's how my low my energy was. Now I am excited. I wake up every day excited. I wake up every day with so much energy. And it is not because I physically am that different. And yes, the sun is helping a lot. But I am so excited to be here. I am so excited to be alive. I am so excited for this phase. And so you have to look at your energy. Your energy is the read. It is the read of if are you in the right place? If your energy is great, even if you live in a shitty situation, you're good. If your energy is so so so low, your life is sucking it out of you somewhere. You got to find the leaks, right? It's not all just health, it's not wellness, it's not just take more supplements, it's not just go exercise more. It it it's not even just go outside more, which that actually helps the most, I think, just going outside more. But you're you may not you may just be so out of alignment that God wants you to literally move like here, move over here. and he will move you if you don't or he will throw a wrench in the process. I got here and I needed to slow down and rest just for a minute. It was a big push. It was like a long sustained push for months with a lot of stress and a lot of money going out the door. Like I was l I might as well just been lighting thousand bills on fire for a minute there. And I should have slowed down and God will stop you if you don't. And I got sick. I got a really gnarly cold and I was like a cold that I thought I could handle and then it was like particularly hard and then I thought it would clear and it was not clearing and I was like, "Oh, I'm good. I'm I'm I'm good." I'd wake up and I'm like, "I'm good." And all of a sudden the other day I was like, "Oh no, I'm not good." And I'm very familiar with walking pneumonia and your lungs filling up and it's not a good feeling. It is a feeling of dread and doom. And I felt it and I was like, "No." And I hung out, you know, in there for like another 24 hours and finally I ended up on antibiotics, which I know I'm going to go to naturopathic hell. But [gasps] I had to do it cuz but I mean, you know, don't work yourself to the point where you got to end up on antibiotics. That's the take-home message. That's my that's my message with for you. Letting go to make room for what is next. This is huge, you guys. I think the two things I want to say here is you will not know what's on the other side of things until you go peak [snorts] and you give yourself permission and you be brave. And you will not know what to do, what your next best move is until you get quiet. And I don't know how else to say it, but it's in the quiet that the best ideas come. And I think that's because you can hear God. I think I can hear God better trying to give me the downloads of what's my next best move to serve my higher purpose to serve the higher good. I can't hear it if it's all noise and I'm busy all the time. These people who are constantly busy, I don't know how they get anything done. I have friends that I just adore and they're constantly traveling. They're constantly on podcasts. They're constantly on stages. They're never home. If they are, it's like in and out. They're constantly living out of suitcases. And I don't want that life. I just do not want that life at all because there's no quiet. And in that I don't have any bandwidth to think about what my next best move is if I don't have any quiet. And so um it's not just about optimizing everything all the time. It's not cold plunges and and lifting extra weight. It's like where can you intentionally slow down and go internal and pray and get back into flow because that's when you're going to figure out what your next best move is. You have to make room for the things. And sometimes you got to let go of a bunch of stuff to make room for what's next. I know it sounds so cliche, but it's so true. Um, here's a great idea. Number seven, shifting from goals to intentional outcomes. So, goals are great when they serve a larger vision of life, but not when they become the vision. And so, going back to what I was saying earlier when I said I need a a number, I'll give you an example. Do you guys remember road rules on MTV? Oh, you guys, they just I think December 31st, MTV is gone forever of this year. I think this is it. They're taking MTV down forever. Not that they've been playing videos or anything, but like all of it's going away. It's such an end of an era. It's so h I watched some old MTV video, not like just music videos, but the actual, you know, the BJs and stuff. There's a YouTube channel that I You can find it if you look. It was crazy. It was so many memories. But anyway, road rules. And then remember um the real world. So there was the real world and then there was road rules. And then they had a show where like they were together doing stuff. So they would do like challenges and athletic challenges and stuff like uh like on Survivor kind of thing. I remember one episode where they had these ropes hanging over a body of water and the ropes had knots in them and you had to hang on to the rope for as long as you could. So, one team went up. So, like the road rules team went up and I think I've talked about this on other podcasts and they were hanging from the rope and they had to hang as long as they could. And I remember looking at my friend who was watching it with me and I said, "The second team's going to win." And she said, "Why?" And I said, "Because the first team's going to set the goal and then the second team just has to beat the goal by one second and then they win." It's so much easier to set a specific goal than so like an intentional outcome, right? Like set an intentional outcome. I want this to happen by this date. And this is why. The why is important, too. I wanted to make X amount of dollars by this date to pay off my student loans. Why? Because I didn't want to be an indentured servant anymore. So, I wanted to feel what actual freedom felt like. And so, I did it. I did it way faster than I planned. I did it right. That's that's an intentional outcome versus just a goal of like I want to get thinner or I want to get fitter. It's like no, I want to increase my one rep max on my deadlift to this. You know, be realistic. Have somebody assess you. Don't don't go crazy. But, you know, I remember once I wanted I just wanted a clean 200 lb PR deadlift. Like, I just wanted to be able to say at any given time that I could pick up 200 pounds. And I got there and we went really th slowly and methodically because we were being conscious of my pain at 200 lb. It was too much compression on my spine and I have a part of my midspine that is I found out this year through imaging it's not great looking. Um no wonder I was having so much pain and I I realized 200 lb was too much. But I got there and I did get to lifting it with no problem at all. Like it was easy for me but I did pay a little bit of a price. So all in all those were all lessons learned. Right. The process of getting there was really slow and methodical and it was great for I mean it teaches you the hard lessons, right? Patience, perseverance, eating for your goals, sleeping for your goals, doing all the things. And then you know ultimately I got there and I'm like I don't really want this. It's [clears throat] not serving me. It makes my back hurt. And no, it's not because I have a bad deadlift. I actually have a segment of my thoracic spine that was a little hot for a minute. Um yeah, but like what kind of person do you want to be while pursuing pursuing said outcomes too? That matters because going after something at all costs could hinder your relationships or ruin them. I have ruined many a relationship for chasing goals. What kind of person do you want to be? It's not better, it's just different. And if nothing changed externally, would you still have made progress internally? These are all things to ask yourself. [clears throat] And then design a year ahead that is realistic and meaningful. Fewer priorities ex executed well will trump many priorities executed poorly. So you could get a lot done and have it be kind of shitty or you could do a few things really strategically and really well. I will say that I got so busy with traveling all the time in 2024 into 2025. the growth that happened, everything felt chaotic. This is a huge reason why I'm taking down all my courses because I just don't feel like they are reflective of where I'm at now and what I want to teach you. And they're beautiful and they're so helpful and they're so there's so much heart in there, but a they all were built while I was in Oregon and I don't want that memory. I just don't want to look back and think about any of that. But B, I have changed as a person and I want to reflect that in my new work. So instead of trying to like clean those up and just fix them up a little bit, I'm just going to take them down and put something else out in the world in a different way. I don't know. But we get we get to grow and change and we get to look at things and realize that I want to nurture fine things more than I want a bunch of things. I recently invested in some linens. I would highly encourage you to go linen shopping right now. It is massive holiday deals because of end of year and invest in some natural fabrics. So, invest in some natural wool or linen. But when you have fine bedding in your bed, it changes your whole life. And it's so much better than having like 10 pairs of crappy sheets from Target. Having two or three really nice pieces of bedding material that you take care of that are high quality natural fabrics and not plastic, it like completely changes the sleeping game. It's a whole new world. I'm such a bed linen snob. So, you know, that's just an example, but also the things that we do because progress compounds when goals are aligned with strengths and the season of life you're in. I guess that's what it is. I'm in a different season now. And so, what I create, I want to be reflective of that. I basically want everything that I made with short hair gone from my vision. I have a new vision board and consistency will ultimately outperform intensity every single time. So little bitty steps forward maybe, you know, sometimes we're going to take one step forward, two steps back, but we're going to still keep stepping forward. That's the way to go. So just to kind of reframe everything for 2026 is where I'm at. And I hope that you will consider this, too. We're we're not going to get um we're not going to get justice for the things that happened in 2020 and 2021 and 2022. We have to let that go because if we drive with anger, it'll chew up your insights. So, we just have to move forward with grace. And you know, I just keep waking up every day and going out in the sun with my dogs and asking God like, "How can I serve my best today? like how can I serve you? How can I serve and I mean God and how can I serve my audience and my followers? Like how can I serve everybody to the highest level today with the most abundance of and goodness from my heart that I can give? And I don't want to be glombmed up in past memories of me and I don't want to be judgmental on who I am where I'm sitting here now. Like I could look down and be like, "Oh my gosh, you know, you've lost so much muscle and you're not is in good of shape and your strength is down and whatever." But like I sleep decently well. Sometimes menopause gets me, but I sleep decently well. I have a great relationship. I have great dogs. My family's healthy. Um, you know, I have a lot to be grateful for. And so I'm just going to keep on keeping on. And I'm really going to rock out 2026 with the most joy. I'm gonna Joy Max [laughter] for 2026. That is the big goal. Serve God and Joy Max. So hopefully you guys will come along and we will have a great year. We're going to have I'm so excited. There's so many fun things coming down the pipeline that I have been dreaming of that are just going to come to fruition this year and you guys will be there front row. So thank you so much for coming on this journey with me. I'm going to tear up. It's been a lot. I try to share it with you. I'm really personal actually. I keep a lot private, but I share a lot with you because I know that the struggles that I'm having are so common for so many women particularly in middle age and men too and just our generation, right? like Gen X is a very particular group of people and I think that we are the last generation to know the analog ways and now being a part of technology it's just so weird and different and the world needs us and it needs us healthy because we are the last of the great advisers. Please heed what I'm saying here. Take good care of yourself this year. Make this the year that you take good care of yourself. Not I'm going to lose 100 pounds. Not I'm going to get in really good shape. just I'm going to take good care of myself this year and I'm going to seek joy and I'm going to seek God or whatever that means to you. Seek peace, a higher being, something that brings you joy that makes you feel connected to the rest of the world and other humans. And I'm going to try really hard not to let my brain go into that negative space because it's easy to default mode there, right? But we don't always have to be positive either. We just need to be realistic. And I think in that realism, so many great things can be accomplished because that's when you just start putting one foot in front of the other and you go. So for everyone who's been on this journey with me, thank you so much and I hope you will join me in 2026. Happy New Year to all of you and merry Christmas if this comes out before then. Happy holidays. [music] Love to all of you. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I'm going to be sharing with you the five hazardous [music] signs of low estrogen that your doctor probably doesn't know. And you probably don't know either, but I saw this in [music] my practice a lot. I personally have experienced all of these symptoms. [music] And I wanted to take the time to make this episode today to share these very specific nuance