 Inarararizantra, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin, informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin informaticin inform I've probably beat this into my listeners way too many times, but in your definition, can you describe insulin resistance? Oh, yeah, my pleasure. Yeah, I think there's an obvious component to it, and then there's a less obvious component to it, but they are both components. You cannot have one without the other. And it's important just to state this up front because people may hear other instances where insulin resistance is invoked improperly in various contexts where it has no business being brought up. So with all of that weird preamble in mind, we can think of insulin resistance as a coin with two sides or a pathology with two parts. On one hand is the obvious aspect, which is that the hormone insulin isn't working quite as well as it used to. Now, I'm deliberately being a little soft in my language because there are some tissues or cells of the body that are still responding to insulin perfectly well, but then there are others that are not. And that's where the insulin resistance component has come in, where some cells are indeed resistant to the hormone insulin's effects. And insulin does a lot of things throughout the body. Literally every single cell of the body has insulin receptors. So it does more than just control glucose, which is all some people, even very well-trained clinicians, don't know that insulin does more than regulating glucose levels. That's just its most famous effect, but even far from its most important. Now, that's one part of insulin resistance. And again, the most obvious for something called insulin resistance. But the other part is very important to really understand why insulin resistance is so problematic, which is hyperinsulinemia or elevated insulin. You never have one without the other. That if you have insulin resistance, it doesn't matter the reason, whether it's pathological insulin resistance, like we're talking about when it's causing diseases, or whether it's physiological insulin resistance, which is when the bodies become insulin resistant for a purpose to fuel growth like puberty and pregnancy. Even then, if it's insulin resistance, you will always have elevated insulin. And then just to really put a fine point on that, bringing these both together, one of the most compelling examples is looking at infertility, just to use it as an illustration here, where in women, the most common infertility is polycystic ovary syndrome. Well, one of the interesting features here is that the cells, the theca cells and the granulosa cells of the ovaries that are responsible for making estrogens, the female sex hormones, of course, your audience. I need not go any further into that topic. You guys are so well-informed because of what you've taught them. So estrogens were once androgens or testosterone. And there's an enzyme called aromatase that will mediate that conversion. And those cells maintain their insulin sensitivity. And so as insulin levels have been going up in insulin resistance throughout the entire body, those ovarian cells are responding really, really well to it. Now we would say they're responding too well. insulin is inhibiting the aromatase, which is preventing her body from converting testosterone into estrogens. And thus her estrogens don't go high enough to have a normal ovulatory cycle. Now, on the other hand, though, is the most common form of infertility in men, which is erectile dysfunction. In that instance, it's actually less a problem of the hyperinsulinemia, like PCOS is. And now it's really a problem of the insulin resistance. But in this case, it's because his endothelial cells have become insulin resistant. So the cells that line the blood vessels, normally insulin will tell those cells to dilate. Now the cells aren't listening. So in the case of male infertility, it's actually the resistance part. In the case of female infertility, the most common form in both. Now it's a problem of the hyperinsulinemia. But both of them happen in a body that is experiencing insulin resistance. Wow. I had never thought of it that way. I wish I wish you were my professor in undergrad. Well, I'm delighted to be your honorary professor for the next hour or so and everyone listening. I know. I woke up and I was like, I get to interview Ben Bickman. And my husband knows nothing. And my husband's like, who's Ben Bickman? And I'm like, seriously? I could talk to this guy for like six hours. If I could just co-op his time, like pull him over here and say, give me the download. We could nerd out. Yes. Okay. So I think that folks, I'm guessing my audience has a general idea of why insulin resistance is a problem. Can you give us the kindergarten version? And then I want you to share what happens when you have all this excess insulin floating around in the bloodstream and what it does to fat cells. Oh, yeah. I'd love to get onto that topic. Yeah. So insulin resistance to help people appreciate why a scientist would devote his career to it, why your mentor focused on it well ahead of his time, I would say, 30 years ago. No one. I thought people weren't talking about it 10 years ago, let alone 30. So insulin resistance is the most common health disorder, like I mentioned. Evidence within the U.S. suggests that potentially up to 88% of all adults in the U.S. have some degree of insulin resistance manifest based on markers of the metabolic syndrome, these five features that clump together. Well, the metabolic syndrome used to be called the insulin resistance syndrome, and I wish it still were because it's a more accurate name. Now, I've found as a Canadian American, I've found that no one disrespects America like Americans. You know, Americans want to think that America is the fattest, dumbest, worthless country on the planet. And as a person who's traveled the world and is not born here, that couldn't be further from the truth, even metabolically. So in fact, the most insulin resistant countries on the planet, more than the U.S., are actually several countries through the Middle East and Southeast Asia. So as bad as we think we have it, you know, we don't actually take top spot. We're not even in the top 20, probably, to be perfectly frank. So nevertheless, it is an extremely common problem. And it is probably the leading contributor, if not one of the main leading contributors, to virtually every chronic disease. Heart disease, you mentioned, Alzheimer's disease, fatty liver disease, the most common liver problem, type 2 diabetes, of course, and infertility, and so on. So that just helps people put things in perspective. Now, to my great delight, one of the topics that my lab has focused on, like literally growing fat cells in petri dishes right down the hallway in incubators in my lab right now, it has been to focus on the variables that influence fat cell dynamics. Or what is it that makes a fat cell grow? And then when we know that, we can appreciate the variables that we can leverage to help fat cells shrink. So there are, in fact, two essential variables. One is a variable that is the only one anyone has ever heard about, namely calories. And energy does matter. Those little carbons that we call calories, which don't even get me started on why we ever invoked thermodynamics in biology. I think it's one of the dumbest, most egregious directions biology ever took. We're not eating units of heat. You know, we're eating carbons. And so why are we calling them units of heat? Why are we calling them calories? Anyway, it is the game that we're playing, and so we'll play along. So we eat calories, and calories do matter. However, the calories need to be told what to do at the fat cell. Or to say that all another way, in order for a fat cell to grow, it must be told to grow. And then it needs to have the fuel for that growth. They're not the same thing. For example, just at the level of the cell, we have fat cells. They can be swimming in a sea of calories, lots of glucose, lots of fats, and they stay skinny little small fat cells. They don't even look like a fat cell until we start spiking in a little bit of insulin. Then we can check four hours later, they're bigger. Check four hours later again, they're bigger still. Check 24 hours later, and they're big, fat, juicy fat cells just like you'd think about. Now, even at a human level, we see this, albeit somewhat tragically. People who get diagnosed with type 1 diabetes when they are in their early teenage years, when we're very fragile emotionally, we're very prone to being susceptible to peer pressure, people learn that they can skip their insulin injections and be as skinny as they want. This is, in fact, so effective and so common that it has a name called diabulimia. Anyone can look it up. This is absolute proof that there is another component to why fat cells get big in addition to just calories because these people can literally eat 10,000 calories a day of pure chocolate cake. They don't have to throw it up. They don't have to starve themselves. They can eat it and enjoy it, and they just look at that needle. I mean imagine the temptation. They look at that little syringe and say, you know what? I don't want to poke myself with you right now because I want to be skinny. Now, there's a metabolic storm raging in their body because of this, and it is very harmful and lethal, and yet by directly controlling their insulin levels, allowing it to stay low when it should have gone high, they cannot store fat. So as much as we ardently pound the table and claim that calories are all that matters, no, I can prove that wrong, and I just did. All you do is wipe out the insulin, and the human body has no potential to store fat. So the relevance of insulin with the fat cell is that it's like the fat cell is like a naughty kid. It has all these calories around it, and it doesn't know what to do with it. It needs to be told. insulin is the signal that tells the fat cell it's time to grow, but then the fat cell says, okay, I'm ready to go, but with what? If you have one variable up without the other, it's death. It's incompatible with life. That's why insulin, for reasons that for the sake of time perhaps I won't get into, but I'll follow your lead, but that is why insulin is referred to as the hormone of the fed state. When Dr. George Cahill, famous fasting starvation physiologist, was asked about the difference between the fed and the fasted states, he said it's all a matter of insulin. If insulin is high, it's the fed state, and in a fed state, the body, the fat cells will say, all right, hey, there's energy to store. I'm going to hold on to this because we might need it later. When insulin is low, even if calories are coming in, the fat cell doesn't know it. In the absence of an insulin stimulus, the body thinks it's still in a fasted state, and thus the fat cell is going to say, well, I'm not going to store energy if insulin isn't telling me to because I don't want to be pulling it in if other parts of the body, if we're fasted, then we need to be mobilizing energy, not storing it. So that's a long-winded way of answering your question about the relevance of insulin on the fat cell, and the short answer is it's utterly critical. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, The Quick and Dirty, I am going to present to you my insanely simple guide to fat loss, longevity, and fitness, and we're going to be discussing the four quadrants of exercise as I see them. I get questions all the time from super confused people who think Pilates is enough, Pilates is strength training, yoga is enough, walking is enough, strength training only, zone two all the time.