Like is this why girls love getting together with other girls? Like having girls time? I feel like women gathering together is another oxytocin booster. It is. It absolutely is. And you think about the characteristics of the blue zones or the areas where we have the longest living populations. Things that are characteristic of high oxytocin are characteristic within those communities like having a faith-based practice, having long-standing marriages, having great family relationships or multigenerational households, getting out in nature, you know, good community. All of those things help increase oxytocin. And you know, like, okay, well, what is it? Is it the getting out in nature? is it's a combination of the things that I think you know when we win when oxytocin's winning that improves our physiology top down. >> So if we can elevate oxytocin we should naturally get our cortisol to decline then so we can use it as a lever. >> We can use it as a lever 100%. like I have worked on this area now since my own like my PTSD which began in 2006 and so I've worked on this and in this concept and with patients whether you know again it's always lifestyle nutrition you know we're doing with hormones and then how do we increase oxytocin naturally and then if we need it exogenously when are we adding it and how for how long but these things all I mean it really it works as a lever and if we think so much of our even postpandic PMIC stress or during the pandemic stress, the isolation that is a, you know, that will level your cortisol and then plus being inside and, you know, flattening out or disrupting your circadian rhythm like we're doing with blue light and and EMF exposures. And so all of those things interrupt our circadian rhythm. And we talk a lot about stress management. I don't know about you, Tina, but when you know when I talk when I hear stress management, I get stressed. It's like my physiology stresses out just thinking of stress management. But if we think about play and I like to say microdose oxytocin throughout your day with oxyplay. So just ways to you know bump up your oxytocin like we talk about five minute exercise snacks. What about five minute play snacks? And that really does move the name. We're going to work on supplements, nutrition, all that circadian reset, sunrises, sunsets. But things we can do to increase oxytocin move the needle the fastest and people feel it and their physiology shows inflammatory markers go down. It's powerful. You can load up a miserable person with all the supplements and hormones and peptides in the world and nothing will shift. >> So true. And if you can get some and sometimes we do have to use exogenous oxytocin to get the ball rolling, but it's it's really it is it's like a misery cluster. I get in it too. I get in my dark doldrums. And I was at a wedding the other day and I was I mean I wasn't you know pain is exhausting. It just like >> sucks the joy right out of you. And I I'm at my stepson's wedding the other day and I was totally in that place that you described like I don't want to be seen. I don't want to talk to anyone. I don't I mean I'm And here I I get social anxiety anyway. So here I am with like all these strangers and I and they're the most wonderful people too. I could not ask for a better group of people to be around and yet here I am feeling like and finally I don't know a song broke out. I started dancing and I just like let go and I was just dancing and my husband grabbed me. I'm going to cry. He was like this is called fun. Do you remember this? And I was like yes and he cell. It does. It like feeds forward. >> Absolutely. That's that's oxytocin firsthand. That's the magic, right? It's so good. And when you experience that, there was a study done by Paul Zach looking at oxytocin in different um populations. And he studied a wedding party and and his results, his analysis showed that the number one way to increase oxytocin or the number one person with the highest level of oxytocin was the bride. I mean, that makes sense. A >> the number two person was the mother of the bride. >> Ah, that's Yeah, I could see that. That was a happy lady that day. Absolutely. And it it it kind of breaks the dam. And then you I try to seek out fun. It's hard. That's one of the reasons I'm moving. We've had this conversation, but I have got to get out of the state because the state as a whole is like been sucked dry of joy and fun. It's not a joyous place. And when you go to other when I travel to other places that are have a much higher level of sun exposure, people are happier and there's just more joy in the community and there's the people giving you coffee don't treat you like they hate you. They are happy to give you coffee. They're happy to wait on you and serve you and be, you know, be good customer service. And it's very different. And you can travel around a place. I think sunlight has got to play be a huge player in this, too. like just exposure. >> Yeah. And if you think of you I mean exactly right when I have studied cultures around the world part of my research and looking at hormones and hormonal health women as we age around the world and different societies including some of the most warridden societies of the world and think okay what how are they tapping into their joy? Well first of all when you look at northern populations versus southern populations how does a northern Englander greet you greet you? They're like >> very stern. >> Yeah. Hi. Very stern. But how does a, you know, a beautiful, you know, Peruvian greet you? Hugs, kisses on both cheeks. It's a hug and a kiss. Well, what creates oxytocin? That hug and the kiss. So, societies that have incorporated that already know like, okay, this is a way to build trust, to create relationship, and it's like already a high oxytocin moment. But then physiologically vitamin D is needed for the oxytocin receptors to work. >> Ah yes, there it is. >> There it is. >> Yeah. And I think probably infrared I'm I'm sure that we'll find out later that the different components of sunlight just the rays, you know, are going to be a big player, too. I It's a bonding hormone. And so I can see how in cultures where it's high, those societies probably feel much more bonded overall and much more like a collective than you know we when we I think CO was that was the first thing I thought of actually when they locked us down. I was in Oregon which was like crazy town for years. I still to this day people are afraid to get near you and I'm a hugger. So, I remember I think it was like 2021 and I was flying and I was at the airport in Portland and I'm standing next to a guy and I wasn't standing on my circle and I got too close to him. I was like on my phone just happy to be going on a trip, you know? I was going I think I was going to Mexico with my husband. So, I was like in a good mood and uh I got too close to his circle and he freaked out and I just thought, "Dude, I you I just was thinking like you should just let me hug you right now. You'd feel better." >> Probably right. Yeah. plus get a little of my microbiome on him, you know, like share some good healthy microbiome, he'd feel better. But it really it really is a killer. I think that's interesting to play into the most recent research. I'm sure you saw they came out with like of all the longevity movers community strong community was the biggest, you know, component of longevity period like the most powerful at the end of the day. So I think this is it's got to be oxytocin. >> It's got to be oxytocin. Austin and David Promeater, their most recent book was on that concept of community and how important that is and that is honestly the building of oxytocin. And then when I looked at these um you know the some of these war torn areas, what are things that they had in common? They have multigenerational households. They celebrated everything. Birthdays, they celebrated weddings for a week. They celebrate name days, anniversaries. Everyone remembers everyone. community like there's big dinners, family dinners together that are, you know, that are just, you know, mandatory, but no one would ever think of not showing up, right? So, they build this in the stress. So, oxytocin can trump out that stress cortisol and their dancing and music is part of their lifestyle and in their language. A lot of gratitude in their language.