we we're a year into the diabetes diagnosis. And he goes, "You know what? I don't know. You're one of several people on this program out of a thousand people that have gone through this program that just haven't responded from a weight loss perspective." And I was kind of like, I could have told you that when we started. Um, but he goes, "You're probably a candidate for beriatric surgery." And I'm going, "I'm 37 years old. I don't want to have my anatomy rearranged." Like, that's where my my mental state was at the time. I'm not knocking anybody who makes that decision for themselves. And in fact, um, you know, I'm still considering it at 39 years old that that that actually might be the best course for me. I don't know. Um, but still sort of wrestling with it is my point, but I didn't have coverage for it. So, he goes, there's this new class of medications, right? They they're actually mimicking what happens when people have bad beriatric surgery. We've found that there are a bunch of hormonal changes that happen like on the operating table. Once we make these these changes, the there's a hormonal regulation that starts to happen almost immediately. And they're starting to mimic that with this class of medications called GLP1s. And so he goes, I'm going to put you on Mjaro. It's expensive, but you're diabetic, so you should be able to get it covered. So I went home again, still super skeptical of medicine in general, coming off of all the shenanigans that we saw around that time. And I'm like, I'm not going to just put this into my body. I'm going to learn everything there is to learn about this. And so I went to YouTube and what I found from YouTube was a bunch of stories like, hey, I lost 100 pounds in 6 months on OEMIC. I yada yada. And you there's a hundred stories out there. But I didn't find anybody talking about what they were, what they did, how they worked, what the study showed. And I thought, you know, I'm going to go find this information, but I'm going to share it because somebody else going to come behind me and and they deserve to be able to find this information. And so that's sort of where on the pen was born is just this desire to to to empower people with information, right? And so essentially, this sort of has evolved as as I've been a slower responder. I've seen many people in our community. We have probably 110,000 people between. We're split spread out across the platforms, right? Tik Tok, YouTube, Twitter, email, Facebook, everything. Um, but I've heard such dramatic stories about uh just massive transformations in in weight loss, etc. It's just not been my story. Um, so there's been sort of a level of frustration in wanting to know what else is on the horizon, what other things that I may be able to explore to get to treat my metabolic dysfunction. And so really what we do is we we effort to share the news about the these medications, the trial data that comes out, the u the whatever's going on in the news that might be pertinent to somebody whose life is being transformed by what I always call leveling the metabolic playing field. That's really in essence what these medications are doing for a people who are taking them for for type two diabetes or obesity is they're actually just giving people a fighting chance uh for their biology to come into alignment uh in a in a sense that they can kind of work with the medication and bring themselves into better more more full complete health for themselves. And one of the things that has been just the evergreen topic within this community is just the accessibility. They're extremely expensive medications to to get unless you're diabetic. It's a little bit easier if you're diabetic, but then you have to you have to be diabetic to get it. Um Right. You have to remain diabetic to continue to get it too, right? Like you have to remain obese or diabetic to actually have it clear. And that's the crazy part. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I mean an insurance that's the other thing that that we've learned in the nap household is the insurance companies will fight you tooth and nail to not cover anything that that is expensive. Um they're they're essentially practicing medicine right at the at the uh at the bureaucratic level of the insurance companies. They're just saying, "Yeah, there's something better here." just um and so ultimately yeah it's very difficult to stay on the medication as as well as getting treatment for obesity once you're below a certain BMI unless your doctor is coding everything just so it's very hard to stay on it because now you're not obese anymore but you need the medication for maintenance many people who are on these medications uh for obesity will need some level of treatment uh because like any chronic disease typically when you need treatment to get it in remission you need treatment to keep it there Um, and that sort of bears out in the clinical trials for these as well. Well, that's not to say it's going to be everybody's story, but um you know, you're you're leveling the metabolic playing field with a peptide that is is supplanting something that's deficient or or disregulated in your body.