How you eat is going to dictate how you heal. How you move every single day and how you choose to live your life as far as how you treat your body as a vessel that you need to train and hone and respect and and stay active is going to impact how any therapeutic that is applied to you works. How you respect your sleep, how you respect your obviously nutrition, how you respect your relationships and your stress levels is going to dictate how your hormones play out. like it's all intertwined. And so sometimes I know you guys think I'm hardcore, but I'm coming from a place of extensive experience. I've been in this world a long time. I have been doing this a long time. Before that, I was very intimately interested in health. I had read pretty much every I I grew up down the street from the library. And so I would walk I don't know, it was probably half a mile. I'd walk to the library constantly and just read every book I could on nutrition because I was so interested in it as a teenager. So like this has been my world. In undergrad, I worked at Oregon Health Sciences University as a research assistant. Um I mean it goes on and on and on. It goes all the way back actually to my great grandma. My great grandma was an herbalist and was healing people with nutritional supplements. I guess people now today would call her a health coach, but that's what my great-grandma was doing. So I picked up a lot of this along the way via my mom and just the way that I was raised, right? So he was right about all of it. And it has more recently gotten very popular and it's very bizarre because I've been beating this drum for I don't even know how long. I've been online since 2016 and I've been beating this drum. Same drum. Back then it was not cool. They were, you know, the big health influencers were telling you to do yoga and eat vegan and I was telling people to like eat steak and deadlift. It was not popular. There was no term for carnivore back then. I mean, heck, we just had gotten the paleo diet really. So, these things stand to the test of time because your metabolic health ultimately is what is going to dictate your overall health. And it doesn't need to be overly complicated. And this industry has gotten so out of control. The wellness industry is so so gross and I'm so grossed out by what it has become and I'm even more grossed out that I am embroiled in it and I if you haven't noticed I haven't posted on Instagram in over two months. I I keep up in my stories but I haven't posted any posts. I've just accepted collaboration on other people's posts or even on my other I have a Dr. Tina show. I have podcast Instagram. You should go follow it. It's clips from the podcast. Um, I I I don't know. I hit a wall recently and I just I I'm so tired of saying the same thing over and over again because it's not sexy and nobody wants to hear it. Somehow Cali and Casey Means popularized metabolic health and kudos to them because I don't know how they did it. There are many of us who have been preaching that same same dialogue for decades and nobody wanted to listen and for a blip in time they popularized it. I don't know if it made a difference. I don't really think I I think a lot of people are just collectors of information and very rarely are they actual action takers. Very rarely do they actually go and do something with the information that they have. Uh, I found this to be true with my patients. I found this to be true with my business coaching. Uh, I used to run high-end masterminds to teach doctors how to go online and build a business. And same thing, like people want to talk a lot. They want to collect information and read all day and, you know, just doom scroll Instagram, but rarely do they take action. It doesn't matter what peptides you're taking. It doesn't matter what stack you're taking because none of it will is worth a damn or will work for you in 90 days time if you're not taking care of all the other pieces. And I know that's hard to hear and it pisses people off. But this is just the new sweetheart on the scene. You see, I have access to regenerative things that like exoomes for instance. I've had access to that for a long time, long before many of you ever heard about it. None of the HRT, the Women's Health Initiative of 2002 did not scare me away from prescribing. Like, I've been prescribing the whole time. I didn't just discover menopause a few years ago like so many people did. I didn't just discover hormones and HRT as part of my practice. I wasn't one of those doctors who basically practiced for 20 years and neglected to treat their patients appropriately and comprehensively because they were scared or they didn't take the time to go learn. The information was out there. The training was out there. A lot of the folks you see online today are acting like it wasn't. It sure was. You just had to go look for it and you had to be brave enough to actually, you know, have pharmacists call you and chew you out and say, "What are you doing?" Right? You had to be able to stand your ground. And so, a couple of us, Carrie Jones, Dr. Carrie Jones, if you don't follow her, myself, I mean, a lot of us were practicing this same medicine. We've been doing this a long time is my point. I'm not trying to take any credit away from or give it to myself, but like I've been in the trenches a long time with this. And I'm telling you, you give somebody thyroid hormone and if they're not doing all the things, they bonk in 90 days. You start treating somebody's adrenals and if they don't do all the things, they bonk within 90 days. You put someone on a GLP-1, if they don't start doing all the things, they are going to bonk in a similar time frame. You give somebody a cycle of peptides and they're like, "This is amazing." and they're maybe they're taking action, maybe they're not. If they're not taking action, it doesn't do a damn thing. And I have access to things that most people don't like exabolically unound, inflamed body that's malnourished, even the exoomes, even the fancy, even the stem cells, none of it works. That was a big piece of contention in my practice was I would turn patients away. First of all, you had to literally apply to be a patient. And I laughed because people thought I was such a witch for doing that. And it was like, dude, really? These procedures are not covered by insurance under any circumstance unless you're scamming insurance. They are expensive. They are invasive. They are potentially risky. And why would I put somebody through that if they are not going to be absolutely primed and ready to receive that treatment and have the best outcomes possible? Like that doesn't make any sense to me. And you've no clue the amount of [\h__\h] I took from my colleagues saying, "Well, you're not giving access to people and you're turning people away and you're you're taking away hope." I'm like, "No, dude. Really? Like none of the things that I do, none of the tools that I have work in a sick body." Now, sometimes we use those tools to give people a leg up to get going, but it is contingent upon them to take the reins and ride the horse, right? I can put you on a horse. I can teach you how to ride a horse, but you got to ride the horse. And I took a just it was it's just been a it's been constant. And then I got called fatophobic the other day. I got just completely torn apart in my DMs because I put that podcast out recently that this micro doing for weight loss is a total scam. I never said that. That was never my intention and it's the messaging that's come across because of the the powers that be. Who knows? It's so so gross and you're so being scammed by it and I'm glad people are finally speaking out about it. Go back and listen to that podcast episode. I'll put it in the show notes. It's a must listen in my opinion. But the reason I bring it up is because that's a great example of something that if it does work for weight loss, it's not going to work for very long unless you're doing all the things with it.