What happens is once you started breathing with clean air at night, you have a really hard time going back. So what's happening to people is they're getting beat down by pollen and mold 24 hours a day inside their house, outside their house. And when we test a carpet or a bed for pollen, there's typically more pollen in your house than there is outside. We can handle some pollen and some mold and some allergies or some chemicals even for an hour here or there. But it's the 24-hour chronic beatdown that actually gives people these bad symptoms. I remember early on thinking like really like this isn't like a actual, you know, exposure topically. This is them breathing in the air and then having an allergic reaction. And I had a veterinarian. I had a dog with really severe skin allergies. And she's like, "You have to get good air filtration in your house. Like that's huge. This is going to be hu" And it really was. It was huge for the dog. And I I like that changed everything for me. And I can't for you, too. I can't imagine breathe less pet dander. >> Yeah, I was gonna say I can't imagine it's any different for us. I mean, we're presenting, people are saying like, I have psoriasis. I have eczema. I was watching I don't ever watch regular TV, but I was watching regular TV the other day, and every other commercial was an ad for big pharma for >> fast food and big pharma, >> but it was all psoriasis. I'm like, are we having a psoriasis epidemic? And nobody gave me the memo. Like, this is crazy. And this h this can't just be topical skin exposure. I mean, psoriasis is an autoimmune condition. and it's coming from the inside. I'm like, what is triggering it? Is this air quality? Is this Obviously, the foods we're eating are garbage. But it's just another factor to that people should really consider. >> Look, >> yeah, >> I got [laughter] some uh if I if I don't eat bread, if I don't eat bread and I drink filtered water and I breathe clean air, it's really at bay. If I introduce any of the stressors, uh if I especially if I sauna regularly and I drink a lot of water, it's really really at bay. And then if I do any one of those things poorly, moldy hotel room, bad air, uh bread, uh eat some bad food, alcohol, it tends to it tends to really get worse. It's like >> my um my radar of my stress radar essentially. Yeah. >> Also, we did um a cool study recently. So, we shipped 100 people Jaspers in exchange for one month of their sleep data from their Aura rings. >> Oh, yeah. Tell me about this. >> And we're starting to now um consolidate the data and writing case studies, but like 65% of people had all-time high sleep scores, deep sleep. The reviews are just crazy. And we had them do first week was no Jasper, Jasper off. Weeks two and three Jasper on in your bedroom. Fan speed two, lights off. It's got dark mode. And then the fourth week they took the Jasper out of the room. And it was amazing watching the sleep scores go up and then come back down. A couple of them messaged actually saying that they caved. Um because what happens is once you started breathing with clean air at night, you have a really hard time going back. >> Amazing. >> Um so we like to put our money where our mouth is. Like you said, like big pharma is a massive funer of media and also studies and they they they start with the end in mind. So, I was really hoping that we got a result like this because we get reviews all the time about how people are sleeping so much better, but I'm like, if we don't get good data all at once in an organized way, we won't really know about it. And what we did is we we triaged people and a lot of the folks who participated in the study were doctors, were health and wellness influencers, were creators, were people with insomnia. So, we triaged everybody to have a diverse group of people as a part of the study. And a lot of them documented their progress weekly. So I'm like, let's just I hate that most studies are done behind closed doors and no there's no transparency. All of a sudden you just see a paper like why didn't you guys film the study then? How come like where are the people who are part of the study? None of them are willing to like talk about it. So our intention is to do more of these studies in public community kind of le focused studies in the spring. We're going to do another one in Texas with seasonal allergies. Um and I like how you mentioned resilience before. You know, I created Jasper for wildfire smoke. That was the plan. I never thought I'd be talking to you, talking about health and wellness, talking about sleep. I'm glad it turned out this way, but this was never part of the plan. The reason why we made it so high quality was cuz we were trying to make it tackle wildfire smoke. And then dust and pollen and mold are just easier problems to solve. And the craziest thing that I've witnessed now almost every day is folks who suffer from allergies, what happens is we are very resilient. But the average bedroom has 800,000 particles floating around in it. If you put an air a Jasper in the bedroom, within about an hour, that number is reduced by about 95%. >> Wow. >> So what happens is I like to call um the bedroom a sleep sanctuary and I call air sleep fuel. So, with a bedroom, you know, if you're if it's hot or cold, you're going to be no matter how comfortable the bed is, if it's too hot, you're not going to sleep well. >> And then if you have your if if the temperatures dialed in, but it's super loud and you're above a nightclub or it's really loud in the hotel room next door, you're not going to sleep well. Your sleep quality is only as good as the weakest link. So, you know, if it's too dry or too humid, problem. And same thing goes for like really heavily polluted air. So, what's happening to people is they're getting beat down by pollen and mold 24 hours a day inside their house, outside their house. And when we test a carpet or a bed for pollen, there's typically more pollen in your house than there is outside because that pollen comes inside and then it gets embedded in all of the porest materials in your house and it can't get out. So, you're breathing it non-stop. And when all of a sudden you go from breathing 800,000 particles a night to breathing 10,000, your body h gets to stop playing defense. It gets to enter recovery mode. It gets parasympathetic. And then the coolest thing about it is not only do people sleep really, really well. But then when they go out into the world, their seasonal allergies are often gone because now that their streps bucket gets to drain every single night and not be bombarded, all of a sudden they're we're very resilient. We can handle some pollen and some mold and some allergies um or some chemicals even for an hour here or there. But it's the 24-hour chronic beatdown that actually gives people these bad symptoms. So, the thing that I'm like most passionate and excited about is when people can dial in their air quality in their bedroom and in their home. You know, the 95% we spend 95% of our time indoors. Huge blessing, but also a curse. It's a curse because that's way too much time to be indoors and indoor air is bad. But the blessing is your home and your bedroom is one atmosphere. It's one environment that you can control. You choose the lights. You choose the bedding. You choose the water. You choose the air. when you're out at an Airbnb or a hotel or driving through the city, you have no sovereignty over your environment. So, you can really turn that negative into a positive by making your house like a recovery zone. >> Yep. I totally agree. It's I call it harm reduction. Like, what can we do in our homes to control and contain things because we don't have much control once we step out. So, making the home itself a sanctuary as best we can, especially the bedroom, that's huge. You know, it's nuts. When the wildfires were happening here, I mean, we're I'm in Oregon, so the sky was red all last week. It was really, really hot. Maybe you can explain why this happens. The hotter it gets during wildfire seasons, it's almost like it traps the air and it doesn't get out. And so, the whole sky was this weird orange color for a week and we were in the middle of some pretty hot weather last week. And my anxiety, I mean, granted, my Instagram got pulled down for a hot minute, so that was part of it. But my anxiety was through the roof. And every time we get wildfire smoke, my anxiety goes through the roof to the point where I actually leave. One year I actually left for 10 days because it was so bad here. I flew to Vegas and just stayed in a hotel for 10 days because I was like, I'm not going home. I'm not I can't breathe that. I freak out. What What is all that about? Because it's just it's insane what it does to my nervous system. >> Yeah. Even like in here in Texas often it's very hazy when it's hot. It creates ground level ozone. And if you think about it, when you heat stuff up, if you're cooking, >> if you don't start cooking, you don't smell the food. Once you start heating the food, you can smell it more. >> So you're you're airer, it's like evaporation. You're aerosolizing all the stuff, the roads, the grass, the the everything that's on the ground. As you heat it all up, it it goes more airborne. >> Wow. >> You know, when you freeze things, it goes into a a solid. When you or when you melt when it melts, it becomes a liquid. And when you heat it, it becomes a gas. >> Yep. >> So all the things that weren't in the air go in the air. And then you if you think about it when you're dealing with and I lived in British Columbia so I actually left Colona because of the wildfire smoke. >> It was the number one reason that we left. We have two babies. We're already on like always on evacuation alert. And >> so if a Jasper good air is like a four or five, that's what your Jasper should say most of the time. >> And outside when there's wildfire smoke, it could be like a 250 or 300. That's how much particulates are in the air outside. That's like deli. It's like, yeah, horrible. >> And what people don't realize is even when it's outside is 250 and they're like, "Stay inside today. School's canceled. Recess is canceled. Stay indoors. Don't exercise outside." Your indoor particulate can still be 150 to 200. >> It's almost as bad as the outdoor air. It's 20 30% better at best. The problem is you can't see it or smell it inside because you become nose blind. Y >> So you go outside and it smells like a campfire. you cut. It's like when you're cooking your s'mores by the fire, you don't smell the smoke. When you come inside and take a shower the next day, you're like, I stink even days later. Yeah. Because you get nose blind. When you're in the smoke, you don't smell the smoke unless it's in your eyes. You don't really like notice it, but you could smell a campfire >> a block away, two blocks away, but when you're a part of the campfire, you get nose blind. and folks who live in wildfire zones and not even wildfire zones. Last year it impacted New York City and Chicago and Toronto and no part of the country didn't experience wildfire smoke in 2023. And the the interesting thing here is when you you don't notice it's inside. I only noticed cuz I had air quality testing equipment and filtration. But our we had a a nanny at the time and I gave her a Jasper cuz she would come over, she's like air. And then she'd go home. I'm like, just take her name was Tessy. I'm like, Tessy, just bring a Jasper home. You know, she was awesome. So, she went home, hit smart mode, and it started, she was in a small basement apartment. It started at like 220. So, it was almost the same as it was outside, and within an hour, it was down to like 9 or 10, which is back to excellent. And in that setting, you could really like see it and feel it cleaning the air. And that's what we designed it for, for wildfire smoke. And when you are, it's like when you're in um a building and it feels so when someone says it feels stuffy. What there what that that is layman's term for it's the carbon dioxide level is high or if you're on a road trip and you're like I got to open some windows and get some fresh air. What you're really saying is we need to purge this carbon dioxide in here. >> Yeah. >> And same thing when it's like really smoky and bad polluted air. Um your body is being stressed. It's like if you turn the heat to, you know, if it's 100° Fahrenheit outside, you're also going to feel very stressed. You're like, I need to cool off. I need to get some water. I need to cool off. So, if you're breathing really polluted air, you're like, I just need some clean air to breathe. So, that's what would typically happen to somebody, whether it's uh smoke is probably the most prolific example of it, but a small version of a wildfire happens every time you cook inside your house. Uh because if you don't have good ventilation and you're not opening your doors and your windows and you don't have filtration, every time you cook, you're polluting your air quite a lot. Um so yeah, that's what's happening with the wildfire smoke and then yeah, cooking if you don't have a solution for it can be quite problematic as well. >> Yeah, all of my air filters in my house go on red alert when we cook. Every I'm like uhoh, [laughter] we better open the windows. Especially when we melt butter, that's the really interesting one. Or cook steak. all the air filtration goes red and we're like >> even if you have grass-fed grass-finish steak with organic oils and you get all the right stuff and you got the right pants. >> Oh yeah. >> The thing is when you got high heat and protein that creates a lot of chemical kaipans that are byproducts. It's not like you're just breathing in uh steak and olive oil or avocado oil or whatever. Um you are breathing in the the compounds that are byproducts of the heat and the protein. When we would clean up homes after wildfire smoke, we're always testing for pH, um, which is gets created from those high heats. And most people's range hoods don't actually work. So, free tip, people can take a tissue. First step is hold it up to your range hood and make sure your range hood sucks it up. 50% of people's won't. It doesn't actually even vent anything. Step two, if it is actually adequately pulling it up, make sure the range hood vents outside. A lot of the time it's venting into a wall cavity, into a cupboard, into your attic. It's not venting outside. So you're taking it from your kitchen and you're just dumping it somewhere else. And then is it even pulling? Sometimes they actually blow down. They're the opposite of pulling. Bathroom fan do the same thing. Take a tissue. Make sure your bathroom fans are sucking the tissue up. Make sure your bathroom fan vents outside. A lot of people get mold in their attics because they take a shower, they turn on the fan, and then they just dump all that moisture into their attic. Um, so you want to make sure the vents in your home are doing what you what they're supposed to be doing. When you cook, range hood is not just for bacon. Um, you should use it no matter what when you're cooking. And especially if you're boiling something, use use the back burners. So, first step is make sure the range hood even works. Step two is use your back burner as much as you can. I get it. Sometimes, you know, you're cooking and it's kind of a little bit cumbersome to reach the back burner, but especially if you're like sautéing stuff or you're boiling it when it's convenient to keep it on the back burner because the range hoods are much more efficient at collecting particles when you're directly under it. When you're on that those front two burners, it a lot of the um smoke and particulate doesn't get caught by the range hood. >> Yeah. And then also if the if it's not super polluted and it's not too hot or too cold based on the time of the year and where you live, opening windows when you're cooking is awesome. Of course, air filtration is a good idea as well. And when you some people are like, okay, but why is healthy food bad to breathe? So, a was those chemical compounds that aren't the food or the oil itself. But the second thing is when you put food inside you, you have a digestive system. It breaks things down. It takes out the nutrients, filters out the rest. When that goes into your respiratory system, you don't have that same level of filtration. So, it really irritates it. It causes a lot of inflammation. Like, just because you eat something, it doesn't mean you can snort it. >> Yeah. [laughter] Oh, that's funny. Um, I laugh because I am AI'm 50 years old and I had too many friends back in the 90s that were sure they could snort everything. [laughter] [gasps] No, that's >> not steak. >> We're not snorting our steaks. No, no. I love that. What is this uh smart mode on this on the Jasper? Tell me more about that. >> So, yeah, your the smart mode is what you should keep on in the Jasper that's in your and I think about Jasper kind of like a Sonos system. >> Okay. >> So, [clears throat] it has no Wi-Fi, no Bluetooth, no EMF. So, it's not Sonos in the sense that it's it's Wi-Fi. It's not. But Sonos was a really cool invention. Same with hardwired speakers because back in the day, you just have like one speaker. So, you'd have to like make it really loud if you wanted to hear it in the other rooms. You probably wouldn't even hear it. You'd feel the bass but you wouldn't hear it. And then along came Sonos where you could have reasonable volume in every room. So with we think about Jasper has a decentralized whole home system. Much better than a furnace. It's it's decentralized. So you can put it in your bedroom. You can put it in your living room. Smart mode is designed to respond to PM2.5 and to VOCC's. So next time wildfire smoke comes into into the area, Jasper will respond. if you cook, Jasper will respond. So, smart mode is designed to automatically and I I don't like when there's a smart they call everything a smart product, but it's actually a dumb product because I have to have an app to control it. So, is the product smart or is it dumb because I have to use my phone to control it. Dishwashers, fridges, everything has an app these days. So, we really wanted to stay away from that. Fun fact, I didn't have a phone for three years recently between 2017 and 2020. Um, so the last thing I want to do is create a product that forces people to use their phone even more. So smart mode means it's smart, so you don't have to be. You can set it and forget it. So, however, if it's in a bedroom setting, turning it up to like fan speed 2 or fan speed 3 with on dark mode, so there's no ambient light is is the best practice for a bedroom setting. But yeah, smart mode is the best to detect the cooking and the cleaning and the pollution. And then also the VOCC's. So often someone could like come into your home or a dog could walk by it or your neighbor could be cutting drywall five houses down. My mom was recently um staining a picnic table 200 feet from our house um from their lakehouse in Canada and Jasper actually responded to that 200 feet away. >> Wow. >> It's like when you're at the beach and someone sprays sunscreen, even if they're like that aerosol stuff, you could be in any direction and like 100 feet away and you're going to smell the sunscreen. Air is much like water. So, it's it's kind of contaminating the whole thing. And your home is not separate from the outside environment. So, if your neighbor, even if you're using, you know, low tox chemicals and good cooking products and cleaning products, but your neighbors using bounce sheets in the dryer, they're venting it out of their house and directly into yours, >> right? >> So, yeah. And other people's kind of outdoor air quality issues can become your indoor problem. >> Yep. I totally agree with them. Micro doing was never intended to be a weight loss strategy. And in fact, I'll tell you the truth. It is not an effective weight loss strategy. I have said this from day one. I have been completely clear from day one. If you go back and watch any of my content, if you watch any of the other podcasts that I was on over the past year plus, if you watch my free four