

=== FILE: 6 Hazardous Signs of Low Estrogen In Middle Aged Women Your Doctor Won't Tell You ｜ Solo Ep 246 [v5AQoORGzrs].txt ===

 UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC UFC All right. So for part one, I went over several signs and symptoms that your estrogen may be declining that your doctors really aren't aware of. These are not popular symptoms, but they are actually very, very common. And so you can go back and listen to part one of this. I highly encourage you to because it's going to resonate with a lot of you. But we're going to move on to part two because several of these have popped up with clients and patients of mine and I myself included, and I wanted to make sure to go over them because many of you really think that, oh, low estrogen means hot flashes and that's it, right? The hot flashes haven't started. I'm still menstruating. I'm fine. That is not the case. And data has shown what I have been trying to tell women for decades, which is get your estrogen checked and handled long before you think you need to. I'm talking in your 30s and 40s, get your estrogen checked and handled long before you think you need to. The data has come out very clearly in the past few years that your risk of several disease processes and bone density issues are going to be mitigated with starting estrogen within the magic window, which I believe in several studies are starting to lean towards and many clinicians are starting to get on the tip of, which is before you stop menstruating, before you are full on into menopause. The signs and symptoms that I deal with every single day, personally, with my patients and clients, listening to my followers, these things are happening long before the period stops. All right? So if I waited personally until my period stopped, I would be in a complete nightmare situation right now. There's no version of that that I want for you, for me, for any of us. I know that estrogen therapy has been sort of all the rage. I completely acknowledge the fact that there is this seemingly strong movement to medicalize menopause. I don't agree with that. I don't think that's really what's happening. I think there are several very well-intentioned doctors, particularly some with very large followings, who are very excited about the fact that they are making huge changes. And we all are excited that I am, that they're making huge changes to how menopause is understood and handled in this country. That said, since the black box warning, thank God, came off of estrogen, we now have a worldwide shortage of estrogen transdermal patches is what I'm understanding. That's what I'm hearing. A lot of women are being prescribed the estrogen pill, which I'm not a fan of. I'm not going to go into all of that here. I actually am developing a course where I'm going to cover all of that for you. But the bottom line is women are asking for it. Doctors are starting to actually prescribe it without fear. Thank God. But that said, I think a lot of women are still being made to wait. So without going into testing and when you should test and what you should test and how you should do this, find yourself a hormone literate doctor. Not someone who just started a few weeks ago when the black box warning came off, but somebody who's actually literate at this, who's been doing it a while, this is not something you learn in a weekend course. This is something that takes years to hone. If you're a sensitive individual, if you have histamine issues, et cetera, go back and listen to that episode I did all about histamine. There are people who don't tolerate standard dosing of hormones. That doesn't mean it's not for you. And it doesn't mean that you can't handle estrogen or that you don't need estrogen. If you are somebody who has had estrogen positive breast cancer or you've had any kind of cancer in the past and you've been told you're not a candidate, please go back and listen to my episode. I did a whole episode about this with a wonderful OBGYN, Dr. Men, and she covered it all. She is a former breast cancer survivor herself, and we covered that as well. I'll answer the question up front that everyone says, well, what if I can't take estrogen? What if I can't handle estrogen? What do I do then? I do not have much to tell you because there's nothing that mimics estrogen, right? It's kind of like when everybody was trying to find nature's ozempic. There's no such thing. There are things that might stimulate your own endogenous production of, but if your ovaries are petered out, they're petered out. If you're not making estrogen, you're not making estrogen. And if your cells want estrogen, then they need estrogen to bind. There's no kind of faking around that. There are medications out there that might help mitigate some of the symptomology, but when you need a hormone, you need a hormone. So I'm not going to get into all of that here. I just wanted to address it because I realize it's a thing. It's worth acknowledging. I understand that not everybody can access this. I understand that everybody cannot utilize estrogen. This is not medical advice. This is not prevention, treatment, or cure. This is simply educational. I just want to get you guys thinking that these seemingly unrelated symptoms that just mysteriously are appearing in middle age are probably connected. I remember being back in chiropractic college and back then, the way that we were being taught was very musculoskeletal and things were in silos. Like this is musculoskeletal and this is what we're sticking to. And I would sit there in class and learn about all of these conditions, whether we were learning about it from a pathological standpoint, whether we were learning about it in bone pathology, where we were actually seeing it on x-ray, which was fascinating to actually see these disease processes happening in real time on bones, on x-rays and imaging. But it was so interesting to me that it kept happening to women between the ages of 45 and 65. Predominantly female, predominantly 45 to 65. When you learn disease processes and differential diagnosis in medical school, you learn about the group most commonly impacted. And I kept raising my hand and I was like, well, isn't this estrogen? Isn't this a problem of estrogen? Like, isn't this, if it's happening predominantly to females between the ages of 45 to 65, it's not a disease process. It's estrogen leaving the body. I really want to drive this home because then fast forward to clinical practice. I'm talking 20 years ago, patients would come in and they would have, you know, a myriad of conditions. And whether it was me working with my mentor for decades, or it was my own clinical practice, we would try to explain to these women that you're sitting in that age group and this is likely estrogen leaving the body. This is likely hormonal, hormonally related somehow, right? And people just didn't want to believe it. And of course, that women's health initiative study didn't do anything to, gosh, I mean, the amount of times I had to convince women and show them on lab work that their hormones were low, and then convince them that it was relating to their symptomology, and then convince them that it was safe to proceed with bioidentical hormone replacement was like a whole thing, right? And it took, I remember with some patients just giving up because they were so adamant or their doctors were so adamant that they were going to die if they took estrogen. So a lot of women just went on with their chronic joint pain. And remember, my practice was predominantly regenerative injection therapies for musculoskeletal conditions and joints. So I was seeing it in real time. That said, we didn't have a lot of data back then. It was anecdotal. And I worked with some amazing hormonal practitioners throughout my entire career. And they taught me this stuff. We saw it anecdotally. I'm really excited that we're starting to see papers about it. I'm really excited that we're starting to hear about it on social media. I make some posts, they catch fire, everybody copies them. Now everybody's talking about frozen shoulder and low estrogen, which if you ask any of the doctors, I've trained hundreds of doctors in regenerative injection therapy. And if you ask any of them, I was teaching this to them 10, 15, 20 years ago. And I'm so glad that it's finally catching on. But who does that happen to? Middle-aged women, right? So without getting into the details of it, I want you to go back and listen to part one of this. I talked about just chronic debilitating pain. I talked particularly spinal pain, particularly bilateral pain. I talked about ligaments and tendons ripping. I talked about breast and labial atrophy. Lip labias, labia down there, your lips start to atrophy. If your lips are atrophying on you and you're running to go get filler, why don't you look at your estrogen status? And there were several other things I talked about in that episode. So I'll leave that for you to go listen to. Otherwise, I'm just going to repeat myself. But I want to get into this today. The one thing I did want to say about that last episode is I talked about depression and flat affect, meaning that wonderful thing that happens to us, you know, when you hit 40, you're in your 40s and you're like, I don't give a fuck anymore. That wonderful experience and how it even gets more severe as you hit your 50s. And then I hear it's really prevalent in your 60s. That's estrogen leaving the building. Estrogen is your caretaking hormone. As it wanes, you stop giving a fuck. And when you're out of fucks to give completely and you are flat on your face, you're meaning emotionally, you're like, I don't care if I'm coming or going. I don't care what happens. And it's starting to lead to depression. That is estrogen leaving the building. And I highly encourage you to seek out help from somebody who knows what they're doing. The knee-jerk response of the medical community in that case is to hand you an SSRI. SSRI. I'm not going to get into that here. But there is data and anecdotal evidence to show we've been using SSRIs off-label for menopause symptomology for years. And I don't always think it's the worst idea. It's not treating the root cause though. So I just wanted to throw that out there. If that's something that you're utilizing, no shame on you at all. I think it's actually the mechanism of action of some of these medications where you think, oh, it's an antidepressant. Sometimes the mechanism of action is really profound for the menopausal woman. So please do not throw the baby out with the bathwater, but don't neglect finding out about your estrogen levels. And if you're going to use estrogen, you're going to have to use progesterone if you have a uterus. And I highly encourage you to figure out what your testosterone status is. So I'll leave that there. But here are some other signs and symptoms you may not have even pondered. I know these snuck up on me. Number one, you're waking up in the middle of the night. When women say, I can't sleep, I ask them, can you not get to sleep or can you not stay asleep? Not being able to get to sleep is a progesterone issue. Not being able to stay asleep is an estrogen problem. If you're waking up at three in the morning, ding, yes, your adrenals are probably involved. Yes, you probably have some liver stagnation issues. Yes, your circadian rhythm is probably screwed up. But the most obvious culprit in that case that I have found clinically is estrogen leaving the building. So if you are low in estrogen, you will wake up in the middle of the night and you will be wide awake. You may wake up drenched and some people call those hot flashes. I call them hot flushes. I did a whole podcast about why hot flashes are very, in my opinion, very dangerous. That is a vasoconstriction throughout the entire, vasospasm, I should say, throughout the entire body. And it's leading to the symptomology of a hot flash. I have been told I was fear-mongering for talking about that. But that is the honest to God truth and there is data to back it up. So go listen to that episode. We're going to link a lot of episodes in this one, guys. But if you're awake, at 2, 3 in the morning, wide awake, you wake up and you're like, I'm awake. And you're in middle age, you're probably looking at estrogen leaving the building. I will tell you this, not having your sleep dialed in is going to be far more detrimental and damaging to your overall health and your metabolic health and your hormones than you could possibly ever fathom. So don't let that go on. I plead with you not to let that go on. I cannot emphasize this enough. I know women in their 60s and 70s, a whole generation of women got completely screwed out of hormones. We're just going to put it out there. Like they just got completely screwed out of it. And I'm so sorry that happened. And I'm so glad that Generation X is finally getting a chance to step back into what women before the ridiculous WHI. Well, it was an interpretation really of the study. The study wasn't bad. The interpretation of it was. I'm sorry. I'm sorry for a whole generation of women because I was treating them in my clinic the whole time. I wasn't afraid. But I know that out in the wild that was not happening. These women were left to not sleep. And what even a few nights of not sleeping well can do to your metabolic health, it literally puts you into an insulin resistant state. It's devastating to your overall health. And if your metabolic health is thrown off, as you know, if you follow me for any amount of time, everything is messed up. So please, if you are waking up in the middle of the night, get yourself to somebody who's hormonally literate and can help you figure out what's happening. And don't be afraid of the estrogen because I would be far more afraid of the insomnia. And this came up for me. I was probably 46 or 47. I had just met my current husband. We were dating. And something I loved about him was that he was a great sleeper. And I'll tell you, men, middle-aged men too, men, if you're listening, your testosterone is leaving the building. It's called andropause. Go get it checked and handled because if you're not sleeping, your spouse isn't sleeping. And I had dated man after man after man who were admitting sleep problems to me. And I was like, there's no version where there's a second date. There's no version. If a man would tell me that they had sleep issues or insomnia, there was no version where there was a second date because it just wasn't, everything was going to be a mess. And I wasn't going to, my sleep, I protect with my life. Like it is everything to me. If you mess with my sleep, out. If you snore heavily, out. I just, I'm not having any of it. And so I meet my current husband, we're dating, and he tells me that he sleeps like a log. And I was like, check for the win here. Like, you know, the checkboxes you go down of what you're looking for. And I, and he's, it tried and true. 930 hits. He's, I call it the position. He's in the position and he's, he's out. So if you're not sleeping, you are sabotaging your metabolic health, which means you're sabotaging your hormones overall and your hormonal clearance. And it's a whole big hot mess. So please, I implore you, get that checked. All right. On to the next one. This one is actually a huge deal and it creeps up on you sometimes earlier than you would think. It's not necessarily something that shows up after 45 years old. And who knows when perimenopause hits, you know, I hate to use that term. I, I would like to just say your HPA axis is, and your, you know, your H, your hypothalamic pituitary, whatever axis, whether it's going to your ovaries or your adrenals or, you know, you name it, it starts to wane. But I'll tell you, the more stress you have, the worse your diet, the worse your lifestyle, the worse your overall health, the worse this whole experience is. So going into menopause unprepared and in poor health is a very bad decision. And going in under muscled is a very bad decision. Your muscles carry you through. So, I mean, truly metabolically and in many ways, your muscles carry you through. So go into menopause. If you're in your thirties, ladies, and you're listening to me, or you have a daughter who's in her thirties, she tell her to, she best get serious. Now, this is no time to be, as my husband calls it, fiddle fucking around, get serious about entering into menopause as best you can. I trained for it. I trained for it for years and it still is hitting me. And it's still not incredibly wonderful. Like, I'm not saying it's awful and it's nowhere near my girlfriends and I who are hormone literate, who do know how to manage this and who are managing it for ourselves and for each other. We still are like, what do normal women do? Like, what do women who don't know all that, who don't have access to all this stuff doing? Because this is still, you know, it's a little rough still, but it doesn't need to suck. Menopause does not need to suck. It can actually be a much more even keel experience of you riding into it and coming out of it. And even I, I was in complete denial that I was low estrogen and that I needed more. My labs actually look normal. Depends on when you run them. Really? You probably heard that. That's why doctors say, oh, don't test them. Perimenopause is because they're all over the place. That's the truth. They're all over the place. But I had the symptomology. So this is the other big one. And this showed up for me hardcore in my thirties, alcohol intolerance. If you have a glass or two of wine and you're waking up in the middle of the night and you're wide awake and you are like, oh, hi, I'm awake. Kind of like the insomnia I was just talking about. And sometimes you feel like you are, you've been poisoned and you are, have it, you are sweating. You are feeling like you are in an inferno and it's not necessarily a hot flash. I just wake up like I have been on a Bunsen burner. Suddenly all my covers around me are just hot. I'm not sweating. I'm never sweating. I'm just hot. I'm so hot. I have to strip off everything and throw my covers back and I'm not having a hot flash. I just get hot. And I'll add to that. It's not just hot flashes. It can be cold intolerance too, where you just can't warm up. So that's hormones, ladies. So if you're suddenly like, I cannot handle any alcohol, that is a sign that you should go get your hormones checked. I'm not saying go on hormones so you can drink more. I'm telling you the alcohol intolerance, in my opinion, and what I've seen clinically or changes in alcohol response are pretty indicative that your hormones are doing a little bit of a rollercoaster ride. And remember with perimenopause, it's like this, right? I look forward to the day when it actually all is over because then I can just supplement the hormones and have way more control over the situation. But right now it is a shit show and it's like a 10 year ride. I call it the gauntlet. It might be 15 years for you. It might be longer. I see young women on social media saying, I'm in perimenopause. And I'm like, no, you just are in a hot mess of health. I mean that with all due respect as someone who was in a hot mess of health at that age, you're in a hot mess of health and it is causing you to have really unstable, a really unstable hormonal milieu. It's not perimenopause, but it's something else. But yes, your hormones are probably a mess. I treat the person. I don't care what age they are. I test the hormones and I treat what I find and I treat symptomology predominantly. So that's important. Another one is migraines. If you are experiencing crippling migraines, even if you're in your 20s, you need to have a look-see at your hormones. Usually that one's a progesterone issue, but don't neglect that. It's not just, it's vasospasm as part of it. When I look back on my entire life, the times when I had migraines, the times when I had some of this symptomology that I've talked about in part one and now here in part two, I was really thin. And when you're really thin, you lose a big part of your hormone depot. It's not just your ovaries that make your estrogen. It's your fat stores. It makes estrone. So if you get really skinny and all of a sudden you've got six pack abs or you're, you know, I'm microdosing a GLP-1, but really you're just taking a standard dose and calling it a microdose and you're doing it for inflammation, but really you're just doing it to get bone thin. If you're rocking all of a sudden, you know, washboard abs and you start feeling like you're losing your shit and your emotions are all over the place and your period's weird and you're spotting and chaos is breaking out and you're not sleeping, you just lost your estrogen. Your poor hormones are like, please, please help me. Body fat helps with that a little bit, a little bit of body fat is not a bad thing, ladies, especially as we age. Another big one is urinary frequency. And I'm talking, all of a sudden you got to pee and there's no holding it. Like I used to joke with everyone because I could hold my urine. It's not healthy to do. You guys don't make a habit of it, but I could hold it on car rides, in class, during procedures. It didn't matter. I could hold it. And all of a sudden, I'm like, I go from thinking about I have to pee to I have to pee. And there's really like, I can barely get to the toilet. And this is happening to a lot of women and they're not talking about it. So there's this like, oh, I'm leaking or I can't hold it very well. It's probably because you need a little estrogen and it's not just topical estrogen. I wish that this was solved with vaginal topical estrogen. I wish that that would solve this problem. But very often I see that that woman needs systemic estrogen therapy. So if you are having frequency, young ladies, if you're having a lot of UTIs and you are very thin, you might want it. Yes, your floor is probably all catawampy. And yes, you need to take a hard look at your partner because their flora might be all off. And sometimes we're just allergic to certain partners and we shouldn't be sharing microbiomes with them. I'm just going to say it. I've seen that on repeat. But if the times when I was struggling with UTIs really badly, I was stressed out of my mind and I was really thin. So again, that might've been an estrogen need. And I really wonder if even if we were to offer those young women some topical estrogen that they would apply vaginally, it might make a huge difference in this chronic UTI. I know we think of that, at least those of us who are hormone literate, think of that for older women who are getting chronic UTIs. But let's consider that for the younger women as well. It might be worth a look-see. And this isn't a forever thing. This is very often intermittent. I have treated many a young woman with a little bit of estrogen, whether it was systemically or topically. And it was just for a time until we got them over a hump. And sometimes that time would be who knows how long, but same with young men. Sometimes they need a little bit of help in the hormonal area and we just do what we need to do and we get them over the hump. I will say in most cases, really high levels of stress is the culprit. So then we're treating palliatively until they can get the stress under control. Another huge one is flaccid skin or skin that cuts and rips really easily. If you look at old folks, you know how old folks bruise really badly and their skin rips really easily and they don't heal as well, that's not just age and atrophy. That is estrogen leaving the building. So if you suddenly find that you're... Gosh, I see it all the time in women with wounds on their hands. I've had it happen to myself. I'm like, why is that skin ripping? Like I brush up against the edge of a rough box and all of a sudden my skin becomes abrased somehow. And I'm like, what? I thought my skin was thicker than that. You'll also start to notice atrophy in the tops of your hands. Some people get filler for that. I think that is insane. If you understood the vascularity and the anatomy of the vascularity of the back of the hand, you would not be putting filler in it. You guys, it's insane. Pretty much the same for the face, in my opinion, but that's just me. We'll talk about that another day. But just that, you know, or wounds that don't want to heal, that is estrogen leaving the body. And so we start to see this in middle age and women don't really complain about it. They don't put two and two together. But that's a big one. And so I think that just knowing that poor wound healing or skin that cuts too easily, yes, it's probably nutritional too. Yes, stress is going to impact it. Stress is going to impact everything. But it's thinning and collagen loss due to lack of estrogen. And that can become problematic. And it's just quality of life for women, right? I've had patients that were just chronically like, I just can't heal. I'm like, we need to get you on some hormones. And I was doing regenerative injection therapies. I'm not going to inject somebody who's not in a good healing mode. That was one of my intake questions. That's why I know this. One of my intake questions with new patients before I inject them is, how do you heal when you cut yourself? And do you cut and do you get abrasions easily? And if they said yes, and I don't heal well, I'm like, okay, you are hormonally not in the right place. And that might be testosterone too. It's usually a mixed bag, but they're not in the best place. And that is worth having your hormones checked. And then the last one I'm going to go into is hair loss. Hair shedding. You might not even notice any kind of pattern to it. I don't need someone to wait for a pattern where, you know, they call it the Christmas tree pattern when you start to thin on top. There's different reasons for hair loss. I'm going to do a whole hair loss masterclass here I'm working on. But I have been deep in the weeds of hair health, scalp health, hair integrity. And I will tell you that estrogen leaving the body causes the hair shaft itself to become thinner. So it's just the diameter shrinks. You do not grow as robust of hair. So you might be experiencing breakage. You might be experiencing split ends. But what a lot of women report is just sort of hair fall and it's diffuse, meaning there's no particular pattern. They might start to see thinning on the sides. Yes, stress is going to make that worse. For sure. GLP-1s, I'm going to talk about that in my masterclass, but GLP-1s are a culprit. And it's not just, I don't, I do not think it's just because of severe weight loss. I think the higher doses are a concern. I have been saying this since day one. I had some girl come at me on Instagram the other day, just throw, she was on a bender about everybody on GLP-1s, some functional nutritionalist and, or nutritionist, sorry. And she was just on a, she looked like, she looked like literally a crazy person in her stories. I was like, this person is crazy. I'm blocking them. But she was like, oh, Dr. Tina got everybody on GLP-1s and now they're losing their hair because of GLP-1s. And doesn't she have a market for that now? And I'm like, what? I never have been in support of high doses of GLP-1s ever. My message has been so skewed in translation and I'm going to do more content around this, but I don't want to get into it because I'll get all frustrated. My message has been so skewed. I'm talking a fifth to a 10th to a 50th to a hundredth of what the rest of the world thinks is a microdose. And you're all out there microdose, like thinking you're microdosing. My girlfriend sends me this text literally like an hour ago. This is, this is the text. She's a clinician. She says, she says, things that make me think of Tina immediately. Patient, a nurse practitioner started me on terseptide. Doctor, oh, how's that going? This is my friend, the doctor. Patient, it's great. I've had one dose and I'm having a lot less hunger. Doctor, cool. What dose did she start you on? Patient, a microdose. Only she started her on a standard starting dose, she found out. And it's like, I roll emoji, you know? So yeah, I do think there's a problem. And I think a lot of this comes down to the hair follicle itself, whether it's in a growth phase, whether it's in a stall phase, whether it's died off and it's not going to come back. But estrogen has a huge impact here. And I believe the other hormones do as well. And if you take too much testosterone, you will start to lose your hair as well. So your hormones are critical. Your nutrient status is huge. Are you converting your testosterone to DHT? Is your sebum sitting too long on your scalp and that DHT is, you know, piling up? There's all kinds of things here. But bottom line, when a woman comes into my clinic and she says I'm having hair loss or hair sheds, like, or, you know, just a ton in the drain, I immediately test her hormones. That's the very first thing I do. I test for nutritional deficiencies. And I can tell that by looking at someone, I can just look at somebody and see whether they're malnourished. And I test for hormones, like I want to see what their hormonal milieu is, all of them. So that is slow and low and insidious when you hit perimenopause. And all of a sudden, it starts and you're like, oh, I'll deal with it later. I'll deal with it later. And I think that there is probably a microbiome shift on the scalp because we have a microbiome shift everywhere as we start to lose estrogen. Our gut changes, our gut health changes, our vaginal tissues and health changes that we change. When we lose estrogen and when we lose our other hormones, the microbiomes that were there before when those tissues were robust and healthy start to shift. And biomes are opportunistic, meaning if there's bad guys and we all have strep, we all have strep in our throat. When people say, oh, I caught strep throat. I'm like, no, you didn't. Your immune system just tanked out. So the strep that was there decided to have a party. And then maybe somebody in your family had a more virulent strain and they shared it with you. And now you're all compromised. So it's the same thing, like with your biome everywhere and including your scalp. So scalp health is really critical. And that's what I've been doubling down on. And then taking care and not being an asshole to the rest of your hair shaft. And that has been game changer for me. I have been using a new line. I've shared a bit about it and I will continue to share about it because I am having really profound, positive impacts with my hair. And if you look at my hair from a few months ago versus now, you're going to see a different head of hair and it's not just because it's longer. So go back and watch some old episodes and you'll see exactly what I'm talking about. But I am loving it. I've tried many products in their line. I have vetted this. I am OCD when I go on the rabbit hole. Every morning and every night, late at night, my husband's like, get off your phone. And I'm like, I'm researching. And I'm usually on something like a topic. I'm topically sort of obsessed about something and I'll hyper fixate on it. And I have been hyper fixating on hair loss for years now because I've been trying to figure out what is going on. And it is so multifactorial. And I've always treated it holistically clinically. And then I've also done regenerative, a lot of regenerative injection therapies, PRP to the scalp and doing that a long time, long before it became popularized. I was throwing PRP everywhere on people, vaginal tissues, scalp, long before we had some of these more standardized protocols. And they don't work unless that person's healthy. So I would have women come in and say, I want you to do PRP on my scalp. And she was clearly depleted. She was anemic. She was in chronic pain. She wasn't healing well. I mean, this is like many patients, right? And then I would turn them away and say, you're not a candidate. And sometimes they get very upset, but like, that's huge. And when you think of a healthy woman with good, robust estrogen, I think of those girls, I think of like a German beer maid, right? Like the Oktoberfest beer maids with their mugs and, you know, ample breasts and nice tight waist and ample, you know, buttocks, the curves, when the curves are there and then the big bouncy hair, right? There's something to that. That's real. And like, I'm not built like that. I've always just been like a straight board. I'm not a curvy girl, but I can build, usually build some muscle and then lay down fat over the top to get more curves. You can kind of sculpt yourself with strength training. But when my estrogen was leaving the building, I suddenly just got flat as a pancake everywhere. Everything just becomes deflated. And when your curves deflate, your hair shaft and follicle are deflating as well. And then when the hair shaft isn't there anymore, that in a healthy way, I'm sorry, when the follicle's not in a healthy way and the shaft is starting to thin out, it falls out because it can't hold it. Same thing happens with our teeth. I'll just end with this. Elderly women start to lose their teeth and patient after patient would come in and say, oh, I had dental work in Mexico 10 years ago, and it was obviously bad work. Or I had discounted dental work for whatever reason somewhere, and it was obviously bad work. And I'm like, no, you have osteoporosis. And as your jaw is dissolving from the osteoporosis, your teeth no longer are seated appropriately and they fall out. So I freak out when women are now doing masseter. This is the muscle, the masseter. I freak out that it is trend now to not only remove the buccal fat, but to do Botox on the masseters to atrophy it. That is the muscle. That is the main muscle putting mechanical pressure on your mandible, which is this jawbone here, which literally starts dissolving on women as they age because of lack of estrogen. And we have so much data showing that estrogen is so critical to bone health, but so is activity. So is chewing when it comes to these. And that's a real slippery slope I'm not going to get into. That's a topic for another day. But as the teeth start to fall out, it gets harder to chew. And as it gets harder to chew, you get more atrophy in the muscle. So please don't speed this up, ladies, you young women listening, please do not put Botox in your masseters, please. I don't even want to see the fallout from this. And then those women are microdosing GLP-1s and putting themselves into osteopenia by being malnourished and underweight because they're not microdosing, they're just standard dosing. It's a total disaster mess waiting to happen. I do not want to see the end result of this, but we're going to see it in about three to five years. And we're going to see these women having a very difficult time with aging. You do not want to go into your elder years depleted of estrogen with low bone mass and low muscle mass. That is a recipe for disaster. So I will leave it with that. I hope this was helpful. Again, not fear-mongering. I'm just telling you what's up. This is the truth. This is why you guys come and listen to my show because I'm not going to BS you. And this is how I talk to my patients. So if you are interested in the hairline that I'm using, it is focused predominantly on scalp health. That is why I decided to try it. And I will put a link in the show notes for you guys to check that out. I am absolutely in love with it. I'm going to continue to research it. And then I'm going to come out with more content. I'm going to do a whole masterclass on hair loss because you're all asking me for it. A lot of you ladies in middle age are struggling. A lot of you started in your 20s and 30s with PCOS and having hair loss. And now you're in middle age and you're like, oh my God. So I think it's an important topic to address. And it's not just about hair care. It's about having a healthy scalp, but we have to address this holistically. I did do a hair loss 101 episode. I'll link that in the show notes. We're going to have a lot of links in the show notes, but hopefully this ties it all together for you guys. And I have a series of courses that I'm going to be releasing here soon. So hang on. I'm getting my thoughts together and figuring out how I want to address this GLP-1 microdosing bullshit head on because I feel somewhat responsible in that I created a monster. I opened Pandora's box. I was trying to talk about a strategy that I don't think most of you still even understand because you're still thinking it's a weight loss strategy and it's not. And it's been completely bastardized and twisted. And the thing that bothers me the most is that a lot of people are using it for vanity weight loss that they don't need to lose. And they are putting themselves in this predicament I just described. And the reason I feel responsible was because I got deplatformed at 232,000 followers off of Instagram for talking about microdosing GLP-1s. And I have a feeling it was big pharma. I have my reasons for believing that and they're pretty sound. And the reason you don't... So what happened was that conversation took off, but I wasn't allowed to defend my stance. I wasn't allowed to give details. And I was afraid to talk about it here. I was afraid to talk about it anywhere because I really... I have been on... If you were back with me during COVID days, I was on big pharma's radar. I couldn't believe there I was again, kind of looking down the barrel of like, oh my gosh, I'm on their radar again. And I have it on good word that they don't like me. And that has been problematic. The good news is that they've all come out with multi... Or they're going to be coming out with multi-dose vials here soon is the rumor. But they also have... The day... I should say the week I got deplatformed was the week that they released the vials. So they went from pens to vials where you could go direct to the company and get the vials. And they were not multi-dose. They don't have a preservative. But somehow that same week, my Instagram goes down. And so I wasn't allowed to defend my stance. I haven't... And I've never been able to really explain it on a podcast because it's deep. And you have to be smart and understand some biochemistry when I explain it. So I will be doing more content around that in the near future because I really do want to address this problem. I feel like the inmates are running the asylum. And I think most of you have got it wrong. And there are going to be consequences, in my opinion, to having it wrong. When you don't need to be on an actual standard dose of this, but you're being told it's a microdose and you're on it anyway, and you stay on it indefinitely, I think there's going to be problems. And I want to share with you what it is, how my original hypothesis works. But we're going to have to do some biochem and I'm going to have to do a slideshow. I'm going to have to do a slide deck and show you guys because it's not that straightforward and simple. But anyway, I digress. I hope you guys found this valuable. I hope that you will heed my warning. And it's not trendy. It's not like, ooh, let's go get on hormones. It's if you need them, you need them. And a lot of young women out there are struggling with symptomology that could benefit like a PCOS woman. I don't care what age she is. She comes into my clinic, she gets progesterone, period. 25, 35, doesn't matter. I don't want to see women suffering. I've been using progesterone since I was a teenager, you guys. Thank God I had a mom who was smart and was on HRT and had a cool doctor who was like, you need to put your poor girl on progesterone because I was losing my mind. So I implore you to consider that maybe a lot of your symptomology before you go down the vast pharmaceutical route, consider that there might be some need or necessity or help with even intermittent or short-term HRT supplementation in there and find somebody who's hormonally literate. So I'll leave you guys with that. I appreciate you so much. I hope this was helpful and I will see you guys on the next one. Talk about like foreshadowing, talk about visioning. That girl was wearing colors and light colors and had long silver hair. So I started growing my hair out. Like talk about intention, right? I'm like, okay, I'm going to grow my hair out. The Tina you met in 2020 had short hair because she had just chopped it all off so she could let her silver grow up. So many of you men and women, but women in particular, we are having hair loss in middle age and it's awful. And I will tell you a lot of the women that you see that are middle-aged that have big followings, they're using... ... ... ... ... ... ...

=== FILE: 7 Subtle Signs Your Husband's Testosterone May Be Low And What To Do About It ｜ Ep. 349 [Hu4Pc7lX0Sg].txt ===

 tair nourineriner, tair nouriner, tair nouriner, tair nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nouriner nour All right. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, this one is for the men. I have a very hunky middle-aged husband and I want to talk to you today. I'm going to do this in 30 minutes or less because I know men, you don't like to sit here and listen to the long form podcast. Seven signs that your testosterone may be low, that your doctor doesn't know, that you may be overlooking and ignoring. And none of them have anything to do with low libido or erectile dysfunction. So let's jump in. All right. So first up, I'm going to admit fully my favorite group of patients to treat are men, middle-aged men. I love treating middle-aged men. I have great success treating middle-aged men. Dudes are easy. Dudes are compliant. There's not a lot of emotion involved. Their hormones are much simpler. It's just all around. I'm a tomboy. So most of my friends growing up were guys and I get along well with the dudes. And for some reason, the way that I deliver the information tends to resonate. So this one is for the men. I know I talk a lot to middle-aged ladies, but truly my goal on this planet is to help save all of Gen X because I think we're all, we just got dealt a bad set of cards, right? For lots of reasons. I won't go into. But I'm excited to talk about this today because I have a very hunky middle-aged husband who is on TRT, which is, it stands for testosterone replacement therapy. He has been for some years. And I want to quickly run through seven signs and symptoms that you may be low, that you are overlooking. And ladies, if you're listening, please take notes and share this with your husband. And if they don't believe you, then go ahead and see if they'll listen to this episode. So again, I'm going to set my timer. I want to make sure that I bust this out in 30 minutes or less so I don't waste anyone's time. And the last symptom and one we will not be discussing is erectile dysfunction. And I'll tell you how this normally goes in my practice. So my practice for the bulk of my career was regenerative injection therapies. Visits would often, I think I probably treated 50-50 women and men, but visits with men would often be similar in that it was usually their shoulder or their knee. And when I would go to pull their pant leg up, I would notice right off the bat that they were missing hair on their shins. Now, this is something I noticed myself. I was never taught this. This was never something that came up in my training. I just started noticing lacking anterior shin hair on men. Maybe it was happening to women, but women tend to shave their legs. So I wouldn't notice it as much. Now, I will tell you in my own experience, now that it's many years later, and I did actually, which is probably TMI, but I did let my leg hair grow out in the midst of all of this moving. I was just so stressed and I was constantly in pants anyway. So I was like, whatever. And I did notice that I also was missing some shin hair. And I also have low testosterone at this age. So it's both genders. But men would have low shin hair or missing shin hair or big balding spots on their anterior shin, on their tibia bone. And I would say, how's your testosterone? And I would always ask that because I wanted to let them present the information. I wanted to make it their idea. I'll tell you a secret, ladies and men, don't take any offense to this. Because if we let it be your idea, it's always much easier. So I would ask them the question. And some guys would say, you know, I'm just not recovering well in the gym. Or, you know, my injuries aren't healing. Or, you know, my mood's been a little low. But most often than not, guys would get defensive and say, oh, I'm fine down there. And if I ask them straight out, like, hey, can we talk about the potential of low testosterone? Because that's very common as we age. Men go through andropause just like women go through menopause. And so I would, you know, if I brought it up a different way, they would get defensive too. They would always get defensive if I brought it up another way. But if I asked them the question, like, how's your testosterone going? They would always be like, oh, I'm fine down there. Meaning they were not having any problems with libido or erectile function. And I was like, no, no, no, no, no. That's not what I'm talking about. That's actually usually, in my experience, one of the last symptoms that I see. That's usually a sign of pretty severe metabolic dysfunction. I've also seen it in younger men when they've had a lot of head injuries. I've also seen it in any age man who drinks too much is where I usually tend to see erectile dysfunction. But usually it's in a middle-aged man, it's usually metabolic dysfunction. And they'll come in as that being a chief complaint. So I'm asking a guy who's in for his knees about his shin hair, about his testosterone, based on his shin hair, I should say. And they're assuming that I'm talking about something else. And then the next question they would say is, why are you even asking me that? Well, because I'm about to do a regenerative injection therapy. And those only work if you're in an anabolic state or you're in a state of healing. If you're not in a state of healing and you're in a catabolic state, then the injections aren't really going to take. And it's kind of a moot point. I mean, we might get somewhere, but probably not very far. So shin hair, sign number one. It's a big one. Across the board, their testosterone came back low. Across the board, after I ran labs. So there's a pearl for all of you clinicians out there. If you see shin hair missing and balding on the anterior tibia, shin area, they may be dealing with low testosterone. I don't have any science to back that up. That's just something anecdotally I've seen for decades in clinical practice. I now have confirmed it in myself and a couple other women because I came from Oregon and lots of ladies didn't shave their legs there. So, and it's not just from your pants rubbing it off. And here's the other part to this and why I know it's true. When I would start treating them with TRT or testosterone replacement therapy, their shin hair would grow back. Recently, my husband came to me and he was on an off cycle. We cycle when we treat usually, although he's at the age now where we'll probably just keep him on. And he came to me and he's like, why are my shins bald? And I was like, oh, because your testosterone is low. Like we know his testosterone runs low. I'm like, it's time to treat. And lo and behold, I checked with him three months later after resuming treatment and therapy. And he said, yeah, my shin hair grew back. So, okay. So there's sign number one. Again, no studies to back that up. Just something anecdotal I've seen in clinical practice. Number two would be loss of muscle coupled with gain of visceral and truncal obesity. So visceral fat here coupled with sort of a, they kind of get an old man body with a pot belly. It's the best way I can explain it. Their arms start getting skinny. Their extremities start getting skinny. This is metabolic dysfunction. But I'll tell you without going into a long rant about it. If you are low in testosterone and you're trying to avoid diabetes, good luck. Truly, I believe that. I truly believe that if you need testosterone replacement therapy as a man and you do not receive it, your rates and risks of type 2 diabetes definitely go up. So one of the big signs of metabolic dysfunction is this visceral adiposity gain, truncal obesity, while we see the arms and legs start to get skinnier. We start to see atrophy in the distal extremities, if you will. And that's a sure sign. It's subtle though and it's low key. Now I noticed it in my husband pretty quickly because when I met him, he was on TRT. He was doing a manual labor job as an electrician, but he was digging these huge ditches to put in big lines of electricity for this giant building they were building. And he had a great build. I mean, he just had a phenomenal build and his upper body was really built. And yes, physical labor definitely helps that. He loves to be outside. He's a farmer. He loves to do landscaping and yard work. Like he loves to be outside and pulling big bushes out and digging holes. And like he's just super physical. But even with that, I would notice wasting in the extremities. So his arms and legs would get real skinny and he would definitely start to collect more fat around his midsection. So that is usually a sign of testosterone being off and needing it to be addressed. You have to be careful there because there's an enzyme in our belly fat called aromatase and it likes to turn testosterone into estrogen. So if you start applying testosterone replacement therapy to an individual with a lot of truncal obesity, you run the risk of having a lot of aromatase activity and therefore ending up with a lot of estrogen in the system. And so I would make my male patients sign a contract that they were going to lift weights, back way up on the alcohol, particularly IPA beer. Beers in general are estrogen tinctures, but IPA is certainly an estrogen tincture. And just be willing to work with me on all the lifestyle pieces. Because without the lifestyle pieces, I think it's really irresponsible to apply TRT to a male or a woman for that matter. I think it's irresponsible to apply hormones to somebody who's not doing all the things. And when I say all the things, I have a whole book about this. By the way, I wrote a book, you guys. I don't promote it. It's called Pain-Free and Strong. I wrote it prior to COVID. It's kind of the get through COVID manual, actually. You can find it at drtina.com forward slash book. It's free. Go ahead and download it. It's a quick and easy read. It will tell you what all the things means when I throw that term around. I will say a cheat code for optimizing your testosterone naturally is to get hot. And this goes for you too, ladies. One of the fastest ways that I can think of when I'm trying to get somebody's hormones back online, including myself, when I just feel like, oh my gosh, I'm just off. I've been like eating out too much, maybe too many glasses of wine, maybe haven't been sleeping well. And I'm just like, oh, I don't feel good. And I feel like I need that like reset button is to get hot. And the best way to do that is with a sauna. I recently just got a delivery from Sunlighten Saunas. It's my favorite sauna company for the walk-in box units. Hands down, my favorite sauna company. Really low, like to no negligible EMFs. Great wood quality, non-toxic glue, super high quality saunas. I got the Amplify 3 and it is a dream. It is near, mid and far infrared, not just the far infrared like the other one that I used to have from Sunlighten. It is a dream. And I will tell you when you're just feeling flat, it is the kickstart. So when I say do all the things and that's feeling daunting, start with sauna. Sauna is a really quick and easy, efficient way to kick up and spark that vitality. Get your heat shock proteins going. It'll do good things for your hormones. It'll help you start to detox. It'll get some of that sludge out of the system, if you will. I like to think it's doing good things for my liver as well. And we've got great data, particularly on men and cardiovascular disease. There was several studies done in Finland with Finnish sauna and significant, massive improvements in cardiovascular markers. So sauna, check out Sunlighten. You guys can check out the link in the show notes. Tell them that you heard all about this on the Dr. Tina show and they'll give you a very nice discount. But check out the Amplify. It is a sweet machine. It's the only one that they have that gets up to 170 degrees. Although I'll admit, I can't get up there. I get up to 150 and with that near, mid and far infrared, I am just sweating. But it is phenomenal. And when my husband is feeling just kind of in the muck, that's one of the first things. I'm like, get your butt in the sauna, babe. So, and I do it to myself too. So that's my pearl is very quick. It's also an exercise mimetic to some degree, meaning it doesn't necessarily replace exercise, but it can give you that cardiovascular boost that exercise would simply by sitting there and having a, you know, getting a good sweat on. The other thing to consider is that TRT doesn't always induce weight loss. So there's got to be a plan there. And whether you're utilizing a GLP-1 along with lifestyle changes, again, you shouldn't be doing a GLP-1 without the lifestyle pieces. But there needs to be something there to address that truncal obesity. Okay, another sign would be not necessarily erectile dysfunction, Frank, but, and not necessarily loss of libido. But they're just not, they're just not instigating it as much. And I get that there's a lot of dynamics happening here because when you take a middle-aged woman going through menopause and her hormones are falling out, she's not interested, he is going to give up potentially on trying to instigate. But there's just a less of a, like, rare, they have less of that. So it's not necessarily something they would notice unless you inquire or they feel forthcoming. That's a hard topic to breach with a man when you're a female doctor. But I do always try to probe because I want, you know, labs are one thing. And I'll always find, I mean, I have never ran T on a guy and found it to be optimized unless that guy was in great shape and was kind of already living the lifestyle with awareness of optimizing testosterone. That your average middle-aged guy is going to have low T across the board is what I found. Anyway, Clint Averham, thousands of labs, even borderline low. And as with women during that phase, it's important that we go with lifestyle symptoms too. Like that's part of the chart note that justifies treatment. It doesn't have to just be low labs. It could very much be a symptomology picture that completely justifies the, you know, trial run of TRT to see if they feel better on it. And so that sort of lack of zest for instigating intimacy, they kind of quit. You know, my husband always walks by me and he's always patting me and, you know, we have a cute little way of flirting. And when he stops doing that, that's when I know that it's just that kind of drive to seek out intimacy that they lose. It's not so much, I mean, if the opportunity presents itself, yeah, their libido is good. And yeah, everything's working just fine. And it's just sort of that like lack of seeking. We don't necessarily want that. I mean, we don't want our men out prowling either, right? We want them to prowl for us. But if you start to notice that your man is not really kind of looking at you with those sexy eyes, it might not be that it's your fault. Like I know a lot of women, we blame ourselves and we think, oh, I'm getting kind of this middle-aged body and I'm not feeling it. And he's just kind of not interested. It might just be that his testosterone is low. So I wanted to put that out there. Okay, the other big one is loss of drive and edge and initiative in general. They may feel burnout at work. They may feel like not going out of the house. They may feel like not being social anymore. It's this sort of loss of drive. Maybe they were really into something and then just not into it anymore. It might be a hobby. You know, I hear this all the time. Like my husband was really into this and he's just not into it anymore. Maybe he's depressed. Well, yeah, but maybe his testosterone is low leading to that kind of low mood. So it's this, testosterone is a, it causes you to seek, right? It brings a very, and I just, I don't have time to dispel all the rumors, but that whole image of men taking testosterone and turning into monsters is so ridiculous. And in fact, I find, I think that men with low testosterone and lack of purpose far more dangerous than a man fully optimized with testosterone. And a man fully in his power and fully in the best version of him. Those men are calm. They're centered. They're good leaders. They have good drive. They find purpose in their life. They find purpose with their church and their community and their family. When a man loses testosterone, he sort of starts to veer away from that and it just falls away slowly. So maybe he's really into fixing up motorcycles or his cars. And then he just, they start just sort of resting in the garage. Um, it's that lack of zest. Same thing for us, ladies, like purpose and drive come from testosterone. And so when we see that waning, I don't usually think, oh, my husband is depressed. I think he needs some tea. Usually I'm like, oh, baby needs a little, you know, we got to get him back on the cycle because he's, he's not feeling good. And we use appropriate physiologic, you know, um, prescription medication and it's all, it's all very much on the up-up. So that's a big one. I think another big one there would, that we, I guess we could tie in there. I'll leave it with that category is, um, lack of drive to be physical, not just with intimacy, but maybe they don't want to go to the gym anymore. They don't want to go hang out and play whatever it is there. Or, you know, maybe they play pickleball or basketball or golf or whatever it is they are into physically with their other male colleagues. And you'll see that too. You'll see them not wanting to hang out with their dudes as much. And that's, I mean, really optimized men, men who are very much in their power and their testosterone is solid. They want to hang out with other men. There's something to that. It's very, very visceral. It's very ancient. It's, um, I know, cause I went to chiropractic college and it was all dudes. And I'll tell you, you just could get a hit of testosterone by being in the room. You know, you just, it was great. Like very healthy physical men who are fit, who have good healthy testosterone levels. It's a great, I mean, this is why, this is why sportsmanship is so great, right? And for women too, but there's something different there hormonally. We're getting more of an oxytocin estrogen hit. But so if they just quit seeking out or tend to be slacking off on the seeking out of the companionship of other men, I start to wonder if their testosterone is okay. Another big sign is what I mentioned earlier, which a lot of guys will actually admit to pretty forthcoming with the fact that they're not getting the gains in the gym. It's just not happening. And, or usually it's both. They're getting injured more. So you get a naggy, and women too, if you are getting naggy injuries that aren't healing and you're not getting gains, something is wrong with your hormones. And it's usually a combo of estrogen and testosterone for women. But for men, definitely, that's a huge sign. More achiness, more injuries, like tearing of ligaments and tendons. Less drive to go to the gym, but also just way less gains. Like it's just not happening. It's not as fun. Like the process of strength training is really a personal one. And it's really a satisfying journey when you're getting some gains. And even if you're not getting bigger, you're getting stronger. And even if maybe you're not going heavier on the weights, that strength starts to really, you know, old man strength is real. My husband has the most phenomenal old man strength. And that only comes from very well-trained muscle for a long time. And we have data on this. This is like, I used to just call it old man strength. And it was this sort of myth. But it's true. I mean, those muscle fibers really long-term. Men who have been strong and kept themselves strong and kept themselves physical in whatever capacity. My husband hates the gym, by the way. He loves being physical, like pulling tree roots out of the ground. And that's how he deadlifts. But it's true old man strength. And, you know, muscles that fire together, wire together. And it's this long-standing wiring and firing of fibers and the central nervous system together that lead to this kind of strength. All of a sudden, that starts to wane. And they're pretty aware. Like he's real physical on the farm. And he's very clear. If he can't get a wrench to go or like something that he's used to doing pretty effortlessly, he's like, what's wrong with me? This is, I'm losing my strength. And so I think it's important. And I'll say the other thing, men. And this whole idea that you have to have a six-pack is such nonsense. Actually, in women too, carrying a little bit of belly fat on you, not like a gut, but a little bit of adiposity really leads to tremendous strength gains. Like when I see guys that are very fit and they have a little layer of adipose, those guys are usually super strong. This whole getting super lean and super jacked, I don't think it's conducive to longevity at all. I don't think it's conducive for men or women to longevity at all. Now, maybe you're built that way. Maybe you're just one of them. There are people out there that have always had nice flat abs. Their body does not deposit adipose in that region at all. Good for them. Like rock your abs. But I have found long-term, especially if you want to make it through cold and flu season, if you get hit with a heart illness, I would not want to go into my 50s or go into like, God forbid, cancer or some other huge diagnosis with zero to exceptionally low body fat. I just wouldn't. I know that that's the current aesthetic and that's been the aesthetic for a long time. That's a whole other thing. That doesn't mean it's the most optimal for overall health. So if you're carrying a little bit of adiposity on your body, as long as it's in good healthy regions and you're strong as heck, men, don't lose that. Because my husband has reported this and many of my male patients have reported that when they lost too much fat and they got real lean, maybe they looked better. But we didn't see tremendous improvements in blood pressure or other markers. And they would always report the same thing, which was loss of strength, probably because their testosterone was bottoming out. We also have data on that. Guys that run really, really lean tend to have testosterone issues. So that's another big one. If you're in the gym or whatever sport or physical activity you're doing and you're just not getting it, right? You're trying to get after it. That's the term, right? You know what I mean. If you're one of those, I know what it means. When people say get after it, you're getting after it. Nothing's happening. And on top of it, potentially you're getting these little micro injuries that just nag and won't heal. That's a big sign when you won't heal. My husband knows exactly. He comes in literally covered with scratches. And since he's been doing all this landscaping in Arizona, like huge barbed tips of the yucca plant or of the agave or whatever, like spears and cactus spears embedded in his flesh. And he won't let me do any kind of minor surgery to get them out. And they sit there and look horrific until his body pushes them out. But he's like, oh, it'll take two weeks. Like he knows his body so well. And when it's not responding the way that he's used to, we look at testosterone first. So hopefully that is very helpful. If you know what I'm laying down here, you know what I'm laying down here. Another big one is emotional flatness. I see this in women as their estrogen leaves too. Just this flat affect. It's akin to depression, but it's not necessarily depression. I've had it. It's a terrible place to be. And it's just a flatness, low mood. But what I will add to this, I hate to say this, but this is what happens every time. This is to the men. They almost get kind of bitchy. And what I end up saying to my husband, like he's just acting irrationally. And I'm like, what is wrong with you? I'm so used to him being so calm. And he's like, I don't know. He's just a natural GABA hit for me. He's just such a calm, stable. Like he is my, he's my, I joke that he's my emotional support animal. He is so calm and stable and even keeled. And then when he's like doing this with his mood, I'm like, what is wrong with you? And I'll tell you what is wrong. His testosterone is usually low, especially in ratio to his estrogen. And we've, his brain isn't happy there. And so everything sets him off. Everything, and I've had this with many patients. Everything is confrontational. I could be presenting their lab work to them, showing them that they're like, you know, here's the lab markers that are off. And here's the lifestyle behavior that's related to that. They get defensive. I've had male patients yell at me. I've had male patients threaten to punch me. I've had male patients get up and storm out only to call back later. All in every situation, actually, all apologies. I've had male patients threaten me, like come across my desk threatening me. And then their wives call me or they call me and they're like, oh my gosh, I'm so sorry. I don't know what came over me. But I can tell by looking at their labs what came over them. And I'm not justifying it or saying it's okay. But it is just kind of this like, like you're talking to your husband and he's, he's kind of dull and flat. But then all of a sudden he's, he's hot, he's pissy. And he's, and you're just like, whoa, dude, what the frick is wrong with you? And it's really easy to fight back, right? Cause I'm just like, what? You feel like you got kind of smacked by the person who's your calm. And then you're, I'm in perimenopause and then it starts, right? And that's when I'm like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, hold up. He was either tired or hungry in that moment. If it persists, I got to check his testosterone levels. We got to talk about, you know, what, what's going on there. So you can interpret that any way you want. This is not a diss on men by any means. No, no, I love men. I think men are great. Very glad to have them as part of the human race. But there's something there. There's something that is very specific. And ladies, you know what I'm talking about. If you are in a relationship with a middle-aged man and you've seen this, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Get their testosterone checked. It's worth it. And men, if you're not noticing you're doing this, or maybe you are noticing, don't be hard on yourself and think you're a horrible person, you might just need some testosterone. It's fair. Another big one is pain. Just straight up pain. And it's usually all your old injuries coming back to haunt you. It's the old aches and pains. It's the old football injury. It's the old, you know, basketball injury. It's the old car accident. And they come back to haunt you. And they nag. They low-key nag. And if you go to an orthopedist, they're going to give you a shot of cortisone for old chronic injury. It makes no sense. If you go to see someone like me for regenerative injection therapy, I'm going to suggest something like prolotherapy or PRP. Maybe even stem cells. But there's no version where I'm not going to offer you TRT because we got to get your levels up. I mean, 99% of the time, those people have low T. And so I'm going to want to optimize you before I treat you because that's going to help you. Again, it's anabolic. It helps you heal. So we want to make sure all healing mechanisms are good to go before we apply any kind of treatment, especially some kind of expensive treatment, right? These treatments are not covered by insurance. And if you're going in for a stem cell procedure, there's a lot of clinics around here in Arizona charging ridiculous amounts. And you want to make sure you're fully optimized before you go receive them. Otherwise, you're not going to get the best results. We are, in essence, taking your own fluids and processing them and concentrating them down and putting them back in your body. So we need those fluids to be of high caliber and we need your ability to heal and regenerate to be of high caliber. And that requires things like good thyroid output, good testosterone output. Another big sign is cognitive alertness. I know I've talked about mood and affect, but your actual sharpness, like your brain, how fast your brain processes. I know for me as a woman, the only example I can give is my own experience. But when my estrogen was low, I was losing my superpowers. I was losing that ability to process a lot of information all at once and have a very sharp return and reply. And when I'm looking for words and I can't quite think of the phrase I want to use and I'm just going, it feels like my brain is slugging through molasses and I'm forgetting things. It's usually a sign that my hormones are off. Same for you guys. Men, if you are feeling that loss of sharpness, and I see this in the workplace, right? If you are in a high power position and all of a sudden you are not performing at a high power level, your colleagues will notice probably before you do, which feels very embarrassing. It's often a lack of testosterone. A big driver of this is the onset of use of statin medication. Now, I'm not completely anti-statin. I'm not a huge fan. I have my own opinion I'll talk about. Don't come at me. The cardiologists on here love to come at anyone questioning statins. I think there's a time and a place. I think the blanket use of statins across the board is utterly ridiculous. And I don't think that the outcomes that are promised are nearly as good when you actually look at the data, but I will say they decrease your testosterone levels. They inhibit hormone synthesis and cholesterol synthesis. That's what they do. And your hormones are made out of cholesterol. So as your cholesterol is being lowered by the statin drug, so is your natural endogenous testosterone production. And one of the big, big side effects can be, and this is even if, forget the statin, just your testosterone is waning. There's lots of reasons for that. You could have had a lot of head injuries as a kid. I see this a lot in ex-hockey players, ex-football players. Even at young ages, I see them unable to have adequate testosterone levels because they just got hit in the head too many times. There's lots of reasons why. Chronic stress will do it. Chronic metabolic dysfunction will do it. Lots of reasons. Do not, these are nothing that any of you need to feel. I think it's so ridiculous that we blame people for their health situation like decades after the damage was done, right? We don't know why necessarily. And there's no reason to sit there and get hung up on, oh, I should have done this. Or you are where you are. If you need testosterone, you need testosterone in my opinion. And it's really important that that be addressed because that's your brain essentially rewiring and shrinking. You're losing gray matter. So, this is a change. This is a shift in women. That shift supposedly passes and you rewire and you're supposed to be good. Although I just pulled up an article the other day. I'll do an episode on it showing that's not the case. Like, truly, the loss of estrogen leads to traumatic shifts in mood and affect and depression and, you know, unaliving ideation kind of thing. And I would say the same is true for men. When it really depends on your brain and how that testosterone has been in your brain and then you lose it, it starts leaving the scene or leaving the building, as I like to say, and you really can have some impacts on not just your sharpness and your attitude and your ability to process high cognitive function at, you know, a very fast pace that you're maybe used to, but you can have some tremendous shifts in your mood. And it's devastating. It can be devastating. And I'll leave you with this. The family cannot function with the mom is not happy because she's a special kind of glue. She's a special kind of oxytocin, love, heart-centered, nurturing glue that the family desperately needs. And the family cannot, and she cannot be in her full feminine power and feel good if her man isn't on, just, you know, on target. If his testosterone is low, if she's having to drive the bus, if she's having to run the family, if she's having to be all the things and there's a tremendous load on her of stress, it will bottom her hormones out and she will get bitchy and bitter. And then that feeds down into the children and everybody else. So it's, I think it's even more important that in a heterosexual relationship, and I would, I would dare say in a homosexual relationship, like we need our balance, our hormones in the right balance. And that requires, in women, we need a certain amount of oxytocin and nurturing. In men, they need purpose. They need drive. They need to feel accomplished. It's really interesting. I read a study a couple years ago, and it was talking about how men, women, women who are home all day would get upset because their man would be working too much or gone too much and thinking, oh, he's fooling around on me, or he's not here, or he's, you know, he's not here enough for the children, or he's not here enough for me to support me. But in reality, the man's brain is wired for purpose and work and drive. And he's out there taking extra shifts and doing extra hours and thinking he's doing the right thing for the family. And he is, and that's how his brain is optimized, and his hormones are optimized in suit because he's out there doing the things that are best for the family. And that might mean he works, you know, an extra shift or works graveyard or does all these things. And the woman's over here like, well, you don't love me anymore because you're never around and you're not here to help me with the children or you don't want to be around the children. He's like, what are you talking about? Like, I'm doing literally what I'm supposed to be doing. And he truly believes, and that is it. That's the dichotomy. That's the confusion. So all that to say is when middle age hits, both genders are going through some tremendous changes. And to optimize everyone's hormones, we need certain things in place. So I would argue that the man getting testosterone be also a priority. I know all you ladies, and that's why I made this episode. I know all you ladies are like, we got to get our hormones dialed and that's why you come to me. And I know that it's right now, it's finally, you know, thanks to the work of Mary Claire Haver and Kelly Casperson and Vonda Wright and many others that this conversation has come up. And maybe Gen X will be saved the fate that the prior generations were not given and that they will get the HRT they deserve. But so do men. And it's not a quick go through the TRT, you know, you hear the ads on the radio and they go through these like TRT clinics where they just turn and churn you like cattle. You have to make sure that their gut health is optimized. You have to make sure that the, you know, the lifestyle pieces are optimized. Those are non-negotiable. We have to make sure that men's cardiovascular system is supported. That's a big one. When we're utilizing TRT, we have, I mean, yes, that they had just as much of a scare as we did women. They had nonsensical data come out saying TRT causes heart disease and cardiovascular risk. That's only if their estrogen goes up. That's the part they didn't tell you. So TRT is quite safe in an optimized individual, man. And we need to be addressing everybody's hormones, especially in middle age, so that both parties are happy. And if your wife is going to see a hormone replacement therapy specialist, then go schedule with them too. Go with them. Do this together. And ladies, if your husband is getting his hormones optimized, get on the bus and get your hormones optimized too because everybody is much happier when the family unit and the roles, and I hate to use the word roles, but it, we, our hormones function better when certain things are in place. So again, when the woman is feeling nurtured and loved and supported, she can be in her feminine energy and her estrogen truly is better. My hormones get crazy when I have to sort of take the reins. If I have to take the reins for too long, I do not feel good. I don't look right. I don't feel right. My labs look really wonky. When I'm allowed to sit back and be taken care of a little bit. And yes, I am predominantly the breadwinner in this family, but my husband does so much to support me so that I can do my best. He makes sure I'm fed. He makes sure the house is beautiful. He makes sure he drives me everywhere. He's my bodyguard, literally. There's so many things he does to protect my energy and make me feel safe. And that allows me to definitely step more into my feminine. It helps so much. It helps so, so much. And when that's not there, women don't do well. And men too. Men need to feel in purpose. They need to feel that like roar, you know? And so part of that is getting your hormones optimized. I'll quit harping on it. I hope I just made my case though, because a lot of men are resistant to this thinking, I don't need it because somehow it means defeat. It does not at all mean defeat. It means let's just, we're not giving you the hormones of a 25-year-old, dude. We're just trying to optimize you physiologically so that you can be the best 45-year-old or the best 55-year-old or the best 65-year-old that you can be. And then it's your job to pick up the work of doing all the things. That means you're going to the gym. That means you're watching your alcohol intake. That means you're eating like a responsible adult. It means you're going to bed. You're not staying up all night on the TV. It means you're managing your stress. Again, I talk about what all the things are inside my book. You can grab it at drtina.com forward slash book. It's quick, easy read. And I think you guys will really enjoy it. Talk about like foreshadowing. Talk about visioning. That girl was wearing colors and light colors and had long silver hair. So I started growing my hair out. Like talk about intention, right? I'm like, okay, I'm going to grow my hair out. The Tina you met in 2020 had short hair because she had just chopped it all off so she could let her silver grow out. So many of you men and women, but women in particular, we are having hair loss in middle age and it's awful. And I will tell you a lot of the women that you see that are middle age that have big followings, they're using.

=== FILE: A Candid Convo with my Best Friend of 40 years ｜ Mia Fesmire [P6583DOHVoA].txt ===

! L-carnitie, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes undergoes, undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergo drtina.com. All right, you guys. So for this episode, I have brought on a very special guest. This is my best friend in the entire world, Mia Fessmeyer. I want to call you Mia Allerheim because that's your maiden name. And it's my birthday today and I'm 52. And so Mia came to visit me and we decided we were going to drink champagne and talk shit. Yes, of course. It's going to be amazing. Thank you for coming. Well, happy birthday. Thank you. Yes. And you look fabulous. Thank you. So do you. Thank you. Trying our best, right? All we can do. We've been best friends since sixth grade. That was 1986. So that was 40 years ago. Oh my gosh. I know. That's hard to say. I know. I'm going to cry. 40 years. And you've been my best friend all these years. I love you like a sister. Seriously. No, don't cry. You're going to mess up my makeup if I start crying. Don't do it. So I have to tell the story of how we became friends. This is where we're going to start. We don't actually have any script. Can I grab my drink really quick? Yeah, we're drinking champagne. I went to cheers. Oh, okay. Here. I was like, okay. Cheers. This isn't my usual content, but I don't care because it's my podcast. Yes. I decided that you were going to be my first guest that we published the episode in my new space. So you will be the, this will be the debut of this set with. Well, it's amazing and I've never done a podcast. So this is weird for me, but that's good. That's okay. We're having a conversation. You're my friend. So I'll do whatever. You actually helped me buy these chairs. We walked into our house and I was like, I need podcast chairs for the new studio. And we both sat down right away in these and we were like, this is them. Yeah. They do have amazing furniture. So yeah, I took you down that hole. Plug for our house. Yes. Okay. So how did we meet? We were in sixth grade. I had just moved to your elementary school for the listeners who don't know, and probably nobody knows this. I moved a million times in my life and my parents were not in the military, but they were both military derived themselves from, they were children of military parents. My dad was in the military, but not when I was a child. And I think I had like, gosh, by the time I got to you, I had moved, I want to say like 10 times by the time I'd gotten to that part of town, Mission Viejo. Because you were in a different part of Mission Viejo and then you moved to my part of Mission Viejo. Yeah. My parents liked to do that. They would move me to one part of a town and then we would move houses and they would move me to a whole new school. That's hard. Yeah. And so I'm in sixth grade. I know now looking back that I had hypothyroidism set in and I started getting kind of chunky, you know, like when you turn into a little potato at that age. I was in my little potato phase and I was really depressed. Like, I was suicidally depressed in sixth grade. I was thinking about it in sixth grade and I was so devastated that I had to move and I had no friends and I was so tired of moving. And you live two streets away and my mom was a hairstylist and she did your mom's hair. Yes, she did. And our mom set us up. You were like the super popular, super pretty. You were a dancer. You always had guest clothes and like really cute outfits that matched. Oh. That's not the version of me I remember, but you know, other people have different versions, but thank you. Yeah. You were always super cute and pretty. And my mom set us up on a date and a play date and I was like, Mia's going to play, like hang out with me. I just thought it was the craziest thing. I feel like your mom probably like, probably had to threaten you to make you come. No, no, not at all. She's like, you know, my hairstylist, she, her daughter, they just moved here. She doesn't have any friends. I'm like, yeah, of course. And I didn't have any friends to the point where when I go hype, just a little pearl for the audience listening, because this is usually a health podcast. When you're hypothyroid, you become antisocial. Oh, I didn't know that. That's a big symptom of hypothyroidism is you become very reclusive. And so that's how I usually know that my hypothyroidism is not well controlled is because I don't want to go out. And that was the first time that I felt that way as a person, as a human. And I just remember not wanting to meet anybody. My mom's like, why don't you go out and play? Why don't you? And I would sit outside my house. And remember we had Mike and all the kids on the street. Lots of kids. I would turn my back. I would, like, how weird was that? I would go sit out there and turn my back to them and be out there because she forced me to go outside, but I refused to play. It was just a weird kid. And we had the best time. We walked down to the stores. Didn't we walk all that way? Always. From Newhart, junior high? We would. Yeah. We'd walk down to the stores after school. That was our first play date that we walked. That was where the roller skating rink was. And we walked down there and we went to Burger King and then we went to Safeway. Was there Burger King on one side and Carl's Jr. on the other? We bought those little, you put the quarter in and you get those little octopus that are sticky. Yes. And you'd throw them against the wall. But we were throwing them against the window of the grocery store. Yes. Yes. And then I think we got in trouble. Probably. I think my mom... Yeah. If you're with me, you probably got in trouble. But my mom's salon was in that shopping center. It was. It was right next to Ralph's. Yes. Right there on... I always say, like, what is that? The right side of the... Yeah. Yeah. And my mom heard about it. My mom somehow heard about it because she was working down the way of the grocery store we were throwing the sticky octopus at. We... Years later, when... When I was being forced to move out of Mishaviejo to move to Beaverton, Oregon, much to my dismay, my mom still tells this story. What did we do? What did we do when the guys... We hid in the closet. Yep. We hid in the closet because we didn't think anyone would see us there. Couldn't find... Couldn't find you. The packers and movers were moving everything out. Yeah. And you and I went and hid in the closet because we thought we would be somehow... Safe. Yeah. Yeah. And they... That was so sad. That was a hard day. I know. Mm-hmm. And then what happened right before that? What happened... What did we do the last day, my last day of school? We did... We did school. We got taken back into the police car. We totally did. Which... You were kind of a bad kid at times. I was. But I was like a stellar... Oh, my gosh. You were like... I was... In the gifted program. It was... It was... It was like something that... Okay, yeah, I could see that happening to Mia. Okay. But taking Tina down with Mia, that was fun, though. So we skipped school. We went down to those stores. We called them the stores. Yeah. There was a skateway down at the end, and we decided to, like, ride around in shopping carts. Yeah. And in the middle of the day when it was a school day, and then the police rolled up, and they were like, whoop, whoop. What are you doing here? I was horrified. And they put us all in the back of the police car. Who else was with us? There was a couple other people, right? I think, like, Erica and Toby, which were also, like... Yeah, but were also two people that were not... Yeah, all the... I was... It was like you and all the AP students. And we all got brought back in the cop cars. And all the school kids were like, they're getting out of the cop cars. That was funny. Oh, my gosh. That's so crazy. But you know what? One thing is that, you know, we were way before all the social media, all the cell phones, all the things, and we still kept in contact. When I came up to visit you in Oregon, do you want to talk about that? My first time there. Well, first, we have to talk about sixth grade. Back to sixth grade. Okay, back to sixth grade. Then we'll go back to that? Yeah, because we did our... We did our... We were, like, hanging out, and we became besties. And then I was still living in Mission Beach, and we went to outdoor school. And do you remember the creek? Do you remember what happened in the creek at outdoor school? Yeah, it was... We were walking across the creek, and I fell... Did you flip? Did you fall in? Like, I know we fell in, but your memory's better than mine. I slipped on the rock and fell in, and you started laughing hysterically and pointing at me. And then... And you were cracking up, and then you slipped and fell in. You fell in, yes. That's, like, instant... So we both were soaking wet, and then we were, like, best friends after that. Yeah. Because we had a... We trauma-bonded. Yes, that was so fun. Yeah. And we went and saw... I think we went and saw Bon Jovi. Oh, yes. At Irvine. That was at Irvine Meadows. That was my first concert ever. And I wore... I remember what I wore, because I planned out my outfit so bad. It was, like, this guest shirt, like, T-shirt that was kind of tight, and it had, like, the, you know, the triangle right here that said guest in, like, red with my guest jeans. I remember this outfit. And I was, like, I got this. I was, what, was it seventh grade? Was it seventh grade? Oh, my gosh. 1987. Who opened that show? I forget. I don't remember. All I remember is Bon Jovi, and I don't even like Bon Jovi that much. I feel like somebody opened it was really important. Somebody in the audience listening will remember. They probably went to the same tour. I saw it the other day. I actually saw something from that tour, and somebody opened that was a big deal, but I can't remember who. So, anyway. And then, we've gone to a lot of concerts after that. Yeah. A lot of concerts. But going back to that, I don't know if you... I remember one of, like, one of our biggest influence of music when I purchased our first cassette tape. Was it a cassette tape, or was it a CD? I can't remember. It had to be in a cassette tape. Of who? Which one was it? It was Guns N' Roses. Oh, my God. It was a cassette tape. It was a cassette. Do you remember that? Yeah. And I... Okay, I put that... I remember going to Tower Records. Your mom didn't know. No, my dad took me to Tower Records, and I was like, I'm getting this. He has no clue. And I put it in the car, and he goes, what the hell is this? And I was like, this is the best music ever! And... Well, you... I burned that... Or I recorded that off of you. So I had the recorded version, and my mom was horrified as well. I'll tell you what, though. You are notorious. You changed the entire Pacific Northwest. You... So I moved. We might jump around here. I moved in 1988 in eighth grade, and we were friends. So sixth grade to eighth grade. And then I moved, and my mom would fly me back for two weeks every summer to stay with you. And then I would fly. And you'd come see me, like, usually once a year. And I was like, was it spring break or during your school? I came when you were still at school one time. Yeah. What was that? I just had my wisdoms out. It was right after spring break. Was it right after? It was my spring break. Yeah. We didn't care. I was like, I'm coming. But one summer, I came down to see you when I was 16, and you popped in Nine Inch Nails, pretty hate machine. Oh. And I burned that off of you, or I recorded it off of you, I guess, because this was before CDs. I brought it back to Oregon. And like, I kid you not, there are people to this day that come up to me, and they're like, you changed my life with that. Like, I showed up to Beaverton High School that year with Nine Inch Nails. I had a Nine Inch Nails sticker on my truck. I had the tape, and I made all my friends listen to it. And these were all little rocker kids. These were like the kids that we were listening to, you know, Iron Maiden and Metallica in their basement. And so now I have Nine Inch Nails. I brought Nine Inch Nails to the Pacific Northwest because of you. And there's all these people to this day that are like grown adults that are, you know, whenever I see them, they're like, this girl introduced me to Nine Inch Nails. Like, it's somehow notorious. And I was like, no, Mia. It was all because of Mia. I love Nine Inch Nails. I mean, they're, I mean, they're early music. I have to say, I don't listen to them anymore. Sorry. But their early music is phenomenal. It like shaped my teenage years. So very influential. And I had a little crush on Trent Rose. I had a lot of crushes on a lot of... Well, we were, we thought we were going to be in somehow, I think our goal in seventh and eighth grade was to be in like a Motley Crue or rap video. Oh my gosh. Steven Piercy. I'm sorry. If you're out there, Steven Piercy, you were my, like, my biggest crush ever. He was just on Billy Corgan's podcast. Oh, I saw that. I saw that podcast. It was, it was, yeah, it was really interesting. So did I ever tell you about, we're like, I'm like, scroll. That's okay. We're going all over. All over. So my son used to play lacrosse and we were up in Agora or somewhere. And this guy looked exactly like Steven Piercy. I go, I think I called you. I go, I think it's Steven Piercy. I go, I think it's Steven Piercy. And so I went up to him. I go, I know you're Steven Piercy. He goes, no, I'm not Steven Piercy. I was like, he's totally Steven Piercy and telling me he's not. I'm still convinced. You would always call me and be like, this guy, I think one of the Backstreet Boys was in at the field. Like, no, he did. He played with Max's flag football team. He did. That was real. Wasn't there like a drummer of Nine Inch Nails in there somewhere too? I think so. Yeah. You somehow, you always had some, because you were in LA. Yeah. So I always ran across people, but I'm the worst. Like, I don't know who anyone, like. No, we don't know anyone. I don't know anyone, anyone. I can't recognize people. I don't. Yeah. Yeah. He could, the real Steven Piercy could walk across like my path and I'd be like, no clue. Steven Piercy's old now. I know. But we all are. I'm like, we all are. We're all aging. We were going to be in some kind of like hair metal bands video. That was our goal in life. And we also were going to learn instruments and start our own band. Do you remember that? Oh, yes. I've always wanted to play the drums. So that was what I wanted to do. Yeah. I wanted to play the drums too, though. So that was not going to get us very far. No. Because I can't sing. We used to make, we used to make our own band t-shirts. We used to like draw, we had like rat t-shirts that we drew in with Sharpie. And we would, gosh, I still to this day find so many little things that you, little notes you wrote me and little, I have them all. Well, like Christmas, I had that little. I can't believe it. Yeah. I have everything. Yeah. I've kept it all. Well, I just went through and purged my life and threw a lot of shit away, but I kept everything that was from you, I kept. So I have, I have stuff going way back. Yeah. So back to that trip, when you came to visit me, I just had my wisdoms out. What? That was like my senior year? No. No. You were younger. Sophomore year? I don't remember what year it is, but yeah, I came and caused a little bit of chaos. Yeah. I forget what happened. I had to go to class. You smoke, they would let you smoke cigarettes at that time. And I smoked cigarettes at that time. And we chain smoked. We chain smoked. And there was like a smoking section. Yeah. In the high school. At the high school. Yeah. It was called the pit. Was that what it was called? Yeah. So, and I'm out there. Tina's in class. I'm just roaming the campus. With all the boys. With all the boys smoking cigarettes, making friends. Yeah. And I had a crush on a boy. Yes. And he wasn't sure if he had a crush on me back. And you were somehow hanging out with him and his friends. Yeah. And I was like, how did she, like, I couldn't even get them to hang out with me. But you show up because you were always the pretty one. And you show up and they were like, oh, we'll hang out with Mia. So then you come back and you're like, I've been hanging out with Mike and Clint all day. And I was like, what? How? How did this happen? But you all became friends later. I was going to say, didn't you date him for a while? Yeah. So, yeah. Sorry. I don't know. He's nice, right? Yeah. He was a nice kid. Okay. He was tall. He had long hair. I remember. He was cute. He was cute. Yeah. He would draw really cool pictures of like Eddie from Iron Maiden. Yeah. Is that the one where I got really sick? And yes. Yeah. You threw up. I threw up all in that restaurant. I thought you were pregnant. Oh, yeah. You went to lunch with them. And you went out to breakfast with them and I was in class and then you threw up. Yeah. Good job, Mia. Oh, my God. I have so many stories. I'm not sure what we should tell them. No, exactly. We might have to cut that one, right? I don't know. I don't know what YouTube allows. Okay. So, I moved and we had remained friends successfully ever since. And I feel like it was because maybe, and I always wonder, is it because we didn't live in the same town? Could have been. You know, you always have like a fondness for someone when they're not there. When they're not there. Yeah. I always wondered what. But we always made an effort too, because it's always an effort in friendship. Like you can just kind of let things go. But it didn't matter. Like if I didn't talk to you for a few months and we connected, it felt like it had been a day since I talked to you. So, I feel like there's always a person in your life that is that person. And you're my person for that, you know, for sure. Like you've gone through so much with me, good and bad. And I appreciate that. Hannah, make me cry again. No, I'm not going to make you. Don't. No. So, I have a sister. For those who don't know, I have an older sister who I haven't spoken to in 25 years. Do you want to talk about that one? No. Well, I will say that you're the only one, I think, in the whole world who really got to see why I don't talk to her without slandering her by any means. But you were the one who got to witness most of it. My parents didn't even see, I think, what you saw. So, I always just, my dad was always on, he's still to this day on me about it. And I'm like, I have a sister. Her name's Mia. Like, Mia is my sister. And then you were adopted and you found your sister, your half-sister, your real half-sister sometime in college. And I was like, I honestly was a little jealous because I was like, wait, she has a sister? Because you were an only child before that. I grew up as an only child. Like, I met my sister when I was, and my birth mom, when I was 25 years old. Yeah. Oh, was it that long? Yeah. I feel like you were younger. No, I was 25. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah. So, then you had a half-sister. And then I was like, oh no, I'm not the sister anymore. But all these years have passed, I'm still... You're the sister. I'm still it. Yeah. You're still it. For sure. So, Mia comes and visits me. And this is the first time that she didn't have to... Well, you've been here before to Carefree, Arizona, where I live. But you usually would fly into Oregon and it would just be rainy and crappy and you'd still come. I'd still come. Well, it's different weather, I guess. I'm born and raised in Southern California. I don't live there anymore. She escaped early. Yeah, I escaped. Thank you, Jesus. Got out. She got out early. She saw the signs. Now I live in Texas, which is the best state in the Union, but we won't... Arizona's pretty good, too. Arizona's pretty good. Yeah, it's good. But yeah, they always come and see you in the rain. It was... I'd have to prepare for it. But I feel like I never came when it was super bad. No. No. It was always like spring. Yeah. So, me and Tina, I don't know if you know, just reminded me, we have matching tattoos. Yeah. Where we... That's a whole other story. It looks like this. Oh, yeah. Tina has it on... Except it's on her butt. Yes. Mine is like... What do you call that? The tramp stamp stamp? Somewhere near there. Yeah. But that's my only tattoo. So... I just remember your daughter, when she was about six, she walked by and she looked at my ankle and she goes... She was like, is that the same tattoo as my mom? And I said, yeah, they're matching. And she's like, my mom's does not look like that. I'm like, well, your mom has had... You hadn't had MACs yet, I don't think. But I was like, your mom's had children and it's in an area that changes. Changes. Yes. Yes, it does. It does change a lot. So, yeah. It didn't... That did not age well. I got that tattoo. I got... We got those tattoos and then we went to a concert, a dirty outdoor dusty concert. Yes, we did. It was live and Baruch Assault. Yes, it was a... In Oregon. You came to visit me and we got tattoos. Yeah, it was so good. And then during that... Portland was so cool then though. Like, you'd come visit and it would be... Oh my gosh, it was great food. It was so safe. Great music. Do you remember that we would go out in the city and the city was super clean. It felt safe in like downtown going to the different... As teenagers. Yes, as teenagers. What was that place where your dad... Oh, the starry night. The starry... Oh. And your dad came and... He was... We took him to pick us up. We took some substances that night and we went to see Beauty Stab. Yes. At the starry night. Or was that... Oh, that was the Beauty Stab. Because we've seen a couple concerts there. We saw... What's his name? Sebastian Bach. Sebastian Bach. That was my bachelor party. Yes, and he was trying to get us to come back to... I was like, oh yeah. I got up on time. I got up on stage and made out of Sebastian Bach. Yes, but I was like, that time just passed, you know? Well, we didn't know. So we consumed some alcohol that night and we saw Sebastian Bach. This is years later. This is... Yeah. My bachelorette party. Oh my gosh. And we saw Sebastian Bach and I got up on stage and made out with Sebastian Bach. Only we went home. You flew home the next day, hungover. And then I called you because a video... MTV was on then. And I was living at my parents' house. And he came on the screen on MTV and he had aged dramatically and changed. He just didn't look anything like he used to. He's still actually... I think he's cleaned up his act. No, he looks great now. I actually saw a picture of him yesterday and he looks really good. Yeah. But he was having sort of a hypothyroid alcohol phase there. And I remember calling you and I'm like, Mia? And you said, yeah. And I said, I made out with Sebastian Bach last night, right? And you're like, yeah. And I'm like, he doesn't look like he used to. He looks terrible. Why didn't you tell me? You were like, you were hellbent, Tina. You were... That was like, he was one of like the... We did... He was like the idols when we were, you know... Oh, he was beautiful. He was so... Yeah. When we were young. Yeah. We had a scavenger hunt for the bachelorette party. We had to do like a whole list of crazy things. Yeah. So anyway, it was crazy. Yeah. That was really fun. You got some cute gay boy at the gay bar to like strip down to his boxers and give me a laugh dance. That doesn't surprise me. I don't remember that. And you took my shoes away from me because I had some giant silver platforms that kept stumbling because I was... Oh. Yeah. You and your shoes. I know. Yes. Yes. Had to do at least the platforms. I could walk in stilettos for days. I don't know how. I can't do it anymore. Down that hill. You lived in Laguna Beach and your apartment was on this really steep hill and we would go out and you would just hike up that thing and down that thing in those stilettos. And I'm over there. I was just used to combat boots. I'm over there clunking around and my... You actually were the first person to introduce me to Doc Martens too. Like you had to... You were the first person to have a pair of docs. You were the first person to listen to Nine Inch Nails. You introduced me. You went to work one day. Through a lot of phases. You went to work one day and I was getting ready at your house to meet you when you got off. And I... Every summer I'd be like, what did Mia buy this year for music? Like, what does she have? And I'd always go through... You know, ruffle through your CD stack and you had Jeff Buckley Grace, which I had never heard it before. And if people have not heard Jeff Buckley Grace, that album Grace, I put it on and it is like angel singing. It is such an incredibly beautiful... The other day, I had it on full blast in my house the other day and my husband's like, what is this? And I'm like, this is the sound of angel singing. Just be quiet and enjoy it. But I still remember sitting in your bedroom, putting my makeup on and blasting that album over and over and over and just like, what? Like, how did you find this music? I have no idea. You must have had some cool friends. Yeah. I just... I always loved music. Like, music was such an outlet. Like, you know, just... Especially things that like connected. I felt like it connected with my soul. You know, had so much influence over like how you're feeling in this. And it's funny because I still feel like music does have some influence, but not as much like nowadays. So... Well, you became Christian. It's just how you go. Yeah. You can't. It's really hard. It's really hard. I listen to a lot of Christian music now. So I drive my husband nuts with it, but I do still listen to other things. I still love music, but it's hard to listen to some of the things, you know? I can't listen to Nine Inch Nails anymore. There's a lot of bands I can't listen to anymore. I didn't get it. When you converted to Christianity pretty hard at one point, and I like didn't get it. Yeah. But I was kind of harsh. I wasn't like a great like, oh, hey, loving and grace. So I'm really... You were like, you're going to go to hell. Yes. You told me that all the hype once, and I was like, are you what? So I'm still working on it, fruits of the spirit. So I just say to myself, be gentle, be kind, because sometimes I'm not gentle and kind. I'm very... I just say it as it is. And sometimes people can take it, and sometimes people can't. And I have to really be aware of my... audience, I guess, like who I'm around. But like the people that know me. But yeah, I probably should not have said, yes, you're going to hell, because it's not the great way to convert people. It didn't warm me. It didn't warm you, but it took years. But you know what? Behind the scenes, I've been praying for years for you. I know. And praying and praying for years, because it's transformed my life. You know? Well, you got much more gentle about it. Yeah. And then I met Hannah, who was my assistant for 10 years, and she is like super devout Christian. She's amazing. She said hi, by the way. She's amazing. She texted me, good morning, happy birthday today, because I love her. She's just had her third baby, who's three months old. So cute. Just saw a picture. And then Ryan is a devout Christian. Yes. And so I realized I had all these people around. You know who it was, though? It was Brian Welch from Korn. I don't know if you know. I know his story. Right. He, I was never even a big Korn fan at all, but he talks about this unity with Christ and how it's a personal relationship. And he just says it so beautifully and non-judgmentally. Right. And I always kind of listen to him in the background, and he's just, he's a great speaker. I need to get him on the podcast. He lives here. Oh, that would be amazing. Yeah. So. He really, like his testimony is what? His testimony is amazing. Was huge for me. And that, and then I realized that like God had put all of you around me to protect me. Right. And there wasn't a single person in my life who wasn't a believer. Truly, there wasn't a single person. And all the people who were believers were the most honest people to work with. Like the people I actually trust my business with or trust aspects of my business too. Predominantly, not all of them. I have some, I have some gems in my, on my team who are not, but. That's okay. But like truly, God put all of you in place for me. And you just, when you converted, I think you were about, you were, you were having some troubles in a marriage and you were, you just were in a, you know, you were having a particular time in your life. And so you were just a little excited. It was okay. Cause I, I mean, I, here's my favorite memory. I'm 19, I'm living in my apartment. Oh, great. And I'm like, I just come out of a very deep depression. You remember, I like, I had a pretty hard time that year and you send me, and I wasn't eating. I was super anorexic and I wasn't eating. And I get this big box in the mail. You always had money cause you always worked your ass off. So you always had a good job. I had jobs, but like you had, you were working makeup counter and doing bridal parties and like you always had good money. So we would go out and you would always be so generous. And, and anyway, you buy me gifts and I just couldn't ever afford to like reciprocate at that time. And I get this big box and I open it and it's a walk and it is a little sticky note. And you, and I was a vegetarian at the time and it said, for your yucky tofu, love Mia, heart Mia. Everything is heart Mia for your yucky tofu. And I was like, she bought me a walk. Cause I was like on my bed. Cause I was on a bender about it. And I was on, and I, I remember you weren't eating at all. Like you smoke cigarettes, took a chimney and you would, I remember your mom calling me cause we didn't have texts at that time. And she's like, I'm so worried about Tina. And I think I came to visit you. Um, but you had like, she's like, she has ashtrays full of cigarettes and she's not eating. I'm like, maybe that's when I sent you the, you did the walk. You sent me the walk. That time. Cause you came and the only thing I was eating, I was trying to do stir fry or something. And cause I had, I had a friend, I had a, I had many concerned friends and I had a concerned friend who was trying to teach me how to cook and he would come over and he'd cook for me and he would teach me what he was doing. And he would try to teach me really simple recipes. And he was such a kind, he wasn't, it was never trying to hit on me. Right. Like it was never like that. He's a nice guy. Yeah. And, um, his name is Sean Seidel. He's still my friend actually on Instagram, I think, or Facebook. I still see him. But anyway, he, it was trying to tell me the benefits of stir fry. Cause it was easy. It's really easy. So you bought it for your yucky tofu. That was a rough patch. Well, I had been dating a guy that was in a band that was a pretty big band at the time. And he, he, I remember that he wasn't great to me. And I went sideways. Like I just fell apart. He was much older. That's the creepy part. He was much older. Yeah. And I remember we went to see him. Oh yeah. We went to see him and then you ended up dating him. Yeah. Oh God. You were there at the mayor's ball. I was there. Yes. At the mayor's ball. I was going to say it was at that big convention center. Yes. Things are just clicking now. So the mayor's ball, we had, we had some great mayors in, in Portland and the mayor's ball was Bud Clark. And he would have this huge concert every year at the Memorial Coliseum. And all these bands would play upstairs, downstairs in the dungeons of the Memorial Coliseum. Yes. And you could see all kinds, it was literally like a, a, a buffet of all the Portland bands. Yes. Different genres. And Dharma Bums played. And I went up to him, I was 17. I went up to him and gave him my phone number. I was like, you should do it. I was like, he's so cute. You should do it. Of course I did. He was though. You told me to go up on stage and make out with Sebastian Bach too. Oh gosh. Yeah. That was bad advice. But no, it was fun. Right. Crazy. You were there for that. Yes. I forgot. That was a pinnacle moment. It was. I'm sorry. Oh, it's okay. No. He was a nice fellow. He just was a little, he was having a rough time. You know, you got to remember that people always have. Yeah. Their own shit. Their own stuff that they're going through. And it's, um, you know, but it's hard when you're still trying to figure out when you're so young. Like, it's so nice now. Like we're, I don't, I don't by any means have everything figured out, but I at least have like a pulse of like, okay, you know, this is where that person's coming from. Or this is where that, you know, where, when you're that young, you just, it's not, you're just wrapped up in your emotions and their emotions and it's all kind of taking you down. So you're always the voice. You're like the diplomat. Every time I call you and I'm unwinding, you're like, Tina, now remember. And you always kind of deescalate the situation for me in my head and help me navigate it with a little more grace. Cause I get fired up. Yeah, you do. I've calmed down. That's good. A lot. A lot. A lot. You do. I love it. I calm down. Well, you know, you take enough shit and you get through enough grief and you, it humbles you and you can't help it. But we've both gone through a lot. And one thing is it's, it's come full circle and God has like really blessed us in our lives. Really. You know, everything might not be perfect, but he's giving a, given us a way to be able to navigate through the things and be able to just kind of see. I just, I really try and see there's so much around this world. Like I see those memes with like the world, you know, blowing up and then the Barbie doll. Like, I'm like, you know, like my, you know, life is still, there is still a lot of positive and that's what you got to think of, you know? So be gentle, be kind. That's all like, I always go through like the fruits of the spirit, like be gentle, be kind, have patience, you know, forbearance, which, you know, all the, all the things. So I have to run through that through my mind a lot. I think of how many times we should have been dead. Oh, for sure. How many, how like together. So true. So many times together. And then to think that we were living that way, not together. Yeah. So many times. Yeah. God, we were crazy. Yes. God really had his arms. We were doing crazy shit. Yeah. Things that should have gotten us. I remember being. Unalived. I just remember so many times you were so, you still are, but you were, I mean, you were such a beautiful young girl and like this whole Epstein files thing coming out has been really triggering for me because we were both really beautiful young girls and we got a lot of attention and not always the best kind, but I can't tell you the number of times you or I together and separately, I'm sure. Like I'd come visit you and you'd be like, oh, I can get us in because of this guy. Or I would get us into bar. Like I was getting us into bars at 16 in Portland because of this guy. And it was always some fricking creepy older guy that I had no right. And nothing ever escalated in a way that was dangerous for us. But I think of all the times we were just like adjacent to probably some pretty bad situations. And we were, you know, it's like you're young and you're just being sort of courted by, they're grooming you. Yeah. Really? And we were, we were completely, I mean, we, but we both, I remember one time I was, was it Scott? I want, I was, we were at a bar and Scott, Scott was not old. He was a little bit older, but Scott was just a cute guy that I was talking to. And you walked up to him and you're like, if you fuck with my friend, I will kill you. And he looked at you like, who is this girl? I'm like, she's not kidding. Like you were not kidding. You were like, I, if you as so much, like touch a hair on her head tonight. And I, that's how we have been. And I, I think that helps like that level of tenacity, but also like stick togetherness, you know, like I always knew I had you in my back pocket. If the world was on fire, I could call you and you would be there. So, so there's only one time in my life that I remember where it's really creepy. And it was, I was in my twenties in Hollywood. You weren't there at the time. I was with some of my other girlfriends and this, your friends at that time were a little sus. No, these were good friends. They were good people. Yeah. This was, um, these were some of my good friends. Um, like, and they, there was this girl that came up to us and she's like, oh, you know, and looking back at it now, I'm like, that's part of that whole ring thing. Like, they're like, we have these guys, they would love you. You could make like all this money and do all this stuff. And I was like, well, what does that stuff entail? You know? And she was like, my, one of my friends was like, oh, that would be, and I'm like, well, excuse me, what would that stuff entail? Yeah. And then they were kind of like, oh no, let's not talk to this one. Let's, let's talk to this one. That's a little bit more, um, open to it, but I'm like, that was really weird. Well, multiple times that we've been together, we'd be at concerts. We'd be, I mean, we have spent a lot of time together for us. The fact that we've never lived in the same state since 1988. No, seriously. And multiple times we would just be in a situation and just both, we, we have a sixth sense. Like we can finish each other's sentences. There's never skipping a beat. Like, like you said, when I, like last night we, you flew in, we sat down for dinner and like, you know, we helped each other figure out what we wanted to eat. And like, we just have a thing that nobody else can, my daughter understands, my daughter sees it. Zoe sees it. Zoe's like, dude, you two together are wild. You either read each other's minds or you just giggle incessantly and nobody knows what's funny. Like just you two think it's funny. Like those memes of those girls falling down drunk in the bushes laughing or just laughing in the snow. That's, yeah. So we're not, but multiple times we've been together where danger presented itself and we both just immediately were like, nope, like in unison, just in unison. We both just were like, nope, we're not, we're not, we're not falling for that. Yeah. And it really helps to have a, like, I do think God sent you to me a long time ago to keep me alive because. Well, same for you. Keep me alive. I've done a lot of stupid stuff and you're, you call me out. Oh, don't. We do call each other out. Yeah. That's, you can't let, you know. That's the beauty of, I think that's a beauty of friends. Like what if. People hear this part because if you have a best friend, that is your job. Yeah. Like who would you be if you didn't call your friend out? Right. You have to hold them responsible. And if they're not going to be your friend because you're going to call them out on something, then they're not really your friends. Yeah. No, that's critical. Just like you call out my bullshit in a heartbeat or even just my mood. Like Tina, you're being a bit bitch. Yeah. Stop it. And I'm like, okay. Somebody else would say that and I'd get all fired, you know. Be a little nicer. Yeah. Yeah. And so you could say the same thing to me and I'm like, okay, put myself in a check. Sometimes I think that I am being nice and I'm maybe not being so nice. So I'm nicer though. I really am. I know we both are. We both calmed down a lot. So we went, so years ago, we have to tell this story. Years ago, a couple of years ago, what, like, how long ago was that? Like 2018, 2017, 16? You were, you won a trip because you were like the top salesman in your company. And you, we won a trip to, you won a trip to bring a family member to Australia. Yes. And you lied and said I was your sister. No, I didn't have to lie. You could bring whoever I wanted. Okay, good. Yeah. So I was your sister and we went and I had pneumonia. I'd, I'd had, had walking pneumonia for months. I, those pictures, I looked phenomenal in my bikini, but I was sick as a dog. And- I do have a good picture of you walking towards the beach with your butt. Yeah. You had a good butt. I had a great butt. I was like working out incessantly and I had pneumonia. So it was, yeah. The only time I've ever had a really great six pack, I had pneumonia. So I, I'm not a six pack girl. But you were really, you were pretty thin then. I was really thin. I was just sick and stressed out. But we were in Australia and I mean, I was so sick. I remember one night sleeping in the bathtub because I was coughing up blood and I didn't want to wake you up. But we had some crazy adventures we were reminiscing about last night. We, we went on that slide. I have to tell them about this slide. Oh gosh. So the, the death slide? Where were we? We were in, we were in Sydney. We're in Sydney somewhere. And there was a amusement park near there. I forget what it's called. It's like a creepy one. It's like a hundred something years old. Really creepy. Really creepy. And very old timey. I went on some crazy ride. I thought I was going to die on by myself. I wasn't going on. I was like, I'm not going on that. You're on your own. I really thought I was going to die during that ride. And then we went into some, like, it was like an indoor, um, Oh, like a arcade. Like there was like a whole bunch of fun things inside this huge building. Like a fun house kind of, but not really. It was like an arcade. If you see movies where it's the 1800s and people are going into a giant room and there's like slides and there's ski ball and all sorts of stuff. It's like an arcade, like an old timey arcade. That's like an old time Chuck E. Cheese. And yes. And there were these two metal slides, except they both dropped off a cliff. Like this. Like, yeah. And one was shorter than the other. And you and I somehow were like, we're going on this because we're crazy. We are crazy people together. And we're like, we're going on the slides. We could do anything. We have the same level of risk tolerance. I think that's a good match. Like drink your drink already. I did. Sorry. Squirrel. We have a good, I got to start. Okay. I'm going to pound this. We have a good, we have a good match of our risk tolerance. So we go on the small slide as well. It was not small, but it was smaller. And we successfully, yes, that was fun. We didn't, we were like 40 something and we didn't fall apart. We're like, okay. And then you were like, we're going on the big one. And I'm looking at it and I'm thinking of all the orthopedic injuries that I take care of in my clinical practice. And all the people that have had one, I'll tell you guys, it takes one slip up. It takes one, you know, the movies and the show ridiculousness show all these terrible injuries and everyone's like, oh, it's fine. No, it takes one slip on the ice or one trip or one little thing. I was going to say, it's usually something little, right? It's not like that massive. No. And specifically for middle-aged women, because as our estrogen leaves the building, our tendons and ligaments get much less elastic and we rip and tear. And it's like life changing injuries. And so you're like, we're going. And I'm thinking of all the cases I've been treating of women that were my current age, but I was, you know, 10 years younger. And I'm like, no, we're not going. And so we get up there and I'm thinking, I'll follow you to the ends of the earth. So I'll go. And we get up there and we're sitting on the slides and I'm thinking, I'm going to fricking die. Like I'm going to, I'm going to bust something or I'm going to die. It's literally straight down, like 30. It's crazy. It should have been a water slide. Yeah. It was like one of the scariest things I've ever seen in my life. And then all of a sudden he's like, okay, you ready? And you, water shoots out of your eyeballs, like tears shoot out of your eyes. And you're like, I'm not doing this. And you start cracking up and you just completely melt down. You're like, I can't do it. I can't do it. I'm not doing it. I'm thinking, thank God. We're like crawling back down that rickety ass staircase. It was like a scary staircase that went up the wall. And that alone was like scary. We shouldn't have known. I did know. It was one lane. And so we had to push by all these people. I'm like, sorry, sorry. And I'm pulling you down. I'm like, I'm sorry, sorry, sorry. And everyone's looking at us like, why are you, you know? Well, they know once you get up there, you probably walk in and down. Yeah. That was a good call. We decided not to do that. Oh my gosh. That was fun. That was really fun. So, and then another memory I have that I have to tell that I'm trying to think of the list I made in my head was, so we had this plan, right? When we were in seventh grade, we were going to be in like white snake videos. Oh. And then I had this plan in my head for us that somehow in our 40s, we were going to be making good money and we were going to travel the world. Because you had traveled pretty extensively, like as a child, your parents are Swedish, your adoptive parents. And so you had been all over and I'm like, we're going to travel. And in my head, we had this grand plan of like being in our 40s. And because we both had kids, my daughter and your son are almost the same age. And then you had your daughter who's now, she's 17, almost 18. And so I thought, okay, she'll be free to travel. And then you call me, it's my 40th birthday. I'm in Hawaii. You're due to fly in to visit. And you call me and you're like, Tina, I'm pregnant. And I was like, fuck, she just ruined the whole plan. I started over. So you had a baby at 40, 41? No, 39. 39, okay. Yes, I was 39. Oh, yeah. So that was like, there went our plan to travel the world. It did. But you know what? We can do it now, maybe. Oh, my gosh. No, he's, but he's so amazing. He's such a good kid. He was your like. He's amazing. I mean, you love all your children. All my kids are so good. Don't get me wrong. But like, oh, great girl. She's a great girl. They're all good kids. He's got his life like super dialed in, super happy for him. But he was like, he's like my little, he's my little buddy now. Yeah. Yeah. He's your little guy. Yeah. He's going to be a famous quarterback. Yeah, hopefully. God's put that into him and he's, that's what he's training for. What is it like to be, I cannot imagine having, what is he, 12? 12. I could, like, I don't have the energy. How do you, how was it? How is it being an older mom? Oh, it's great. Yeah. I feel like, unfortunately, got the version of me growing up. You know, me still trying to figure myself out. I probably wasn't the best mom, but I did the best I could. And then got a better version of me, like a little bit better version. And then got, like, probably the best version of me. So, you know, but now I get to go back, like last week I saw, and, you know, we get to have a nice time. Like, we share a love for good food. Like, not just like. It's your oldest son. Yes, my oldest son. So my, we have like a love for, I call it fancy food. You know, like, we love, we love that. So, to be able to share that. And then my, you know, she's my, my ride or die. She's with me all the time. Well, she's like a mini me. She's, she's my little mini me. Like, I just, she's going, she's coming to, she's coming to be living near you soon for college. So I'm like, I don't know what I'm going to do. I really kind of. You're going to come visit more often. I will, but I've kind of blocked that off for now until it's like real, but it's soon. Yeah. It's less, what, like six months? Yeah. And then, and then, and then my life is, like you said, he's a quarterback. So it's a lot of football all the time. And you flew in yesterday in the middle of the Super Bowl and you didn't, I was like, it's okay. It's not my team. Mia missed the Super Bowl. It's okay. It's not my team. I'm a Rams fan. So we're good. Texans are my second favorite. So it's okay. Okay. I adopted them in. I know nothing. Since I moved to Houston. So it's all good. I don't know anything about football. Yeah. It's all, it's, you know, it is, it's good. It's fun. Keeps me, keeps me young, but it is weird to see some of the moms that are like early thirties, you know, with their kids. And I'm like, that could be my daughter or son and my grandchild. So that's weird. I bet. It's, it's good. I am in full grandma mode. Like I want. Oh, I would love to have grandkids. I want the grandbabies. I still, but I still, I still work full time. I have a corporate job. I travel a lot for my work. So I still have a lot of responsibility that, that, that way. So, you know, I'm hoping I'll get some grandbabies soon, not from any of my younger children, but from, you know, we'll see. I hope he meets a nice girl. I pray about it. God's got it. He's going to meet someone when it's his time. And I'm excited for that. And I'm excited for Zoe because I'll be like, I'm like your, like your auntie. So it's, yeah. So I can't, it's like my child too, you know, like my grand, it would be like my grandbaby too. So my dad is adamant that I somehow get my relationship settled with my sister while he's still alive. And that's not going to happen. I was going to say, do you hear me? I was like, I don't, you forgive, you know, it's like, yeah, that's, but you don't need to, the boundaries. That's a whole nother conversation. Yeah. But I remember one time my dad was going on and on about it. And Zoe was, Zoe knows, she knows what I've shared with her. And she, this is my daughter. And I just remember her like yelling at my dad to leave me alone about it because he was just going on. And she's like, she has a sister. Her name is Mia. Oh, I love that. She, your aunt Mia. She never even just calls you Mia. It's always aunt Mia. So she's really, it's like, yeah, sister Mia. Like, I guess it's her aunt. Oh, that is your aunt. But she, yeah, she's, that's, and she was so jealous today that you were not, she, she, I mean, I don't think jealous, but you know, she sent me a message. She's like, is Mia there? I wish I, you know, I hope you have a good day. So. I'll be back often. I know. Yeah. We could, so you're going to have to come. Going to have to come. Yeah. Yeah. It'll be good. Well, we have so many stories that we can't tell. Told a lot. There's, there's a lot in there. There was a brush event. Oh, gosh. We can't bring that one up. The Orange County Fair. Oh, no. You're going to bring it up. I'm not. You were detained by police for a minute. I was let go. Yeah. It's true. I walked out on my own accord. It's true. It's true. I know. Mia has a hot temper. We both have hot temper. That wasn't my fault. No, no, no. That was not, I just got dragged into it. Yeah, some girl was messing with you and you don't take to that. No, it wasn't with me. It was with. Yeah. Yeah. A boy. It was with, yeah. And I just decided to jump in. It was probably not the best decision, but, you know. Because you're a little scrapper. I am a little scrapper. It's the only reason I bring it up. I will. You'll defend your loved ones. I will. To the death. I have not scrapped in a while, but I see those memes. They're like, is it my healed version or my hood version? Yeah. Because I'm sure I could go there again, but God is working on me every day. I was the outwardly troubled one. And you were like, inwardly, I'm like, dude, that girl gets herself into some trouble. But we always get out of it, right? Yeah. Like we, it was just a different time. Completely different time. It was a time, like you said, we weren't on cell phones. Like there was a time when you could sort of navigate the world honestly and not performatively and not with concern that somebody was going to see it, you know? Yeah. Thank you, Jesus. Yeah. The only thing we had to worry about was like that hellfire that came down from our parents. Yeah. That was not fun to be grounded. Oh. Yeah. I would sneak out though. See, I wouldn't. Yeah. That's the difference. I wouldn't. And everybody was so worried about me. And I'm like, I don't think I'm the one that we should be so worried about all the time. Your mom knew. Yeah. Britta knew. Britta knew I was a good girl. Yeah. She loved you. Yeah. She probably loved you more than me. What happened last year? You sent me a picture. Oh my gosh. So. Okay. This is too funny. We'll end with this. We'll end with this because it's getting long. Yeah. Because we could go on forever. Yeah. So my dad is like, oh, I have your graduation from high school or, you know, I don't know if I had my college stuff, but I think I had high school stuff. So I open up the front page and it's Tina's stuff. It's my graduation announcement. It's your graduation announcement. It's pictures of you. I'm going to like the first page and then I'm like on the second and third page. I go, she loved you way more than she loved me. I was like, she's like, well, Tina wouldn't do that. Tina wouldn't. I was like, well, I'm not Tina. So that's what you got. But that, but you know, I love Tina. So, but yeah. We love Britta. Yeah. We lost Britta right after I lost Rick. So that was rough. Yeah. It was, it was, it's been a long time. She never got to meet and she would have really loved. She was a good mom. Which is my youngest. She was like my second mom. Yeah. She was a, she was a great, she's a great lady. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Well, thank you. That's our podcast. That was fun. I love you. I hope everyone enjoyed that. That was a little insights, a little inside look into my life that you'll probably never get again. So thank you for coming on. Thank you for having me. Yes. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina show. This is a wellness loud production produced by Drake Peterson. Theme song is by John the guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, you can email the podcast at podcast at drtina.com. That's D R T Y N A. And if you like this episode, please rate review and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. See you next time. And thanks for listening. This podcast is for general informational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthcare services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have. And they should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions. Talk about like foreshadowing. Talk about visioning. That girl was wearing colors and light colors and had long silver hair. So I started growing my hair out. Like talk about intention, right? I'm like, okay, I'm going to grow my hair out. The Tina you met in 2020 had short hair because she had just chopped it all off so she could let her silver grow out. So many of you men and women, but women in particular, we are having hair loss in middle age and it's awful. And I will tell you a lot of the women that you see that are middle-aged that have big followings. They're using For more information, visit www.fema.gov

=== FILE: Do You Really Need Hormones for Menopause (How To Know If You Need HRT In Menopause) [fjbvfpjPGB4].txt ===

 n advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance advance are several reasons why a woman may choose not to initiate HRT. And again, each is to each his own. I personally don't get it. I would never try to raw dog this on my own. But I understand that everybody has their reasons. And I is not my job to judge. I honor where people are. But these are these are the main reasons I hear. I will say this delayed or late initiation of estrogen can have all kinds of devastating impacts on your body. And we have the data to support this. So devastating impacts that could possibly have been prevented had HRT been initiated prior to the symptom severity or prior to a long time out. You know, the data is showing about 10 years postmenopausally, it's still very safe to apply estrogen. But clinically, what I have seen is that sometimes it's too late to right the ship. And this is where my personal experience comes into play. First, I want to share the reasons why women may choose not to and I'll get back to that. But I do think that early intervention with HRT is critical. And I think, again, getting evaluated, considering it sooner than you think you might need it is really important. I'm not talking there's a lot of discussion out there about like, you know, really early onset menopause. I'm not talking about that. I'm menstruating quite normally, to be totally transparent with you. It is getting a little bit, you know, funny here and there, where I might skip one or might have an extra round of something, because I am getting towards that tail end of perimenopause. But the idea is that you just sort of sail on in to menopause, it doesn't have to suck. It really doesn't have to suck. And not everybody needs hormones to have menopause not suck. I know plenty of very healthy fit women, and they are all very fit, we'll give you that. That's the caveat. They're all incredibly fit, and they have been training their entire lives. These aren't women who just figured out they need to start strength training like so many do. These are women who are incredibly high level athletes, and they just cruise on into menopause. It's no big deal. And so it's not so much about labs as it is symptomology for me. If a woman says, do I need estrogen? I'm like, well, if you don't think you need it, then let me ask you a few questions, right? And that to me is more telling if they have symptoms. And if you don't think you need it, and you don't have symptoms, then you may not need it, right? So I was having symptoms and denying that they were symptoms. You see the difference there. So first of all, fear of cancer risks. This is a very common fear. And I think that a lot of it is unfounded due to the Women's Health Initiative and how they scared the bejesus out of everybody when that came out in 2002. But there are certain types of cancers and there are certain types of women where this might be a real risk. And so obviously, that's up to your risk tolerance and you want to talk to your physician always, right? But there is a fear that is quite unfounded and it is illogical. And many studies have come out since 2002. Women's Health Initiative initially dropped and really re-evaluated the data in there. And that was a quite overblown situation. And I think it did a terrible disservice to, again, an entire generation of women. Estrogen used alone can definitely increase the uterine lining thickness and that can put you more at risk. But the breast cancer risk really is not nearly there to the degree that we've been told, if at all, to be honest. And in many cases, it may lower the risk of breast cancer. So I won't get into that too far, but talk to your doctor, of course, and make sure your doctor knows what they're doing instead of just being like, I'm against this. Many doctors just aren't educated and they're against it. Now, also, again, going back to the progestins, the fake progesterone, that has been shown too as an HRT combo with estrogen to be a concern of increasing all kinds of problems, including cancers. There's misinformation and lack of knowledge. This is on both the public and the doctor's part and the medical establishment. I don't know what it is, but I don't feel like the medical establishment really wants us having estrogen and for various reasons. And I say this because it has come under fire. Different forms of estrogen have come under fire in the compounding world quite frequently since I've held a medical license. And I've always raised an eyebrow like, what? Why are they going after that? Why would that be concerning? So it makes you kind of go, hmm, when they keep coming back to try to take it off of the list of things we can make available to our patients, right? That always makes me raise an eyebrow. Some people prefer a natural or alternative health preference. Like, that's the way they want to go. They want to raw dog it. They think that menopause is a naturally occurring process in a woman's life and that we should embrace it. And my bones and skin and cardiovascular disease and joints say otherwise. But if that's how people want to go, then that's how they want to go. And they want to use herbs and other things that are natural. And that's cool. But when your ovaries go offline, you can no longer stimulate them with an herb or stoke them with an herb to do anything. And so you really, it's just like the people thinking that there's like nature's ozempic. There's just not. You can't replace a hormone with something natural. They're not comparable. And any doctor out there, chiropractor telling you that his magic formula is the one that's going to give you the same benefits as estrogen, that's just looney tunes. They're completely lying to you. There's a perception that menopause is a natural life stage, like I said, and that we should go through it so that we can experience it. And again, my joints and heart and skin and, you know, libido just say otherwise. There is side effects and discomfort or they're not tolerating it. Well, I used to be in this camp. I have always been a very low hormone girl. And when I tried taking estrogen back when I actually was getting symptomology in my early 40s, I really needed a little estrogen for various reasons. And I didn't use it because I wasn't tolerating it well. And that's just how it was. And I think it was, I wasn't going through enough opportunities of different forms to really find the place that landed me where I was tolerating it well and I felt better. So that can be a thing. You also can be getting overdosed, just like with the GLP-1s. A lot of doctors do standardized dosing, even in the functional medicine community. I've seen this time in time again where they do a standardized dosing protocol that they learned at a conference or they learned from someone and it's just too high. It's just too high for the patient and it makes them feel really, really crummy. And it, again, depends on the delivery. If you're giving somebody, you know, X milligrams of a sublingual, that's going to be a whole different absorption than if you gave it to them in a pill form, right? So there's just a lot of variances that need to be taken into consideration. And so finding a doctor who's trained in this really does matter. There is a reluctance or lack of support from healthcare providers. That's huge. I've already said that. There's just doctors they don't know. Endocrinology is complex and people don't want to take the time to understand it. Certainly don't go to your GP and expect them to have a clue, right? Like why would they? We have to, we have to, as a society, we really need to just, if I can go on a rant for a second, we need to stop expecting every doctor to know how to do everything. Like I don't do proctology exams. I don't do gyne exams. I don't want to. Can I? Yes. Was I trained to? Yes. Do I want to? No. I don't do peds. I don't take care of kids. I don't even remember half the things that I took board exams when it came to kids because I didn't want to treat kids. So I always say, I always joke, kids and cats, not my jam. Like dogs and adult humans, I'm good. But kids and cats, you know, geriatrics, that's a whole other group. Geriatric patients actually have a lot in common with pediatric patients when it comes to their sensitivity of things. So, you know, pick a doctor based on what they're really good at because we're not all great at everything. I'm really good at musculoskeletal conditions. I happen to be good at a lot of things, but that doesn't mean that I'm great at all of it, nor that I had any interest in all of it. So let's quit getting mad at our GPs for not being a jack of all trades because that's not what they were trained to do. There's cost and access issues. But again, I really want to drive this home. Micronized bioidentical progesterone is available through your standard pharmacy and hopefully your insurance will cover it. And so are different forms of estradiol. That's bioidentical estrogen, and it's available at your standard pharmacy in patches, topicals, injections. There's all different forms. So access sometimes is just a matter of the patient needing to be more savvy. Again, doctors don't know everything and they can't. They have lives too. And a bazillion patients take care of if they're in the insurance model. So take it upon yourself to learn as much as you can. I do a pretty great overview inside my ozempic Dunrant University. It is not a hormone only course, and there's a lot more to be learned. But it is my attempt to educate you, whether you're a clinician or the general public, as best I can, and then talk to you about how these hormones work in conjunction with other peptides, GLP-1s, metabolically optimized insulin sensitive lifestyle, you know, like all the things. HRT is a huge part of that. So educating yourself is going to be numero uno for you to be successful in this. And that's why I created the course. And that's why I'm letting the general public in right now. We are working on making this a certification course for practitioners and we will be kicking the general public out and definitely raising the price. So if you're interested in the program and you've been on the fence, buy it now, join us now before the end of the year, because things are going to change vastly in 2025. And I really want you to be as educated and empowered as possible. It's a beefy course. It's not for everyone. You have to be smart and you have to be interested in learning. It's truly a mini university in there. It's not just a kind of a, you know, casual overview. I really want you to understand what it is that you are utilizing so that you can be empowered and educated so that you can have educated conversations with your practitioner. And if your practitioner is not the one, you can go find someone. There's a whole module in there on how to find a doc to help you as well. And there's a whole list of my favorite compounding pharmacies. And I just am trying to get you all the information that I can so that you can be educated and empowered. And I think for the right person, this is the most beautiful course. And, you know, for some people, it's not the right course. And that's fine. And then there's social stigma and taboo around aging and menopause, which I'm not even going to go into that. I just think it is just crazy that a woman, it's always other women. It truly is always other women who come down the hardest on other women. And whenever I talk about hormones on my social media, it's always other women with this sort of condescending matriarchal. Half the time, they're not even older than me, but they think they are. And they are so condescending telling me what I should and shouldn't do. And the minute someone tells me what I should do, I block them, by the way, just a little FYI pearl there. It's just nonsense. Like, I don't want to get old. And I'm not trying to stay 25. I'm just trying to be the hottest, happiest, fittest, juiciest 50-year-old version of Tina that I can be. And I will hang my hat on that, right? And when people say, oh my God, you look amazing or your skin looks amazing. Like, I don't think I do. To be honest with you, I can see the aging happening. But man, it's hormones. Like, I've been using them for a long time in tiny little increments as needed. Throughout my life, I have been utilizing hormones since, again, since my 30s. And I, you will pry them out of my cold, dead hands. So when women look fantastic, I guarantee you 99% of the time, there's some hormones going on there. So this whole social stigma thing and this taboo, it's coming from other women. And again, it's coming from influencers and health professionals online that are going to convince you that their workout program or their supplement or their whatever is going to do it. And it's like, no, dude, it's not going to do it. I'm sorry. So if they can't prescribe hormones legally in their license, then I honestly don't listen to them when they talk about hormones because they don't understand the magic salve that can happen for a patient when the right hormonal treatment plan is implemented. It's really phenomenal. I have seen chronic pain reverse. I have seen depression and I'm going to get into it here because there's data to support everything I'm saying. This is not just opinion. My own personal experience was a few years ago at the height of the stress of pushing back on the narrative. My poor little ovaries were like, and my poor adrenals couldn't keep up because your adrenals actually, I go into that in my course too. Your adrenals are what are playing catch up for your ovaries when it comes to estrogen production. And my poor adrenals were just fried. They're like little piles of dust upon my kidneys. And I don't know if you guys saw that study that came out recently. It's not the first time this has been shown, but we age in precipitous drops. It's not like this slow, gradual aging that happens. Age 44 and age 60, there's like two big dump outs and we age pretty severely during those times. Mine, I think, was a few years later than that. So I was rocking and rolling at 44. I was feeling fantastic at 46. And then like right around 48, it got hard. Things got hard for a minute. And I went into chronic pain spiral. My autoimmune disease came roaring. And I've shared all of that when I've talked about my journey with GLP-1 agonists, but my estrogen delivery system wasn't cutting it. I was using a topical and I've had this happen with patients where, you know, it's just not cutting it. Like we have to play around with different delivery systems for different patients. And so I finally slapped an estrogen patch on and thank God. This episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I have a treat for you. I'm going solo on this episode and I have been asked countless times by...

=== FILE: The Exercise Every Middle Aged Woman Needs To Be Doing In 2026 For Their Health [akk6COB9kRM].txt ===

 feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder feder going to do a lot of things for our cardiovascular system, for our nervous system, for our musculoskeletal system, for our bones. This is going to help us react quickly when we maybe fall down, right? Fall prevention. Do those fast twitch muscles react the way we need them to? This is really important as we get older and falls and hip fractures are the kiss of death. So we want them strong and we want them reactive. We don't just want strong and these slow controlled lifts. We want strong and reactive. We want fast reaction times. We want explosiveness when we need it. So if we do need to hustle, not just like keep a nice clip for a little jog to run after the prey, I'm talking we have to haul ass away from the tiger. Like that's what these fast twitch powerful explosive movements are for. Okay. And then lastly, we need to talk about yoga and Pilates and these isometric controlled hold bar would be in there. People ask me a lot about bar. This is not strength training. This is asking your body to derive tension throughout your body, which is very important for a lot of reasons. I think most notably, it is important for learning how to harness your body, to trust your body more, to be able to engage it when needed. Like you need to get up off the floor or you need to, and not just in explosive movements. Like you need to be able to have long sustained holds potentially and to learn to tension your body. When you know how to tension your body, then you can start lifting heavy weights and you don't get to lift heavy weights until you know how to tension your body. So I think the two go together really beautifully. This is nervous system regulation. This is isometric. Isometric is phenomenal. In fact, they looked at all the different types of exercise and how it impacts blood pressure and isometric holds. So like a wall sit, for instance, where you go up against the wall and you sit, you sit into a seated position and you hold there. Pilates and bar have a lot of isometrics. Some types of yoga do. This really matters when we're talking about preventing injuries just overall. I think of this more as rehab than anything else. So if you want to put it in that category, like you're going to build the muscle, you're going to do the explosive movements, you're going to do all the things. This is sort of your rest and digest, if you will, but you're still being active. So active recovery, you could call it. I know that's not exactly how all the gym guys are going to say it, but I think of Pilates and yoga whilst challenging also an active recovery type of thing. And if done right, especially Pilates, we can get those little intrinsic muscles of the spine fired up so that they work together with the bigger muscles. And this is how we prevent injury. This is how we avoid disc herniations. This is how we have spinal segmentation movement and we can trust our bodies more. I see a lot of women who just do Pilates and while maybe these lean, lanky women doing Pilates look beautiful on their Instagrams, I want to be resilient AF. And so I'm going to integrate Pilates with my strength training because what's the point? What's the point of having this beautiful body if you can't do any pushups and you can't deadlift your body weight and you can't do any squats for weight? Like what's the point, right? You're kind of useless. Like you need to be helpful in society and that might mean being able to lift something heavy up off of someone you love. So we got to do the strength training too, right? And we want to make sure that our hips are mobile, but also quick to respond and strong because we, and we have to have lots of ambulation. So they're just lubed up, right? So these are the four quadrants. This is really what I'm getting at when I say that Pilates isn't enough or strength training isn't enough or zone two isn't the end all be all. We need all of it. And I hear from different influencers who say, oh, you just need to work out once a week. You just do it really slow. Or I've got this fancy machine where I just do everything really slow with high tension. Like there's these AI workout machines. That's all well and good, but I want my body to respond to the things that life is going to throw at me. And life isn't always going to be a well-controlled AI environment or a Pilates reformer or a squat rack or you know, a treadmill life is going to throw curve balls at us. And I want to be able to respond to all of them. That's why this matters. So we want to prevent injuries. We want to enhance our rehabilitation. We want to improve our nervous system. We want hormetic hits, which are these small stressors that our body can endure. We want to rest and recuperate in between. We can't be doing these all stacked on top of each other. We want to lower our blood pressure. We want our hormones happy. We don't want to overdo it, right? We don't want to tear tissues and blow out our adrenals. And so you have to find what works best for you. But I wanted to explain all four of these. Well, our bonus being walking, that's kind of the non-negotiable. I don't think of that as exercise. I think of that like drinking water and breathing air and eating food. Like you have to walk, okay? So that's not exercise. That's just your added bonus of being a human being that ambulates upright. But the others are things that we need to incorporate. And when you think back, at least when I was a kid, I'm sorry to the younger generations who really had shoddy PE at school, but maybe in other countries, they still have cool PE. But in PE, it was really varied. We did a lot of varied things. And some kids were really good at one thing and really terrible at another, but we just kept doing them. And kids might hate like, oh man, we're going to whine and complain about today's activity. I really just tried to embrace all of it because I thought I want to be good. I want to be a good human, right? And then I look at my husband, who's just a natural born athlete. Everything he does, for the most part, everything he does, he does so with such ease and grace when it comes to physicality. And it's really hot. Like it's a super hot thing to see and to behold. And there's some things he's not solid at, and there's some things he's not as good at, but he can work on them and he can get there. But he always says like, I'm just a natural born athlete. I just know how to move. And I think it's not that he's a natural born athlete. Maybe. I mean, there is something to that, but also he's been on a farm his whole life and he's always moved. He always moves. He always works with his body somehow. So he might be climbing in underneath an excavator to get a filter. He might be doing something on top. He might be climbing on the roof of the barn. He might be scaling a rope. I don't know. He's always doing crazy shit, but he stays physical and he has that physicality about him. And that's going to help him not age as fast as those of us who might be more stagnant and have desk jobs and sit in front of artificial lights. So we have to make up for that with our four quadrants in the gym. So I hope that's helpful. If you guys like this, please let me know. You guys can email me at podcast at drtina.com. I would love if you would go rate, review and subscribe. Go follow me on YouTube. If you want to watch the video versions of this, send it out to your friends and family, because I still think there's a lot of confusion. People really want to get hung up on one thing about what the influencers are saying, or maybe they've, again, they found something they like. And there's that old adage of do the exercise that you like. I don't think that's the end of the story. I think we actually should be doing the exercise we don't like. And so we need to be hitting all four of these quadrants. If we want to be a good and strong human, you are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, The Quick and Dirty, I am going to present to you my insanely simple guide to fat loss, longevity, and fitness. And we're going to be discussing the four quadrants of exercise as I see them. I get questions all the time from super confused people.

=== FILE: The Truth About Why Peptides Sometimes Don't Work For Middle Aged Women & What To Do About It [56Ysr4drRbM].txt ===

 NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC NC are just really nice across the board. They're not, like you said, they're not a forever thing. If it's a forever thing, you've got other problems to deal with, right? And we have to say the obvious, which I always preach, is you got to do the foundational work. You got to do the strength training and the sun and the walking and the stress mitigation and eating a nutritionally dense diet and all the things, right? Like those peptides don't work if you're not addressing all of those things as well. Yeah, 100%. And as you mentioned, mold in your environment. I had infinite supply. I'm the owner of the brand. I had infinite supply of all the gut healing stuff. And naturopath, I had my access to as much of everything that I wanted. None of it made a difference when I had high levels of mycotoxin in my circulation. My gut was still distending. I still had leaky gut. I still had brain fog. My testosterone crashed. Histamine issues, liver enzymes elevated, homocysteine, all of the things that no matter how perfect my diet was, no matter how much I forced exercise because it was going to help, it didn't matter until I got out of that environment. And for people, it might be mold. For other people, it might be you're living too close to some industrial waste plant or something like that. Or you might be in a toxic relationship, one that's constantly keeping your cortisol elevated, too close to cell phone towers and huge EMF environments. There's plenty of that in the world at the moment. So those are all of the things that kind of supersede the gut health. Like we say gut health is, I think, naturopathically, interventionally, the first part that you can give something to help improve. But the free stuff is just all the other things like your sleep cycles, your stress management, your relationships, your purpose, all those other things sort of supersede that, too. Because as you know from 2021, your gut health was ruined because of the stress that you're under with scrutiny through COVID. So yeah, like a good adrenal support is not something we offer. But supplementally, I think that can indirectly help your gut health and your thyroid health and all of the other systems of the body, too. A thousand percent. When I teach hormones, I have a course called GLP-1 Done Right University, and I have a whole beefy hormone module in there. And I teach the foundations. And step number one is support the adrenal system, period, because everything else won't work. If you don't, you'll bonk. But you can't just crank adrenals all day, right? Like I used to live off desiccated adrenal gland and all the adaptogenic herbs. And like that only gets you so far as well. So again, peptides. I wish I'd had peptides when I started all of this decades ago. It would have been much easier to get people further faster. That takes us to neuro. You've got a really incredible neuro formula that I also love. Let's talk about that one. Sure. So neuro, I developed for two reasons. One, because living in mold gave me horrible brain fog. And pretty much all the ingredients, the naturopathic ones at least, that I used while there were my life jackets to make sure my brain actually worked when I had to work and when I had to do podcasts while I still had ridiculously high levels of mycotoxin in my body. Kind of just like caffeinate yourself and push through, take a little methylene blue and you can make it work. I know that well. But also the other reason is my opah being Dutch, my granddad, he died of dementia. So it's pretty near and dear to my heart. That condition, seeing how horrible it was and how he just wasted away and lost himself. My father started to develop memory issues and repeating himself. And I'm like, oh, I need to do something about this as quickly as possible. I'm going to support his brain health. I'm not going to target dementia, but like when you look at all of the things that go into it, they might, they call dementia type three diabetes. So like you're going to look at metabolic syndrome. You're going to support mitochondria and glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent, healthy insulin levels. So cleaning up his diet and using things like berberine or dihydroberberine, supporting anti-inflammatories that can actually get in your brain. Like PEA is an amazing anti-inflammatory that has an affinity for fatty tissues, i.e. your heart. So it helps people with heart inflammation, which may or may not be pretty prevalent from things that have come out in the past. And neuroinflammation, which is a big problem at the moment, because when gut health is compromised, like it is in so many people, you don't just have a gut barrier. You have a blood-brain barrier too, which is equally susceptible to zonulin, which is one of the primary drivers of hyperpermeability. That can cause permeability of the brain. And then all of the toxins that are getting through your permeable gut, like lipopolysaccharides, endotoxins, can then go into your brain and cause deep neuroinflammation. And that's what I dealt with. And I know that's what Dave Asprey dealt with and what basically sparked his whole journey into biohacking and to Bulletproof, bringing his brain back from, I think he's claimed that on a brain scan, it showed severe brain damage. And he had like an eight-year-old's brain from mold. Well, probably not as bad as Dave, but I still had that happening. I had mold colonized in my sinuses. So in the sinus cavity, pretty much trickling directly into my brain, I had mold toxin going in there until I managed to clear it out with sinus flushes and grapefruit seed extracts and all the other things that you can do, even a little bit of a knack in a sinus cleanse, which I recommend you do very cautiously because it burns. Yes, I've nebulized that. It's painful. Yes, exactly right. But yeah, neuro is my attempt to bring my brain back, restore any potential brain damage, which probably occurred from being in three years of mold, and then to help my dad out. And again, using the naturopathics, Lion's Mane, BDNF booster, go to cola, ginkgo, bacopa, all blood flow enhancers, help get oxygen and nutrient delivery to the brain and waste removal, use a bit of dihydroberberine to stabilize the blood sugar. And what I love doing, my biggest passion is finding ingredients that work better than what the mainstream are aware of. Like knack has gained a lot of popularity for good reason. It's the precursor to glutathione. But there are other forms of knacks. There's also forms that are sort of downstream of knack converting through to glutathione. You can use nasset, which is an ethyl ester form of knack that has substantially better bioavailability. And it's also capable of crossing the blood-brain barrier, so increasing glutathione levels in the brain. It's often called neuro knack. The other one you can use is GGC, which is on the three steps of conversion through to glutathione, the middle step, knack being the first, GGC is the second, and then it just converts directly through to glutathione. I like the precursors more than I do glutathione, unless it's like a really good quality liposoma one, which can have some effects. But I find the precursors better at increasing glutathione levels than taking it. So yeah, including nasset in the neuro formula was pretty important, and terastilbene, two really good antioxidants, anti-inflammatories for your brain to help with that neuroinflammatory cascade that I believe is probably one of the few causative reasons why neurodegeneration occurs. And then sort of rectifying it with the peptides. Again, we come back to combine the naturopathics with the powerful, modern, scientific, cutting-edge peptides like dihexar, like P21 and CMAX. All of these peptides have been shown in animal studies, granted. Hopefully, the human studies come. To increase BDNF, increase NGF, nerve growth factor. These peptides work on so many different growth factor cascades that all ultimately result in improved brain function. And that's why I love this product. But one thing that I need to caveat is when you boost BDNF, some people, especially when they like lion's mane, people might say this, for example, they get a little bit brain foggy from it. Because when you boost BDNF, it actually is quite a metabolically taxing process to grow new neurons or to re-myelinate or to undergo neuroplasticity. So you do end up with a little bit of inflammation from that. So by using the things like the Nasset, the terrestyl beans, the ginkgos and bacopa, you're sort of quenching that inflammation that can occur when you really push BDNF. But my personal anecdotal experience, having used it, is every time I'm on it, it's like increased mental focus, increased verbal fluency, and also skill acquisition. That's a big thing that BDNF is beneficial for. When you're young, your BDNF levels are much higher than when you're older. I think before you're seven, it's ridiculously high. That's why kids just pick up everything straight away. And learning a new language is so much easier when you're younger than seven than it is when you're older. But since taking it, I've managed to... And this is like a chicken or an egg thing. Did I start to do these things? Because I knew when I took Dihexa and P21 that I needed to probably get the benefits by learning a skill. But I've managed to pick up Piano. Not great, but I'm starting to learn that and it's finding it pretty easy. I've managed to learn how to serve a tennis ball. And I'm getting significantly better at basketball. Just like, obviously, if you practice things, you get better. But I'm finding comparative to when I did all those things before. It's much easier for me now because of that BDNF boost. And from my understanding, you do need to actively work on skill acquisition when you're boosting it too. So that's what I've been doing and liking. I love that. Yeah, that's great, especially as we age. I mean, we get BDNF from exercise and from just good, clean living, but it definitely starts to wane. And then people also... I was talking to you off air about the brain fog that I was having just as hitting middle age and my zone of genius. I have always had some form of ADHD and I love it. It has allowed me to be a very successful human because I've always... I mean, if I didn't eat well and I didn't exercise, I'd be a complete hot mess. It would not be good. But I think when you're really honed in, it's a really miraculous tool. It's a superpower. However, as your estrogen wanes and you age and your BDNF is falling off along with your human growth hormone levels, et cetera, it really starts to show itself. And so having a neuro formula is incredibly helpful. You did mention something that I think is worth noting and that I always warn folks against when they are embarking on using any kind of neurologic stimulation, anything that like stimulates the brain. If you have really compromised health or you do have a lot of exposure to like latent infections or mold exposure, sparking the brain can be a little bit of a challenge. And so this goes back to the gut, right? I always say like address the gut first and get that systemic inflammation down in the body so that we can address the brain without having... Because sometimes people get a little jumpy when you start bringing... You know, you'll get like a paradoxical reaction that you didn't expect when you sometimes bring in neuro formulas. So I love the idea of the... I love that the foundations of all of these are naturopathic in nature, but it makes so much sense. That's why there's... That's why I didn't know this about you until a few days ago. This is why... Because every formula, you've sent me a few things and I'm like, this is genius. And this explains it. So truly... I don't know about you, but my kind of order of operations for healing people is work on adrenals. Yep. Then gut, then liver and detoxification and elimination, then hormones. And then you can sort of do all the extras wherever else. Like if it's kidneys are still not functioning, then you can go after them. If it's neuro, brain fog, all that sort of... If that's not already resolved from working on those prior ones, then you can bring in things like neuro. And then the additional things are, oh, I want to slow my rate of aging. I want to use NMN. I want to boost mitochondrial function too. That kind of plays in wherever you kind of wanted to as an add-on on the side. Peptides don't work if you're not addressing all of those things as well. Yep. A hundred percent. And as you mentioned, mold in your environment, I had infinite supply. I'm the owner of the brand. I had infinite supply of all the gut healing stuff and naturopath. I had my access to as much of everything that I wanted. None of it made a difference when I had high levels of mycotox.

=== FILE: Weight Gain on HRT For Middle Aged Women： What’s Really Causing It (And How To Avoid It) ｜ Ep. 244 [p7SQKXGVihc].txt ===

 TKi and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and puli and pul Okay, we're just going to hop right into it. I'm going to get personal here. I spent my entire life as a very low hormone girly. I have been testing my hormones since my 30s and they have always come back just bone dry. I am a low hormone girly. I feel best low hormone. I don't tend to do well on hormones. And going all the way back to college days when I was on oral birth control, contraceptive, did terribly on it, had to discontinue it almost immediately, gained a ton of weight on it like that. Fast forward to years later, I'm pregnant, blew up like a balloon during my pregnancy, did not enjoy it, was not one of those women who was like, being pregnant feels so great, did not feel great. My autoimmune disease was not happy. None of my body was happy, pregnant, did not enjoy it at all. It was a rough go. Had my beautiful daughter, couldn't lose a pound, was not one of those women who went straight into breastfeeding and everything was great and lost all the weight. Didn't happen. Didn't actually lose a pound until I discontinued breastfeeding and I dropped 10 pounds like that, just boom, gone. And in every situation that I just shared with you, I'm going to continue the story, the weight gain or loss is like that. So I know it's the hormones. All right. So we fast forward to my daughter's a few years old. I have a Mirena IUD inserted. That is a supposed to be local only progestin wrapped IUD that goes in intra uterus. And it did not stay local because I had the same exact experience that I did on oral birth control, which was I felt batshit crazy. I was in my first year of chiropractic college. I had a two-year-old. I could not manage what was happening. So I actually went into the restroom and pulled in. I remember I was in a radiology course where you're in a dark room and you're looking at x-rays all day. I went into the bathroom in that building and I put my foot up on the toilet seat and I pulled my IUD out. I would not recommend anyone do that. It was completely painless. I've had multiple IUDs inserted and removed and I don't have a lot of pain with that. So, but it's not something, go to your doctor and have your IUD removed if you want to have it removed. But I pulled it out. It was shockingly small and I flushed it and I was like, F that, not fun. So that would basically be like Depra-Provera except in a IUD form. Did not do well on it. Do not like it. Have never recommended a Marina for a woman ever or Depra-Provera for that matter. And now we've got lawsuits coming out around Depra-Provera and brain tumors. So I don't have all the details on that, but you can go look that up. So then lost the weight immediately. Had gained a bunch of weight on that, lost it immediately. Years pass, I have used topical progesterone for years, decades at this point, on and off. Sometimes obviously at lower doses when I was younger, but I have been on a topical progesterone cream since my 30s, somewhere in my 30s. And more recently, obviously, kind of the whole arsenal of HRT, right? The estrogen, the progesterone, the testosterone. Now, in all cases, I am a proponent of natural progesterones or bioidentical progesterones. And so the creams, the topicals, the oils, those are all available over the counter. I'm not recommending you start them without some direction because you too can gain a ton of weight on them or feel lousy if it's not done appropriately. I had another episode in my late 20s, I would guess. I was on a road trip and I was using a ton of topical progesterone because my doctor at the time had really ramped my dose up because of the symptoms I was having. And I felt like a crazy person again and I gained a ton of weight. And what I remembered specifically about that trip to note was that my appetite went through the roof. And it got me thinking at the time, boy, I have always had a voracious appetite when I take too much progesterone. And so more recently, I am on a micronized oral progesterone, which is a prescription that you can get through a traditional pharmacy. This does not need to be compounded. I am on a, I've tried topical estrogens, estradiol, biest, which is estriol and estradiol. Don't get as good of results with a topical as I have with the patch, the topical patch. And so I have been using a very small dose of that. When you're in perimenopause, I do like to test hormones in all women, all ages. But when you're in perimenopause, you're kind of like riding the lightning, right? Like you're all over the place. And sometimes you have estrogen and progesterone and sometimes you don't. Depends on the month. Depends on what your eggs are doing. Depends on your stress levels and a lot of different variables. So I have been playing around with that dose and it's, I wish I could say this with certain, but it's never the same dose twice. And I, at this point, I'm like, can I just get through with it? Can I just get through the menopause? And actually just then I can control the exogenous supply of hormones into my body so I can get them regulated. But this is a, this is a crazy time. And any of you perimenopausal ladies now, any of you perimenopausal ladies that are lucky enough to go on a dose of whatever hormone that your doctor gives you and just, it's great. And you just, it works every month the same. Bless you because that has not been my experience and it's not the experience of many of my patients and clients. And then a topical testosterone. I have done injectable testosterone. I've done topical. I, I really, you know, in, in, in female doses, I think it's a really valuable asset to have on board. But I would say that the one thing that has made me gain weight the most quickly and just kind of out of nowhere has been when I have used, uh, testosterone at too high a dose. All of a sudden my body likes to do the aromatization process of my aromatase enzyme kicks up and I convert all my testosterone into estrogen and it doesn't go well for me. And I will get weight gain like that. This is similar to those of you who are menstruating of whatever age, and you find yourself that week before your bleed, right before your period starts, all of a sudden you've got like a sheet of fat on your stomach or your stomach gets real fluffy. And you're like, what is going on here? It's not just bloat. It's like, all of a sudden you feel like you just puffed up like the Pillsbury Doughboy, you just puff up, right? And that had been my story all the way through my life. I mean, really, I just would get, I felt fat every week before my period. All of a sudden I gained a bunch of weight, nothing fit. It wasn't just like intestinal bloat. It wasn't just bloat. It was like, I don't know. Turns out I do know now it was insulin resistance. You become transiently insulin resistant. I'm going to get to that. Testosterone will do it to me quickly. Too much estrogen will definitely do it to me. Man, estrogen really is that Goldilocks spot. All of these are. All of these hormones, you have got to be finding that Goldilocks spot. But unfortunately, the finish line or the goal or the Goldilocks spot moves every single month when you're in perimenopause, especially during this period where I'm just, I'm still cycling regularly, but it's starting to peter out, right? And so it's a very frustrating time to be trying to sort out your HRT. And I wanted to share this information because I have been getting messages from you guys for years saying, I can't handle HRT. I gained so much weight. What is going on? And I'm like, okay, I'll breach this topic someday. And so today's the day. Recently, I had my estrogen dialed in. I had my testosterone dialed in and I still was having some sleep disruption. And I was still finding myself riddled with some anxiety and I knew it was hormonal. And so I upped my progesterone and Lord, do I love my progesterone. I could write a love letter to progesterone. I love the way it makes me feel. I love how juicy and glowy and just bava boom I feel on progesterone. But once again, my appetite specifically for carbohydrates, which I'm going to explain in a minute, went through the roof and within a week, boom, just puffed right up. Like just everyone's like, gosh, you look great. What is it? I'm like, it's adipose tissue. It's fat. It truly like it fills you out, right? It gives you a nice, you don't need any filler or anything. And all your wrinkles look smoother because you have a nice layer of adipose. And I will say, and I've talked to many folks in the strength and conditioning community. I've talked to many hormone specialists. I remember Sarah Gottfried, Dr. Sarah Gottfried saying this like a decade ago. And I've always believed this as well. Women in middle age just don't look as good and feel as good when they're rocking a six pack. They tend to run anxious and they tend to run a little too squirrely when they are too lean. And I know some of you ladies are naturally blessed with six packs and I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about those of us who really never were and who, when we try to get there, we just feel batshit crazy. So a little bit of weight is protective. A little bit of weight is actually going to help you balance your hormones a little bit better. A little bit of weight is your friend in middle age ladies. And if you talk to the strength and conditioning coaches, especially the male ones who've been training middle age women, they will tell you, truth be told, they will tell you this. They've told me this. Their clients do better and are stronger and have better gains and feel better overall when they allow themselves to have a little bit of weight on them. So I believe that. I have been telling middle age women that forever. I had to take a dose of my own medicine on that, right? Like I just, I have to be okay with the fact that I do feel better. I sleep better. I have a better libido. Everything's better. I'm stronger. My joints hurt less. Everything's a bit better when I have a little bit of weight on me. So I'm okay with that. You know, I've given up on my bikini dreams, but this was out of control. And my husband was looking at me one night as I was devouring a bag of popcorn. He was just like, what is going on with you? And I'm like, carbs, carbs, carbs. And I joke, I say I'm being a little carb piggy. And it's because I do, I feel like a little piggy out of food trough. And I'm just like carbs, carbs, carbs. And I'm not a big carb addict girl. So I was, I was a refined carbohydrate addict in my twenties. I think I was severely insulin resistant at the time. I think, you know, there's a, there is a type of diabetes that they're discussing now in malnourished folks and they're calling it type five. And we'll talk about that on another episode, but it really is. I believe that I induced that in myself multiple times over just a version of that. And so being, they speak of it in terms of like the malnourished over, you know, over-trained, underfed female athlete. But I would say it's probably true for those of us who just really, you know, I dealt with anorexia and bulimia for a long time as a young person. So I do think you bust your metabolism that way. And I think I am now paying the price for that. So it's, it's fun and it's real. And a couple of different scenarios have come up recently where folks were saying, oh, you know, I gained so much weight when I'm on HRT or, you know, HRT, I've heard it can do this. I've heard it can do that. I've heard progesterone can do this. And I get all these questions and I've seen kind of all these different scenarios on social media. And I thought we would just address it here. But I wanted to start with that story because I live this, I get this. I am such a Goldilocks girl with my hormones. If I'm just ever so slightly too high or too low, all bets are off and I'm a mess. And I definitely gain weight on HRT. I do. And so this is something that I have to contend with. I'm going to share with you why, and I'm going to share with you what you can do about it. And you're going to laugh because it's all the things I tell you to do all the time, but I'm going to explain why in a little bit more detail. This isn't going to be, you know, a college level hormone course, but I just wanted to make sure that you guys have a bit of a handle on this, especially those of you who are coaching others or who are treating patients or who are healthcare professionals, strength and conditioning coaches. If you are of the just try harder and be more disciplined group, and you believe calories in, calories out is it, I highly encourage you to listen to this episode. If you want to fight about it, then get out of here because this is legitimate science. I'm going to share with you the mechanisms. I'm not going to go into all the specific studies. You can look them up. This is not hard information to find. It's all over the internet. We have known this for decades and there's iterations of it over and over. I will say a good deal of the research has been done and what progesterone is doing to pregnant women or women who are of reproductive age, but these mechanisms hold true. And if you are one of those women who gains that gut right before your period, then this is probably you. And none of this is to diagnose, treat, or give any medical advice, but I want to share with you mechanisms so that you know what you're getting into. I will say this is not intended to scare you away from HRT. None of this is intended to scare you away from taking HRT, but you need to know what's happening because unfortunately, a lot of doctors don't. And I'm not dissing doctors, but I would say that the majority of the clinicians I run into don't have a handle on metabolic health. And many of the so-called metabolic health experts that I run into look like their metabolic health has derailed. So not, or they don't look like they've seen the inside of a gym. So I don't really think they completely understand metabolic health. And again, that's not a diss. It's just, you can't be a metabolic health expert unless you go to the gym because muscle is a part of this equation and we're going to get to that. Muscle is a huge part of this equation. And I'm not pretending to be the end all be all either, but I have a pretty good handle on this. I have a pretty good handle on HRT. I understand the mechanisms well enough, and I've treated countless patients and seen it in action. If you're going to take HRT, you have to go to the gym. You have to prioritize muscle. You have to prioritize exercise and movement. Why? Because the mechanisms where HRT can actually induce some level of insulin resistance, that's right. HRT can induce insulin resistance. Low hormones can induce insulin resistance. Too high of hormones can induce insulin resistance. And you need to offset that. And the only way to really consistently do that is through the foods that you choose to eat and the way you choose to strengthen and move your body and muscle. The foods we choose to eat are really being driven by a multitude of factors, which I can't get into detail on, but I will tell you hormones are up there. Your gut microbiome, which hormones influence, and then the hormone levels in your body. So as I just shared, when I was taking too much progesterone, which felt lovely, and it was fantastic for my sleep, and my skin was glowing, and everybody's like, you look so great. I'm like, it's all the progesterone. I'm bathing in. But I also was eating like a little carb piggy. And I was munching down the carbs any chance I could get. I was craving them. I was waking up in the morning hungry. I'm never hungry in the morning. I was waking up like ravenous, like when you're pregnant, right? So we have to find that sweet spot and it takes some tinkering. And then we have to add in the reality that a lot of doctors, thank God they're getting on the tip and they're starting to prescribe HRT, but a lot of them don't know what they're doing, right? They're just learning this. And we all just have to learn and start somewhere, but they are going to have to see a bunch of... I mean, this is clinical practice, you guys. You have to see something happen a few times over so that you can start to... And you can hear about it all you want. You can learn about it at conferences. But until you see it happen in a patient, you're like, oh, that's what that is. And so until you see the hormones you're giving a patient inducing further insulin resistance in somebody who's coming in, who's already insulin resistant, because most middle-aged women are, or they're going to be as the estrogen leaves the building, you have to know what you're seeing. And that just takes experience. And so we're in this place where a lot of doctors are prescribing now, and I'm very grateful for it. I'm sure you are too. And I pray that Gen X women get the hormones they deserve. I hope every Gen X woman gets the hormones they deserve. But we're dealing with a lot of newbie doctors who are newbies at it. And it's going to take a minute. So I'm hoping to arm you with information, whether you're the general public and you're a patient using these, or you're a practitioner prescribing these, or you're a health coach, or you're whoever. All right, let's jump into this. Just kindergarten version, estrogen builds, it lays down tissue, basically, it builds. Progesterone calms and protects. So think of the uterine lining. Estrogen will build it up. Estrogen can lead to breast fibroids. Estrogen can lead to growth, right? It's pro-grow. And progesterone is what is going to mow the lawn of the uterine lining. So we use progesterone to actually induce a bleed. If we need to shed that uterine lining, we'll give them a wamping dose of progesterone and they'll shed it. They'll discontinue it and then they'll shed it. So that's like diagnostic and it's therapeutic. And it's been understood at a really elementary level that estrogen builds, progesterone protects, right? And that's what a lot of the coaches who are... There's so many health coaches out there coaching on HRT and they're prescribing topicals. I mean, I'm not going to get into the ethics of all of that, but there's a lot of people... There's a lot of people whose lane it should be and they don't know what they're doing. And there's a lot of people who are out of their lane. And then we're throwing in a bunch of peptides. You guys are injecting peptides from Fitsbo girls who used to be beach body girls who are now hawking peptides and you're injecting them into you. And I'm just like, that's a whole other conversation. And again, if a doctor isn't trained on these, that's no better. But man, we are in a weird place right now. Things are crazy. And I am watching Fitsbo girl after Fitsbo girl influencer, look at my perfect abs. I'm watching these women plagiarize me to no end, give me no credit, which is whatever. But they're not even getting it right. If they were plagiarizing me correctly, that would be one thing, but they don't understand the mechanisms deeply enough. And so they're just repeating the words that I say and several others. And then they're sending you off to research labs to buy peptides to inject into yourself. It's bizarre. I don't think any of these things are super benign. I just saw a guy today, a strength and conditioning coach, really, really intelligent guy on Instagram, knows his peptides, but he was saying like, you know, these are so safe and why are we, you know, throwing any shade on people for using them and they should be available over the counter type of thing. And I was like, what? Have you not, maybe not seen any problems happen? Because I have, you know, just the slightest bit too much of a dose of any of these things can really send, especially a very sensitive, we're talking sensitive women. We are sensitive women when we're in middle age. We are, we become extremely sensitive. I would love to say that we are super resilient, but we are most resilient in our twenties. I mean, come on, we could like spend a whole night in six inch heels and drink a bottle of vodka and chain smoke and, you know, go eat greasy food at two in the morning when the bar is closed and wake up and go to work and be fine. That's resilience. We don't have that anymore. That would kill me. I would die. I wouldn't make it more than a second and six inch heels anymore, but I would just die. My back would be hurting. I wouldn't be able to function. You know, like I drink a glass of wine now and I have a hangover. So we're sensitive ladies and we're taking our advice from 25 year old or even 40 year old Fitspo girls online. It's like, there's a big difference between 40 and 50 when it comes to your hormones and how resilient you are. And there's a big difference between 50 and 60 when your hormones go offline. So I, anyway, do what you want, but buyer beware. So progesterone induces a state of physiologic insulin antagonism. So it antagonizes insulin to go by impairing insulin mediated glucose uptake and altering hepatic glucose handling. So it changes the way our cells take in glucose and it's changing the way our liver handles glucose. And this is largely through receptor signaling effects and, you know, substrate competition. And it's a big biochem lesson. But the bottom line is, normally when insulin binds a cell, that's, if it's healthy, if it's not insulin resistant, it will hear the insulin, it will bind the insulin, and then a signal will get sent and the cell will translocate a GLUT4 receptor basically. And that GLUT4 translocation is what allows glucose to come in the cell and be used as fuel in a nutshell. And that's normal, but progesterone reduces that mechanism from happening. And this is because progesterone goes high in the luteal phase of your period, the second part of your period, right? The time between ovulation and bleeding. So just period lesson for those of you who don't know, your cycle is roughly 28 days. Day one is the day you start bleeding. That's, you bleed for seven days. At day 14-ish, you ovulate-ish, just give or take. Day 14, we ovulate, meaning our egg releases a cell. That whole period is called your follicular phase. Once that egg releases from your corpus luteum, your corpus luteum starts secreting progesterone. That's called the luteal phase. You think the world is ending in the luteal phase. The luteal phase is rough. And then all of a sudden, progesterone kind of leaves the scene and boom, if an egg doesn't implant and boom, you shed your uterine lining. That's a period. You start back at day one. So progesterone is on the scene to protect. It protects the uterine lining. It keeps it intact. If an egg implants and you become pregnant, it keeps the baby. It's protective. And progesterone is designed to ultimately fatten us up and make us, keep us fertile. Low progesterone is a massive reason for miscarriage. I have had countless patients who had terribly low progesterone who kept miscarrying. I put them on progesterone. They get pregnant. The saddest part is when they go back to their OBGYN and their OBGYN is closed-minded, allopathic, very Western doctor and says, oh, that's hogwash. You're fine. You don't need that progesterone. They discontinue the progesterone. They lose the pregnancy. I've had that happen with patients because of course, the minute they become pregnant, we punt you to your OBGYN. I'm happy to co-manage, but there are some folks out there who really truly believe in allopathic medicine so deeply that they will just do whatever one doctor says, whoever is the biggest bully. And so that's happened. So think of progesterone as protective. And if you are somebody who has had trouble in the past carrying births to fruition, you're going to want to look at your progesterone. It's one of the factors. There's others, but a couple of factors in chronic infertility, but that's a big one. And I have yet to test a woman who had good, healthy levels of progesterone. It's kind of chronically low in our modern society. And there's different reasons why, but we live in a toxic soup. We have a lot of stress and a lot of women are not making enough progesterone. I think the world would be a much better place if young women were tested and treated early and not given progestins. I want to be clear. Progestins are synthetic progesterones. They don't bind the cell the same versus a bioidentical progesterone, micronized progesterone. And again, you get that at the regular pharmacy. I had a situation happen with a client recently and her doctor said, yeah, I approve you to take HRT, but not BHRT. And I'm like, dude, you clearly don't understand that BHRT is what you would get at your favorite pharmacy down the street, your CVS or your Walgreens or whatever. BHRT does not necessarily mean natural. It means bioidentical. And many of the hormones that are available through traditional pharmacies, standard prescriptions are bioidentical. So micronized progesterone, different than progestins. And so for the pregnant woman, she's going to have a transient insulin resistance throughout her pregnancy. That is part of a natural normal part of pregnancy is this sort of transient insulin resistance. We don't want it to get out of control and turn into gestational diabetes, but we want the body to have enough progesterone that it has a sort of adaptive insulin resistance. And this is so that we can grow a baby healthfully and protect the uterine lining and the implantation and then start to create that hospitable little lovely, you know, sack of growth for the infant, for the fetus. So this also happens transiently when we get that big progesterone push in our luteal phase. That's where we get that gut right before our period for some of us. And this is also happening when we take too high a dose of HRT progesterone. So that's happening. That's real. And it sucks. There's a couple different mechanisms here. It's basically, it's not directly inducing an insulin resistance. It's just sort of roundabout creating an insulin resistance state in the individual. And so that is why we crave the carbohydrates. That is why we turn into little carb piggies. And that is why we get a gut pretty quickly. And when you get a gut, I want you to think insulin resistance. If you are going through a really stressful period or what have you, and you all of a sudden develop a gut, that's probably some transient insulin resistance. Then there is a second piece to this. When you take oral micronized progesterone, and it was Dr. Felicia Gersh who turned me on to this, and she's spot on. When you take oral micronized progesterone, it goes through first pass in your liver, meaning your liver metabolizes at first. It doesn't just end up in the bloodstream. And in that process, progesterone, a huge amount of it gets turned into allopregnantolone. And allopregnantolone is that neural calming agent. It's the reason why when you take oral progesterone, you get this awesome anti-anxiety effect. You get calm, you want to sleep. In fact, I will give patients oral micronized progesterone. And I will say the first few times that you take it, I want you to be ready to fall asleep because you will want to lay down and fall asleep potentially. And this impact is stronger and weaker in different women. It depends on the woman. I have a great response to oral micronized progesterone. I get a nice allopregnantolone impact. The more I take of it, the stronger it is. It's very sedating in some people. It is very calming to my nervous system. It makes you crave carbs. It creates a carb-driven response. So now we've got two different mechanisms as to how progesterone might be potentially causing us to gain weight. So we've got this transient insulin resistance induced, and then we've got this allopregnantolone driving like a carb. I don't want to say addiction, but all I could think about as my dose of progesterone went up was carbs. I just wanted to eat carbs. I wanted bread. I wanted savory. I wanted popcorn. I wanted crunchy salt. I wanted carbs. And that is not normally my style. So, I mean, who doesn't love a good carbohydrate, but not to the point of like, oh, hey, I think I'll sit down and eat this. My husband makes these great potatoes on the skillet and they are so delicious. And normally I'll have a few bites, but like I wanted to eat the whole bowl of potatoes. That's not normally my style. So we've got allopregnantolone. We've got progesterone doing its thing that it's supposed to be doing and we might end up gaining weight. All right. Some of you in the eat less, move more, just have more willpower group are going to say, well, just control that. You can control that. Okay. Well, it only happens when my progesterone is too high. It's like a hedonic craving and it's out of control. And then when the progesterone is lowered or removed, it goes away. So this is where the calories in calories out model starts to stumble a little bit because we're looking at women who don't normally behave this way. I remember when my mom was going through menopause and my dad was like, it's incredible how much food your mom eats. And my mom was gaining a lot of weight. My mom gained a lot of weight through menopause. And my mom had always been a tiny little thing. She ate like a bird. She truly ate like a bird. I mean, it was not great. She definitely needed to eat more, but she just had a ravenous appetite after menopause. And my dad was shocked by it. And I remember thinking way back then, I'm like, that's gotta be the hormones. Let's get, there's something here. And she was on HRT. I don't think they were quite as elegant about it back then. She was on HRT back then, but they were using a lot of creams and topicals and creams can get, it can get messy with creams because they can really, they just kind of glom up in your fat, if you will. And so you get aberrant release into your bloodstream when you start glomming up and increasing levels in the adipose tissue. And it's not necessarily getting into the blood. So something to think about, at least with oral, we could assume it's getting to the blood faster, but we're also having to go through the liver and who knows how much of that's going to get turned into allopregnenolone. But allopregnenolone sits on those GABA receptors in the brain and it's lovely, but it also can make you really crave carbohydrates. They say it doesn't necessarily increase hunger, but for me it did. And then that hedonic drive towards carbs, that's all I can explain. It's like hedonic carb seeking behavior. It's really insane. And then with estradiol, which is what I generally prescribe for women, I'm not a big fan of Premarin. I'm a fan of using estradiol, which also is bioidentical. I like to use a cream, a topical or a patch. And there's gels, there's pellets. I'm not a fan of pellets. Anyway, estradiol, it's this Goldilocks U-shaped curved. We don't want it too low. We don't want it too high. And like I said, when you're in perimenopause, it's kind of all over the map, right? Some months your body's making estrogen and some months it's not. And I've done other podcasts in the past where I've talked about estrone. When you're just in a nutshell, when your ovaries go offline and you stop producing estradiol out of the ovaries, your fat will take over and your fat produces estrone, which is a different type of estrogen. I don't feel good when I have a lot of estrone in my body, but I don't feel good when I have a lot of estriol in my body either. Estradiol is really the good one. And this isn't even talking about the pathways. That's a whole other conversation. I'm going to have to put that inside a course somewhere because it can go down all different kinds of pathways once it's in your body, depending on how your body's handling it, depending on your stress levels and your gut health and your adrenal health and so many different factors. Like what you're eating, what you're drinking, what your toxicity level is, it can go down different pathways that are not always favorable. And so let's just assume if we're taking estradiol that it's going to stay estradiol for the sake of this conversation, but that's not really what happens. It kind of does whatever it wants. Anyway, too little of estradiol and you start to get flabby. You start to lose muscle tone. I'm sure this has happened to you if you've walked into perimenopause. You start to lose strength because estradiol helps with those satellite cells of your muscle. And so it helps with maintaining and building muscle to some degree, not necessarily anabolic like testosterone, but really is necessary to maintain that healthy muscle. You get lower energy expenditure. So you kind of want to go curl up on the couch and stop moving. You literally do. You have this incredible drop in dopamine as the estrogen leaves your brain and you just want to stop moving. And your pain will usually ramp up if you tend towards pain. So it's really a wicked situation because in my case, that's how I really knew I need more estrogen. I just didn't want to do anything. I wanted to lay flat on my back. I didn't want to talk to anybody. I didn't want to be social. I didn't feel good. And when they take the ovaries out of rodents, they go in the corner of the cage and they hide and they get fat. That's what happens. They get a bunch of visceral fat and they hide. And so I can't imagine it's a tremendously different experience for a middle-aged woman because that's how it felt to me too. So just know that that's happening when you have too little of estradiol. But then when you have the perfect amount, your insulin sensitivity dials in because you become insulin resistant as your estrogen's leaving. You become more and more insulin resistant. And if you've heard any of my podcasts, you've heard me talk about this, but there's that sweet spot where you become more insulin sensitive as you start to supplement it back. You start to feel better. It supports your muscle. It supports your muscle synthesis and strength. You feel like moving. Your joints get juicier. You feel like being more social and going out. You feel like ambulating. You actually feel like getting up off the couch. And then if you take too much estradiol, it starts to promote energy storage and we get back to insulin resistance. So it's like this U-shaped curve on a graph. There's like, we don't want to be over here. We don't want to be over here. And we get this rising insulin tone. It suppresses lipolysis, which is the breakdown of fat. You start to get fat gain on both sides. You get fat gain without actually taking in more calories or having your appetite increase. And I will say, it's so bizarre watching women and men, but particularly young women who haven't hit menopause yet. It's so interesting to watch them talk about menopause when they're like, well, the studies show that your metabolism doesn't slow down. And that's true. I have said that myself and I've shared those studies, but then they follow it with, it's purely lack of muscle. You're losing muscle. And I'm like, I don't know because when I was really in the thick of it, I was getting DEXA scans and my muscle tone didn't decrease at all. And I was getting fatter and fatter and more pain and fatter and more pain until I finally figured out that I needed estrogen. Like I really needed to supplement more than just sometimes. So I feel like these women in their thirties and early forties are having some very strong opinions. And a lot of them are big names in the space and they have some strong opinions, but they haven't gone through it. And truly until you go through it, you don't understand until you go through anything you don't understand. You can talk about it. But I was that girl. I was that clinician. I was treating all these menopausal women with HRT and they would tell me all their plights. And I remember thinking, man, that sucks. Like they would tell you, I can't drink any red wine anymore because it completely wrecks me now. You know, my muscles are getting flabby. I don't know where this belly fat's coming from. And I would think, God, that sucks. I believed them. I believe they were trying hard. In many cases, they're trying 10 times harder than they were in their forties. And it's just getting worse and worse and worse. Right. And so I think it's pretty unfair for some of these big voices to be like, oh, you just have to train harder. I'm like, okay, well, we'll see how you do when you're 50. That said, there definitely is some muscle tone being lost. But like I just said, some of it is the actual estrogen leaving the body. So you're training harder and it just doesn't want to lay down. You're eating all the protein. It just doesn't want to lay down and stay. It's called hard gaining. It's harder to gain when you're suddenly there. All of a sudden, your butt deflates, your thighs deflate. And you're like, why is all of the fat mass coming onto my midsection and my arms and legs are getting skinnier? That is the insulin resistance happening, but that is also due to the estrogen leaving. And so this is where I'm a huge fan of getting your hormones tested and treated before you think you need to. This whole like waiting until menopause and a full time period after the last menstrual cycle, I just think is unethical and cruel and unnecessary because there are good studies coming out showing that getting to this sooner than later is better. There is a window. There's a magic window for sure. That doesn't mean you're screwed if you miss the window, but there truly is a magic window. And that is before you completely stop menstruating. Start sooner than you think you need to and get this handled because the minute that visceral fat starts happening and that belly fat and you're losing muscle and you're trying, man, you're trying as hard as you can. And you're listening to influencers tell you to try harder, just work harder. It's really frustrating and defeating. And I am guilty of that. I was that girl too, way back when I'm like, oh, just work harder. You can do it. And sometimes working harder just cranks up your cortisol and then you gain more weight. It's a vicious cycle. This is why I'm such a huge fan of true microdosing, not this nonsense that you guys are getting fed by the large majority of people online, but true microdosing, subclinical dosing. And it's not for weight loss. It's for metabolism management, but that is another topic for another day. All right. So we get this rising insulin tone and the suppression of lipolysis when our estrogen gets too high and we get this creeping visceral fat gain and insulin resistance when our estrogen is too low. So here's the sweet spot that we got to find. And it's way easier said than done. It's challenging. So I'm giving my body grace and just allowing, you know, if I'm going to carry around an extra 10 pounds, my labs look good. I got a little belly fat. Oh, well, you know, it is what it is. I don't have my, I don't have my washboard abs anymore, but I don't, my goals are different now. My goals, I truly, at the end of the day, I cannot express to you enough, having lived with the amount of chronic pain that I have lived with in the past five years. The fact that I am mostly pain-free and it is down to a dull roar at this point, back to the dull roar it was. I've been living with chronic pain since my daughter, I was pregnant with my daughter, but hormones, hormones, but it is so much more manageable and better in Arizona. And I'm so much more active here because I want to go outside because it's lovely out. And I will trade that any day for the bikini body that I used to have. It's fine. My husband thinks I'm hot no matter what. So that's all that matters. Okay. So what else do I want to tell you about this? There is a combination where your estrogen is too high and your progesterone is too high. And I think that people probably hit this more often than they think they do. I am, I'll be frank with you. I know that there's several practitioners out there, people I respect dearly and some of them are very good friends of mine. And I believe them. I do. I believe them. Their argument is that unless we can get estradiol levels to a certain level on labs, we're not protecting the bone appropriately. We're potentially not protecting the cardiovascular system efficiently enough. I believe you, but as a low hormone girl, as a girl who doesn't feel good with too much hormone in her body, I can't hang that way. Like I can't ride that line. I cannot dose myself to the point where my labs look perfect because I usually have a ton of side effects by then. And we have to consider too that too high of estradiol can mess up thyroid site binding. Too high of estradiol can mess up cortisol signaling. Too high of estradiol can drive autoimmune disease. The very simplistic version of that is progesterone protects against autoimmune disease and estrogen may drive it. This is why we don't want an estrogen dominant state. But depending on how a body is synthesizing and processing that estradiol, maybe my labs look great. And I'll say this, every time my labs have looked, every time the practitioners have gone, oh, your estradiol is perfect. I felt like complete and total shit. So I just, I can't, I can't ride with that. Like I am not going to tell you guys that. I'm going to tell you what I tell my patients, which is always symptom relief. And there's also some people online who say the answer is always more, more, more, more. And they are taking copious amounts of estradiol and copious amounts of progesterone. And the solution is always for them more, more, more. And some of these women are very, very thin and have incredible physiques. And I honor that, but I can't do it. I cannot do it. I blow up like a balloon. And I think that a lot of you might actually be in that camp too. I know this because I see it with patients and I know this because I hear it from you guys. So if you are just being told to take more and you're feeling worse and worse and worse, please listen to your body. There is a sweet spot where you will feel good. And my background was predominantly in pain, right? I was treating people with HRT primarily from the standpoint of trying to reduce their pain. They were coming in for musculoskeletal complaints. I was using HRT in that capacity. And so my version of what's the perfect dose is where was their pain decreased? Because for me, when I'm in that sweet spot of estradiol dosing, my pain goes away. When I take too much estradiol, when I take too much testosterone, my pain goes through the roof. When I am too low, my pain is crippling. So the answer for me, when a patient would say, well, are my labs good? Should I increase my dose? Should I lower it? I'm like, how do you feel? How's your pain? And migraines are a big one. Any joint pain, spinal pain, hip pain, you name it. If you're having pain and you're utilizing HRT and your pain goes down on HRT, then we find the perfect dose that keeps your pain down. We don't keep escalating you because we need to hit a certain mark on a lap. I hope that makes sense because there's so much noise out there right now in the HRT space. And I can imagine it's so confusing for all of you. It's confusing for me. And I'm friends with a lot of these people and they are, like I said, brilliant minds, but I just can't, I can't jive with that. So I'm not going to tell you guys that either. I want you to feel good. Where you feel good, where you feel juicy, where your pain is low, where your mood is good, where your libido is good. And truthfully, where your vagina is happy. That's a huge one because I've had great markers on labs. I've had all of those things in line, but I had no libido and my vagina just wasn't like, you know, she wasn't doing her thing as well as she could. So these are factors. Sleep, where's your sleep at? If your sleep is solid, then we have to look at that. And that might be one of the bigger indicators that we're finding that sweet spot for you, right? So consider this. And again, this isn't medical advice. This is just how I do things. And I just, I look at the internet as an observer and I just am so, I'm so frustrated for you guys because it's, have you seen those reels where it's like the life of a biohacker? It's like, don't eat this, don't eat that, eat this, don't eat that. You know, and I can imagine you guys are so confused. I know I keep saying this every episode because I'm getting confused out there and holy smokes this week, right guys? This whole, I don't even want to get into it, but let's just say if you think that an influencer is creepy, then trust your gut. Because I thought he was creepy and I've never been a fan and then comes out, he's on the list. So just unfollow the people that don't make you feel good. If I'm on that list, then unfollow me too. It's okay. So there's another layer I wanted to just quickly discuss and that is your mitochondrial health and your redox capacity. Basically, what can your mitochondria handle? What can your pathways handle? What are the cofactors that are available? And those would be the nutrients that you are consuming or might be deficient in. And so if we are driving pathways, because hormones are signalers, they're not, that's it. Think of them as a signal. They're a spark, they're a signal. And so if we're not supporting the mitochondria, which is where hormonal biosynthesis takes place and we are driving pathways too hard, and our redox modulations all screwed up, we're going to have a hard time processing and handling those hormones. And so that matters too. Your terrain matters. Your gut health really matters. And your mitochondrial capacity matters when you start throwing hormones and peptides at the situation. And then lastly, your muscle. So your muscle is the primary target tissue of insulin. And we want as much muscle there to hear it as we can, right? We want to build that meat suit so that we have that sink. We have that glucose sink. The other thing is that when we exercise, we spark different pathways that will protect us against the potential transient insulin resistance that these hormones might be inducing. So said another way, you're taking HRT, and maybe it is making you a little bit insulin resistant. This is why I'm adamant that you strength train when you do peptides or HRT. I'm adamant about it. It's bewildering to me. It's bewildering to me to see sedentary women take hormones and expect them to go well. And it's bewildering to me to see sedentary women take peptides and expect it to go well. Like it's... These are just signalers and they can't do what they're supposed to be signaling efficiently if you're not moving. And so you have to move. If you... This is why I say if you're going to go on the GLP-1 journey, you have to take that as an opportunity. This is non-negotiable. You have to take this as an opportunity to really get on that horse and figure out a way to implement those lifestyle changes as part of the journey because they cannot do the heavy lifting for you. You literally have to do the heavy lifting. Like literally, you have to pick up heavy shit and put it down. You have to do the heavy lifting. You have to move. You have to keep that going. And I have done this to myself, you guys. I have been in those positions where my workout routine got thrown off or I wasn't able to keep a regular schedule for whatever reason or my stress got too high. What have you. And it all goes to hell in a handbasket pretty quick for me. Whether I'm utilizing peptides or I'm utilizing HRT, I would highly encourage the two together. We are just seeing study after study come out in support of that being... And I tried to introduce this concept back in 2023. I was like, this is the triad. Strength training, HRT, and the use of GLP-1, you can't have one leg of that stool taken away or it will fall over. So think of it that way. But it's non-negotiable. So if you're on HRT and you're not exercising, I think you're just missing the boat in a lot of ways. And it might potentially start sending you down pathways you don't want to be going down. And if you are rocking a lot of adipose tissue and you're sedentary and you expect HRT to do anything for you or peptides for that matter, I think you're really shooting yourself in the foot. You got to move. At the very least, you got to move. And no, you don't have to go lift a bunch of heavy weights in the gym. And what is heavy? Heavy is what is heavy for you. So it really helps if you can work with somebody. If you can't work with someone, start with walking at the very least. But you got to get moving. And Pilates is not enough. Pilates is amazing. I love it. I have two reformers. I have one in each house. I love Pilates. But it is not enough. And we have to have some capacity to lift heavy shit. And that's really important. So it has a lot to do with our central nervous system. It has a lot to do with metabolic pathways and how your body runs. It has a lot to do with that strength training really sparking and igniting the whole fire inside so that these peptides and hormones hit right and land right and process right. That is the most elementary way to explain it. But there's just no version where this is all going to go optimally or even well. I can't tell you the amount of times patients just didn't listen to me. They just want the peptide. They just want the prescription for the HRT. They get what they want. And they make all the promises and then they bonk. And when I say bonk, I mean, it's about a 90-day window. You're like, I feel great. And then you hit the wall or you crash and burn. And I've done it to myself on repeat. And it's, you know, you're going along and it's just not, it's not working anymore. And there's really nowhere to go. Like doctors will tell you to take more or try harder. You know, gym bro guys will tell you to try harder. Doctors will tell you to take more. And neither to me is the solution. The solution is your lifestyle factors and a huge one being your exercise habits and your strength, your overall muscle mass, all of it. A quality, I should say, the quality of your muscle really matters more than the size. You don't have to get bigger and bigger and bigger. Some of you need a lot of muscle to put on. But a lot of folks just really need higher quality, less pathologic skeletal muscle. And when you're in that metabolic compromised state and you think HRT is the answer, you know, you've got 30, 40 pounds, maybe more, you're metabolically compromised. And you keep seeing all this stuff on the internet about estrogen and HRT. You finally get your prescription and then you wonder why you feel horrible a few months later. And I hear from you guys all the time. People are constantly messaging me like, I can't handle it. And I'm like, well, I can't help you because that's a long conversation. That would require probably a two hour intake and a lot of labs for me to look at everything and say, this isn't why it's working. But I can pretty much ask you, are you going to the gym regularly? And if you say no, I'm going to point to that first. And it's not try harder. It's just do the damn thing that makes it all work better. It would be like if you had a really awesome car and you had an awesome engine and you had an awesome chassis and you had awesome wheels and tires and everything was awesome and it was built for speed. But then it sat in the garage for 10 years and the gasoline got old and the oil got sludgy. And then the spark plugs or the, I don't even know, I don't know anything about cars, you guys. Alternator didn't work, whatever. My husband knows how to rebuild engines. But it would be like if that spark was gone, like you didn't have the, whatever it was that made the gas ignite. And then you've got sludgy old gas that's not working and sludgy old oil. And so you can, you know, change all that out, but then you just don't run the car and you let it sit for another five, 10 years in the garage. It's all going to goop up again. And this is what we're doing with our bodies. And then we're throwing expensive peptides and hormones into them and they're going down crazy pathways and we feel like shit and we don't know why. Usually people are taking, in my opinion, like copious amounts of things. And I heard of somebody the other day, they were taking like three different hormones and six different peptides. And I was like, what is going on? What are you doing? It's not work harder. It's just work consistently. That's the mind shift I want you to have. It's just put in consistent effort every day versus work harder. That's, it's a very different kind of way of thinking about it. And you don't have to, you just don't have to crash out at the gym. Like you don't have to go as hard as some of these people are saying. Some of the big names in the space are just telling you to increase intensity, increase intensity. And I'm like, dude, I'm 52 years old here next, by next week, it's my birthday. And like intensity is not on my radar right now. I am in the soft phase of my life. I need to quit cranking the cortisol and living off of copious amounts of it. And I need to chill the F out so that my hormones can actually be in some degree of harmony and stop going down pathways that aren't ideal because cortisol will drive you that way too. And so when this try harder motto, this intensify things, that really is going to start to crank the cortisol and the cortisol is not our friend when it comes to these, to all of this, to things working properly. Okay. What else do I want to tell you? So just to sort of recap, progesterone has important effects on carbohydrate, lipid, and protein metabolism. It induces this sort of roundabout hyperinsulemia, which is increased insulin. It has some direct action on our pancreas and our liver, and it has this antagonizing effect on our muscle of getting that GLUT4 receptor up to bring in the glucose. But basically just understand that its job is to deposit body fat so that we can have a baby. That's really what it's there for. It does work in the brain. It's a neurohormone, but that's predominantly through it turning into allopregnenolone and that allopregnenolone in and of itself induces carb drive, hedonic carb drive. So there's that piece. And then just remember estrogen, Goldilocks, U-shaped curve. We don't want to be down too low. We don't want to be too high. There's a spot where everything's just sweet and nice and happy. Down here is insulin resistance, up here is insulin resistance. And then testosterone, just real quick, like I said in the beginning with my own personal story, is if you've got visceral fat or belly fat, or you just happen to be built, you know, this is just how your system drives, it can turn itself through the aromatase enzyme into, which is present in your visceral and belly fat, that aromatase enzyme will convert it into estrogen. And now you've got extra estrogen that you weren't necessarily planning on. And that, again, I'm not even getting into what's happening downstream. If you tend towards estriol, when you bring in estrogen and that pathway is driving that 16 hydroxy pathway is driving you to estriol, you're going to end up with estrogen dominant symptoms, but you're down here with estrogen deficiency symptoms too. And that's why you're taking the estradiol supplementation. If you're going down the 4-OH pathway, that's not good. That's the cancer pathway. If you're going, you know, if you don't methylate right, there's just different factors here. We usually use a Dutch test to look at that. So it's not just what the serum labs say on the front side of like, oh, do you have enough in your body? It's what is your body doing with it? That also matters too. All of this gets better when you exercise. All of this, everything I just said does better when strength training and walking and regular exercises on board. You don't have to kill yourself. You don't have to turn into a sweat angel every workout. I can't tell you the number of middle-aged women. I had to tell them to pull back, stop with the intensity, get out of the orange theory, get out of the boot camps, get out of the CrossFit gyms that are just driving you into the ground. We need consistency, we need movement, and we need to get that spark going so that all of it works better and harmonizes in a really beautiful way. That's the most important piece. And none of this is going to go really well if you're rocking a lot of pro-inflammatory adipose, you're metabolically compromised, and you're not moving. And that's not even to say what people are eating. I didn't even address that, but your diet obviously has a lot of impact here. Okay, so that's it. That's in a nutshell how HRT could potentially be causing you to gain weight, and also conversely, potentially why it's not helping you lose weight when you go on it. But don't assume that it's going to be a natural weight loss aid. Some people lose weight. I would say the majority of patients do not when I put them on it. The majority of patients do not gain weight either. So I'm not trying to scare anybody off, but I wanted to explain what could be going on for you if it is. If you're not tolerating it well, and I'm not talking, there's progesterone intolerance, and there's some other symptomology I didn't address here, but I just mean basic metabolic health, metabolic pathway signaling, insulin signaling. HRT can definitely contribute to the problem. But if you strength train, and if you get that dose right, you're going to mitigate a lot of that. And so that's why it's absolutely necessary and critical that you go to the gym. So I'm going to leave you with that. I hope this is helpful. As always, if you guys like this kind of stuff, let me know. Rate, review, subscribe. Leave me a comment on YouTube. Come follow me on YouTube as well. I'm partial to Apple Podcasts. If you want to head over there and rate, review, subscribe. I'm also on Spotify, I think is another one, but it helps get the word out. It helps the podcast rank higher. It helps more people see it. Your comments really help. It helps direct. I know you guys like to hear a lot about peptides and hormones and HRT and all the things. So I'll continue trying to come up with unique ways to deliver you information on those topics that maybe you haven't heard before. But at the end of the day, it all comes back to metabolic health. It all comes back to lifestyle. It all comes back to terrain and foundations. So I will see you guys on the next one. There are people who don't tolerate standard dosing of hormones. That doesn't mean it's not for you. And it doesn't mean that you can't handle estrogen or that you don't need estrogen. It's starting to lead to depression. That is estrogen leaving the building. And I highly encourage you to seek out help from somebody who knows what they're doing. I will tell you that estrogen leaving the body causes the hair shaft itself to become thinner. So it just, the diameter shrinks.

=== FILE: What Is ACTUALLY Wrecking Women’s Hormones (And What You Can To To Fix It) [1Bob9QoQxRE].txt ===

! ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile ile I'm sure you saw they came out with like of all the longevity movers, community, strong community was the biggest component of longevity, period, like the most powerful at the end of the day. So I think this is it's got to be oxytocin. It's got to be oxytocin. Austin and David Perlmutter, their most recent book was on that concept of community and how important that is. And that is honestly the building of oxytocin. And then when I looked at these, you know, some of these war torn areas, what are things that they had in common? They have multigenerational households. They celebrated everything. Birthdays, they celebrated weddings for a week. They celebrate name days, anniversaries. Everyone remembers everyone community. Like there's big dinners, family dinners together that are, you know, that are just, you know, mandatory, but no one would ever think of not showing up. Right. So they build this in the stress. So oxytocin can trump out that stress cortisol and their dancing and music is part of their lifestyle and in their language, a lot of gratitude in their language. And I want to, you know, I would say we're creating my own blue zone communities by incorporating these concepts as, you know, okay. And I want to say oxytocin as a primary focus. Like what we can do to play more, have more pleasure. We talk about pleasure deficit disorder. And ooh, I was talking with someone recently, Tess Masters. She was interviewing me and we were talking about, well, she was talking about masturbation. And I was like, well, we don't like to use that word. First of all, masturbation. No, we don't use that word. It's a self-pleasuring, self-pleasuring. And she's like, self-pleasure as a meditation. I love it. And I'm like, oh, yeah. Self-pleasure as a meditation. Because, you know, that is, you know, we have a deficit. Especially when vitamin D is low, stress is high. We think about bringing pleasure into our life, you know, in whatever forms. How that increases oxytocin and really creates a sense of stability. And I will share with you, like in my own experience, this is, so with this caveat, you know, I recently did a 92-hour dark retreat. I wanted to see what, you know, with no, like no hormone, nothing else I took with me. Like, and so just basically in the dark, because in that setting, your body starts to produce more melatonin, which then will convert to DMT. And in that, from high levels of melatonin, we make oxytocin too. So when you see people come out of these dark retreats and they're like, oh, this compassion. I feel all this love. Like in that setting with no disruption, our natural inclination is to make oxytocin, not cortisol. Like you don't come out stressed out of those situations. You come out with, you know, these amazing visions from the DMT, this sense of oxytocin love and this compassion. And that's within us. And I think that's a really powerful experience. Challenge you, Tina. I know. I immediately got anxiety when you told me you were doing that. I was immediately like, I'm so scared of the dark. Isn't that funny? I have such an issue with the dark. But then I seek it. The older I get, the more I seek it. I think there's a lot to that. I think there's a lot to the fact that we women are driving with cortisol all the time. It is destroying all of our hormones. It is destroying our hormonal milieu overall. Because hormones to me are always a finely tuned orchestra. And we're all so different. That's why I'm so just kind of, I don't want to say anti, but this whole like everybody gets estrogen. Estrogen for everyone, you know, on the internet that's happening right now. I love estrogen and I want to ask you about actually estrogen and oxytocin. I have a note because the two have a very similar impact on me when I take them. But I think that it's the orchestra, right? Like you can throw all the hormones and all the peptides at someone, like I said earlier. And if they are driving with cortisol, which I am guilty of, it destroys your joy. It causes you to isolate. I turn into a hermit. I don't want to talk to anyone. Like I said, I get social anxiety. That's all coming from, I know it is. It's all coming from that high cortisol level and those stress levels. And I think that that's to great detriment to us as women. It's really like the opposite of what makes our hormones the happiest. So with that, how does oxytocin play into the rest of our sex hormones? Yeah. So it's the most powerful hormone of our body. The way I like to give the example, I like to think of like a university setting. Think of all our hormones, estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, DHA, melatonin, as the students at the university. Each student has their own passion, purpose, roles, skills, right? And so they all have this great potential. And then you have the professors of the university. I think those is the major regulatory hormones, adrenaline, insulin, and cortisol. And when they're not functioning well, like that professor that comes in hungover or high, turns out the light, the student body's in chaos. So when they're not high functioning or in balance, there's chaos. And then the mother hormone or the dean or president of the university is that oxytocin, that trickle down effect. So as I looked at this and studied this and, you know, I go, well, if I go straight to oxytocin, then it's going to be a lot easier to manage everything else, right? So certainly we want to balance cortisol and the acidity cortisol creates. Cortisol creating that hydrogen ion secretion across the renal tubules of the kidney, creating that acidic urine. Acidic urine for women and men long-term creates bladder irritability, cystitis, urinary tract infections. You know, it can increase potentially incontinence, but we know an acidic urine is associated with cardiometabolic diseases too long-term. So, but it makes sense physiologically because like beyond nutrition, nutrition is a key factor, but I think cortisol plays an even bigger factor in this and, you know, in our overall health. But cortisol being acidifying, oxytocin is alkalinizing. And we think, you know, as an OBGYN in pregnancy, that amniotic fluid has a pH of 8.5. We are birthed in an alkaline environment, right? That is key. And how much does oxytocin play a role in that? I'm not sure, but I look at that oxytocin as alkalinizing. And I studied this, Tina, through like now it's 11 years ago when I was 48 and I was having this perimenopausal or second menopause, so to speak, because I'd had early menopause age 39 and reversed it, naturally conceived my daughter that I was told I'd never be able to have when I was 41. And then at 48 started to be full on in the throes. And I experienced what my patients would come in and say, Dr. Anna, I've gained 5, 10, 20 pounds without doing anything different, right? And as a young doctor, I'd be like, sure, you're not doing anything different. But when it came to me, I wasn't doing anything different. I gained those 20 pounds. And I was like, okay. So I went strict keto and found out like I didn't feel good. I was anxious. I was more irritable with my kids. I was like, I called it keto crazy versus keto flukes. I knew how to defend against that. But I checked my urine pH and it was as acidic as the pH paper read. At this time of my life, I was a single mom with girls in different ages. We went in elementary school, a middle school girl and a teenage high schooler. And like I was, I mean, there was chaos in my life, but that was such an aha moment for me when I realized basically I was peeing acid. I'm like, no wonder I feel like I'm breaking down. I can't, I don't have energy. I have no muscle. I have no focus. So I started in with the alkalinizing foods. And so that's how my keto green or keto alkaline program was born. But I started in with the alkalinizing foods, the bone broth, the minerals, the beet greens, the kale soup and all that good stuff. But I realized I was checking my urine pH all throughout the day. The mornings I did my gratitude journaling or my prayer meditation or walked outside or on the beach, my urine pH was more alkaline all day. So that's where I went in to study the renal physiology between cortisol and oxytocin. And like, what was this effect? And it's that seesaw effect until cortisol is too high for too long. And then it's like a broken seesaw. But, you know, so that was what really opened my eyes to these shifts in physiology. And then as you increase those, you start creating those oxytocin increasing habits in your life. And my hormones were dialed in in the time. But, you know, that's why I say it takes more than hormones to fix our hormones. And so when we hear these hormone conversations and we want to throw estrogen at everyone, like, whoa, whoa, whoa, there's a right way and a wrong way to do hormones. And, you know, of course, there's many different forms we can use. So what's the safest form we can use and deliver it the safest way for an individual? But more importantly, think of this hierarchy. When we think oxytocin is the most powerful hormone, pregnenolone and progesterone are the hormones that decline from age 35 to 55 by 75%. And those are our mother hormones downstream from which we make DHEA, testosterone, and estrogen in that order. So if we, like, start top up with supporting our adrenal glands, so I use a lot of adaptogens, work on that alkalinizing balance. And, you know, I get criticism in this area, but I have now worked with thousands and thousands of clients. Have them check. And getting that urine pH, you feel healthier. You feel better. You're really, like, you're in control and you're aware. It's like wearing a continuous glucose monitor. It gives you an idea when your thoughts are creating high glucose versus in the same thing that stress, et cetera, can create acidic urine pH. So you start going beyond what you're putting in your mouth. And I like how you say it's not what you eat but what you absorb. And that's emotionally, too, the energies you absorb around you and the emotional states that you experience. But by shifting that, you really can balance hormones. And I don't like the conversations around medicalizing menopause. No more than I like to medicalize puberty or suppress a woman's puberty. Why would we suppress a girl's puberty with birth control pills from an early age of 13? I know it's done quite regularly still. But, like, that is interrupting a normal physiologic transformation. And menopause is a transformation. So we want to do it as healthfully as possible. And every sign or symptom that comes up is an invitation to ask deeper questions, to shift lifestyle and mindset a little bit more. So then I look at it that way. I go top down with my hormones in that order. Adrenal, pregnenolone and progesterone, DHEA, estrogen, testosterone and estrogen. Oxytocin is this great bonding hormone. But beyond that, it is a hormone of longevity, of immune support, of cognitive brain support, of cardiovascular support. There's so much that we are just finding out about really the far-reaching powers of oxytocin as a neuropeptide hormone. So we're starting to break down. Thank you.

=== FILE: Why Middle Aged Women Have Broken Circadian Rhythms Even Though They Are Doing The 'Right Things＂ [5sCpf7wx9Ew].txt ===

 PEGGoranananastrodoor, julananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananan So inflammation is just, I mean, that's what I was trying to get at with the B vitamins across the board. When you're in a toxic and or inflamed state, you start to chew through your B vitamins. Well, all your nutrients, all your micronutrients and macronutrients too, you start to eat them up because really that inflammation is just literally burning through them. Yeah. And then I think that we'll probably find out that the gut microbiome has a lot to do with it as well. I'm sure. Yeah. Absorption and just conversion in the gut. That's got to be a player. One research group has done two studies on it, both were in rats. So that doesn't necessarily translate to humans. But what they found in those two studies when they gave nicotinamide riboside orally, great NAD booster, that for that to work and boost NAD levels in the liver, certain gut microbiomes had to interact with it and turn it into the flushing form of nicotin. And then most of what got absorbed from that lower part of the GI tract was the flushing form of nicotin. And if they did things to eliminate those good gut bacteria, then NR wasn't as useful to boost NAD levels. So the other thing that's been super clear is that NR, niacinamide, flushing niacin, all interact slightly differently with the gut microbiome. So think of the gut microbiome, which on average, maybe, you know, yours has 5,000 different species. Mine would have 5,000. Some we would share, some would be different, but they're all depending on us for their food supply. And just like us, if they don't get enough of these precursors, they'll be deficient and have issues. So my strong suspicion is that with that, you know, dysbiosis that occurs with aging, their gut microbiome's not doing the job it needs to do to optimize NAD levels in the body either. I never thought about my microbiome being deficient themselves. Yeah, they rely on us for everything. Like magnesium, right, is, you know, super important in all the energy production pathways. And if we're not getting enough, they're not getting enough. So, you know, and it's same with the B vitamins and the NAD precursors. So yeah, we're always eating for, for, you know, literally trillions. It's true. It's true. I never thought of, I'm starving them as well. You know, I always think of them as either alive or dead. I don't think of them as nutrient deficient. I don't want to starve my little bugs. I always say to eat an interesting diet so that it keeps it interesting for your biome, right? Your bugs need interesting food too. They need something to chew on that's different and unique and interesting along the way. If you feed them the same things every day, some of them die off because they're bored. You know, I know that's not as that simplistic, but that's how I describe it to patients. Cause I'm like, I don't know. I don't think you could live off of just only one food group. Like some of the, you know, these extreme diets are popular online, you know? The microbiome is flexible within some constraints for sure. And, you know, so really quickly when we dramatically change our diet, you'll start to see shifts in maybe not what is there, but the quantity of it, right? Will cause certain ones to be out-competed, so to speak. And, you know, oftentimes over time will cause some species to go extinct and we don't want that to happen. We want to keep a lot of diversity in our microbiome. Yeah, for sure. So let's go back though. So we've got Frank, Frank deficiency of, you know, pellagra. And then there's this idea of just declining NAD levels, the hallmarks of aging. So that's what we're going to start to see. Those 12 things you listed, that's, those are the things because people aren't going to know whether their mitochondria are working or not. I mean, they might feel symptomatic of something, but like, what are some things that one might notice? Yeah. So I always work backwards from what are the good things we see when we give it to people? And like, what are the things where they tell us they notice the difference? And the most common thing without question that we've seen in our studies when we measure changes in NAD levels is people reporting more energy. Like, so not, you know, energy in the ATP sense, but energy like anti-fatigue. Like there's something there, like, and maybe because we're making more ATP, maybe because more that, you know, that D dementia thing, right. That had to do with how our brain was functioning. So energy, feeling less fatigue, number one thing I see all the time. A second area that's super common is the mood category of things, right? So, and by that, I don't mean just depression or anxiety, but irritability, nervousness, again, like those cognitive things, because our, those mood things really, it's our brain that's, you know, or the gut brain axis, but both that, that interact there. So that would be the other, you know, number two big category, just better emotional resilience and, um, and feeling like our emotions aren't running away with us, that we are more the driver of the ship. And, and all these emotions are appropriate in the right context. It's just when we, when they're starting to be our constant companions, as opposed to when we need them to express themselves. I love that. I love that, that, like that version of just your emotions running away from us, but that really nails it because as I have aged, I have noticed that my tolerance bands are getting shorter and shorter. And I know that part of that's hormonal. And I know part of it is just getting older and, you know, having better boundaries. But there are times when I don't lose my cool. Actually, I'm better at keeping my cool, but sometimes, yeah, that's, that's it. The emotions sort of run away from you and you potentially ruminate on them or whatnot. And it doesn't always feel as under control as it, it used to be. Um, they, I, I know when I'm feeling good is when things are rolling off me, just no problem, right? Versus me locking in and sort of fixating on something. That's when I know I need something in that moment. I either need exercise, I need nutrition, I need sun, something like that will usually help alleviate that. So that makes sense that it would be a malnourishment. Yeah. And I use the idea of resilience, you know, like that, you, that would get what you're talking about. Like, oh, I'm resilient. Like these, I was able to respond well to this, whatever this stressful situation was. Um, but just like our whole body, ourselves, um, you know, they need to be resilient, right? Cause they're getting stressed all the time, often by many of the same things listeners are right. Toxins, radiation, poor nutrition, you name it. And, um, Charles Brenner, I mentioned that name earlier. He's, um, one of the premier NAD researchers has done a lot of the work on nicotinamide riboside. And what he told me when I interviewed him at one point is his belief was the main plus of maintaining higher levels of NAD plus as we age is so that cells could be more resilient. So that when they get metabolically stressed, they'll be able to deal with it. And when that's the case, then they don't take on the damage that causes them to become zombie cells as an example. Right. So, so we want cells to have plenty of NAD in their bank account, so to speak, to be able to spend when they get stressed. That makes so much sense because what stress cell is a metabolically compromised cell is an inflamed cell. And then, um, you know, then I guess shifting gears back, another category would be sleep that I see people very commonly when we do things to increase their NAD levels mention that they feel like they're getting better quality sleep. Would they notice, would, would this be like Frank sleep disruption or would this be more subtle in that they wake up, they, they supposedly are sleeping fine, but they're waking up feeling unrefreshed or maybe they're tracking their sleep with a ring or some such gadget and they are seeing their sleep architecture go sideways. Like, is this impacting anything specific? In our studies, when we pulled the people that have commented about sleep, it's been more that sense that their sleep is more restorative. They just aren't as fatigued during the day. They feel less sleepy. Um, it doesn't necessarily track with aura rings or other things, but it may for an individual, but it's more that restorative piece. And then the fourth area I hear a lot in part because, um, at Qualia, we tend to have a lot of high performers and athletes that we interact with is the sense that they are able to rebound quicker from exercise. That's a big deal. Actually. Let's talk about that a little bit and what some of those mechanisms might be because the older I get, the more intensely sore I am after exercise. I'm getting sore and sore and sore as I get older. And I'm like, what is going on? And I realize again, some of that's hormonal. And as I get my hormones supplemented appropriately, it tends to resolve somewhat, but it is a thing. And I know that some of us have like, you know, a genomic profile that's going to lead us more towards post-exercise soreness, but I really feel like there's something to the actual aging process that is contributing and I'm not digging it. Yeah. I mean, I think it gets one part inflammation, right? We, as we get older, we tend to make a lot more inflammatory molecules from exercise. So even, um, good things. I know in animals, a really intense workout in a young animal will maybe create a few zombie cells, but then they're gone within say a week. In an old animal, there's much more like an explosion of them, a huge number and they, they linger. And so even, even exercise, if we overdo it when we get older, just has, we're much more likely to be harmed by that than we are when we're younger. And then I think, you know, other things play a role, stem cells, which is, you know, a passion of yours, right? They get exhausted as we get older. So, um, they, um, tend to, the ones that we have, which tend up being more in a quiescent state when they do get active, they're not as active or as good at performing their functions, you know, which ties in again to that niacinamide form of B3 as an NAD precursor. And that's one of the reasons I thought that study that I mentioned was so cool because it helped, um, increase the function of muscle stem cells. And then that resulted in repair and regeneration of muscles quicker. So, um, so I think there, that tie into many of the different hallmarks is where NAD starts to weave together into that recovery because whether it's inflammation or stem cells or repairing DNA, it's just a player in so many key parts of how cells perform at their best. This is make me want to take my NAD plus supplement more regularly. I, um, yeah, I took the quiet NAD plus first thing this morning with, I, I also believe the best time to take things that help our body make NAD is early in our day. So I, um, like one of the strange things to me, I don't, I don't know if this would be the same with you, but, um, the default often is, Oh, just take this two or three times a day, like take it at breakfast and dinner or take, you know, some at breakfast, some at lunch, some at dinner. And many things because of our body clock have a better, like a good time to take them and a maybe less good time to take them. And often that hasn't been looked at. Certainly it's not, not in most cases been looked at nearly as much as it, it merits. And with, um, and the NAD molecule, it was looked at in what I thought was a really cool animal study. And so what they did is one of the reasons there was some excitement going back to David Sinclair's work in 2013 is boosting NAD over and over in different animal experiments, improve their metabolic health. And by that, you know, like lipids and blood sugar and insulin and, and those types of things. So in this study, they, um, did the equivalent of a NAD IV at the beginning of the animal's active cycle, you know, so that would be for me as a human that they'd be like when the sun rises more or less. And when they gave the NAD molecules, then it improved metabolic health. So then I said, all right, well, let's give them instead 12 hours later at the beginning of their inactive cycle, you know, when it gets dark and it actually worsened all those things. Really? So morning, morning is the ticket. And then, then, you know, that was doing the IV. So then they said, all right, well, let's give just the niacinamide form of vitamin B3 also timed. And they found the same thing that when niacinamide was given at the beginning of their active cycles, it improved metabolic health, but it worsened it later. And so my, this would just be my belief. It's obviously imperfect. It's a, you know, an animal study. We don't have the data in humans, but, um, we both have similar body clocks and are circadian organisms. So until more is known rather than being willy nilly with when I take my NAD precursors, I'm really intentional and always take quiet NAD plus in the morning. Okay. So red light in the morning is better too. So I'm going to stack them and I'm going to do it religiously and I'm going to get back to you because that, that's really compelling. It makes sense. You don't want to be, it's clearly that means there's something strong to do with your circadian rhythm, which we don't want to be messing with. So people don't get that. Our circadian rhythm isn't just from the outside light. Like, I mean, it is to some degree, but hot and cold, certain nutrients, all of those are going to impact circadian rhythm. So. Yeah. Yeah. Meal timing's really like profoundly impactful on it as well. We have like our central body clock in our brain, but then our liver has its own body clock and the liver one isn't as, as set by light and it is more set by food timing. Yeah. And ideally we want everything to be synchronized. So we want our body to be the equivalent of a beautiful symphony, not like discordant music. And so, you know, when we miss time things, we're more likely to get, you know, discordant noise than a beautiful orchestra playing. That makes sense. I will pay attention to that. I do admittedly take it mamsy-pamsy when I take it. So, and I also have been a bit mamsy-pamsy with my red light. So I, one of my commitments to myself was for the new year was to get my red light in, in the morning and not necessarily at night. Although I do sleep great with my red light at night, but NAD plus in the morning, you guys have gifted me a bottle of that and I, I need to be more diligent with the morning timing and then I'm going to stack it with my red light. Is there any utility to that? Like do it? I mean, it seems like it would optimize. Do you know anything about that? I, I've not, I recently interviewed for our podcast at Qualia, the person that founded MitoRed, which is a red light and near infrared. And I asked him about timing and, and really his main takeaway was just do, like most of us would benefit from some red light. It's less important to when. Okay. And so, but red light in, is it red light? I think it's the near infrared that gets all the way to our mitochondria, right? That penetrates more. Anyways, like both of them are good for our mitochondria and NAD is so important for that. So, you know, if they make our any, if red light makes our mitochondria form better, think of that as what we talked about, right? Like now you're removing an obstacle to using the things that help our cells make NAD. Okay. I did interview a red light guy, BioLite was the company and Dr. Mike, and he was telling me about a study of that red light in the morning improved mitochondrial function and it did not have the same impact at night. So I think that, I think that this might, I mean, I'm wondering if there's, I'm all for stacking, you know, I'm all for loading up before I hit myself with a red light, hit myself with a methylene blue and all that jazz. And I think that we're, you know, we're photosynthesizing beings. Anything I can get light working with my cells. Yep. And I tend to also think, you know, if we give people really clear instructions when to do something, they're much more likely to fit it in their life than if we're vague, like, oh, but I know even for me, if I would, for listeners at one point in my early adult life, I was an officer in the Navy. And so time was a crazy prize commodity when we were out at sea between my job, standing watches. And if I had a 40 minute window to exercise and didn't take advantage, there wasn't going to be another 40 minute window that rolled around that day. That was it. They either do it or don't do it. And what I remember finding routinely at that point in my life would be I would invariably do the exercise when I had that minimum window and had to do it. But if I had all day on a Saturday, I might never get to it. People don't get that. Our circadian rhythm isn't just from the outside light. Like, I mean, it is to some degree, but hot and cold, certain nutrients, all of those are going to impact circadian rhythm. So yeah. Yeah. Meal timing is really like profoundly impactful on it as well. Have like our central body clock in our brain, but then our liver has its own body clock and the liver one isn't as, as set by light and it is more set by food timing.

=== FILE: Why Women’s Hair Falls Out in Midlife (And How I Reversed It) [csKKF2gavhA].txt ===

 P1ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The biggest question I got on Instagram was about my hair. So that's funny because I'll just tell you, I have always hated my hair. I've had a really like hate, hate relationship with my hair. When I was little, my mom's a hairstylist and I grew up in a salon. And when I was little, I always had to keep my hair short because I have hypersensitivity, kind of, you know, a little touch of autism, neurodivergence or whatever you want to call it. But hypersensitivity to the touch is a big part of that. And that's a story for another day. But I refused to let anyone brush my hair and I would not brush it. So it was a rat's nest. So I had to keep it short until I was old enough to take care of it. So when I was 12, my mom let me grow it out and I grew it out and then I bleached the crap out of it and destroyed it. When I was 15, if you guys knew me back then, I had really long rocker hair. It was kind of like low key permed. It was big. I was rocker chick. I had big hair. And then I cut it all off when I was 16 and I went super short pixie cut, which was really fun. And I loved my short hair and I worked, you know, Doc Martens all the time. And I was in downtown Portland. Portland was so rad back then. It was so fun and so great. And the music was unbelievable. I saw Radiohead for $2. The Cranberries opened. I saw, gosh, so many shows. I saw Soundgarden for $5. You know, Nirvana, all of them, all before they got big. And I was having such a fun time. The weather was horrible. And yes, I probably was very clinically depressed. And I was actually on an arsenal of antidepressants. So I know I was clinically depressed. But I was also chain smoking and not eating well and taking terrible care of myself and drinking too much. And just when you live in Oregon, you just want to drink coffee and alcohol because you're like, this is, it's gray all day long. I don't know what time of day it is. And you just feel like it. So it, it was a fun few years that way, but I probably wasn't as happy as I, I certainly wasn't terribly happy. But I was seeing good music and Portland was rad at that time. Anyway, my hair was really short. I grew it out a couple of times. My daughter, when she was little, wanted me to grow it out. So I grew it out, hated it, cut it off. I freak out when I get overly stressed and I cut my hair off. That's what I do. So I was actually about to cut my hair off a few months ago. I grew it out this time because I thought, you know, I need to get out of Oregon. I need to, I just had this vision. I had a very clear vision from God. I was sitting in the sun. There were rocks. I don't know how else to say it. There were rocks. There were rocks and cactuses. This is a couple of years ago. I was not wearing black. I was wearing colors. If you've noticed, I've been wearing colors. I had long silver hair and I had the life of my dreams. That was the hit I got a few years ago. And so I started trying out not wearing black. And my daughter and mom were shocked because I always wear all black all the time. And they were like, why are you not in black? And I said, because I had a vision. And rich, happy Tina does not have short hair and wearing all black. Rich, happy Tina. And I don't just mean financially rich. I mean, rich. Like my life is rich and complete and full and happy and calm. That girl was wearing colors and light colors and had long silver hair. So I started growing my hair out. Like talk about intention, right? Talk about, talk about like foreshadowing. Talk about visioning. I was doing, I'm like, okay, I'm going to grow my hair out. Well then right before I moved, right as I was packing and getting the pod ready and, you know, do it like doing all the things, purging, I was in the thick of the stress. And I thought I'm going to cut my hair off because that's my knee jerk reaction when I'm stressed out is cut my hair off. In fact, I have shaved it a few times. So I was like, get this off my head. And it was getting so dry on the ends and it was looking so frizzy. Part of that was the climate of Oregon. It's not conducive to my hair. Arizona is much nicer for my hair. That's probably a part of it. But your hair is all about your health, your hormones, your nutritional status, your stress levels. The times that I had grown my hair out in the past, you maybe remember me with long dark hair years ago when I was first starting online. My hair was so brittle and breaking off all the time back then. And I was so skinny. I was so underweight and stressed out and had pneumonia all the time and was running an online business at my practice. And I was a single mom and it was all, and my daughter was a teenager and we were in the gauntlet and it was such a stressful time. And I was all alone doing it. And when I cut my hair off that time, it was because I was going silver. So to go silver, I had to decolorize all that dark hair I had. And it ended up completely frying my hair. So I chopped it. So the Tina you met in 2020 had short hair because she had just chopped it all off so she could let her silver grow up. That was what that was about. And I thought, I wonder what this would look like grown out. So I started growing it out recently. And I don't know, what was that? Two years ago, I guess. I guess so. And then you saw me chop it. If you have been around a while, you saw me give myself a shag. Like what, a year ago? It was a terrible idea. I was so stressed out. I drank a glass of wine. I took a straight razor and I watched a video online and I gave myself a shag and it was a disaster. It was not a good idea. And so I've let that grow out. And we have been trying to tie the layers together because that was a homemade job. I did that on myself. So we're trying to get it. And I think we're kind of there. But I'll tell you what, God keeps putting the right people in my path and the right opportunities in my path. I cannot even explain it. It's the craziest thing. Everything that I have, like offers that I have been made, everything is at these incredible values. The right people are showing up. Since I landed in Arizona, I have prayed for team members for this organization to show up and help me. And they've all shown up and they've all been the most amazing people. You know who you are, if you're listening. And just kind-hearted, Christian, good, centered people who have a love of God and are fair. They price. I was prayed upon in the years past by people who would way overcharge and under-deliver and then take credit for my success. Because when they look at your numbers on Instagram and they look at your email this size and all that, and then they just quote you exorbitantly ridiculous prices. And it's just, it's been a lot. So I found a really good team to help me out. Because I had pretty much fired my whole team except for my one assistant and my daughter who works for me. And back to my hair. I got here and the weather was so bad on my hair. The frizz went away for the most part because it wasn't raining all the time, but the ends were so dry and they were literally splitting up. And I thought, oh my gosh, this is terrible. Like, do I need to eat more protein? I need my horn. I need my, and my hair was falling out. That was the other piece. Before I left Oregon, I was having tremendous hair loss. And I actually texted Dr. Mamina. You maybe remember her from my podcast, Dr. Mamina. She's so lovely. I texted her and I said, I'm going to start oral minoxidil because this hair loss is, I just can't do this. I am middle-aged. I am living it. I know so many of you are living it. So many of you men and women, but women in particular, we are having hair loss in middle age and it's awful. And I will tell you a lot of the women that you see that are middle-aged that have big followings, they're using minoxidil, not just topically, but orally. And I did a whole podcast about hair loss. And you can hear my thoughts back then, but look at my hair back then and then look at it now. And what has changed? I actually had a wonderful woman that I connected with on Instagram and she sent me a whole box of products to try. And I was sketched a little bit sketchy about it because it's, you know, I get a lot of stuff sent to me and I'm not keen on trying new things. I have psoriasis of the scalp, which has gotten really bad in times past, which has contributed to some degree to the hair loss. And that's one of the reasons you saw me with short hair for so long, because I was going through it. I was so stressed out and I was being politically targeted and financially targeted and things were bad. And I was getting so much psoriasis on my scalp. My skin has low grade rosacea, so I'm hesitant to try. That's why you don't see me promoting a lot of skincare lines because I'm scared to try them, to be honest with you. I'm not a big fan of putting as even things with essential oils freak me out because the essential oils I'm afraid I'm going to react to. So this woman sent me a box of hair care products. I let them sit there for a week. I finally dove in and started researching them because you know me, I have to look things up. And so I researched them and I was like, okay, I'll try it. And I started trying them. And within a few weeks, the drain was not, I have a, the way that my drain is, I can see literally, I have this little cup and I pull it out and I can see how much hair I lost after each wash. And I, you bet I monitor that. That's how I knew my hair was falling out in Oregon because my husband was like, are you okay? Because he'd get in the shower after me and pull this huge clump up. And I was like, no, I'm not okay. I'm so stressed out. I have to get out of here. And I mean, I was thinning. I was really, really thin through here. I thought my part was widening. I was so freaked out. I actually had a hair analysis done. I went and saw a couple of different stylists. I actually took photographs and had chat GPT analyze my scalp. And in all cases, everybody was like, you have a great head of hair. I don't know what you're concerned about, but I'm like, but it's falling out. So I'm not that far from not having a great head of hair. Anyway, they had a growth serum in this line, a shampoo and conditioner, a day night serum, and an oil. Like that's kind of their like flagship product is an oil and a split end mender. You can't really mend split ends, but you can actually mend bonds. And that's the science I've been getting into is the biology of your scalp, the microbiology of your scalp and the biology of hair. I have never dove so deep into it. My mom is a hairstylist. I have grown up in a, I literally grew up in a salon. You guys, I spent a remarkable amount of time in hair salons throughout my youth. I have tried everything. When I packed my house in Oregon, the room that took the longest was my bathroom. And for somebody who had short hair for that long, you would be shocked at the amount of potions and lotions. I left a full cabinet full of hair care in Oregon and brought a full cabinet full of hair care to Arizona. That is how much hair care I have. That is how many products I have tried. I have tried, you name it, I have tried it. And I feel like I could have like an Abby Young, you know, Abby Young on Instagram is the Abby Young method. I feel like I could have her Instagram with the amount of freaking products I have tried. And so I was like, fine, I'll try this. And I kid you not, within a week, I was like, oh my gosh, my hair is feeling so much better. And it's not breaking off when I brush it. I'm not getting like, I was getting pieces of hair falling off. And I'm not even color treated. This is my natural hair color. So anyway, I will put a link in the show notes for you guys to check it out. And you can see if you like it too. But my good word, like I'm not making any of this up. I think it's really working and it's helping. And you guys all were the ones going, oh my god, your hair is herring. What's going on? What are you doing? So I will share that. I will talk more about this later. I think I might actually do a webinar on it because it's sciencey. And I don't want to nerd out too hard here. So yeah, I'm loving it. I've got my best friend on it. I got my daughter on it. Everybody's loving it. And I will share the link in the show notes how you can check it out if you want to. Hallelujah. Thank you, God. I am on, I'm going in the right direction. Get out of tyranny. You will not believe the weight it takes off of you. Step one of the glow up plan. Trust me, move, make the move. I was so happy to wake up to the sun every day and be somewhere where I felt like I could breathe. It took me 15 years to get here. And I'm sure glad I waited because I was really able to level up my whole life, my health, my income.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.334330Z ===
