So then there's another article, the hygiene hypothesis, the COVID pandemic and the evolution of human health. And this was a really interesting study. Non-communicable diseases are influenced by microbial exposure. This article explores how the loss of microbial diversity in modern societies may increase susceptibilities to chronic diseases like obesity, type two diabetes, and autoimmune conditions. What does this mean? Our diversity is declining. Our microbial diversity is is bottoming out. Some are saying uh COVID itself and even the intervention led to bifido decline in the gut which is terrible. That's a terrible terrible thing to have happen. Dr. Sabine Hosen talks about this and she is a microbiome specialist. I want to get her on my show to talk about this because what she saw in folks was a severe decline in bifido bacteria which is like the keystone gut microbe for optimal human health and it just bottomed out. My other friends who are in microbiome testing world, they test gastrointestinal that they run the lab. They told me in 2022 that they saw a major decline in diversity of gut microbiome since 2020 since everybody got locked down because people quit interacting with each other. When we interact with each other, we share our microbiome. So, it really matters who you hang out with. It really does. I hang out with healthy people, healthy, vital people, because I want their healthy, vital microbiome. When I met my husband, I kid you not, he's so vital and he's so healthy. And I was like, I want to lick him. And I don't mean that in a sexual way. Just wanted to literally like I want his microbiome, right? He's so healthy and vital. And then when you have a really healthy vital microbiome and you're around people who are much more sick than you, you're sharing a healthy microbiome with them. The diseases that come in and through human beings bodies change their verility. Viruses for instance, I was trying to share this in 2020 and I just got hammered for it. We've known this with influenza studies prior to 2020. When a virus enters a body, the human body attenuates it, right? The body attenuates it. It calms it down. It makes it kindler kinder and gentler. This is where we get the concept of herd immunity is that if it goes through enough humans, it will become kinder and gentler and become really not a big deal for the herd. Um, how true that is for each organism is is different. But it's a theor, you know, hypothesis and that's what they like to lean on. That's what they were trying to go for in 2021. It didn't work. I knew it wouldn't work. But that said, the we know that in folks who are living with obesity and who are more inflamed, when a virus, influenza, at least we have data on when a virus enters their body and is processed through their body, it actually can come out more virilent to their lean counterparts. So, I'm not saying this is stir up controversy. I will put the data or the study in the show notes. It's just how it is. And so, what does this mean? I'm I'm not trying to throw anyone under the bus, freak anyone out, don't up and move out of your house, but think about can you at least harness your metabolic health, your resiliency, and and stoke it enough that your microbiome is resilient to anything that comes your way and you in turn are actually sharing a really healthy microbiome with those around you, right? That's really what it comes down to. And we have lost diversity after lockdowns. And so that is going to lead to less diversity means more chronic disease. Modern society with its decreased microbial exposures have created the perfect conditions for the rise of non-communicable diseases was basically the conclusion of that study. So there's more to this and I again correlation does not equal causation. But I really think as time goes on and this is studied more, we're going to see more and more of this coming to light that we are over sanitized. We are definitely sharing our microbia with each other. Who you surround yourself with matters, not just because of their behaviors and the way that they're eating and and exercising and whatnot, but their microbiome is actually it's communicable. So, we are contagious to each other and that makes me want to work harder to stay healthier, more resilient to anything that comes my way so I can hang out with folks who are maybe not as vital. And also, I can donate my healthy microbiome to those around me, right? That's why I hug everybody. I always hug. I'm a big hugger. Like, bring it in. I want to share the microbiome. I want to check out their vibe. That's how I figure it all out. So, I hope that's interesting. I hope it doesn't piss everyone off, but very interesting concept and because it came up in that podcast and then subsequently on my Instagram as a real, I wanted to clarify so that people didn't think I was just being ignorant or judgy. This is backed by science.