We are we are changing the narrative. We are turning the tide. We are rewriting midlife on our terms. >> Yes. Well, it's a good time to be alive. I mean, this is a good age. I I know there's some ups and downs, but you know, I I wouldn't I wouldn't trade it for my 20s. You know, >> I'm like, >> yeah. No, I wouldn't trade it for my 20s. I could maybe trade it for I take the energy of my 30s. Uh I take the sleep of my 30s. I would take the high octane, have a lot more e capacity, 30s. Um, I don't mind that I get to negoti it wasn't I wouldn't say that that was by choice. I would say that >> it never is. >> This is just live and learn and >> toughen up. Just make it work. >> Toughen up a little. Right. But you threw a wrench in the whole thing. You have a toddler basically. So I mean you you have a different route to on this one. Most of us are launching our kids into the universe and you know going out on our own solo again. So you've got a little bit different situation. >> Yeah. Our friend Cynthia Thurlo just sent her son back to college and I think her it's it's interesting how many friends that are either in Perry or early menopause are launching children or definitely have them launch. And I just went to the prek meet and greet last night with all the other kids and the parents and yeah it was really interesting. I'm like huh. But you know what a lot of women are like me. We are having children later. And hence why I think one of the reasons why Perry menopause is maybe hitting harder is that there really isn't a a gap or a pause or break between you know young children postpartum and then heading into Perry. >> Yeah. Yeah. I couldn't not imagine. My best friend had a baby at 40 and I was like, "What are you doing?" We were supposed to escape together. We were supposed >> You have set us back 20 years. >> Seriously, I was like, "What are you doing?" He's a lovely child, but I it it was tough on her. That's a tough one. That was She's very She was excited about it at the time, but you know, like it's it takes its toll. These are not her 20s. >> Yeah. No, when they get sick, I was like, "Oh, oh, oh, I'm no more. I can't sleep." Don't y'all know that sleep is going to make or break me the next day and I got a sick kid with a fever every month on the month because they're building an immune system. Yeah. No, I you was asking my mom who had me when she was 18, 19, and she's like, yeah, I don't remember the sleep stuff. I don't remember. I was like, you were 20. >> Yeah. >> Like, you know, I'm 40. It's a very different 43, whatever it was. I was is a very different ballgame. So yeah, I I do see the benefit of having children earlier. I I get why we're having them later, but yeah, definitely a different level of capacity when you're in your 20s and 30s. >> I always say if I wish that I had the patience and the knowledge and just the calmness that I possessed in my 40s when I had my daughter, it would have been a whole different I would have been a whole different level of mother. But that said, I had no there's no bandwidth at all that I could have fathomemed in my 40s having a baby. I would have been like, "No, this is too hard. This is the losing sleep part alone is that was miserable for me in my 20s." Yeah, it's a hard thing. You know, I think we're going through a lot of we're going through a lot of transitions. We're going through a lot of levels. It's like leveling up, right? It's uh it reminds me of it. It it really reminds me of just puberty only the older version. >> The older the the the reverse. I like I know I'm sure you've seen the term cougar a cougar puberty instead of second puberty. I I love that. But no, it is it is, you know, instead of ascension, you know, and not to say that there aren't things that we're contending with as teenagers or pre-teens, you know, the anxiousness, the you know, just trying to navigate the awkwardness of becoming, you know, even a teenager into adulthood like that there. It's very messy. I remember it being very destabilizing as a teenager. I remember not really understanding my body or understanding myself and no one prepping me really for my period. But very different ballgame when you are now mothering and you are you've got your career and you've got family and community and you're really holding all the things in the air and your body is in a way it feels like a bit of a betrayal at times. You're like wait whoa whoa I I I have way too many responsibilities that I need to be handling. Like I I need to be able to sleep. I need to have energy. I need to have some level of stress resilience. I need res I need power and strength to get through this phase. And it's it's all while it's beginning to crumble. Um and if you're not prepared or ready or no one told you or warned you, um it it gets really messy very quickly. >> Yes, it absolutely. I think for me the biggest issue was cognition. Like that's what I really started seeing slip and I thought am I getting Alzheimer's? What is happening? And you know realizing that I was just having brain shifts. It was my daughter. It was my adult daughter who said, "Mom, I think you need some estrogen. I don't know what that does, but I've been hearing about that in the brain." And I was like, "You're right that there is a very distinct connection there." And she's like, "I think you might want to try some." So, uh, leave it to the kids. >> Her looking out for you. Yeah. My son just finishes my sentences. Like I was telling you guys before we jumped on, I was trying to hand him grapes and I was like, "Here's your here's your blueberries, your cherries." He's like, "Graes?" And I was like, "Yeah, you're you're up in grapes." And I I wasn't saying that to him. It was more me frustrated with myself that I couldn't even get the word grapes out of my out of my mouth. And this is this is every day. I call it perry menopause in the wild where friends are forgetting words. Friends are not remembering where they left something. Friends are feeling irritable and stressed and everyone's getting on their nerves. I'm like, "Oh, that's just permenopause in the wild." Like, I see it all the time. >> That's a good term for it. I like that. Well, so you're such a fierce advocate for women in general and I mean even as a friend, you're such a fierce advocate for all of us and I know that Perry menopause like you had a you had a few things going. You had a baby, you had a head injury, like you've just had a a time the last few years and what's come of this is this awesome book that's coming to life. You've birthed this this this great book. So let's talk about your pmenopause experience. How has this been thus far? >> It has been a reckoning. let's just call it, you know, the book is really what I wish I had when I was going through it. Um because it's it's one thing and I know you've had so many patients in midlife in pmenopause and menopause and it's one thing to be taking care of your patients and trying to help them navigate through all of these symptoms, especially the brain related symptoms. It's another thing when it happens to you and and that's what you're saying. You're like it was the cognitive changes have been so profound and I felt like I wasn't warned. I didn't realize it was going to be that bad. I think the brain injury didn't help at all. You know, talk about more oxidative stress. Um, and so it in 2023, my son was two. I was still breastfeeding. And I remember I was feeling on top of the world. I was 43 years old. I had just turned 43 in September. And I decided to uplevel my training. I wanted to train harder. I wanted to train heavier. I was already working out sometimes two days a week or not sorry two days a twi two times a day not two days a week two times a day like we're talking many like I'll do like 15 minute in the afternoon 45 minutes but I was I was I just had the capacity so I I get the trainer I'm I'm I'm really training hard and I just become a puddle on the floor like my energy is gone my brain isn't working I start having and it wasn't like they were cyclical symptoms but I just it felt like early stages of burnout Again, it felt like my maybe my thyroid was coming offline. Maybe I needed to shift my medication. We actually did shift my medication and that didn't go well. I ended up feeling more hypothyroid than than anything. But I remember like I was trying to fill in the dots and I and I think a lot of women find themselves here. You know, I was just interviewing Dr. Jessica Drummond in the kind of the the intersection of pmenopause and chronic illness and how many women are coming into pmenopause already struggling with insulin resistance or polycystic ovarian syndrome or burnout you know not being able to regulate their nervous system.