The bottom line is we've got millions of women suffering. This question is not going away. We have imperfect data, but we can do individualized care and shared decision-m and we can start with lifestyle. We can start with non hormonal treatments. We can start with, you know, tailoring adgivant endocrine therapy to make it more tolerable. But when push comes to shove, we can have these discussions with informed consent, right? And I think that is where we're at now. But what is happening is that part doesn't happen. The shared decision to make informed consent. No, that's key. It this is risk tolerance. This all comes down to risk tolerance. And I had a colleague who was talking to me about a patient and she said this poor woman and this is just an example so people understand this poor woman her vaginal tissue was so severely atrophied. She was not sleeping. She's estrogen positive breast cancer history. She was not sleeping. She hadn't slept in a decade. She was in hell. Her marriage was in hell. Her husband and she were starting to consider living apart. I mean, everything was falling apart for her. I hear these stories all the time. Her muscularkeeletal situation was a wreck and she was like everything was tearing constantly. And I said, "Hey, you know what? Here's some data." I sent her every study I could get my hands on. I said, "Talk to her doc and just see if he would consider." And after it was all said and done, her doctor agreed to give her a little bit of estrogen and she was sleep. And it was a risk to it was just risk tolerance like like you said, shared decision-making. She knew the risks, but the risk of not being able to exercise, having your joints fall apart, running the risk of getting, you know, I mean, we can talk about what happens to the poor vagina and the risk that they run with UTI and with death. Um, all the things, right? And she's back sleeping in the bed with her husband again. And like the risk of obesity, not exercising, not sleeping, like what does that do to your cancer risk, right? Like these are huge factors when it comes to these are huge factors. I love that point. It's so important. We know that metabolic health in terms of insulin resistance, um metabolic syndrome, the risk of diabetes, um you know, the the risk of visceral fat accumulation, um the risk of chronic insomnia. I will tell you personally, one of the hardest things for me during my abrupt prolonged premature menopause was the lack of sleep. Okay? I don't think I slept well for over 20 years. And it really impacted me, right? Luckily, I think I was doing enough healthy behaviors that I somehow muddled through it. But it was not easy. And it wasn't until many years later, and I'm very open about this, I I made the decision, and it took me a long, long time to make this decision that I I decided, you know, a number of years ago to start the lowest amount of a transermal estrogen patch and some progesterone at bedtime. And I became consistent. I took my own advice and became consistent with vaginal estrogen. And it changed my life. And I feel much better. And I've learned how to um you know talk to patients about that, but also sometimes offer parts of that for patients, right? Um getting to the point of like, all right, we're going to we're going to pick one thing and we're going to work on it. Okay? And some people have a lower risk tolerance, some people have a higher risk tolerance. Some people psychologically can't even consider the thought of ever considering it. And you know what? That's okay because I promise her I can help her. You know, we can man, we're lucky. There are non hormonals out there and we don't have to get all into them but the menopause society has a really beautiful practice statement on all of the evidence-based on hormonal medications and it's not just SSRI now oxybutin gapentin we've got fezelinian there's a new one coming on the market right so those can be useful right are they perfect absolutely not can they be useful absolutely um uh nutrition and exercise as medicine I honestly look back and it is actually shameful that our medical system, but I don't blame the doctors. It's really the way the system is. The prescription for exercise and nutrition should have been as important as my prescription for my temoxifen. But I had no support on that. And yes, I'm a doctor. I could have figured it out. When I look back, I didn't do the right things or I didn't even have the support around the right things. They seem like extras that are hard to like figure out, but that should have been part of it. Um, and so, you know, I think I'm always like very careful about wanting to make sure we we always bring that back in because I don't want any breast cancer survivor to think if they choose not to ever consider hormone therapy after breast cancer or if they're really not a good candidate for it because they've got to stay on their aromatase inhibitor or they're at very high risk of recurrence and we're not we we're concerned about that. You know, I don't want them to feel that all is lost. So, patients say to me, "But Dr. Van, what about my cardiovascular risk and my dementia risk?" I said, 'Well, yes, of course, estrogen can be helpful when we start it earlier for that, right? And we know that can be beneficial, but I don't want anyone to ever think that if they can't take systemic estrogen, it means that it's all lost. And I say heart health is brain health, right? So, whatever we can do to keep your cardiovascular system healthy, you know, and sleep health, right, is overall health, right? So, we have to focus on that, right? Um, and this is why sometimes, you know, when I present to patients and even a medical oncologist like this concept of hormone therapy, like I think people think that it's like high doses of hormones, right? And when I say, okay, let's just think about this. A 0.025 patch raises an estrogen level in the serum. If you look at the package insert from the pharmaceutical company, right? A 025 patch will get your serum level up to about 25, maybe 30 if we're lucky, picoggrams per ml. All right? When you have your normal menstrual cycles, your estrogen levels goes all the way up to 400, 500, even higher every single month. So, we're not talking about re and for many women who have been estrogen deprived for a long time, giving them back like very small amounts, just a touch relieves a little bit of suffering. Um, sometimes, you know, we'll consider just progesterone only. you know, a nightly dose of progesterone can the, you know, we have some data that it can help with night sweats and some hot flashes and it does help with anxiety and sleep. So, sometimes that's something kind of that we can start with. Um, if we've, you know, tried other things that are not helping with sleep because, you know, sleep, if you don't sleep, I don't care what else we tell a woman to do. It it's just impossible. like you can't exercise or do you know or or or function in a relationship or function at work, right? So those are like yeah it's hell. So like low low doses and then kind of really you know really hammering home how important local vaginal estrogen is and then the testosterone questions the other question I always get asked and I think you know we have way less data on testosterone after breast cancer but we can also take like logic and available data that's out there and you know testosterone when given in physiologic levels to get a woman within the rough the higher range of a physiologic level for a woman there's no data out there on Earth that suggests that it raises breast cancer risk. We don't have much data studying testosterone and breast cancer survivors. Um, but we also know that lowering it to sub levels isn't a targeted treatment. So, do I think it's an option for breast cancer patients? Yeah, I think with share decision-m it is. Um, and we have to remember a lot of breast cancer patients have lost their ovaries. So their their testosterone levels are already in the tank because you know your ovaries produce about 50% of testosterone. We desperately need more data in all of these things. Um but when a patient is told we can't do it because we don't have perfect data. I say she doesn't have time because that data is not going to be here in the next 20 years because no one's doing it. There are no ongoing randomized controlled studies looking at this question unfortunately except and I want to talk about DUV with you because I think this is really exciting and interesting news for breast cancer patients out there. Um so if you want to we can yeah we can talk about that. So the American Society clinical oncology annual meeting just presented the preliminary reports from um the promise trial. So the promise trial was it's a multic-enter um trial in um northwestern other other major centers throughout the US and basically the promise trial was looking at newly diagnosed DCIS er positive DCIS patients okay and they were given DUI due is the brand name of conjugated equinestrogen and basodoxine right so um it's a combination hormone therapy that has been FDA approved for well over a decade and it's FDA approved for hot flashes, night sweats and preventing osteoporosis. So standard fair hormone therapy, right? But researchers knew that basodoxifene in DUI functions it's a serum. It's elective estrogen receptor modulator. I like to tell patients it's a fancy cousin of tmoxifin. So it blocks the estrogen receptors in the breast tissue and it blocks estrogen receptors in the uterine tissue and it also degrades the estrogen receptor in breast and uterine tissue. So it's very profound the impact um but it's very selective meaning it's not messing around with the estrogen receptors other places it's very very selective so it's a special SERM so more selective than tmoxifen and so researchers years ago found well if we pair it with just the right amount of conjugated ecoin estrogen which was premer and the whi right we get a nice complex um medication um that they marketed as duov and it works works great for hot flashes, for night sweats, it prevents the bone loss, you get the sleep, all these benefits and it seems to be really protective on the breast tissue. Interesting. So they says, "What if we give it to patients who have DCIS at diagnosis? What happens to that DCIS?" So we finally got the preliminary data at the abstract and what it showed was that what they were looking at was a marker called KI67, which anybody who's had breast cancer probably has heard of this. KI67 is kind of like a rough estimate of how aggressive or how rapidly I should say um cells the that breast cancer cell is dividing right and so when the KI67 goes up it means things are growing and when it goes down it's in control so that so they were looking at a marker of this because they wanted to do a short opport window of opportunity trial what they meaning is they gave the duvy in the four weeks between being diagnosed and having their um DCIS removed with with surgery. All right. And then they saw on the final biopsy like what happened what what changed with Ka 67 and the Kasa 67 went down right so DUI estrogen right with this basodoxifene cut it down. And there's other research that supported this showing that when we give women doue we don't see proliferation of breast cells. We don't see breast tenderness. We we we think it's quite protective. So, I'm very excited about this as an option for current breast cancer patients who are considering hormone therapy. We don't have the data in it yet. No, but if someone is going to when push comes to shove and we're saying like what are the options for this woman for hormone therapy, we've got this new data out of this study and I'm like this is an interesting option. Do we know that it's better than a transdermal estrogen and progesterone? No, we don't. This is a data-free zone. But it's interesting and I want women to know about this. This is also an interesting option for somebody who doesn't have breast cancer, but maybe they had something like LCIS or a typical ductal hyperlasia or they have a very strong family history of breast cancer, a very dense breast or they had a lot of breast tenderness when they tried, you know, an estradile patch or, you know, pill or something.