like we have to be moderate in our approaches to things. And then for me, you know, not every patient I have or client that I work with is like you, right? They're not young and robust. I mean, some people are really compromised. And so, they're they're going to need a much more gentle approach. And I think this is the beauty of oral formulations because we can we can gently ease them in. And sometimes with peptides, particularly the compounded prescription versions uh that are injectable, a little bit too much can be a lot too much. It, you know, we see the biohacking community, a lot of these guys can handle crazy doses. But I personally, I mean, I always guine myself up. I guinea pig my mom up. She's always game, you know, she's always for it. And my mom says like, "You have saved our lives. every single person in my family, including my husband's family at this point. Like, I've saved every I've pulled everybody out of a tail spin at some point. And it's because I'm willing to, you know, experiment a little bit and see what we need to do and address the individual sitting in front of me. And some of that is really um I don't want to say clairvoyant, but it is like I just have a spidey sense about things about what people are going to need or or not respond to well. And energetically, I guess you will. The thing about oral though is we can dial that up or down a little bit. I do like injectable. I mean, if I my background is regenerative medicine. If I can inject something, I'm all for it, number one, but it's harder to get. It might be more expensive. It might be less expensive, depends on the substance, but once it's in, it's in and depending on its halfife. And with oral, we can kind of tiptoe our way in, right? Because if especially if it's in a capsule, we I I like to I like to micro dose everything, especially if I have a sensitive patient in front of me. So, anyway, just I'm just sharing that because like different strokes for different folks. oral or injectable. It also depends on like the pharmacocinetics. Where do you want the peptide to go? If you have a distal injury in your wrist, for example, or a broken finger, injectable VPC every day of the week versus oral. The the challenge with oral peptides is they do need to get into circulation, which really it depends which peptide you're using. Some of them the chain length is just too long. insulin is a perfect example. If they had an insulin pill, there would be no diabetics injecting themselves or on a pump. It's too large of an amino acid to be absorbed orally. So, you have to inject it. Unlike ones like KPV, that's an antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory gut peptide that's three amino acids long. That does not need to be injected. That can be taken orally provided it's protected with something like a delayed release capsule. The things that'll break it down are proteolytic enzymes and acid. So the delayed release capture will get it through the acid and things like bicarbonate or sulcrosate sodium will prevent the acid as well but also um allow it to get through digestion and get distally through the gut where it needs to be to have that effect. Um a lot of people take our BPC for injuries and they notice it doesn't work immediately and that's likely because well you've got a lot of gut inflammation it's working locally exactly where you've administered it through capsule. Let the gut inflammation subside or work on your gut health. And then try it again. And then maybe that 500 micrograms of that peptide that was all being used by your gut actually will get more more of it will get in circulation and then you might break through that plateau that you need to actually start healing that injury in your elbow. Be it golfers or tennis elbow or in your foot if you've got a bit of arthritis down there going on or some some issue distally. You need to get over that that barrier first of of fix the gut health. Like as we said at the start, all health begins in the gut. Yeah. That's where that you're that's why I love the GI repair formula. I mean, period. Like if that was the only thing you had in your line, I'm sold cuz I like that straight up. I'm like, well, this addresses a lot right now. I mean, I'm not again, we're not treating conditions here, but autoimmunity. Like if 80% of the gut is hanging around the the barrier of of your um gast of your gastrointestinal tract. If you can do anything you can do to reduce gut inflammation reduces these endotoxins, these micro oh not micotoxins, LPS and endotoxins from entering circulation. It calms down your immune system. The soldiers on the other side of your barrier can chill out finally. They don't have to be hypervigilant, hyper respponsive all the time to this low level of leaky gut or hyper permeability. And once they have calmed down, then the whole immune system can calm down. It can fight off things, other pathogens, other thing like um dormant viruses, all those other things that people might be dealing with that just kind of get put on the shelf because they're so busy dealing with that gut inflammation. And the inflammatory cascade does need to be that spiral needs to be broken somehow. And if you have gut inflammation, really bad hypermeability, that inflammatory cascade is not going to get broken. You can take all the imunosuppressants you want. Like you can't do that indefinitely and when they wear off it's going to just be ready to go again unless the gut health is fixed. Yes, a thousand%. And to add to that what I have found in my practice which was predominantly for decades predominantly muscularkeeletal regenerative medicine was that 95% of the time people's distal joint pain was being driven by something centrally. It was not just a mechanical issue. It was very much an immunologic issue and I'm not even saying autoimmune like we did not run autoimmune markers to test for that because the treatment wasn't going to change any. It's there's this immunoinflammatory metabolic driven joint pain that's happening and so much of that is stemming from the gut and I cannot tell you the number of patients who came in and said man my back or my SI which was the region we were going to treat or my hips or whatever is really killing me today and I these patients I knew had IBS and I'd say well how's your IBS and they're like actually it's really flaring right now. I'm like there you go. So so much of people's joint pain is not necessarily stemming from their joint. And a lot of it can be improved upon at least if we can get the gut to chill the f out and really just like you said the leaky gut, the lipopolyaccharides, all with