understanding our life situations and then supplementing or doing protocols to sort of counteract the life we choose or don't choose to live is just how we get through this life healthy which if you don't do those things I really strongly believe those who don't are going to have a decreased lifespan. It just makes mechanistic sense to me like how can you just go through all these things and not have one of these chronic diseases come up and shorten your life if you're not proactive about it. >> You are tuned into the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I have a treat for you. I brought on Kyle Vanderly. I brought him back on. We had him on earlier this year. You guys loved him. He is the formulator and developer of LevelUp Health. [music] We are talking all things peptides and how you can support your GLP-1 journey along the way. There are so many factors to consider when you are utilizing GLP1s. Whether it's a micro dose or a regular dose, whether you're using it [music] for many of the reasons that I talk about with micro doing or you're using it specifically for weight loss and type two diabetes, you got to support certain systems. And there's things you should know. We cover it in this episode. We talk about gut health. We talk about liver health. We talk about biliary health. We talk about hormones and thyroid. We talk about longevity and NAD. We talk about body composition and how it's not just about taking a GLP-1 to lose weight and you think you're going to get the body of your dreams. We talk about muscle preservation and muscle protection and so much more. Kyle and I love to nerd out and the guy is a mad genius. So without further ado, let's jump in. Kyle Vanderly, welcome back to the Dr. Tina Show. I'm so excited to have you here for round two. You were here last or earlier this year. We talked about peptides and we're getting you back on the show today. Yeah, thanks for having me back on, Dr. Tina. It was such a good first episode. If anyone's not listened to that, go back in the archives and have a listen. It's still today my favorite podcast I've ever done and I'm not just saying that. >> A [laughter] I hope I live up to it today. No, that was so fun. I think it's cuz we're both nature paths and we get it like we have that thing, you know? So, it was really fun to be able to connect with you on that level. And I just think you're such a brilliant young man and I love the I love your product line. I love what you put out in the world. So, this will be great. What I want to talk to you about today is I got a lot of questions from part one and it was mainly around what can we do to support our GLP-1 journey and people really are interested in kind of what the adjunctive peptides look like and you have such great formulations in your LevelUp Health line that I refer clients to very often and patients. I wanted to just hit on a few of them and maybe go through like from our point of view naturopathically especially, you know, everything being sort of gut health first. Uh talking about some of the products that I think really stand out and hopefully this will be helpful for people because they've been asking. >> Yeah. Well, I'm glad people are aware that they do need to have some sort of support when they're on GLP1s. They're not a free pass. They're not something natural like a vitamin or a botanical where you're just going to get all the benefits and there's no risk for side effects or very low risk. Um there are quite common side effects that can occur with GLP-1 medications as I'm sure your audience know. Um, if you wanted to quickly discuss them, um, I can discuss them if you wanted to, but you're the GLP-1 micro dose, macro dose expert and you can let people know what they are and if they're on a GLP-1 on any dose, what they might expect or might want to look out for before we get into how to fix those things. >> Yeah, for sure. So, what I have noticed even on a micro dose and first I want to say to everyone listening if they haven't heard my content before, a micro dose is not a standard dose. And so unfortunately even folks who've taken my course I have a course for practitioners that is very comprehensive but even the doctors who've taken that I've seen their content online and they are advertising as are most of the tele medicine companies as are most of the doctors out there they are advertising a micro dose and what they're giving is a standard starting dose and unfortunately I've because I've I've got a lot of followers and I talk to them I have inquired with some of them who've come to me having horrific side effects and I they say I've lost 30 pounds but I'm having all these side effects. And I say first of all, if you've lost 30 pounds, you're not micro doing because a micro dose is not a weight loss strategy at all. It's more for I propose it much more for an immunom modulatory effect, uh neurocognitive benefits, cardiovascular benefits. It is not a weight loss strategy. Some people do lose weight on a tiny little dose, but those people are usually really metabolically optimized already. So, that said, um, the companies, what I found out, Kyle, that get this, what a lot of these companies are advertising is they're telling the patients, and I know this because I've heard it from at least three dozen people in my following so far, they're telling the patients that they're being given a micro dose when they're really just being given the standard starting dose or maybe even a level up from there. But what they sell them in on is they say, well, the the dose of like, let's say semaglutide, the dose of semaglutide is 2.4 milligrams. That's the highest dose you can get. The very highest dose. And they say because we're giving you a fraction of that, which is what I propose is a fraction of the standard starting dose. Because it's a micro dose. And so these people are being given sometimes first, second, third tier up dosing, losing a ton of weight, losing a bunch of hair, losing a bunch of muscle, and they don't understand what's going on. And it's all because they're just standard dosing. And when I explain this to them, they get very upset because they're essentially being lied to and misled. So that's a problem and I say that because you're going to run into some of these side effects that I want to discuss today. Number one, we have data showing and in recent studies show and I've seen this even with true micro doses SIBO setting in which is small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. I've seen that set in even it's happened to me even on a micro I' I came in with a history of SIBO though and I will say that most of the patients I have tested have SIBO to some degree or they come in with the symptoms of SIBO. though very common gut issues are very common. First thing I propose folks do is really heal up and stabilize their gut before they even touch GLP1s. Even if it's a micro dose. Um number two is wasting. Even if you're strength training, there is still this ramping up of AMPK and it can lead to wasting in folks that are not consuming enough protein or not actually doing anything to mitigate or protect their muscle. Um, I think if you come in with hormonal disruption, it really magnifies it. So, for instance, I've had folks, ladies with PCOS, even on a tiny little micro dose, start having tremendous hair loss because it cranked up their androgen so high. Um, I've had folks with hypothyroidism that's not being handled and they, that's a big one, and they because I think most women over 40 are hypothyroid to some degree or could use some thyroid support, I should say. They end up with all kinds of thyroid symptoms. So that it it really magnifies it can magnify those symptoms. So supporting sort of that system and then I would say people assuming that even if they whatever dose they're taking of a GLP-1 they think that that's it for weight loss but they don't realize they need to they need body recomposition. They don't need just weight loss and appetite suppression from the GLP-1. They actually need to spark their metabolic health. And so there's other peptides out there and other substances that are helpful for that that I usually suggest. So anyway, all that to say, those are the big ones. I know there's other ones and I think I've covered those at length on other podcasts, but um any of the of the things that we're going to discuss today, is there anything you want to add there, too? >> I just always look at GLP1s in the same way I look at TRT, right? There's clever intelligent dosages of TRT that can elicit really profound and beneficial effects for the individual. It's the same with the GP1s. You know, you can cause as much damage with the GP1 as you can with exorbitant amounts of testosterone or any of the other hormones you're replacing. So, these are a difficult and nuanced medicine, I'm going to call them that, to use um the same way TIT is, but it definitely with the right strategies, being aware of the side effects and the risks of using these things, they can be used very effectively and very powerfully. The first thing that's probably the easiest thing to talk about um because we it's piggybacking a little bit off what we spoke about on our last podcast is the rapid weight loss and the issues that can occur with that because that's something one of my friends was quite overweight and we got him on you know ketogenic diet. He lost a lot of weight really fast from that. that the liberation of toxins too fast can occur very very easily with you know not even mega doses but within you know your regular doctor's range of GP1 medication. So the easiest and probably in my opinion one of the most important things to do is support liver health and clearance of toxins when you're losing weight fast. So let's not even get into the nuance of what your dose is if you're on these things and you are losing weight be it from a GLP-1 or any weight loss journey. It's really important to make sure that if you've had a background of toxin exposure, heavy metals, mold, glyphosate, pesticides, that you're doing something to clear those first and foremost because you don't do not want them redistributing in a fatty organ or another tissue in the body and it goes from being rather benign and diluted in fat to something that can then cause organ dysfunction. So definitely binders would be useful to take around bedtime away from other supplements um if you're losing weight fast. But let's get on to the most common one that you mentioned. It was first and foremost was the gastrointestinal problems that you have. The SIBO often you end up with issues with bile and fat digestion. Um and uh stomach acid can be affected but not as often. Um the reason this happens obviously is the GP1s affect gastric motility. They slow it down. They um keep you feeling full for longer both in the brain and you know physically in the small and the small intestine the the the gut and in your whole digestive tract. So this is good in a short term but in the long term how SIBO can occur is undigested food part matter. It's common for people who follow a vegan diet to end up with SIBO because of stomach acid insufficiency. Um, and with stomach acid insufficiency, you relying on your bacterial populations to break down a lot of the food because your stomach and your enzyme stomach acid and the enzymes haven't done the job well enough that you need to rely on your bacteria to help you out with it a bit. It's a decent backup system, but not one that you really want to have because longterm that can lead to these overgrowths. A similar thing happens with GLP1s where the gastric emptying and the motility is so slow that the bacterial populations tend to increase or um you might get overgrowths in areas of the small intestine where you really shouldn't have it. And I believe that's because of how slow that motility can get. There might be some other factors in it too, but um that's where I think we have a lot of really good naturopathic ingredients. Not even touching on peptides yet. A lot of really good naturopathic ingredients and protocols for SIBO that if that does happen, you could turn to those. Um, look at some antibacterial herbs, some gentle ones. You don't want to go crazy with oregano oil or anything like that for a long term. But one that I use with great success is Toddka is the bile acid. It's going to help with it thins your bile. It helps bile flow. And bile is a really good disinfectant for the small intestine. dumps into the small intestines to help with fat absorption, but it's really good at clearing out bacterial overgrowths. And then as well if you um don't if you got a lot of fat in your diet or even if you don't and you just don't LP1s and you want to help your absorption of fats and the fat soluble vitamins then toka is going to be fantastic and probably the first protocol when we're looking at the gut from top to bottom would be right in that um du dunam the small intestine the first part of it support that with tidka the biggest point that you said that really was impactful is make sure your gut health is in check first Obviously the SIBO we just mentioned, but leaky gut as well is something that so many people, if you had to guess how many people in, let's say, America had leaky gut or some sort of low level of IBS or IBD, what would you guess that figure to be? Tina, I would >> everyone >> 40% [laughter] of people have something that would be detectable on labs or or a fecal biome sample or, you know, looking at calp protectin and zulin, but it's it's pretty high. So supporting your >> I would say I'd say everyone [laughter] >> I would say I would say anyone consuming American food and American grains especially um are are probably dealing with some kind of leaky gut and then consequently leaky brain on top of it right if you have leaky gut you probably got leaky brain so it's super common and whether you test it or not just going off symptoms you can you know if people are burping and belching and farting and uh having skin issues and having histamine issues, they've got leaky gut. >> Yeah, it's pretty ubiquitous in America, Australia, all the places that have incredibly high industrial agricultural pesticide use. Gluten gets a lot of the blame and I don't doubt that it is a huge contributor. But I honestly think glyphosate and eating non-organic foods is the problem because as we know, as you probably said in this podcast in a prior episode, if you go to Europe and you eat the gluten, you're not going to react the same way you do in America. there's no GMOs or there might be no GMOs depending on the country and they don't use an exorbitant amount of pesticides if at all. Therefore, the food is something that isn't going to completely wreak havoc on your gut on your intestinal flora and it you're not going to react to it as readily if you celiac nuance. Maybe you will still react because of the um immune system activation from the gluten no matter where it's from. But yeah, most people don't react in Europe and France and all these other countries. So, gut health, leaky gut. All right, we want to make sure that we don't have intestinal hyper permeability. On our last episode, we spoke a lot about gut health and the importance of that for whole body um health, but the immune systems on the other side of our gut. So, if we've got immune issues, autoimmunity, it's really important to focus on gut health to reduce our overall inflammatory burden. But from the perspective of GLP1s, are you seeing a lot of people who are on them have ex like horrible digestion? The motility in and of itself is going to lead to SIBO and potentially lead to SIBO. Not always. There's nuance to everything we have to be um considering. But do you see elevated markers for zulin and calprotectin? And is that something that you're noticing in in your patient set or from other practitioners reporting? >> So what I hear about is all over the place because I have people reporting in from all over the world through my following as well. So I get a whole different it's wild. I mean it's not even just my patient base that I hear about and I hear from other clinicians and I hear from students inside my course and you know I hear because the course is for the general public and for practitioners. So, I'm getting it from all over. Um, I specifically only really discuss micro doing with people. And so, when they come in and they say, "Oh, I'm taking this standard dose." I'm usually like, "Buddy, I can't help you because that's not my forte." I would never I'll just say this. I would never dose somebody up super high on a GLP-1 ever. I I just I don't think it's a great idea. I'll just put it out there. So my whole and I do use it sometimes for weight loss, but I still am very conservative with it and I'm very careful and I still try to cycle it. So in those individuals because I just really don't love people being on it for long term. I I don't think there's any way around not getting SIBO to be honest with you. I I just don't think there's any way around that if you're on a high dose for a long time. That's just my opinion. But what I do hear about is people complaining of they don't realize it's their gut. So histamine issues will show up. We're giving it to somebody to quell mass cell activation syndrome or to quell their mass cells and because it sits on the m they it actually binds our immune cells. GLP-1 does. But then all of a sudden we get into this other bulb especially if they're doing HRT with some of these tele medicine companies or doctors who don't aren't really being super careful. And we've got women on doses of estrogen that are driving histamine issues. It's a whole mixed bag. And so I see kind of the car leave the freeway, if you will. Like the train kind of goes off the tracks and they start reporting symptoms that don't match up at all what should be happening if they're truly doing this in a conservative way. I guess I'll leave it at that. And so I'm not necessarily going after looking at do they have markers of like I don't I don't I don't get too nitty-gritty into testing with people when it comes to their gut because I'm pretty quick at identifying gut issues and I treat the gut first anyway. So I'm going to treat them anyway. I'm going to use something like your ultimate GI repair or I'm going to use the one without the BPC57 in it depending on what I'm trying to go for because I just want to clean it up. And I am going to come in with some Bofilm uh dissolvers and I am going to come in with some herbs and I'm going to cycle those too. And I have a whole way I do this and so I'm very careful about it. But I will start to see symptoms that don't add up to what should be happening or we'll see labs come back where metabolically they start to actually decline. And I'm like what's going on there? Because isn't it interesting? This is the iron totally ironic thing about this you guys. SIBO will drive, it's not a direct cause, but it will drive insulin resistance and obesity. I think it is one of the root causes of insulin resistance and obesity, especially in this country, in the US. And yet, we're giving people a peptide that if not done appropriately, they could be driving the SIBO, which is driving the problem they're trying to treat with a peptide. Isn't it ironic, right? And so, anyway, I do the TUDCA. I do the ox bile. I love that you have a TUDCA with an ox bile in it. I think that's brilliant because you're a brilliant nature path. [laughter] You got the two in there. We want to keep digestion going. Um I'm that's why I say that exercise is non-negotiable because we have to keep paristalsis going, you know, and this is why I don't think people should be dosing the stuff by themselves. I don't think they should be getting it off random mamsy pamsy off the internet and putting it in them. I don't think they should be um I I I don't let me say this. I don't believe you can do HRT and peptides appropriately unless you take an integrative approach. I I really don't. That's my firm opinion. I I don't see how you could not I I don't I don't see otherwise. Like we have to address those issues because people will stall or they'll hit the wall or they'll start getting really bad GI issues directly symptoms. And I'm like, dude, we got to we got to pull you off the peptide. We got to treat the SIBO. And see, you know, SIBO never goes away. Leaky gut never truly goes away. You're just getting it down. You're dampening it down. And so I I see how we could be getting into a big mess with these. This is why I've stepped back from talking about it because people have taken my message and they've twisted it and bastardized it and said, "Oh, Dr. Tina says GLP1s are safe." And I'm like, "No, no, no, no. I never said the way you guys are doing it is, in my opinion, a great idea." I have said, "I have this way of doing it and it's pretty complicated. So that's why it's behind a payw wall in a course, you know, like I can't I can't share it all on the internet. There's no there's not any time, right? The whole podcast would be about that. So anyway, I do think supporting the gut uh going in understanding this and then making sure that all all of the things are addressed and we can generally avoid the big pitfalls. Yeah. So just to summarize all of that from what I'm hearing is the GLP ones cause the red reduction in g gastric motility which then can lead to SIBO and then the SIBO can lead to hypermeability and leaky gut and then from that you'll develop insulin resistance and then you'll just have that rebound weight gain afterwards. You might get the benefits in the front end but then longterm it'll all come back if you've got SIBO and leaky gut. So well done. You've taken medication. You've lost the weight and then you're frustrated. Biggest loser effect but with GLP ones. >> And on top of it, these people are not protecting their muscle. So I get these messages too, Kyle, that kill me. They say, Dr. Tina, you've changed my I get novels from people and they say they're the sweetest messages. Dr. Tina, you've changed my life. Or literally, you've saved my life. I was afraid of GLP-1s. I was, you know, I was not the type to micro dose. I was the type to standard dose because I had, you know, considerable weight to lose or I had considerable uh metabolic dysfunction and my doctor had been trying to get me to utilize these and I was scared to. But then I listened to your content and I decided it was worth trying and I've my life has been forever changed. And then they say this and they say, "And now I'm after the 30 or 45 pounds has been lost or more," they say, "Now I'm going to start strength training." And I'm like, "Oh no, [laughter] why did you wait? Like that was the first thing you were supposed to do." Like no. And let's talk about why because now they've crashed out their gut and they've crashed out their metabolism because that's the engine of the metabolism. So it's I think we're looking at a big mess coming down the pipeline honestly. >> Yeah. Well honestly when GLP-1's like and any sort of weight loss be it extreme dieting caloric restriction will usually result in suppression of your thyroid. It's just a survival mechanism. calories in aren't enough, then the body reacts by saying, "All right, we're going into preservation mode. So, we'll slow down the thyroid. We'll slow down our metabolism and make it harder for you to lose weight because in evolutionary times, it storing hanging on to weight was actually survival advantage. That's why it's so dang easy to store it now because it was advantageous and what's got us here. We have the opposite problem now and all of our biology is kind of set up for the other way that if you start tanking your calories, your thyroid will slow down. You do not want a slow thyroid if you want to be healthy, have energy, keep your hair, um, feel vibrant, have your brain functioning properly. So, I guess that's the easy second part to to go down from the side effects of GLP-1 dosing and all weight loss for that matter is supporting your thyroid. Making sure your iodine levels are good. Making sure you got selenium and um alyroine is an amazing amino acid that you need to make sure you have. It's one of the building blocks. But the other part to it and tying in with gut permeability issues and SIBO is iron. Iron is so essential for thyroid function. And if you have leaky gut, if you've got damage to your gut, IBD, then you're not going to be absorbing iron well, which unfortunately contributes to this negative downward spiral of increased gut inflammation because unabsorbed iron hanging around in your gut. Too much of it can cause even bleeding if you're supplementing the wrong form of iron at too high of a dose. So iron is something that I've looked into so much recently and I'm becoming fascinated. It's almost it's like an easy version of TRT and and GLP1s in that a little bit's good, the right amount's hard to actually get and then too much is going to cause damage. It's one of these nuance things, but you can get infusions. My personal preference for helping people restore their iron levels is the combination of desiccated blood in capsules. Don't just drink desiccated blood. That would be disgusting and very vampiric. Um, and lactopherin. Lactopherin is from colostrum and it binds iron in your gut and helps it absorb into the body. So lactopherin is becoming one of my new favorite ingredients. I don't have it with level up yet, but I'm going to having got tremendous results from my partner for increasing her iron levels which dropped down a little bit. Um and lacto um it's lactobacillus is a there's a bacterial species plantarum 299. I think it's the other bacteria that helps your body absorb non-heem iron, too. So, I kind of took us down the iron route and I hope that helps some people dealing with that. But iron is you're not going to correct your thyroid unless you have, you know, sufficient levels of iron. And in women, >> oh, go ahead. I want to add. >> You can add now. [laughter] >> Uh, I didn't mean to interrupt you. I apologize. Um, what did you say? You said and in women. What? in women, you know, with periods and, you know, uh it's it's often an issue with blood loss, too. So, my partner, I'm speaking from her experience, really struggled, um after giving birth to get her iron levels back up. That's another factor that drains it. So, the poor women yet again have a lot more to do for their health, menopause and periods and pregnancies. It's it's a lot harder being a woman than it is a man to keep keeping your health your health right. Sir, >> well, I was going to say with iron, um, it's tricky because it feeds the bad bugs if you're taking it orally, right? And so, really getting with somebody who knows what they're doing is important on that one because if your iron infusions, I have used them definitely. I mean, I used to provide them in my office. they are they can change the game but man if the person isn't doing all the things really to optimize their health it's just a never-ending cycle of these iron infusions which is really dangerous and oxidative to the body and then on top of it iron orally feeds the bad bugs. So if you've got SIBO and then you've got bugs in there from the slowed gastrointestinal motility that are creating a lot of lipopolysaccharides and that LPS is driving the histamine issue and so now these people are in a real hot mess and then we're feeding those bugs with iron, right? So it's it's tricky. So don't just go pound iron guys like he's listen to him. Like the lactopherin form I do like I do like the desiccated blood as well. Um, I've used both of those, but man, that's a tricky one because that's usually when I see somebody with chronically I'm that girl. I'm that girl that had the feritin of like nine my whole life. [laughter] That's the one good thing about menopause is like I'm not totally at menopause yet, but for some reason my cholesterol my cholesterol was always like 140, which is terrible and way too low. And then my feritin was always in the toilet. At least my feritin is going up and my cholesterol is going up. And everyone's like, "Your cholesterol is elevating." I'm like, "Yeah, to a normal level. [laughter] I'll take it. But, uh, just pounding iron, that's a tough cycle to get out of, and it usually requires a very holistic approach, which I know you're taking with your partner, and most people are not. So, they just think they can take the iron supplements indefinitely, and I'm like, we got to figure out why. Why is the iron low, right? Like one of the reasons you just said, and there's other reasons, but man, that's a But you're so right about the thyroid. Um, I want to go back to the TUDCA too because it kind of ties this all together. If your liver I mean naturopathic medicine 101 is gut first, treat the liver as well. You got you have some great liver products and you've got the TUDCA and you've got the TUDCA with oxile. If the liver is not working and the gut's not working, I think of them as like BFFs. The gallbladder is certainly not working and that's one of the big that is one of the real concerns with GLP1s that I have is the concern about gallstones and the gall stone potentially la lodging itself into the pancreas and ending up with pancreatitis which is just a complete nightmare that is like that's a death sent that's ter that's terrible it's either terrible pain or death and so that [snorts] is one of the biliary issues with GLP1s are real I've said that from the beginning and so we need a happy healthy liver with motility and we that's it's running the ship's running and we need a gut that's working before we start throwing GLP ones at somebody because those two things will definitely impact the gallbladder and then that ox bile in your toka I know you have tka alone and then you have the tka with ox bile that ox bile in there is going to be so helpful for that gallbladder and then of course the way we choose to eat when we're on these but all that to say I mean that's just right there and then that ult you know having a GI product like your ultimate GI that whole that They're like all BFFs. I tell people like I treat the gut by treating the liver. I treat the liver by treating the gut. I you know it it all goes together. And so and that will all significantly impact your hormones at the end of the day. So thyroid included. >> Really a really interesting tidbit about toadkare is it indirectly increases your own G gl GLP-1 production anyway. So like you're taking GLP1s, you're not eating as much. And often as a behavioral thing when people want to lose weight they go back to the old school thinking and like all right I'm going to count my calories as well I'm going to avoid eating fats and without the fat in the diet to trigger the bile release to absorb the fat. That's where you get the bile stasis and the gallbladder issues and potentially the stones too. So that is really important even if you're doing lower calories to make sure you're eating good healthy fats too. You need the bile. It's going to make them work better. The bile is going to help reduce the chances or minimize the issues with SIBO and then help you absorb the vitamins that that are in the fat soluble vitamins in the food that you are eating as well. So fat is so beneficial for health. And back to the iron point too, like here's a hypothetical situation again. You're in a GLP-1. Your energy's dropping because of the SIBO. So, and you have low iron. So, you start pounding an iron supplement, which increases the bad bugs and increases LPS, lipopolysaccharide from the bugs. Well, that's now going to have an effect on your liver and your bile. So, you're in another sort of side negative spiral that you can get into with that. It can completely crash your health even though you're going into taking these these products, these drugs with really good intention. I think we need to commend people for trying to do something to improve their self. And that's why I really applaud your approach to it. It's understanding the end goal is what we need to focus on. how they're doing it, we can live with, provided we're intelligent enough with how we support them in that. Like we, you and I both know we don't need a GLP-1 to lose weight. We know how to do it with naturopathic ingredients, with our diet, our lifestyle. Um there's plenty of thermogenics. There's so many other pathways you can target, but none of them really touch the side comparative to taking GLP-1 medication. They're just that powerful because they are drugs. So yeah, that's Toddka. um supporting the liver too is going to be really helpful too um for the hormone clearance that it needs to occur naturally but also any other drugs that you're on it's all cleared through your liver and if LPS is overburdening your liver then that's that's problematic in and of itself and yeah >> LPS will drive this is the crazy part that the L for let me back up before I get into that um I do want to say that I I have several people in my family who struggle with obesity, like the real version of of like the disease of obesity. And GLP-1s are such a tremendous tool. My issue with them is I know too many people on them who use them as just monotherapy. And I know too many doctors that are unfortunately don't know what we know and they're just using them as monotherapy. And that's where these problems I believe start to arise is because people get on them and they have to take everinccreasing doses to maintain the same amount of weight loss and they have to keep going higher and higher and higher in order to maintain the same amount of weight loss. And now there's studies being done looking at crazy high doses of some of these to because people are plateauing and that's a real problem. So taking it I mean I'm we're just touching on it here and this is the tip of the iceberg but just understanding that there's a lot more to physiology than just driving one pathway super hard any pathway you drive like you were saying with TRT like you cannot just supercharge one pathway and hope for good things to come from it. So, um, but I will say like sometimes that leg up, right? People just need that leg up and they have such a phenomenal anti-inflammatory effect on the joints and the brain and people and we have studies on this and people feel so much better on them very often and they're like, "Oh my god, my lights turned on. I feel like exercising again. I feel like moving." So, I think they're such a phenomenal tool to really get that needle moving. But if you really are using them for obesity or weight loss, you are this is why I'm such a proponent of keeping the dose as low as humanly possible and going as slow as possible so we have time to implement some of these other strategies and really un this is what I'm trying to work through in my course is getting people to understand at least the very basics so that they can go into this and know like it's not just about cranking a peptide or a medication and hoping that good things will come. But on the LPS, here's the crazy thing about lipopolyaccharides. They drive pain. They drive pain. And so I've heard from many people. I was Everybody thinks they're micro doing, but again, very few people are. So 99% of you who think you're on a micro dose, you're not. You're you're probably on a standard dose. But they're they think they're micro doing say it was phenomenal for my pain, but now my pain's coming back. And it's coming back with a vengeance. And it makes me immediately go to the gut and like how much LPS are they producing and what's going on there? Because the bad bugs produce these toxins, these and these toxins will drive pain. And it it's a whole thing it does with your central nervous system. And so it's kind of sucky. It happened to me too, like my SIBO flared. And it wasn't just because of the GLP-1 because I wasn't actually even on a GLP-1. When my SIBO flared, it was stress. But my SIBO flared and my pain goes through the roof when my SIBO flares. And it's like first thing that happens. And I was like, damn it. You know, this is such an unfortunate thing for so many people who are probably using these with having such great impacts on some pretty seriously painful conditions cuz I came out and was talking about it years ago and now they're back into the pain cycle and I'm wondering in those cases if it isn't their gut health. Anyway, that's my side thought. What do you think? >> Yeah, definitely. Um, and the LPS drives inflammation and then it drives the insulin resistance too, which you know, let's not even consider the thyroid, which we need to for weight loss. Um, but the insulin resistance is probably the primary driver of why they got obese in the first place and would be taking the medication. So, yeah, LPS is a huge issue and definitely something. It's why every naturopath who's worth seeing always addresses the gut. And you I think everyone needs to at least two to three times a year. Maybe once or twice if you're doing all the things right. Do some sort of gut repair. Even if you think you're doing everything perfectly, it really pays to bring it in because I have unlimited supply of gut repair. I I'm a naturopath. I eat really well. But stress is just something that's unavoidable in life. You and I have spoken offline about all the stresses we've been through. Well, that's going to directly wreak havoc on your gut health, too. Like, you really sucks, but it is what it is. That's that's life. So, um, understanding our life situations and then supplementing or doing protocols to sort of counteract the life we choose or don't choose to live is just how we get through this life healthy, which if you don't do those things, I really strongly believe those who don't are going to have a decreased lifespan. It just makes mechanistic sense to me. Like how can you just go through all these things and not have one of these chronic diseases come up and shorten your life if you're not proactive about it? >> Yeah. >> Before we move on, I I want to just summarize. So when someone's going on a GLP-1, I love TUDCA. I love Ox Bile. I love the Ultimate GI Repair. I love those just hands down. And those are the I would say with the TUDCA and the O with the Ox Bile in it or not. Um but those are kind of ongoing usually. And I tend to dose very low because I am conservative and I don't want to drive somebody's liver that's super toxic into overdrive. Um, and I'm not this is not this is not treatment advice. This is just how I do it clinically. I'm just conservative with everything. And then I love the ultimate GI repair because I have personally found and the way that I use it and I'd love to hear your thoughts. I don't keep people on it indefinitely. Um, I tend to do it for a round. I'll do a round of it. That round could be like 10 days, 15 days, 30 days. But I love that you can come back to it. Like usually I'll have a bottle for quite a while because I I it takes me a few rounds to get through it, you know, but it's such a great like I literally just pulled it out the other day, Kyle. I'm packing. I'm purging right now and I'm about to leave in a few days. cuz I'm getting in a getting in the truck and leaving and driving to Arizona with my dogs and I'm so freaking stressed out and I was it was it was like you were like a little fairy. You had sent me all of this Level Up stuff and I had set it all in this bin and I get downstairs and I was having a day of it. I was like crying one minute because I'm leaving my family, right? I'm crying one minute, I'm excited the next minute and I get down there and my gut's a freaking wreck. I haven't pooped in three days at this point. I never get constipated. And I'm like, what the heck is going on? Like this is clearly stress. And I get down there and like there's the goodies. [laughter] There's the level of goodies. And I was so happy and took them. Everything regulated within 24 hours. I was so happy, but I was like, there's my Ted cuta. There's my ultimate GI repair. Perfect. You know, game on. So I use these even without I'm not on a GLP-1 currently. I, you know, I use these anyway. So I just wanted to share that before we we move on. Do you have anything else about the gut and the liver and the that whole complex before we get to muscle and thermogenics? >> Um, not really. We can move on to muscle waste issues. I'm pretty sure that's the second most common thing that happens. Um, and it all feeds into we can't ever leave our conversation when we're talking staying true to holism of naturopathy and naturopathic medicine. So, yeah, the and um I'm glad they managed to help. I think it just goes to show how quickly some of these interventions can work when you're doing all the things. Like it's just a quick all right course correction or very subtle maybe one to two days of dosing things that are really powerful is all that you really need if you've got yourself optimized versus someone who's lived a life and continues to live a life of stress and poor choices. It takes a lot longer. So yeah, thanks for letting me know. I'll happily be your supplement fairy or supplement center if I want to be a bit more masculine about it. [laughter] >> I was it was like a little nest of goodies that I found in the corner cuz I get so much stuff sent to me. So sometimes I just rifle it all downstairs into my studio and I'm like going through all this slugging through, you know, going through your supplements and like smelling what's expired, what do you got to throw out, what do you I can imagine you probably have like a closet full of supplements like I do. So it was a lot of that was like took a whole day to pack my supplements and I found them and I was like yes, [laughter] Kyle delivers. It's great. >> I got about a 4 to1 ratio of supplements to food in our pantry. It's a bit ridiculous. >> Yes. [laughter] Yes. You understand? So hand caloric restriction, GLP1s inducing caloric restriction and reduced appetite can cause rapid muscle mass loss. Um, especially dosed at the wrong dose as we've established. Um, but even if you're doing it right, making sure that you are exercising when you're taking a GLP-1 to counteract that AMK, EMPK, mTor, IGF, they kind of like swing with each other. And if you're only doing one and not the other, you are going to lose muscle almost not as quickly, but you will lose muscle concurrently when you're losing fat. And that's not a good thing for anything because we mentioned insulin, you know, all the LPS driving inflammation driving insulin resistance and insulin resistance being the reason you gain the weight in the first place because of dietary choices. Well, insulin is triggered when you eat carbs and it's meant to dispose it dispose of that sugar into muscle. that's like the best place for it to go because then it's used. But if you don't have the muscle, then it's just going to be more likely to be stored in and and you end up with a rebound weight gain too if you've lost muscle too. So muscle is an organ that we need to preserve and any anyone on a GLP-1 really needs to improve their exercise if it's not existent or maintain it if it already is existent too. And don't just get complacent because you're losing the weight without having to exercise. They need to be done concurrently. So, I touched on and I think this is important because I as a woman who has always ran very thin and I had a long history of eating disorders. Um, I touched on this before in the conversation. I want to bring it back. When people go on a GLP-1 at whatever dose, they always want weight loss. That's the other com the comment I get. I get people who are actually truly micro doing truly truly sometimes the tiniest little dose. I I wouldn't even ever consider that dose that low. And they say, "I'm not losing any weight. What's what's wrong?" And I'm like, "Well, no, it's dose dependent. You got to if you really want to lose weight, you got to go up." Now, I have to go up on GLP1s into side effects if I want to lose weight. It is not a weight loss tool for me. So, while it got the initial sort of inflammatory puff off of me that was happening in middle age from chronic stress and from pmenopause, uh, if I want six-pack abs, that is not a GLP-1 problem to solve, right? that is not going to happen. So I have to bring on other So I I say this because I think people are literally dosing and starving themselves into this idea that they're going to get the body that they want, not realizing that the body that they want is actually a body composition of someone who regularly exercises. Whether they're doing Pilates or bar or squats and deadlifts, they're still even these skinny skinny models are still exercising very regularly. Those girls on the Victoria's Secret catwalk are definitely doing a lot of exercise. It's just different than what we maybe I'm doing over in the gym with my kettle bells and my barbells. But that said, you cannot starve yourself into a perfect body, but they do. And they want the dose higher so they can get lower. And now they've end up just totally emaciated and it's a disaster nightmare. And it they all look like we did in the 90s, which was like we were all starving ourselves to death. So like we look like a bunch of little heroin chic skeletons. >> [laughter] >> It's not good. I just went through all my photos. I was like, "God, my friends and I were skinny." But all that to say is we have other tools, right? We've got we've got thermogenics and we've got other tools that can help sort of balance that body composition in a more favorable way. So, if I want to lose the belly fat, we've got like five amino Q. We've got some other things that might help do that for us. So, I want you to talk about that >> because I think that's the problem people are getting into. Yeah, there's heaps of different mechanisms that you should approach when you're looking to lose weight. Like I'm using an acetal alcarnitine, for example, is a very well-known one. Every single fat burner you'll find at a supplement store like GNC or vitamin shop should have alcarnitine or an acetyl alcarnitine in it. There are other ingredients like GBB that you can use, which is the precursor to alcarnitine. And these are fantastic for lipolysis and fatty acid oxidation. they are required in the mitochondria to burn fat. So if you have deficiencies in those, you're going to be, you know, not burning fat particularly well. Five amino mq is a small molecule that is very interesting and I've been using it for a while. I didn't originally use it for the purposes of weight loss, but it kind of came about anyway and you know a lot of people were using it for weight loss, but I used it for increasing NAD levels. um its mechanistic way that it works is by inhibiting NNMT which is the main enzyme that actually clears NAD out of your body into um nicotinic acid. So if you the five amino inhibits that enzyme's function and basically preserves your NAD levels and when NAD is cleared out of your body it also requires methyl groups um and Sami to clear it out. So, a little side tangent, it's completely irrelevant to our point, but I really want to bring this up is when people are taking NAD therapy, they're doing infusions or NAD injections or really heavily loading up on NMN or NR for the purposes of an incre increasing NAD, they never think about the back end of it. And if you've got a huge amount of NAD pulled, then you're also going to have an equally high amount of it clearing out through this NNMT enzyme, which is going to strip your methyl groups and reduce your SAM and actually via like a few different mechanisms make fat loss even harder. So that's >> oh no, >> that is a potential biohacking trend that in long term I foresee potentially being a problem. So >> yeah, >> that's where the five amino 1MQ comes in. There's other ingredients you can actually supplement. I've forgotten the name of it, but it is the byproduct, the breakdown byproduct of NAD. If you supplement it on the back end, then your body is kind of tricked into thinking that it doesn't need to break down NAD or that your NAD levels are fine. I'll try and remember the name of it as we continue to talk, but five amino mq stops that enzyme from from um clearing NAD and brings it back into the salvage pathway and in maintains your NAD levels. So that's why that peptide's really good. Um and there's another one called JBSNF um trip 000088. Really terrible name for a peptide. No one's expected to remember it. I had to think pretty hard to remember what it's called, but that one also um inhibits that enzyme too. Um and yeah, there's other ways as well like thyroid is obviously important. We mentioned that earlier to support fat loss. Um people take uh green tea extract. That's an amazing activator of there's exercise mimedics like albaba, which is a really cool new ingredient that's been gaining some attention in the fat burning space for a while. Um, but alabar is increases estrogen receptor alpha agonism. So, it's a really weird mechanism that I didn't actually think initially when I heard about it would be beneficial for weight loss. But by triggering this estrogen receptor alpha, you actually that's what occurs when you've exercised. So, you can trigger some of the same pathways as exercise induced with some ingredients like another one that's quite trending at the moment that I'm a little hesitant to talk about because it has some potential side effects, but it's called SLU PP332. This is another small molecule. It's not a peptide, but it's clumped into them. Um, this works via that estrogen receptor alpha agonism, and they call it exercise in a pill. And yeah, that's meant to help with weight loss as well, but I'm not going to talk about that too much because it's, you know, a research chemical and compliance purposes. I don't want to talk about it. All I'll say, >> yeah, let's let's not get into that. >> We do have it in a micro dose because it's a very safe level, but people are really pushing how much you can use mainly in the bodybuilding space because bodybuilders and people on GLP ones kind of have the same goal of I want to lose as much fat as possible and the bodybuilders don't really care if they die in the process it seems sometimes, which is unfortunately happen quite a lot. >> That's true. Talk to me about your longevity product because I love that product so much because you've got the five amino five amino Q in there. You've got the Epalon which is like all over the internet right now. It's got the NN. Like this is just kind of your NAD product and I I prefer it over everything I've tried. And I get a lot of NAD products sent my way. Um I love this product. It gives me it gives me a kick. Like that's that's a that's what I take when I need a kick, when I like need to spark. And uh I there's so many good ingredients in there and I think you just covered most of them, [clears throat] but that's one of my favorites for sure. Yeah. Well, reasons why you'd want high NAD is it's associated with longevity. It helps with DNA repair, mitochondrial biogenesis, and reduction of inflammation. All four of those things. Awesome. Like, you want that's why people are so hype about injecting it and taking as much as possible. But the nuance is that that NNMT enzyme needs to be, you know, inhibited a little bit if you're going to push it really high. Everything in nature has a balance and a sweet spot. And NAD, even though it is amazing, has is is no exception to that. Um the ingredient I just remembered what it's called. It's 1 methyl nicotinic acid or 1 MNA. We don't sell that but that is what um NAD breaks down to and is cleared to. So if you supplement that you can increase your NAD levels. Um or if you're taking NAD injections rather than inhibiting the enzyme with five amino you also should concurrently support methylation. That's one way to make sure you're not getting the negative side effects of it with Sammy or B69 and 12. They're all going to be really helpful, too. >> Um, >> yeah, the other ingredients in that product that really allow it to work well are apagen, ficetin, and um, quetin. And these inhibit an enzyme called CD38 or NADAS. That's an enzyme that breaks down NAD as well. So, we target the two enzymes that clear it. Um, and then provide the precursors with the NMN and the NR that most people would know about if they've looked into this topic. >> Yeah, that that's a great product. your point about the methylated the methyl donors is I was taking NAD. I don't love NAD IVs at all and I don't because again I don't love driving a pathway that people's bodies aren't prepared to handle. I just don't love cranking any pathways hard because it it never ends well. And I don't love biohacking because people end up in a whole pickle of a mess and then they end up in my messages telling me about it and I'm like dude I don't know what you're doing. But the uh NAD subq injections I was taking and felt phenomenal at first as I always do. I couldn't remember why I hadn't done it in years. I hadn't taken any in years and I was like why did I quit you know intermittently doing NAD injections and then I remembered as I was doing them. I hit the freaking wall about three weeks in. I was like slam and I I reached for my methylated B12. Of course, I injected that too, which may that makes me feel like a million bucks, but you can't do that forever either. So, my point of this whole story is you cannot take things in isolation and drive pathways hard. You It's easier when you're younger. It used to work for me much better when I was in my 20s and 30s and early 40s, but now that I'm in my 50s, my body very quickly puts on the brakes because if you don't have the co-actors or you don't have the whole thing together, and that's what you do so beautifully in all of your formulations is you are so thoughtful about all of these details and you put the I remember the first time and I said this on the last podcast. I got a bottle of the Ultimate GI Repair and I was like, "This is freaking brilliant." Like, who did this? I thought it was I saw your name and I thought you were going to be some old Scandinavian guy. [laughter] You're just this young brilliant guy and I was like this genius. Get him on the podcast. So yeah, love it. Love love the thought you put into these. Um you have another product that I really like is the total recmp, but I don't understand how that work one works. So can you talk about that because I think that ties into this conversation. I basically got in this mode of a whole week of putting my headphones in and trying to think of every single mechanism for weight loss. I had made this product because I mentioned on the last podcast I lived lived in mold, had a bit of leptin resistance, and gained a little bit around the around the trunk and wanted to get rid of it. So, I'm like, "All right, I'm just going to make I don't actually care how much it costs or what [clears throat] goes in it. I'm going to support every single one of the pathways of weight loss." So, I used peptides that increase neuropeptide Y. There's one called DNF10. I used all of the thermogenics I could. I added things to support thyroid, some appetite suppressants, those exercise mimedics that I spoke about before, and then a big emphasis on blood sugar stabilization and and glucose disposal agent with ingredients like bourberine, but not regular bourberine, which doesn't absorb well. Interestingly, back to SIBO, bourberine's a good one to take as well. It's going to give you that two mechanisms of action. Help with the SIBO and help with your blood sugar. But dihydro bourberine is about 40 times more absorbable than regular bourberine. So that's going to work better for, you know, systemic glucose control and not really come with the nausea or the side effects that some people get from regular bourberine. So that's why I made that product because I got a little fat myself and didn't like that. >> Well, I love it. It's a great one. And it it again, if you're chasing a certain body composition, you guys, and you think GLP-1s are the answer, they're usually not. They're at the doses needed to really start that ramp up. If you're not training, you are going to be wasting. And so having other ingredients on board to help you whether it's peptides or you know neutrauticals or whatever a lot of the things that are in these formulas or wherever you're doing your research you you have to consider different mechanisms of action because you can't just waste away on GLP ones and hope you're going to end up looking like who you know so and so that that's doing it. So anyway, >> just stop the wasting away. We need to not focus on the fat burning one, but things to preserve muscle mass, which would be your essential amino acids, your weights training, creatine. They're going to be your foundational things that I think everyone on GLP ones, even if you actually everyone should be taking those, they'd be really supportive to your body. Um, other things you can take to preserve muscle mass would be peptides like BPC57 and TB-500. Um, TB-500 needs to be injected, but you can take oral fragments of TB4. U which we have in our product Wolverine which will just preserve the muscle mass that do its best job in preserving the muscle mass and helping with uh recovery if you are doing the gym training which you should be doing when you're on GLP ones. So they're the that Wolverine combinations. I made it for people who have uh injuries and are trying to recover from injuries, but it does have BPC has an effect on upregulating growth hormone receptor density, which means that you know, anyone who's doing any training, growth hormone is going to work a lot better and you're going to recover faster and preserve your muscle um a lot better from that one. And TB4 fragments also have an effect on actin, which is one of the main um uh proteins in muscle fiber and it helps preserve actton too. So you're less likely to break down your muscle fibers um from the GLP ones or or if even if you've had a surgery or something and you or an injury and you're immobile too, it'll concurrently help you heal faster but preserve the muscle mass from that as well. So that's what that's why I made that formula. >> That's a brilliant product. I do not have that one in my stock yet, but I saw it on your website and I was like, "Oh, you put them together." That's what I tell people to take to heal. I would love your thoughts, though. I don't love people being on those indefinitely. I think that cycling them is a preferred way of doing it. What do you think? >> Yeah. Well, all peptides for that matter work on a receptor, be it on the surface or intracellular, they work on receptors. And anything with a receptor, caffeine has receptors, adenosine receptors, which it acts on. Anytime you're hitting a receptor for a prolonged period of time, you're going to end up with down reggulation of that receptor. It's not like a 100% proven fact, but I just always on the side of caution and don't want the products to stop being as effective. So, for every two months on a product, I always recommend take a month off, let those receptors um give those receptors a break. Don't don't let them downregulate. And usually the product will work a lot better if you do it less, but in a strategic manner than if you're just doing it all the time. Plus, naturopathically, I hate people being on things all the time. There's a time and a place to be on something all the time. If you have a disease or um autoimmune disease or something like that, you're constantly fighting with and yeah, you need to be on things for a long term. But I have 40 products almost now and I'm currently on three of them because I've got my health to a state that I only bring them in when I need to. So, it's ultimately it's a crap business model, but that's how I really want um Level Up to be. It's all right, you've got the tool. It's like a medicine cabinet thing. You bring it in and then you should it should restore the body to the point where it doesn't need it for a while or ever. That's hopefully where we will get to with the work with the world, with the food chain, with stress levels that you know, you can just only bring these things in as needed. >> I totally agree with you. That's exactly how I do it. I when I because people say sometimes, oh, the cost. And I'm like, look, you're going to use this intermittently. You're going to have this bottle for a good long time. This is not a get on it and stay on it forever kind of thing. And I don't really love people being on some of these peptides forever because inherently a lot of them are progrow. And you know, what are they growing? And I I don't I know we don't have any links to cancer, but I also know that when we're doing any I'm my background is regenerative medicine, right? Like I'm careful with what I apply because we are trying to regenerate tissues in an orchestrated fashion, not sort of, you know, slop on peptides and cross your fingers and hope for the best and and continue to live a shitty lifestyle. >> I will bring up something I know people will probably ask in in the comments and it's something our customer support and social media gets asked all the time is, "Oh, doesn't BPC cause cancer?" >> No. >> That question because no it doesn't. it. Angioenesis is one of the pathways that BPC upregulates. VeF angioenesis, new blood vessel formation. That's fantastic for injury recovery for regeneration. Oxygen to this to the tissue and then waste removal is only going to help the process. However, cancer utilizes angioenesis. Angioenesis is one of its hallmarks of growth. It's not to say that that's the cause of it. It will just be utilized. So if someone has cancer, I'm like, "Yeah, be careful with BBC. Probably don't take it, but also be careful with leucine, be careful with branch chain amino acids, all these there's so many different pathways that you know cancer cells utilize for their survival and their growth that just cuz one of them is upregulated from this peptide, it doesn't mean it's going to cause it because you know that's just a bit foolish." If anything in my opinion is the reduction in LPS, as we mentioned earlier, that BPC can help with by sealing the gut is going to knock off like two or three of the hallmarks of cancer, the pro-inflammatory signaling and you know the the the um what do you call it? The um the foundational things that are a precursor to cancer growth. Getting your gut health in check is going to do so much for preventing it by that reduction in inflammation that it's just a bit ridiculous to me to speculate that it could cause it. >> Right. Right. Causing and and I mean I'm just careful with these. I'm careful with all of them. I'm careful when I apply them to patients. I'm careful when I and I talk about this and people who aren't really familiar with peptides are like, "You're not supposed to be on BPC forever." And I'm like, "No, I don't think that's a great idea." But again, we don't have conclusive data. You have a couple products. So, your ultimate GI repair has comes with BPC or BPC free. I have both. Um, you have just BPC straight, but then you have this regenerate product that has PA in it. I love PA. Can you talk about that a little bit because this regenerate BPC57 product is I'll link all these in the show notes, you guys. Um, this one is like what a great formula. Tell me about this one a little bit. Yeah, PA is pretty much my favorite non-peptide ingredient and it's in so many of our products. It's in our histamine product because it stabilizes m cells. It's found in breast milk. It's, you know, mothers who are breastfeeding will give PA to their to their child or their newborn and it's an analesic and a pain reliever and an anti-inflammatory. So, I speculate, I can't confirm this, but I speculate part of the reason why when ch babies hurt themselves, they want the boob is to get a little bit of PA because it might be helping with their pain relief. >> Um, but it's PA to me is pretty much the best anti-inflammatory. I might rank it equal with pro-resolving mediators, but um it's one of the best anti-inflammatories. I think better than cumin because curcumin can, you know, sequester iron and have some issues with iron absorption for those who are low. And I think it's better than fish oil because I just don't trust fish oils anymore in the in the market for them not to be oxidized. There might be some. That's why I I tend to prefer pro resolving mediators because you know it's like well if we're sure there's a problem or oxidize then I just want the mediators out of it rather than the rest of it. But back to PA. Yeah. Um it's used in dentistry as well as a fantastic analesic for um for pain after um dental procedures and it's just works so well at knocking down pain from a natural perspective whilst the peptide that's in it, the BPC and um you know or whatever other peptide I've combined with the PA works on on the back end and sort of does the the hard work in resolving the why that you have the pain. Say you got an injury, the PA will on the front end give you the pain relief and help with the inflammation while the peptide works on all the all the growth factors and um accelerating the healing process. So that product is awesome for you know uh connective tissue issu um injuries and helping with injury recovery. Oh, it's I as part of the collection of products that you had sent me, you sent me a bottle of pea and I had ran out and I had forgotten that I'd ran out because I take so many supplements and I I I have like a chronic spinal issue and it was really flaring because I had been moving boxes that were a little bit too big for me to be moving and just that constant like rotation pick up and put down, you know, all day long. And uh I found that bottle of pea and I was like, "Oh, thank God. [laughter] I freaking love pea. I use it topically, too. I smear it on. I take it orally. Like, I am a huge PA fan. So, I was excited to see that in there and I wanted to hear your take on it because I think it's And you're right with the again with that histamine issue. You have a histamine product, but PA is so good for histamine as well. And then we would be remiss not to mention KPV when we're talking about gut health and inflammation and all of this because and just inflammation throughout the body. I think KPV is a really beautiful peptide for all of that, too. And you guys have that in your line. Yeah, it's essentially the antimold peptide is what I describe it as in in one sentence, but it >> the anti-mold. It's part of the Richie shoe maker protocol for increasing alpha MSH. So that's why I love it >> for, you know, mold injury and SR uh not mold injury, mold exposure and SER, but it also is a really potent anti-inflammatory. It works on the gut to reduce the interlucan 6 and TNF alpha which are some of the inflammatory cytoines that drive gut inflammation and permeability. So that's why we include it in that one and have it as a standalone. >> Yeah. It's in your ultimate GI repair, isn't it? >> Yep. Also G repair basically if you're on a TLP1 is going to be covering so many of the bases the BPC's in it that's going to help preserve that could help preserve the muscle mass whilst >> it's sealing up the gut to reduce the LPS that's going to cause the liver issues and um you know help and um potentially cause issues with uh insulin signaling and inflammation. So that's I think why we wanted to chat is to make people aware that that one can really be a one product to to help. I mean I guess combined with TUDCA you you're hitting all bases with those two. >> Totally. I was going to say if I if I were to pick like my top two it would be the ultimate GI repair and then add your TUDCA I think. And then you have the TUDCA with Oxile if people need that. And I I I do think that people on a GLP-1 could benefit from Ox Bile. Um, I love the total remp if people are looking for body composition changes and I love the longevity for what you all the reasons you said, but that five amino Q just kind of has that thermogenic effect as well. So, it's that's a really nice bundle. Um, but if I were to just pick one, it would be the ultimate GI repair with the BPC in it. It's a beautiful product. You did a good job. You do you do good work, Kyle. [laughter] You You have the brain. I you you're like a mad scientist [laughter] with a cool accent. >> I'll take it. I've been called a wizard before and that one was quite fun. So >> mad scientist is good, too. All right. So, I I think we should wrap it up with that. Not to confuse people. Uh I know we've provided them with a lot of information, but hopefully we summarized it well at the end. There you guys are offering a really nice discount to my followers. 15% off everything if you use code Dr. Tina. That's D R T Y NA. You can go to leveluphealth.comdtina and I'll have the link in the show notes. It's lvluphealth.comdtina. Use code drina at checkout and that'll give you a nice discount. I think that for folks who are on the GLP-1 journey, um, you know, like I said, inside my course, I cover hormones, I cover metabolic health, I cover strength training, I cover all of that in really deep detail, but I think ultimately for just the average person out there who's utilizing a GLP-1, support your gut, make sure that you understand what you're going for, if you are going for body composition changes, protect your muscle, don't get your gastrointestinal tract, your biliary system, and your liver in a pickle. because you are not taking care of what you're doing because it is a very potent medication and peptide at the end of the day. So yeah. Anything else, Kyle, you want to add? >> No, I just hope we didn't confuse them. If they're confused and need some further education, I can't vouch highly enough for your education and they should definitely check that out. And if they find that one of the products are a useful tool in their GLP-1 journey or any other journey that they have, then I really hope you'll let me know how they help. I don't really tend to hear too much of the feedback on the formulating and business end. You kind of miss being in the trenches as a practitioner sort of working with people and seeing how the products or the protocols go. So yeah, just let me know. Send me a DM or something. >> I will. I will for sure. We'll have you back again and we'll we'll talk more about this because I know there's this is a longer story. So anyway, so fun. Thanks for coming on the show today and we'll talk to you later. >> Thanks. Thanks everyone. >> Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song is by John the Guilt. [music] You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. [music] As always, you can email the podcast at podcasttina.com. That's dr na. And if you like this episode, [music] please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. [music] See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional healthcare services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice. diagnosis or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have [music] and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.