I've been in the space of naturopathic functional holistic medicine for decades now and I've kind of seen everything come and go and I before that was a patient in the alipathic system deep in the alopathic system really mismanaged really gaslit by the system and I noticed that things were like devolving quickly online there's been a really interesting devolving of professionalism. There's been a rise of the, you know, quote unquote health influencer and it's simply just based on number of followers that they get their clout right. Um, there's I'm somewhere in the middle. Well, I like I'm pretty much homeless as far as it goes because the alopathic community won't take me seriously because I don't have the right letters behind my name, but the functional medicine community oftentimes thinks I'm too alopathic because I'm pushing peptides or whatever. Um, the medical freedom community that I fought so staunchly for during COVID days thinks I'm some kind of like Ozmpic shill, which I've never promoted OMIC ever. I'm actually talking if anybody would actually stop to listen to what I'm saying. I'm talking about GLP-1s as a peptide used in a different fashion, but that's neither here nor there. I've done podcasts about that. And so, I've just been looking at all of this objectively. We've had the rise of the menopausy, the rise of attention on women's hormone replacement therapy in menopause. So, they're calling that menopausal replacement therapy. I have been in the field of HRT for a long time. I've been prescribing since I've been licensed and before that I was mentored up by two wonderful mentors actually who have been using HRT since forever and so no one ever stopped when the women's health initiative came out in 2002. None of us were scared away from that because I the data was presented poorly. We could tell by looking at it kind of like we could tell what the data was saying about the you know what intervention in 2021 if you bothered to look. So that said, we have been utilizing hormone replacement therapy for those who need it and that is a diverse group of people and I'll explain in a minute for a long time. And recently, as I'm packing to move, I came across some of my filing cabinet info and pulled out my HRT folder. And this is the folder of, you know, back in the day when we didn't have everybody on a computer with PowerPoints. We'd go to conferences and literally would get our lectures, you know, the the PowerPoints sometimes, not this is before PowerPoints. Often we would get the lectures in paper form, right? So, I have this big file full of papers. And shout out to Dr. for Carrie Jones because some of the content I had in there goes way back to the early 2000s and it was Carrie Jones content. So every almost every single one of them was put out either by obviously a clinician who was doing HRT at the time. Shout out to Dr. Jonathan Wright taught me so much. I mean, you guys know he's OG or compounding pharmacists who were doing the prescriptions. And in almost every case, every single document said minimal effective dose. Minimal effective dose. What does that mean? That means the minimal amount that an individual needs to abate symptoms, to move the needle, whatever it may be. And so that's how I've always practiced. And when I came up with this GLP-1 micro doing hypothesis and I was talking about using them in fractions of the standard starting dose, it's because I was basing it on this concept of minimal effective dose. I was honored to be uh interviewed and written up in the Washington Post this week. And while I wouldn't say that the outcome was necessarily favorable because I never get to be the good guy. I'm always going to be the fall guy. I don't have the right letters behind my name. I'm a female. God forbid I be smart and intelligent and articulate and wellstied. I get interviewed by these big publications. I interview for at least an hour every time. I give them hard data. I give them, you know, expert information that they won't find elsewhere. And they always minimize me to being a health influencer. they have to comment on the cost of my course and, you know, low-key throw me under the bus. Although, this guy did not completely throw me under the bus as bad as the New York Times did. Um, they can't call me doctor because I don't have an MD behind my name, but at least he called me a naturopathic physician and what have you. So in that interview I was trying to explain this concept of personalized medicine and how we approach a patient in a personalized fashion and everybody's different. That's why I cannot answer you as to what's the dose. Dr. Tina F iffi know I don't know you. I don't know what your labs look like. I don't know what your body composition is. I don't know your age. I don't know your coorbidities. I don't know your muscle mass. I don't know how metabolically optimized you are. I don't know what gender you are. I don't that's gonna matter on how you process things. I don't have any of the information I need, right? I haven't done a physical exam. I don't know any of your vital signs. Nada, right? I can't tell you. I do talk about my strategy of how to think through that inside my course, my GLP-1 Done University. I also have a comprehensive module on hormones in there if you want to go check it out. It's not just a course about GLP1s. is literally my entire approach to metabolic health optimization of the patient from every consideration. I've just wrapped it in a JLP1 bow. So, if you don't think you're interested in GLP1s, but you want to know my clinical brain, it's in the course. And I promise you, it is a moneysaver because if you're going to go try to find somebody to do this right, you're going to spend some money. And I'm sorry, that's just the way it is. So you better go in armed with information and education and empowerment through that education so that you actually can help direct the course of the therapy. You don't go in gun and saying like, "Hey, I I'm controlling this." But patient outcomes are best when a patient is well educated and the doctor and the patient work together in harmony and the patient knows what's going on, right? And we can't do all of that education in office visits, no matter how long they are. So it is contingent on you to become educated. That is the entire purpose of that course. Anyway, personalized medicine. And what I said to this gentleman was look, just for a minute, make make this make sense that somebody my size, you know, 135 pounds, decently well muscled, you know, not not super I'm not like six-pack super muscle girl, but I'm doing better than most folks my age. Um, relatively well optimized metabolically. My labs are good. maybe a little discrepancy here and there depending on my stress level starting to shift because of parmenopause. Um, you know, HRT is pretty well dialed, all the things, right? Explain to me how I would start the same dose of anything as my husband who's 200 some pounds, 6 foot2 male, totally different system, right? literally a different operating system because he grew up on a farm. Different immune system, different stress load, different everything. Tell me how it even makes sense that we would both take the same dose of a medication. That makes no sense to me. If that makes sense to you, then good on you. But that's not how it works. That's not how physiology works. Physiology works that we need an individualized dosing strategy per individual, per person sitting in front of me. You've heard me say that. And the tele medicine companies from what I can gather aren't really doing that. I've checked out many of them and they seem to be following an algorithm kind of one-sizefits-all if you will. I've sent many different clients to different tele medicine companies. Clients that I help facilitate their overall, you know, clinical picture, if you will. I help them put the pieces together because they're seeing all these different doctors. So, I help them understand what's going on. I help them understand what their labs say. And we're talking folks going to like some big names, some big um some big organizations uh of medicine and some big tele medicine companies and it's all coming back rather cookie cutter. So I don't know what to tell you as far as how to find a good physician. I think you're going to have to really find somebody. I I think the best outcomes come when you find somebody that you can talk to who really knows what they're doing, who has experience in this. And that's just going to take some detective work on your part.