nightmares happening and at the same time it's taking out our access because the folks around here they don't really do chronic medications and the mailway the mail orderies all that's doing is supporting the chronicity of chronic pharmaceuticals like I'm not a fan of that model either of like putting people you know lifers like I'm not a big fan of like let's just keep adding on the meds for life so the whole model in and of itself to me is just not only corrupt potentially but in my opinion but just really not helping with the overall health of Americans. And Maha is over here trying to maha and Doge is over here trying to Doge and you are literally in my opinion like you've got your finger on the pulse of the biggest problem, but I don't know why people don't want to seem to hear it. Yeah, it's crazy. And the rural thing, you you nailed it. That's where it's really going to be a big problem because I'm in an area with tons ofarmacies. We could shut down 10 of thesearmacies and nobody would lose anything. You'd have to drive an extra mile or whatever. But rural areas, it's going to be a it's going to be a huge problem. And the the PBMs, they have like some token words that they use when they're talking about them. Uh they increase the reimbursement for those areas. I know in all my independent pharmacy Facebook groups that I'm in, people are trying to get uh the rural pharmacy um label so that they can increase their reimbursements. Um, but the main goal that these that these guys want is they want you to fill it at their own pharmacy where they these outrageous reimbursements get collected. Mail order is perfectly fine for them. They don't care if they don't have a retail front in rural Oregon. They uh they just want to make sure that as much of it is going directly to them as possible. So, what is the plan then? How what like what does the future look like for say an area like mine where I mean they've got to have some kind of retail brick and mortar something don't they I mean how's a kid with an ear ache supposed to get their medications? I I mean I think and I tell this to pharmacy owners all the time that that the model that I have where we don't accept insurance. I don't we didn't even really talk about that but my pharmacy doesn't accept insurance. We're what we call a cost plus pharmacy. That means we just charge the cost of the medication. We have a markup which is 15% and then you have a fill fee. So it's like a a body shop where you go and you get parts plus labor. Um and because of that you can actually see what the cost of medications are. And in the US we have some of the cheapest generic medications in the world. Nobody has any idea that that's the case. 90% of prescriptions are cheap generics and the US has the cheapest generics. So we could definitely get by without using insurance on these lowcost medications and we wouldn't have to pay these insane fees to the PBMs. They collect 40% of the cost on lowcost generics goes to the PBMs. If we cut them out, the costs come down. People appreciate what the cost of the medication is and they can actually afford what they need. I thinkies around the country should not be accepting insurance at the independent level. If we cut that out, they can have the expensive brand stuff as long as they're uh, you know, regulatory, I'm restricted from competing against them. But on these lowcost brands, everybody could be selling these extremely cheap. And the problem is that if you accept insurance at all, if you sign their contracts, you can't offer my prices. That's why my prices are so unique. Um, the contracts say that they'll pay the lowest of two things. My usual and customary cost or their reimbursement rate, which is a nonsense number based on nonsense other numbers, but the usual and customary. If my usual and customary is too low, then they won't pay me at all. So, I actually lose money on the prescriptions if if I offer a real price. So, the only way to get by is to sell it for a nonsense price. When you get those cash prices that don't have your insurance run through it and it's like $400 and then they say that they saved you $375. That's the cash prices that we're talking about without accepting insurance. I can get that out of the way and sell it for the actual cost of the medication with a fee that then actually lets us operate instead of running us out of business. One of the crazy things was when we started, I took all insurance plans. We were just going to be our little local pharmacy where we could help out the neighborhood. I assumed that the problem with insurance that people talk about was that they were just like a pain to deal with. I'd be in audits and on the phone a lot, whatever. Um, but what actually happened was I was losing money. We were open for four months and they had paid us less than the cost of the of the drugs, 2% under acquisition for four straight months. Um, so it's impossible to run this way. Drugs are cheap. People can buy them, the lowcost ones. So I think if everybody switches to this model, we'll see some big time improvements. Prices will go down. I don't even have to compete on price right now. If I was competing on price, who knows how low we could get this stuff, you know? No, I totally agree. That's how I ran my practice. I mean, it was just the price of what it cost. Um, there wasn't any extra surprises. Everybody got an estimate so they knew exactly what they were going to pay. And I took no insurance because the way that health insurance works, just for the listeners, just really quickly, is say I charge $200 for a visit. If I were to bill insurance, they would say, "Sorry, that's only worth like $175 to us, and we're only going to pay you a percentage of that because you're contracted with us." And so, what happens is the doctor has to jack up the prices. It's crazy. So, like, if you end up in the hospital and you have no insurance, you may actually end up coming out with a lower bill in some cases than if you go in with insurance and then they do their little game and dance because the hospital has to jack up the prices to even get anything decent out of the insurance company. It's a whole It's a whole mess. Um, let me ask you this. I had a scenario happen recently and I I think you might have an answer because I don't know what happened. I walked up to the pharmacy and I had to get an antifungal medication. It was prescribed by my doctor. I hand them the prescription. They said, "We'll fill it." I wait around. I dink around the store. I come back. She I have a coupon from Good RX that I just pulled up on my phone and I go to hand it to her and she goes to scan it. It's a nice old lady and she said, "Well, I actually have a coupon here for a lower price." And I said, "Great." No one had asked me about my insurance at that point. All of a sudden, a young gal who is looks more formal jumps out from the back and she said, at first they asked me if I wanted to consult with a pharmacist. I said, "No, I'm a doctor. I'm good." Then this young girl jumps out and she said, "Do you have insurance?" And I said, "Yes, but I think it's lapsed and it's Kaiser and like it's not it's it's garbage. It's not going to be anything." And then she said, "No, no, we have to run it." So, I knew at the the old gal after she ran the coupon, I think I was going to pay like 10 bucks, 12 bucks. She had already said that price. This gal jumps in, runs the insurance, the insurance doesn't cover it. Now, it's $27. And I said, "Can't I just pay the like we had a thing going here?" And she's like, "No, sorry, because you have insurance. What happened there?" Like, I don't understand what that was. you probably were looking at uh those manufacturer discounts and the manufacturer discounts have different stipulations on them for different drugs. It's all negotiated behind the scenes. So, it's it's a huge mess. Um the thing that that is also confusing to people is the discount cards themselves. Like you said, you were looking at a Good RX thing. Good RX Good RX actually charges a fee toies by the way. Like if I run Good RX, I have to pay them $9 even though they didn't do anything. Like they didn't buy the drug, they didn't dispense it, prescribe it, they did nothing. So those are a mess. But what's happening with these discount cards now is they're integrated into everybody's insurance. So when you run a prescription uh behind the scenes, it automatically checks if there's a lower price discount and then it sends it at whatever the lowest price is. Now that's good. We want we all want the lowest price. Um but the problem is that that doesn't go towards your deductible. Uh it's totally hidden. And now that they've integrated in into the system, those are PBM discount cards.