And so, um, let's talk about schools because schools are I've talked with other folks about schools. They've got a lot of flat ceilings and they got a lot of mold. What's going on with schools? >> So, I think I don't know if I told you, but if I didn't tell you, I'll tell you again. Anyway, um, we bought a school here in Austin. >> Wow. >> And, um, yeah, we bought a school. It's opening next August. And this was inspired because when my daughter Arya was two and a half and she went to her first daycare school type of thing, she um she was getting sick like every day. She was coming home congested and with a cough and for the two and a half years before that we were we were traveling. We were out and about. She wasn't living in bubble wrap or anything. We're like what? And you know they kind of normalized it reading online talking to some doctors. They're like yeah it's normal. you know, she'll just be sick all the time for the next few years till she gets every sickness that's in the school and then her immune system will be ready for it. And I just wasn't really feeling that. I didn't believe it. I I figured there's some truth to that, but I'm like, she was out, she was on planes, she was in hotels, like what's so unique about the school environment that there was kids, she was going to birthday parties. Like what's going on? [snorts] And um I dug like when I looked at the school's construction a little bit more closely. You know, it had airtight windows, bright fluorescent like bright LED lights, uh very harsh toxic fragrances and chemicals and glade plugins and just like not good cleaning products at all. They did not have filtered water. So it's like if you designed a building to maximize the spread of illness, the school would have got perfect scoring. And we I switched Arya to another school and we put five we put a Jasper into her classroom and you know they actually it was a similar type of environment. They would open the windows a little bit but anyway she's basically stopped getting sick entirely. And then my other daughter Adele, she went into school and had air filters in her class right away. She never started getting sick at all. She entirely skipped that phase. And there was a study that really inspired me because I was already feeling inspired by what happened with Arya. And like like of course an air scrubber in the classroom was helping her not get sick anymore. All these kids are in an airtight box breathing and sharing air. So like duh. And with Arya, we um so there was a study in Finland a year or two ago where they put air purifiers in 50% of the classrooms across a number of schools and the absentee rates dropped by 30% in teachers and students. >> Wow. >> And then the the symptoms also decreased a lot. So the kids were feeling much much better in a cleaner environment. So what there was a school in our neighborhood that was a pocket listing. It wasn't even listed. It was the only school in our neighborhood, a little monitor school. And I found out it was for sale. And if we didn't buy it, it would have for sure been sold to a developer, knocked down. It's been there for 25 years. So, just this was a clear this was a clear sign that this is our time. And I'm 35. Since I I've been with Rachel for 16 years, we've been dreaming up and thinking about curriculums since we met in college. Like we've always been thinking about education and teaching and and things like that. So this was a perfect perfect sign. And we weren't loving the schools that our kids were going to before. Either they were like all indoors and very sick environments or they were like pure nature school like awesome and fun for the young kids but like they weren't teaching them anything. And I'm like can't we just be outside and when we are inside it's a good environment and also learn some good stuff. It's not asking too much. So our school opens next August. It's called Kindling Academy. K I N D L I N G Academy. If anybody lived in Austin, the age will be three to nine for the first year and then we're going to over the next few years grow it all the way up to a high school program. But basically, so there's Jaspers in every classroom. There's a we're putting in whole building water filtration. So all the water will be filtered. We're using lights that are they match the circadian rhythm of the sun, but even the frequency of the sun that day. So, if it's a cloudy day versus a sunny day and even throughout the day, the indoor environment is going to be as close to the outside as possible. There'll be no toxic cleaning products whatsoever. And the kids are going to be default outside. They'll come inside sometimes, but they'll be outside and they'll be huge screened in porches so they can kind of have a hybrid environment where they still have like a roof over their heads, but fresh fresh air. And then we're going to be working to have really good data where we're going to be tracking absentee rates and we're going to be um tracking the symptoms of the kids and our the reason we call it kindling academy is this is supposed to be like the first fire that kind of sparks a better way to build schools. So the two big movements we're trying to create is number one is showing teachers and parents not that difficult to start a school. So everything we're doing we're going to be open sourcing and putting it online. It's this school will be run as a not for-p profofit. So, we're not doing this to make money. Uh we're going to put all of the financials online. All the products that we're using, the absentee rates, the studies, the data, everything's going to be very public and very transparent. But the public schools, they are financially motivated by attendance, which is why they have these aggressive truency laws and they don't let kids travel is because they're paid based on attendance. So my hypothesis is if we can reduce the absentee rates by 20 30 40 50%. My target is 50%. If we can get the absentee rates down 50%. Now the public schools can't afford not to create healthier schools. So we're trying to in like anytime you can align incentives that's the best way to make a change. So if we can get the absentee rates down and show the the public schools how they can do it too. Um, and by the way, if you if anyone listening has kids in private school, public schools are just very challenging to work with. But connect, you know, go to Jasper's website, hit contact us, and connect us with your school, and we'll donate Jasper's to all of the classrooms. >> Oh my gosh, you're the best. This is amazing. This sounds >> If you live in Austin and you're having a baby, this is another program we started. If you're living in Austin and you're having a baby, we will deliver a Jasper to the hospital to the birthing suite and then you get to take the Jasper home as a gift. Uh, and it's not for you, it's for your baby's nursery. So, our thought is like the adults parents are supposed to take care of their kids air, but if you're not going to do it, then Jasper will do it for you. >> A you're the best, Mike. That's amazing. you're like really boots on the ground changing the world which is you know we all dream of doing it but that that's the school itself like >> we're excited >> that's so exciting I you know the ADHD rates and the I mean the you when my daughter was little she's 20 almost 26 now um when she was little and she would get in trouble she because she she didn't do well in school like she couldn't sit still she wanted to dance and sing and you know me I was the same and they just want to put the lid on her and she [snorts] and we put her in Monasuri, we put her in um Waldorf, we did all we tried everything public school it just wasn't a good fit and if she would get in trouble they'd make her sit. When I got in trouble as a kid they made me run laps. She got in trouble. They made her sit and these kids are rushed through lunch. Even back then, even 20ome years ago, rush I would go eat lunch with her frequently. Rushed through lunch. Um no out little to no outside time. I mean it's just atrocious. And I can't imagine it's any better now. It's probably much worse. I bet you're going to have incredible grades. You're going to have, you know, you're going to see all kinds of benefits come from this, just from getting these kids moving, getting breathing clean air. >> If anyone's curious too, go go to kindling.academy or our Instagram. But if you go to the website, if you're interested for your kid, sign up. But uh even if you just are kind of curious to follow the progress, you can we have a button there to just like kind of follow along. So, we'll have like monthly emails going out kind of tracking the progress, what's working, what's not working, and creating assets and programs that you can give to other schools and just sort of follow along from wherever you may be. >> I love this. I love this. That makes me so happy. Good job. Good job, Mike. >> Thank you. >> Good job, Jasper. Um, >> thank you, Jasper customers. If people didn't buy Jaspers and didn't feel the difference and the impact and trust us and tell all all your friends, then we wouldn't even be able to do any of this stuff. So, thank thank you. >> Yeah. Well, people love them. I get a lot of great feedback from my followers who end up buying them and they're like, "This is a great machine." So, it's a good-looking machine. It's a great machine. The price is really reasonable. Um, speaking of, you are making a really generous offer to my listeners for the foreseeable I think the week the week after this releases. So, talk about that. >> Um, and also just so anybody knows, Jasper a big big big difference. Uh, two two things I just want to make sure we cover is number one, if Jasper is unaffordable for you, I really highly recommend looking at a DIY air purifier called the Corsy Rosenthal box because what I don't want you to do is go to Walmart or Best Buy or Amazon and buy a little $300 plastic piece of crap that doesn't do anything. That's the worst. The DIY ones actually clean the air really well. The downside is they're a little loud, they're a little ugly, and it's annoying. It will take a few hours to build them, but for about $150, you can make a DIY unit that's going to be way better than like a little cheap plastic box you get at the store. At least it will work, especially for people who are just doing it for wildfire season. We made Jasper specifically for people who wanted something that works like an industrial-grade scrubber, but it's quiet and it works really good and it's beautiful and it's not something you ever need to hide. My background was blue collar, right? I was a mold man. We were It was construction. It was restoration. The first thousand Jaspers, we had no e-commerce. It on our website said request the free consultation and I you would talk to me for an hour about your mold and everything and then I would send you an invoice. Like we didn't even have e-commerce and I had never done podcast. So Jasper was very much built like a a local bluecollar style business. And even in Austin now, every Jasper that gets sold in the Austin area, we hand deliver it and we test everybody's air. So, we still operate like a local business here. Um, but we have a lifetime warranty, which is a really, really big deal because often it can be very expensive being cheap sometimes. So, if your Jasper breaks, whether it's a year later or four years later, we ship you a brand new one, you take the new Jasper out of the box, you put the old one back in the box, we give you a prepaid shipping label, and then we send UPS to your front door to pick it up. So, like excellence is a core value just as much as a product being good. I hate when I would buy a product with a warranty and then it breaks and I need to get like a weird shaped box, take photos, take videos, go to FedEx, pay $100 in shipping or more. That's not cool. So, we put our money where our mouth is. So, anything that happens with Jasper, it's our commitment to you to take care of it. So, we say it's the last air scrubber you you you ever need to buy. So, instead of buying a new cheap plastic one every few years, this is it. that that same one that you put in your kids's nursery or in your bedroom now, you're going to have it forever. So, the offer today is November 13th and Black Friday is in a couple weeks. So, what we're going to do is starting today, November 13th, we're going to give a special offer. Our Black Friday deal is our biggest deal of the year. Uh last year, we were sold out by more than two months before Black Friday happened. So, and I anticipate that's going to happen again. So, starting today, November 13th, code Dr. Tina will be $400 off and we'll keep it live through Black Friday, but probably by November 20th or 21st, 22nd will be sold out. So, you'll still get the $400 off, but you'll be waiting a couple months. So, if anybody wants to invest in clean air um today, this is your sign. So, code Dr. Dr. Tina at Jasper spelled J A SP R.co. Code Dr. Tina is $400 off. Um, and whether you buy one or two or three or four or five, it's $400 off per Jasper, not in total. Um, and yeah, hopefully this message resonates with some of you out there. And you know, it's Black Friday season. Amazon Prime Day is where you buy like your like $80 light bulb for 60 bucks. Black Friday is typically where people buy one or two expensive things. So, instead of $11.99, Jasper's $7.99. So, it's $400 off. And uh yeah, and if I hope hope you all learned something today. >> Oh, it's a great machine. I I honestly that's why I wanted to have you back on because it's just I'm so impressed with it. And like I said, the longer I have it, the more times I change that filter, the more I realize what it's really doing. And uh I just think your company is great and you guys are all great. Every time I reach out to anybody on your team, everybody's just so nice and really quick turnaround times. And my followers have had nothing but great things to say about all of you guys.