So, whatever you've heard in the past about testosterone being dangerous for men, it's garbage. And I'm going to show you a study that came out this month, June 2023, at the end of this presentation. It's a slippery slope, right? So, you get hypothalamic pituitary axis hits. What would hit that system? Chronic stress, some kind of major illness, acute or chronic COVID, right? Anything that wamps you. And you guys have heard me say this before on the show. I really firmly believe that a lot of the quote unquote longcoid symptoms we're seeing are really just manifestations of prior conditions that people men and women were rocking and then CO sent them over the edge. So it really hammers the HPA axis. It was ironic that I did the original version of this talk in early 2020 before CO had stormed its way in. I think it was January of 2020 because I have seen so many women pushed into menopause, pushed over the edge into hypothyroidism, pushed over the edge into severe adrenal fatigue, and they're being called long COVID patients or their hair is falling out or whatever the symptoms may be. And really, it's just their hormones got shook and their HPA axis got hammered and coming back from that's hard without support and finding a practitioner who can help you. So, in most cases, so please, if you're feeling like you've never been the same since, right? That's a very common themes patients would come into my office with in chronic pain, they were fine until something happened and they've never been the same since. And that was usually a viral infection. I've talked about that in past episodes. So, this leads to this a HPA axis hit leads to a deficiency of hormones, all the hormones or any and all perhaps. And then eventually you end up with frank signs and symptoms. And so that can happen. It can take years. I was my adrenals were hammered after I gave birth. I was 25 years old. I gave birth to my daughter and I came out of it in the most severe adrenal fatigue. I dropped into severe hypothyroidism. Nobody acknowledged it. It was just baby weight, right? That's what everyone called it. Nobody would help me. And looking back on photos, I'm almost angry with my mentor for not acknowledging what was wrong with me and helping me. He's now dead, so I can't say anything to him. Bless his heart. I love him. man, I was so hypothyroid and my adrenals were so shot and then I started, you know, years went on and when my daughter was probably around three or four years old on up till 8 years old, I started getting chronic pneumonia and it really came down to severe adrenal fatigue. And once I got that, I mean, I remember my friend helping me with that in school and giving me some adrenal support supplements. I mean, God, I remember going back to her at graduation and just telling her like, "You saved my life, quite frankly." So, it could be something as simple as that all the way on up to a variety of other hormones, progesterones, estrogens, testosterones. I would assume again I would assume to consider that any woman over 40 who presents with pain particularly of the lumbar pelvic region lumbar pelvis you know lower back hip or knee regions espe hips especially especially if it's a non-traumatic onset meaning um they didn't have a physical trauma they didn't fall down there wasn't a big major event that hurt them maybe the event was traumatic in that it was a physical hit like a like I said like COVID or a viral infection or gosh even divorce, you guys. Something something that will just hammer your ability to adapt to stress can start this whole downward spiral because your adrenal glands, women, your adrenal glands secrete testosterone. So, you need your adrenal glands functional. Otherwise, you can't secrete testosterone as you age. And it really sucks. It really sucks as you age and walk into parmenopause. I would argue that much of pmenopause misery is actually HPA access dysfunction first and foremost. And these folks need adrenal support. And go back and listen to the episode I did on thyroid because I talk about my hierarchy there. Don't wait until their joints are severe. I would see them in my clinic. Their joints would be in such a severe state of degeneration that it was very challenging to get them back and usually they're they were in frank signs and symptoms. That's what this SSXs stands for on the slide here, signs and symptoms. And then there's that parry to post-menopausal phase which I am a proud member of. Rolling on in your testosterone dips, your progesterone dips, your estrogen dips, and it leads to a whole lot of misery. So these dips may happen at various times for various reasons. However, improving testosterone levels may improve the symptoms of low progesterone and low estrogen. I am a huge fan of using progesterone and testosterone first before estrogen. I did an episode on this. I talked about why just recently. Go check it out. I have found estrogen to be more challenging to dose. I know that other doctors might disagree with that and feel really comfortable prescribing it. I find testosterone to be very safe and I find progesterone to be really safe. In fact, most states sell progesterone over the counter. So, don't go playing with it without some guidance because you can o you can overdo it and then you end up with symptoms of feeling just as rotten as low progesterone. But progesterone can make the estrogen you have work better and testosterone will actually turn into estrogen. Like I said, they recycle into each other. So that can be very helpful. There's no conclusive guidelines for women. There's no conclusive guidelines for healthy levels of testosterone for women. I often get asked this question by my colleagues because they'll hear through the grapevine that I've done this presentation and they'll say, "Oh, Dr. Tina knows." I don't know. I dosed people according to pain resolution on everything. That is how I did every hormone. And now I will tell you what else I did because as a prudent physician, of course, I would test and I would make sure that I was not overdosing them. But there is no great set dosage or serum level that I'm going for. I want pain resolution without frank symptoms of overdosing. Right? So in women that would be like excessive chin hair, um gonatal hypertrophy in the genital area, um lowering of the voice. I mean obviously you see some of these women that are bodybuilders that are on testosterone and they start looking very much like they're on testosterone, right? We're not going for that look. What we're looking for is pain resolution. And so I will dose them up because they might be severely deficient. I have to titrate them up. I need to titrate their levels up until they hit pain resolution. And then I test and I look and see, okay, where what does that look like on paper? That's the best number for them. Is that in a safe range? Monitor closely. Proceed. That's the safe way to do this, right? And any good doctor worth their salt will know how to do this. According to Kathy Mopin, the secret female hormone, the book, The Secret Female Hormone, total testosterone over 30 nanogs per deciliter is what she's looking for. And then free testosterone, which is the unbound form is over 7 to 10 depending on the lab. So you guys can check out my slide, write these numbers down, but find a doctor who knows what they're doing. Usually most of them that are smart will be brave and they will dose you until you have symptom resolution. Now note testosterone's a DEA licenseon hormone. It's the only hormone you need a DEA license to prescribe. So this is a controlled substance. So they're not going to hand it out pamsy. Not every doctor's comfortable doing it. So if your doctor says I'm not comfortable with that, they either don't have a DEA license because not every doctor's required to carry one. We pay hundreds of dollars a year to have a DEA license so we can prescribe testosterone and opioids and controlled substances. So, not every doctor does that. Not every doctor's comfortable with this. Not every doctor is has practice doing it. And not every doctor is as brave, right? They don't want to play with something they might think is dangerous. They've read it could be dangerous because testosterone's been vilified. I mean, so much so, I'm afraid to use the word on Instagram because of censorship. And so, it's it's a real deal. So the book is the secret female hormone. Oh, I want to correct myself earlier in the presentation. I gave you the name of an article. I called it a book. It's in one of the first few slides. That was actually a really great article. This is the book I was talking about. This one is red. The cover is red and it's called The Secret Female Hormone by Kathy Mopin, MD. It's a wonderful book. Everything I've listed though in this presentation is well worth checking out. Going back to the adrenals, remember the HPA axis. We got to support it. Your adrenal glands make your testosterone and we in your ladies and in men it's in your testes. So we need these adrenal glands on board. And men when your testes start petering out in andropause you need your adrenal glands on board. So there's a product I carry called resilience which is an adrenal tonic. It's got glandular adrenals and it's got adaptogenic herbs. It's a really phenomenal adrenal product. Well priced and you can find these products anywhere as well. All right. So, some quick lifestyle, of course, because I think that you know me, those are the non-negotiables. I'm not a huge fan of supplements first at all or hormones first. I'm a huge fan of lifestyle. And without lifestyle in place, nothing works. You can take all the supplements and shots and creams and testosterones and all the things and nothing will stick or take hold for very long.