 Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Flint Hey guys, welcome to the Dr. Tina show. Today I'm going to be talking to you about my hormone journey. A lot of you have asked me about my specific journey and how I utilize HRT. And I think it's a pretty interesting story actually. And I also wanted to talk about my patient's experience and just a little bit more about my clinical practice. For the length of my practice, I actually was taking care of middle-aged women that were very fit. So I feel like I have some authority to speak on this topic. And we're going to wrap it all into an episode that I think is going to be really valuable for you. If you're a middle-aged Gen Xer, listen up. We're going to be talking all things the hormone journey. I am 52 years old. I have been utilizing HRT since I was in my 30s, my early 30s. And that would be everything from progesterone to thyroid hormone adrenal hormone. In my 40s, I started using testosterone. And then in my late 40s, I brought in estrogen regularly, although I had dabbled with estrogen on and off through the years. And I want to explain how my journey went because I think that a lot of you could probably relate. And I want to tell you how I treated my patients because I think a lot of you could relate. And it's not quite what a lot in the allopathic community are discussing. Traditionally, until more recently, traditionally, it was very difficult to get your hands on HRT. And they would usually wait until you were done with your period. And they would tell you there was no point running your hormones and perimenopause because they're going to be all over the map, which is absolutely true. They are going to be all over the map. They would tell you that you didn't need hormones until you had stopped menstruating for at least a year. And I want to share with you that if I had listened to that advice, I don't think I'd be here. I honestly don't think I would have made it. And I think a lot of women feel this way. And I think it's absolutely horrific that those are the standard of care guidelines. Because we start having symptomology years before that. And it's rarely as cut and dry as, oh, I'm having hot flashes. Can I please have some estrogen? It is more often a picture of mental emotional collapse, truly, like completely changing personalities, flat affect, met with crippling anxiety, met with terrible depression. I hear about that constantly, almost every day. I hear a story like that. Not to mention absolutely debilitating musculoskeletal pain. My practice was very interesting in that I did regenerative injection therapy. So therapies like prolotherapy, PRP, stem cells, I was doing them a long time before they got popular. And the only reason I would apply HRT to a patient was if they had come in through the door of needing some kind of joint treatment. Something was wrong with their musculoskeletal system. They were experiencing pain or healing, trying to heal injuries that just didn't want to heal, or dealing with chronic old injuries that were coming back to haunt them as the hormones fell out of their body. And so I was the person there applying HRT for the last several decades to this very specific cohort of people. And this cohort of people were selected to be my patients because regenerative injection therapies don't take well when you are not in a good healing mode, when you are deconditioned, when you are inflamed, when you have a myriad of health issues going on. Regenerative and joint injections don't actually hold very well. And so my practice was predominantly really fit, healthy, middle-aged people. Because guess who gets joint pain? Middle-aged people. Why? Well, there's a lot of reasons, but a big one is because the hormones are leaving the scene. And so this was the particular cohort of patients that I was treating and applying HRT to. I was not the doctor you came to if you were a middle-aged woman and you just wanted to get on hormones. I did not let patients in my door unless they were needing some kind of regenerative injection therapy, especially towards the end. Maybe early on in my career, I was doing much more general care, but I got very specific as time went on to treating only those people who needed regenerative injection therapies. That's what I specialized in, musculoskeletal pain. And so when I was applying HRT, it was to people who were generally quite fit, quite healthy, a lot of women. And so I feel like I have some authority to speak here. I keep seeing online as of late, it's very interesting. We've got a couple cohorts of people online, a couple different cohorts of experts. We've got the one side where they say, just strength train, you don't need hormones. The strength training will offset the estrogen decline issues. Kind of. I don't entirely agree with that. I definitely am a proponent of the strength training piece, and I do think it will definitely help you get through menopause much better, but I still think you need hormones. And then we've got the group that's like, you know, throw estrogen at everything. And they are promoting strength training, but they really are like, you know, the hormones will fix everything. I don't entirely agree with that either. I think you have to be careful of the body that you put hormones in because not everybody's going to have them go down the same pathways. It's not going to work out the same for everyone. So this is a very individualized approach. Then there's this group in the middle, which has popped up recently, which is really interesting. It's a group of highly intelligent, predominantly PhDs, who I don't think have any clinical experience whatsoever, but they're really good at reading the literature. And they seemingly have to be right about everything. And they hate both of these groups. And so they love to create content bashing on both of these groups, showing where the literature is really at. Well, the literature on this is really limited. I have been applying hormones for musculoskeletal pain for decades. I was not scared off by the Women's Health Initiative. I was happily prescribing hormones. I think I was just in a weird little bubble and didn't realize that not every doctor was. And I can tell you with certainty that I saw hundreds and hundreds of patients, men and women, predominantly women, come in with crippling musculoskeletal pain, come in with debilitating spinal pain and joint pain, often bilateral. When it's bilateral, we have a problem. That's not just wear and tear. And generally, at some point, having some kind of body composition issues, like where did this 15 pounds of weight come from out of nowhere when I changed nothing? And I would apply hormones to that patient, and I would see phenomenal changes. I would see a lot of tearing of ligaments and tendons. When you do probotherapy, you're treating the enthesis point. The enthesis is where ligament and tendon meet bone. When those have little tears in them, they're incredibly painful because they're highly innervated. That region is highly innervated. It's actually a transition zone that turns into bone. It's hard to even see the delineations of tendon into bone. There's this enthesis point, which is a continuation, highly innervated continuation. You start to get tears and discrepancies in those fibers, and it's incredibly painful. And naggy, that was happening predominantly more in middle-aged people. I would see frozen shoulder. Guess who that happens to? Middle-aged women. I would see bilateral glute med teninopathy on the trochancer, where the big bony out crop on your hips. Women would say, I can't lie on either side. Both of my hips are killing me. And they weren't talking about their deep hip, you know, the actual joint. And in some cases, they were because hip pain is a part of this too. But the actual trochancers, where the glute medius inserts, terrible pain. You can't get comfortable laying on either side. Bilateral shoulder pain, bilateral hip pain, bilateral elbow pain. I would see women come in and they would say, oh, I can't garden anymore. My elbows are killing me, both of them, at the same time, mind you. And I would say, you need estrogen. And they were like, you know, a lot of people had to, we had to sit down and have an education conversation because they were hearing that hormones were poison and going to kill you. And they were dangerous. And this was, you know, this was 20 years ago. So 10, 20 years ago, I mean, gosh, it's been an uphill battle. And before me, there was my mentor, Dr. Rick Marinelli, who was a very fit, healthy individual. I mean, you would be shocked. His body composition and his fitness level were so phenomenal for somebody in his age cohort. And he taught me in the 90s to quit being a cardio bunny and start lifting weights. So many of the things I teach you guys, Rick taught me. And he had, he was a surfer and he was a kite boarder and he was very active. And so he had this whole patient base that was incredibly active middle age people. Very educated in how their bodies worked. A lot of education that had been coming through life extension. If you guys know, you know, I mean, back then that was like the OG. That's how the bodybuilders and everybody got their hormones tested and got their education. He was just really diverse. He brought regenerative injection therapies to the naturopathic profession decades ago. He was doing what many of us call biohacking. Now he was doing those procedures in his clinic decades ago. And I watched phenomenal changes with his patient base. Just stories you wouldn't believe. People coming in in wheelchairs and leaving a few weeks later, walking out, writing checks on their own accord, just, you know, able to pay their own way out. Whereas when they came in, they were, couldn't even talk. Just really phenomenal changes. And I followed that man around for almost 20 years. And I learned a lot from him. He sadly passed away from cancer. I will die on this sword. I think it was the treatment that took him out. It was aggressive and he did not withstand it well, but he's been gone now. It's his birthday actually on Friday. He's been gone now since 2013. So I carry a big flag of his. And he got called names by his profession and got, you know, rang through the gutter too by his own. So we're kindred spirits that way. My profession doesn't like it when people are successful. It's very interesting. Anyway, I digress. We took care of a lot of really healthy middle-aged people. I would say that 90% of our practice was really healthy middle-aged people. And they were all active and they were all fit. Some of them incredibly fit. Some of them were just monsters. It like just, you know, jujitsu, surfing, cycling, all kinds of things every single day, very highly active. Others were more like him and I. We just, you know, lifted weights every day. We did our walks. We weren't big into the cardio. You know, the gamut. It ran the gamut. But I had on my website, I keep active people active when I had my big brick and mortar open. That's because I would only accept patients that were in healing mode that were active because you just can't throw regenerative medicine at the wall and hope it sticks. It doesn't work well on people who are inflamed and who are not in good healing mode. So, and who are immunocompromised. I don't think there's any point in trying to treat those patients. You know, you can do the work to get them back and then consider treating them. But most regenerative injection docs will just take anybody who walks to the door. They'll treat them and they'll be, when it didn't work, they'll say, oh, sorry, it's your fault, right? I just wouldn't accept them in because I didn't think it was ethical. I got called a lot of names for that. It wasn't because I was being the latest. I was trying to save them the money. I was trying to let them know. I would definitely refer them on, you know, go get this, go do all the things, as I call it. Get that handle and then come back when you're in healing, mode so the treatment actually holds. But a big part of what I did when patients would walk in the door, a lot of healthy middle-aged folks needed hormones. And gosh, women and men of all ages needed hormones. I had 25-year-olds that had had, you know, men that had so many head injuries playing hockey or football that they needed some testosterone support. I had young women in their 30s having multiple miscarriages who needed progesterone. And so I would treat whatever needed to be treated, but I can say with certainty that I'm pretty sure I had the market cornered on fit, healthy middle-aged people. That was predominantly what I worked on for decades in my clinical practice. So, and before my license, I was working with Dr. Rick. So like I've seen it, right? And it's really weird online to be watching this infighting and this arguing. And I even saw a very prestigious PhD who works in a big prestigious university the other day say, and he seems to really hate women. It's interesting. He really argues against women getting hormones, which is so weird watching a middle-aged dude argue. He also argued for the intervention in 2021 and was a big fan of that. So we'll leave it at that. But he literally said the other day that middle-aged women do seem to have more pain. We don't know why. And I'm like, we don't know why? Like we have lots of data on estrogen receptors in the tendons, estrogen receptors in the joints, estrogen receptors affecting the musculoskeletal system. We did not have those studies when I was applying hormones for those reasons. I just knew it worked because Rick taught me it worked and my other mentors taught me it worked and it worked. And I saw profound changes in hundreds, if not thousands, I mean thousands of joints, hundreds of patients having really profound changes in their musculoskeletal conditions when we applied hormones appropriately. And it's bonkers to me that we didn't have the studies back then. We're starting to see some. I think probably 2014, 2015, we started seeing a lot more studies coming out and starting to really look at the musculoskeletal system. But there's plenty of data to at the very least speculate that the application of estrogen and progesterone and testosterone can be beneficial for musculoskeletal conditions. There's also this big argument about how as your hormones are waning, your metabolism is not slowing. Yes and no. Metabolically, the engine is running, but there's so many other cofactors going on around it that are shooting you in the foot, that are really just derailing your best efforts. And so there's so many factors pushing your body as the estrogen leaves towards metabolic dysfunction, which is keeping the weight wanting to pack on, right? And that low estrogen picture, I mean, yes, we've seen it in rodent models as well. But when you cut the ovaries out of mice, they go in the corner of the cage and they gain visceral fat and they quit moving. And so there's a lot of people in the space online that are probably confusing the heck out of you or and or are really delivering this message of try harder, just do better, just try harder. And it's pissing me off, honestly, because I took care of these women for decades. And I can tell you that these women were some of the fittest, most dialed in on their nutrition, most dialed in on their discipline, women who would come in and say, I have 15 pounds out of nowhere around my midsection and everything hurts. What is that? It's a culmination of estrogen leaving the body and other hormones, like I mentioned. On top of it, as you become more insulin resistant, things hurt more because sometimes depends on your fat, your fat's different than my fat. I hurt so bad when I gain weight. My fat is generally very inflammatory feeling to my joints. I just, I gain 10 pounds and I like my body feels it. My joints feel it. It is not fair to make a blanket statement about every human female and say, oh, she just needs to try harder. Like it's bonkers to me what's going on. And we've got the chiropractors who tend to be male, who have an endless supply of supplements to sell you, who just can't stop talking about how evil GLP-1s and hormones are. And I'm like, dude, shut up. Seriously, if you can't prescribe it, don't talk about it. I know that sounds really one-sided, but I promise you until I started prescribing hormones to women and seeing, and then, and seeing the actual results and outcomes and sometimes side effects and et cetera, and having to navigate that, it's a very elegant dance. You have no idea. You have no idea. If now, if you're in a clinical practice where a lot of that's going on and you're seeing it firsthand, great, you can have an opinion. But if you're in a clinic where nobody's prescribing anything, just stop. It's embarrassing at this point. Like it's not 2010. Like we have become more educated. Gen X knows better. And I'm here to tell you that whether or not you want to do hormones, I'm not trying to tell you that every woman needs to get on hormones, but I will tell you that as your estrogen leaves the building, your FSH goes up. And as your FSH goes up, it actually drives the very conditions I'm talking about that are problematic downstream. It drives metabolic dysfunction. It drives a lot of these seemingly mysterious, like, oh, why is this mysteriously hitting middle-aged women? It might be the FSH elevation due to the declining estrogen. So it's not that we're even, I mean, yes, we want to take the estrogen to replete the estrogen, but we also want to take the estrogen so we can get that FSH to come back down. So the brain quits pumping it out, right? It's coming out of your pituitary and the pituitary is trying to tell the ovaries to kick on. And they're like, dude, we're petering out over here. And so it starts, it keeps going up and screaming. Well, there's other effects that FSH has in the body that are not great. And so there are a multitude of reasons why somebody might want to consider HRT. And I'm really glad that a lot of doctors now are starting to see that they need to become hormone literate, that they need to study this, that they need to learn. I'm excited the black box warning came off. I'm excited that it's happening. But for some reason with that wave is this whole other wave of opponents who have to make a lot of noise on social and scare the bejesus out of you. And then you guys are in my DMs and you're like, is this true? Is this true? And it's the most fanatical fear-mongering I've ever heard. And I'm like, oh my God, this is, it's so dumb. I won't even respond to it because I can't believe that people are out there making that kind of content who really have no idea, except they're trying to sell you into their program that doesn't involve any hormones. Anyway, or they just, maybe they hate women or maybe they're just so hell-bent on being right. They got to be right. They got to be right. It's by the study. And I want to tell you something about evidence-based medicine. It's a three-prong stool. Evidence-based medicine, number one, yes, the data, the most recent science, that's important. There's two other legs to that stool. One is the doctor's experience. Our clinical experience through time matters. Would you guess that, right? Yes, our clinical experience and what we've seen and what we've had happen in our clinical practices actually matters. That's the second leg of the stool. And the third one is the patient's experience and desires and background and education and all of the things that come in. Like different people of different cultures have different beliefs about pain and about medicine. All of that matters. You coming in as a patient and having questions and being inquisitive and wanting to know more and wanting to optimize your health is part of evidence-based medicine. So it really grinds my gears that we've gotten to a place where it's like, trust the science only. We also have proof that many of these medical journals are corrupt and a lot of the data coming through them and the science coming through them is nonsense. I mean, we've got, there were guys that literally submitted studies that were just hogwash, complete hogwash and they got accepted and published. I mean, it's, so you have to, you have to navigate and I know it's confusing and I know there's a lot of variables and I know that this can be a little much. So I want to share with you my personal experience and my patient's experience. I have had the honor of treating a ton of very healthy, fit, middle-aged people, probably more than most practices have seen. I did not see your average American. I was seeing the cream of the crop physically. Okay. These were the people who A, had the money to spend on their joints because these treatments were not covered by insurance. There was no way to bill for them. And so it was out of pocket. So we've got that. I'm not, I'm just trying to lay it out. I'm not saying that's okay or better. I'm just trying to lay it out. So these people had means. They had education usually around health and wellness. So they were very much self-educated in a lot of information that, like I said, a lot of these guys were bodybuilders, just a highly educated group, right? Like if you have ever hung out with people who are somewhat fanatical about their health and fitness, they tend to be pretty well educated, at least on that subject. They didn't get there by accident. They researched their way there as well as having the discipline and having the time. And there's definitely some levels of privilege here. So I just want to call that out. And then on top of it, they were good healers. They would heal up beautifully. So when I met my husband, as an example, he and I went on a date, he's a blue collar guy. He's in his mid to late forties. He's trim. He's got a farmer body. He's not a gym guy. He's a farmer guy. He's, he's got a great physique, but it was built doing physical labor, which is a whole different kind of strength and fitness. And usually those guys are in incredible shape as far as they may not body composition wise. They might have a little tummy or something, but man, those guys are strong as heck. And then he had reared animals and lived on a farm his entire life. So he had eaten pretty darn well, much better than I was raised. I mean, he was eating real whole foods and he does not like to eat out. So, I mean, this guy was, you know, had decades of better food than I had growing up in the suburbs, eating, you know, whatever, fast food and frozen food and just kind of that suburban muck that I was fed. So he's got that going and you can tell he has an incredible immune system just by looking at him. And he was telling me about his shoulder and I said, I can help. And I, I, I treated him because I needed a demo for one of my teachings. I used to teach naturopathic doctors how to do these injection therapies. And so he came in and I did the most simplistic treatment on him. And he healed so beautifully. He just was blown away at how much relief it had brought to his shoulder. The shoulder had previously had surgery on it. He was just so delighted with what a simple and easy, wonderful treatment it was. And I said, well, that's because you're my ideal patient. Like you are it. I mean, if, if we could define the person who's going to respond best to these therapies, it would be him. Right. And I had a lot of those kinds of patients. So when I say that when estrogen and testosterone left their bodies and they suddenly found themselves with weight gain, crippling pain, constant injuries and tears, things that wouldn't heal, I'm telling you, I had a huge cohort to look at. It wasn't just speculative. It wasn't just based off the data and studies. It wasn't from polls that I took on my social media from my followers. This was my clinical lived experience for decades. And prior to my licensing, again, I was working with my mentor who was working predominantly with this type of patient. And so when they suddenly started tearing everything or complaining of terrible pain, I mean, these are pretty tough people. Generally people who are athletic and people who like to work out tend to be tough and not complain. They're not your kind of wussy group of people. So when they would start to say like, man, this is killing me and I just can't get it to heal. Or man, this neck injury is just not responding to what I normally do. Or my massage therapist couldn't get it. My chiropractor couldn't get it. It keeps coming back. I'm not keen to be throwing needles in people's joints unless they've exhausted other routes that are less invasive. And so when I couldn't get them better or when I could just see it clear as day by looking at them that they were low hormone, I'm like, hey, let's get the hormones involved here. Right? Like let's get you in an anabolic state. Let's get you in a place where you're healing. Let's get you in a place where your tissues are responding and we'll heal that up flickity split. So this was my lived experience clinically. And then, so I was in my 30s and early 40s. So then I hit perimenopause hard. And it presents to me in ways I wasn't quite expecting. Mine started, actually the first symptomology I had was when I was in my early 40s and I was, I had gotten really lean, like very lean body fat. I was in incredible shape. I had, I had been, I mean, I was lifting five days a week and I was, I don't know, I wasn't going for a competition, but I was considering it. You know, I was right there and I was running really lean. My period started getting funny. I started having breakthrough bleeding. Next thing I know both of my hip joints, I feel like I'm dying. Like my hips will not work. They are in so much pain. And standing up feels like I'm standing on like two poker rods and it was all day, every day. And so I was getting them treated with regenerative therapies. And all I did was throw myself into frozen hip, which is a real condition. I know the literature hasn't caught up yet, but I've seen it a lot. You can freeze up your hips. And this is another reason why I don't throw regenerative injection therapies at folks who aren't ready for it because either A, it doesn't do anything or B, you might actually exacerbate the condition and make things worse. And so I was in a particular state with my immune system. I probably shouldn't have been messing with my own PRP at the time and dealing with a lot of stress and boom, my hips were made worse. So I kind of had to unwind that with other therapies and it was a whole thing. Flash forward, I'm fine for a while. Flash forward, I've put some weight back on. My menstrual cycles have regulated. I don't think I'm in perimenopause. I'm training for the Strong First Kettlebell competition. It is the middle of COVID. Um, you guys know I was getting my ass handed to me during that because I spoke out and I was in the best shape of my life. I was stronger than I'd ever been. I had a ton of muscle mass on DEXA scan. I had a good bit of fat, like healthy layer of fat. So I was a good balance of body composition. Um, good libido, regular cycles. Everything was great. All of a sudden I tear both my Achilles tendons just out of nowhere. I'm doing sprint intervals. The right side goes. I know better than to go rush into surgery. That's a podcast for another day. But I just to tell you, the literature really doesn't support just letting it heal on its own versus surgery. And I have treated many people who've had Achilles surgery and it is gnarly. The aftermath of that is gnarly. It's gnarly scarring. It's gnarly stitching and gluing of tissues together. It's, I did not want that. And it was 2022 and we were in Oregon and you really couldn't go anywhere without a vaccine passport. So I wasn't going to the doctor, certainly not going there. Anyway, I let it heal. I'm walking around. It was so painful. You guys, I'm hobbling around on it. And the other one goes, and I'm like, you're kidding me. I have a diagnostic ultrasound. I know what this looks like. The one side was hanging on by a thread. The other one was just a disruption in the tendon. They were so painful. And the other thing I didn't mention was when your estrogen gets low, another very common symptom, ladies, is the balls of your feet start becoming so incredibly painful. So you get out of bed in the morning and your feet hurt so bad, both sides, balls of the feet. If you got that going on. So I now imagine I have the balls of my feet are a thing and my Achilles tendons are both screaming at me and so stiff. Everything got so stiff. That was the year, I'm not going to go and do it, but that was the year I've talked about before where I was like laid out on my back in horrific pain. I am in horrible pain from tip to toe. And I don't know what's going on. I mean, this was uncharacteristically out of nowhere. I've dealt with chronic pain for, at this point, 20 some years, but it had never been like this. I mean, this was something very different and I couldn't see it. I really couldn't see it. And finally, my daughter was like, I think you might be a menopause mom just because I was acting aberrantly because the other symptom I was having that was so obvious was really terrible mental, emotional changes, just really flat affect, tons of anxiety, a deep, heavy, I don't even want to call it a depression because it was such a flat affect. It was coupled with this flat affect of just not giving any Fs about anything at all. And I was having such a, that coupled with that chronic pain, I didn't know if I was going to make it out alive. Honestly, I didn't know if I was going to make it out of there. I could not deal with it. It was so bad. And so I started using a topical estrogen, which a lot of people love. For me personally, it didn't quite cut it. I was also having some sleep disruption on and off throughout, throughout about 2019. So 46 onward, I was having about once a month, I'd have a really good bout of insomnia for a couple of nights, but then it would pass. Interestingly, I never decided if it correlated with my cycles, right? And then I started paying attention and I was like, oh, I think this is, I think this is perimenopause. So eventually I got hip to it a couple of years ago. I slapped on a patch and started doing transdermal estrogen and lo and behold, all the musculoskeletal pain improved. Now I will tell you, I had to get my progesterone right. There's a, there's a balance there. And a lot of it comes down to where I am. It's funny. We're in Oregon and I keep trying to tell my husband, and we've been here almost a month. I keep trying to tell my husband, like, dude, my joints hurt so much worse here. I think it's the humidity, the moisture. I don't know. We've had sunny days. I really don't know. He's so funny. He comes in yesterday. He's like, you know what? He had an accident, a steel mill decades ago where like a massive amount of steel fell on his foot and completely crushed his foot. Like all the bones in his foot just exploded. And it was gnarly and he had gnarly surgery and it was a whole big thing. And his foot has this tremendous scar. And although his foot functions great, but, and he rarely complains of pain ever. And he gets here, his neck hurts and his foot hurts. Like both of his old injuries are really barking out of it. I'm like, I don't know. We feel better in Arizona where it's drier. So there's something to that too. But I will tell you the amount of women that I have had come to me and say, you know, I have had crippling anxiety and or depression for decades, if not the most of my life. And I have been medicated for them for decades. And a lot of these medications cause unfun side effects, like bottoming out your libido, weight gain, all kinds of things. And lo and behold, they get on HRT in their forties as they're going through perimenopause. I'm a big fan of applying it sooner than later. So I still have a regular cycle and I'm using it and I'm using it very regularly as I go through this transition. And they tell me that they can't believe it. Some of them are very angry because lo and behold, all of this crippling anxiety and depression has lifted because they got some estrogen or some progesterone or whatever it was that they needed on board. Or maybe it was a little testosterone. Maybe it was that touch of testosterone that gave them their confidence back. Whatever it is, suddenly they're like, I cannot believe I was medicated with antidepressants for this for a long time. And it was just, I needed some hormones. And I'm like, yeah, I know. It's crazy. The amount of times I've heard that from women is just crazy to me. So, or let's talk about urinary urgency. That's another one. You will find yourself in middle, this happened to me in my thirties, another time when I got really, really thin. So the reason I keep mentioning the really, really thin part is because your fat makes your estrogen too. And when you're, when you're ovary, when your hypothalamic pituitary ovarian axis is a little bit fried out from stress, like mine was, your fat takes over. And so when you lose all your fat suddenly, or women will have tummy tucks even, boom, all of, or they'll get a liposuction. All of a sudden they get low hormone symptoms and they're like, what is going on? And it's usually mental emotional, to be honest with you. They start acting batshit crazy. And I'm like, you need some hormones, honey. You just took all the fat away. I've seen it with the use of GLP-1s where people get really, really thin. And all of a sudden they're just in this hormonal dropout and they feel horrible. They wonder why their hair is falling out. It's not just telogenifluvium. It's not just because of massive weight loss. You might just have bottomed out your hormones and you are sitting there and you're like, oh my God, I need hormones. And your hair is responding in turn. Cause we all know that middle-aged women lose their hair too. It's hormonal as well. This is very common. And it was happening to me and it's happened to countless numbers of my patients. And thank God they had someone like me to recognize it and treat them so that they didn't have to deal with hell. But a lot of women are dealing with hell. They're truly in hell. They don't know themselves. They don't recognize themselves. Everything hurts. Their joints are giving out on them, which means I'm telling you guys that bad knee or that bad hip or that bad back pain is the beginning of the metabolic cascade downfall. Cause what happens? You gain a few pounds and then your estrogen is leaving the body. So you become more insulin resistant on top of it as you gain the few pounds and boom, the insulin resistance gets worse and it starts to cycle. And then they end up on a beta blocker and then they end up on a statin and boom, they're in the system when maybe they just needed a little estrogen a while ago and progesterone and testosterone. And then we've got this whole cohort of people out there on the internet, just bashing hormones. And I'm like, what is going on? Why, why, why would we not recognize that some of these women are literally in hell? And I feel so bad for the women who are married to these men. I feel so bad for them, whether they're young or older, the ones that are older. I'm like, Oh God, your poor wife has like, some of these guys are old enough that their wives have gone through menopause. And I'm like, how awful for these poor women to have had to endure that. And some of you guys breeze through it. Some of you ladies just breeze through menopause and it's no big and bless you. You are a special, special person because for many of us, it ends up showing up as symptomology. Like I just explained, it has nothing to do with hot flashes. So it doesn't get acknowledged. And the woman herself doesn't think she's having issues because she's not having hot flashes. The hot flashes come later and we're making women wait until that transition has completed of menopause for a year before we give them hormones. Like what kind of standard is that? That is insane to me. So I wanted to share that because again, I have seen a large cohort of patients who, and I say again, fit and healthy, because that's the big argument online is you should try harder. The reason you're gaining weight in menopause is because you don't have enough muscle. The reason you're having these hormonal changes and feeling so symptomatic is because you don't have enough muscle and you're not eating enough protein and you're not trying hard enough. And I know that I am guilty of some of that messaging too. It's hard to make a reel in 30 to 60 seconds where you can explain this. And I know that some of what I've said has definitely been taken out of context on other podcasts I've been on. They like to sensationalize and clip out the parts that are going to get the most from the audience and they completely lose the context of what I said it in. So then people just, you know, they associate that comment with me and that must be the kind of person I am. And they never bothered to go listen to the whole episode. So I know that I have been accused of some of that, but I've always said both. I've always been your biggest cheerleader on you guys getting hormones. And I've also been your absolute drill sergeant that you got to go to the fricking gym. So it's all correct to some degree, but somewhere in the middle is the truth. And I'm not pretending to be the end all be all because like I said, I was predominantly taking care of women mostly and some men who were in that middle age transition. And men have a lot of pain when their testosterone leaves the building, a lot of pain. All of a sudden, all of these old joint injuries start barking at them. I've had patients that could not run out of, I've had women that could not run out of their estrogen and men that could not run out of their testosterone because they would end up in so much crippling pain, like almost instantly, just missing a dose. So it's real. And I saw it plenty of times. And then on top of it, all these new injuries would crop up and they would start tearing things and ripping things and things would not be healing. And their gains in the gym would start diminishing and on and on it goes, right? And so I believe that hormone replacement therapy is preventative in that if we can get it in early enough and we can help these men and women through the transition because men have andropause, like women have menopause, if we can get them through the transition as gently as possible. And I just described some of it being a little rocky road and I'm an expert in it. Like I have been doing this a long time and I still didn't recognize it in myself, but it was, you know, it was a period of time where we were all still very isolated here in Oregon. People were not going out yet. It was, it was a weird time. I think if I'd been in a different state where people weren't acting crazy and playing pandemic to the nth degree, I think I would have probably had a friend or someone would have been like, Hey, you need some hormones. But all that to say, we are either withholding it from people or we are as a collective, like shaming people. It was the same shame nonsense that people are getting around GLP-1 use. It's, it's, it's bewildering to me and, or we're confusing the heck out of them. And so I just wanted to share my experience and share what my patients' experiences have been and end this discussion of, Oh, you're just not trying hard enough. Cause I was taking care of some of the hardest trying patients you could possibly find in that age cohort. And I was working my ass off when it hit me and I was in the best shape of my life. So this messaging that you need to try harder and it's your fault. No, honey, you might just need some estrogen. So I'll leave it at that. If you guys like this podcast, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast player or head over to YouTube and click that subscribe button because I got to a hundred thousand. I'm so excited. I got a little plaque in the mail from YouTube. It's not here cause I'm in Oregon. It's, it's at my Arizona house. I'll get that show in here soon on the set, but very exciting to have something tangible. I've always wanted one of those. So thank you for getting me there, subscribing on YouTube. That way you're notified when we post something new and you can keep up with what's going on there. Um, it helps when you rate, review, and subscribe on any of the players because it allows the podcast, hopefully to get pushed out to more people who can hear this messaging. If it's, if it's what you like and you want other people to hear it, that's how you can support me. So thank you so much. And thanks for listening to my rant today. I actually recorded an episode of this before and I erased it cause I was too fired up and you guys know how I get, I start barking, but I'm pissed off about it. I think we all need to stop worrying about what content is going to get the most likes and clicks and all of that and just start telling the fucking truth. And if you don't know anything about it, then stop talking about it cause it's not your lane. So I'll leave it at that. Talk about like foreshadowing, talk about visioning. That girl was wearing colors and light colors and had long silver hair. So I started growing my hair out. Like talk about intention, right? I'm like, okay, I'm going to grow my hair out. The Tina you met in 2020 had short hair because she had just chopped it all off so she could let her silver grow up. So many of you men and women, but women in particular, we are having hair loss in middle age and it's awful. And I will tell you a lot of the women that you see that are middle-aged that have big followings, they're using sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex with sex