 Loversin, aromasin, permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis permis breathe. Like I was in so much pain, I couldn't breathe. And so I'm outside walking laps around the house, you know, just like, like just in so much pain. And I kept walking until finally I could get a few breaths in. And then as soon as I'd have a window where the pain would calm itself down, I was doing some exercises gently. Well, you look at it too, like think about what contracting, like we think of muscle as something that kind of holds everything together and helps us move. But I think of muscle, like, yes, it holds everything in tighter and boosts our metabolism. And yes, it gives carbohydrates a place to land. But the exciting thing about muscle is what happens when it contracts and all those messages going out of drop the pain, boost the immune system. Like, it's like the coolest stuff. It's like you're in there, you know, creating your own pharmacy. Yeah. Of myokines. Yeah. And this only happens when you, there's so many cool things when you actually squeeze a muscle from a biochemical standpoint, just the, you have to actively squeeze the muscle. So it's not about, it's not about finding them, you know, they're hunting down medications that would allow you to not exercise. And I'm like, no, you're missing. Exactly. Like you're missing. It's the actual squeezing is what does the magic. So you have to go squeeze your muscles in the gym. I wonder if, you know, cause I've been deep down the creatine rabbit hole and creatine does a lot for the immune system too. Like we just presented my buddy who, who created creatine HCL and I presented at a conference and he was showing creatine going after, you know, after cancers, like creatine basically pumping up these killer cells to go after cancer. So I just wonder if that would, if, if pumping up the dose on that, which I only use HCL because that other stuff will just make you bloated and crappy feeling, but pumping that dose up to like, you know, three grams of HCL would help you with some of this. Cause it might be worth trying. No, that's a, that's, that's, that's a good point. You're absolutely right. Like just get the muscles to be happier and better. It's crazy. You know, aging is no joke and there's no version of it where I don't know. I don't know what it was. I was not a very healthy person in my thirties. And I had a very good memory of what happened to my mom when she went through menopause. And so about 10 years prior to menopause hitting, I decided I better get my butt in the gym and start working on this. I better start building muscle because I don't want that. Like I don't want that experience and you know, vanity, but really pain and vanity are the big drivers of, of most people. Most people will respond to pain or vanity. And when people don't, I don't know what to do for them. If I can't get them to tap into one or the other, it's very hard to get a patient to take action. And, uh, for me, it was like, I just didn't want to go through the hell that my mom went through with menopause. It was not fun to watch. And so I started training and when people said, what are you training for? I'm like the zombie apocalypse. Like I'm not messing around here and I'm not, you know, I'm not hardcore. I can't rip out pushups like you. Like, and Gabrielle Lyon, I, you know, I mean, I, you guys are hardcore and I, Oh, Gabrielle Lyon's got like, I would not want to go to the gym. I know, but I share this cause I want people to know that there's, this looks different for everyone and that's okay too. Right. Like there's just a variety. You and I can, can work out together and have a really fun time and we maybe aren't doing the exact same thing. And, but we both have pretty darn close. I'm like, you were killing it. But again, I go down to like, what are the things that if you did these things, instead of trying to do all the things, if you just said, I'm going to get those steps in and let me check out a weighted vest. Then I said, then two days a week, I'm going to do some squats, some pushups, maybe a bent over row or a deadlift and a flexed arm hang or a pull up. I use a band to assist because I, I can rep out now 10 of them, but I'm trying to do multiple, multiple sets, but you can use a band to help you so that you're pulling. You could do some farmer's carries and an overhead press. I mean, simple stuff that you don't need much equipment for at all. And to start, you can use, you know, a few dumbbells. Yep. Absolutely. Right. And then do like a day of yoga. You can do that. You can get a little class online and do two days of HIIT training. There's so much good free stuff online too. You know, you don't have to pay for all this stuff. But the HIIT training, I think is, you know, when you really look at that, everything for me now is like, how do I make sure that how I feel right now is how I feel or better in 10 years and 20 years. Right. And so one of those key things for that is lactate. One of those key things, and that's why I'm focusing now on really, I've always loved HIIT training, but I'm really making sure I'm getting my HIIT training in. How do you like to do it? So I'm messing around with the different protocols, but the protocol I tend to do the most is one minute on, one minute off. And I, however, the power plate people brought me a new toy. Oh, what is it? You're going to be so jealous. It is a, it is a rev bike. The, the, the pedals, um, the pedals are like power plate itself and they vibrate. And so it actually helps you do VO2 max training. You do 30 seconds with the pedals vibrating. It kills you. And then you do a three minutes, three and a half minutes and go. So it's kind of like wing gate training. So that's the other protocol I've been doing. It's like 30 seconds all out and then three and a half minutes. And I'll do that one, or I'll do one minute on one minute off. And I've got a, um, stair master for that. I've got my little sprint treadmill. As soon as my foot gets back under control, I'll go back to my sprinting and my sprinting. I was doing much more like kind of more Tabata, Tabata sprint types of things. Um, and then sometimes I'll do some functional, I like functional training where I'll go and do like say up downs and then I'll do something easy and then I'll do squat jumps and I'll do something easy and I'll do step ups. So I just mess around with it as if I'm short, I want to get both done at once. If I want to get my kind of some resistance power training and some hit training and I got 20 minutes, that's what I'll do. I love it. No, I think that's great. I, um, I'll use a variety of things too. And, and just, you know, whatever, whatever fits the bill that day. I like to do, I actually like to do a little different. I'll do about a three minute warmup. If I'm on the treadmill, I'll, then I'll ramp up the speed a touch, but I ramp up the incline all the way to the top and I hustle that for a good 30 seconds. And then I bring it back down and I kind of lollygag for three minutes and then I bring it up and I hustle uphill and then I bring it down. And so I'm able to do that, that if I, regardless of where my pain level's at, I can do that. I can usually bust that one out. Um, or I'll do the rower kind of the same thing. I'll just crank as hard as I can for 30 seconds. And then I give myself enough time to catch my breath. And so that might do like wing gate. Those are wing gate cycles. I like that. Cause I can't. Yeah. One of the, when you look at the different protocols, it's the Tabata, the one-to-one, the wing gate cycles like that, that you remember in school, like that 30 seconds, you're going to vomit and then recover. And then there's that Norwegian four by four, which is, I don't do that one. Cause it's not fun at all. It's the four minutes, really hard, three minutes recover. I'm like too long. It's too long. No, no, I don't like that. I like to basically just toast myself and then catch my breath and then toast myself and catch my breath. And I'll do that maybe six times and call it good. And it, it, that will torch fat off of me too. If I actually am consistent about it. Especially visceral, like that's the way to get that visceral fat gone. Yeah. I say, as I'm like, why do I have this? Probably because I'm not doing that enough. No, that's brilliant. I love it. That's a good way to do that. Cause I'll hear people say, I've been doing hit every day. I go, A, if you can do hit every day, you're not doing hit. Yeah. Twice a week. Like don't, don't do it more than that. Absolutely. Totally agree. Yeah. So these are the tickets to longevity, ladies, ladies listening and men, this is coming from, this is coming from JJ Virgin, who's 62 and sitting here. Like if you're not watching us on YouTube, please come over, check this out. Cause this is, this comes from a lot of experience. I'm sure you've tried everything under the sun at this point. Like if you've been as active as you have been since you were so young, like you've seen it all, you've done it all. You've been through it all. You've played with it all. I started this in my, like, I literally was doing stuff when I, I've done it my entire life. Yeah. I started studying nutrition when I was 12, like going to the library, reading all the nutrition books. So I've been obsessed with this stuff forever. I've done all the stupid stuff. The, the total vegan, the fat free that remember the stop the insanity that, you know, all of them. I've done all those things. I almost died on a vegan diet. My body fat jumped up. I am a naturally ridiculously lean genetic freak. And I, my body fat went to 25%. I know cause we were at USC at the time doing body comp testing and I did underwater weighing and I'm like, what has happened to me? This is on vegan? Vegan. Oh no. Yeah. No, that's not, I just don't, we're just not, I don't think we're meant to eat any way, any one particular extreme, you know, like we have a variety of different types of teeth in our mouth and we have a variety, our gut length, the way that it works, you know, the, the, the physiology of how our gut works, the physiology of our microbiome, all of those things say that we need a wide variety of interesting foods. Yes. Not just, not just plants, not just animals. Yeah. All the above. Yeah. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. So I want to ask you something. You are so mentally sharp and you are so on the ball and you do more than any human. I know, like literally every time I talk to you, you're somewhere else and I don't know how you do it. Cause I cannot keep that pace, but what is, is the, do you feel like everything we've just talked about as part of the secret to your mental health or your mental sharpness, I should say, or are you doing some extra things in there that you want to share with us? Well, I'm an obsessive sleeper. Okay. That's good. Huge. So you, you, you, you obviously prioritize that then. Yeah. So sleep is the big non-negotiable. I'll tell you a funny story. When I first met Tim, he was sleeping, he was like a five hour a night sleeper. And I'm like, yeah, that won't work. Yeah. That is not going to happen here. But I turned him into a sleeper. He's now a big sleeper too. Good job. How'd you do it? Give us the, give us the Ds. I got in bed. Yeah. Yeah. That's how my husband did it for me. I was not going to bed on time, but I'm like, he's so cute. I'll follow him. He just goes to bed. I'm like, I'll go. I'll go too. Hey, that looks nice. I think, you know, having some nice, I also think some nice, get a little bougie with your bedding folks, like invest in some nice linen sheets. You know, we have a nice wool comforter. It's really makes a huge difference. It makes that much more tasting. Yes. And I have, so we have cozy earth, bamboo sheets. Those are great. And then we got this, then I have this Omnia. I literally have, so part of the reason this works is I know I travel a lot. However, you know, I do not travel light. Like I have, we do luggage CrossFit. That's what I call it. We usually have like four 70 pound suitcases and two carry ons that weigh even more than that. And in one of my suitcases, I have like my red lights. Yeah. And right. And so I have all my stuff, my red light mask, my red lights that wrap around my little red light healing. And then I have my Omnia sleep and glow pillow that I'm obsessed with. I have two of those. So I have my travel suitcase and my regular suitcase, but this, this sleep and glow, I got sent so many pillows. I'm like, this is so stupid. Who cares about pillows? And now I'm like the crazy person that travels with pillows, but it makes you so you don't have face creases. And then like, I have an amazing eye mask. I have these Oslo. I have these incredible sleep buds that someone's, don't you get sent stuff? You're like, who sent this? Yeah. I got sent these little sleep earbuds that do white noise. So now wherever I am, cause it used to be even at a hotel, if it was a little bit noisy, the earplugs didn't work and I don't like things in my ears, but these little Oslo sleep buds, you turn on white noise and it's like completely blocks it out. Amazing. And then I have this Manta eye mass. That's a total block out. So I just have, I have myself, my routine dialed wherever I am. So that I think is a big deal. Um, I honestly, I think this creatine, I have been playing around with more and more of it. Um, you know, I created this, I found, met the guy who created creatine HCL and I messed with a formula of, of taurine and magnesium. And I've been taking four hits of it a day. I feel like a little bit of an, of a little bit of a, like crackhead. Yeah. A little crackhead. Creatine crackhead. But I can feel it. Like I can totally feel it. Like it's so energizing. So that's a big thing. Honestly, the cool thing about resistance training, if you've are now like 60 or 70 and you forgot to lift weights, you're actually in great shape because you're going to see way better results than either of you or I do. It's called newbie gains. The most important thing is, is you can build muscle in your fifties and your sixties and your seventies and your eighties. In fact, we now know you can build muscle equally well.