So, the big takeaway here is that long-term antid-depressant use, especially beyond five years, is linked to a significantly increased risk of sudden cardiac death. This is very concerning. When I saw this, I shared it with a few people who I know are on long-term SSRIs, and I was like, just put this into your cap of consideration because this is important. Share it with your cardiologist. There's a greater risk with longer exposure. one to five years of antid-depressant use, 56% higher risk of sudden cardiac death compared to non-users, six plus years of use, more than double the risk. So, this is concerning. And they broke it down by age stratifications. And interestingly, those well maybe not so interestingly and expectedly those ages 70 to 79 their 1 to 5year risk was really really really high but then it dropped again after six years. So it's all over the place. Just know that the risk is anywhere from two times risk, three times risk, five times risk depends on how old you are when you start and how long you've been on them. So experts advi wanted to advise that you know don't freak out and go off your antid-depressant but let's just say call a spade a spade it's unclear whether the increased risk stems from the medications themselves the underlying depression because that will increase your risk of cardiac issues or related to lifestyle and health factors that lead to depression right so it's hard to say but these were the numbers and depression alone is already connected with elevated heart risks like I said and fracture risk and bone loss So it's a it's a mixed bag, right? But I think you guys need to know this information. How does this happen? We do have a study from 2025 showing the SSRIs disrupt mitochondrial function and sarcimeir structure in cardiac muscle cells. So they used heart cells. They created 3D cardiac organoids to investigate how three common SSRIs puloxitine, peroxitine and certuline affect heart development and function. And what they found was that SSRIs impaired cellular energy production. It inhibited ATP production. It reduced mitochondrial respiration and disrupted overall mitochondrial homeostasis in the heart cells. That's not good. It caused sarcamir disorganization, which is the contractile units of the heart muscle. So they weren't lining up correctly. and it showed basically developmental impairment, cardiac developmental impairment in these cells and potentially a disruption of angioenesis which is the formation of new blood vessels. So this is concerning and kind of adds to that data that I shared before and the prior study. There was a 2025 study showing that SSRIs were associated with a 23% lower, this is good news now, with a 23% lower one-year major cardiovascular event um risk in patients with coronary artery disease and generalized anxiety disorder. So, these findings highlight the potential cardiovascular benefits of SSRIs in this population. So, if you've already if you're already sitting there with coronary artery disease and generalized anxiety disorder, you are potentially at more risk for a cardiovascular event and the use of SSRIs may actually benefit you. They the researchers examined whether SSRIs affect cardiovascular outcomes in people with both coronary artery disease and generalized anxiety disorder. Like I said, they looked at a database from 2016 to 2025. They looked at this included over 109,000 patients and they followed them for one year and they looked for one primary outcome which was major adverse cardiovascular events and secondary outcomes like all cause hospitalization and what they found with SSRI use was a 23% lower risk of major adverse cardiovascular events. So there's some good news. This is something to consider, right? We have studies to show pro. We have studies to show against. But I think it's worth this is all about risk tolerance as an individual and you should be given all the information and you decide what your risk tolerance is based on all the information. That's how medicine should work. So like I said, some people really need these medications and they're life sustaining or they're lifech changing. And obviously we want to get off of anything as soon as we can, but sometimes we're on things and we are we stay on them, right? There's some people that are going to stay on these because without them they can't function and they can't be in the world and they can't they're not happy people and they're not going to survive without them in some cases. So there's good news, there's bad news. It all depends on your risk tolerance. And then you take this information and instead of getting scared, you say, "Okay, well, if I'm on something that might increase my risk, then I sure as heck better take good care of myself and I better eat well and I better exercise and I better make sure I get enough sunlight and I prioritize my sleep and I do all the other things I can to protect my heart, right? Maybe that comes in the form of supplementation. Maybe it comes in the form of making sure that you check out your options with HRT as you age because we know that that is cardiovascular protective. And we decide what we're going to do based on all of the potential information out there. That's why I'm making this podcast. This was a study from 2025 Chang um in the journal of atheroscllerosis. I can never say that. Atherosclerosis. Say that three times. It's a tongue bender. There is an increased bleeding risk of the upper GI with SSRI use. SSRI 2022 study meta analysis showed that SSRIs increase the odds of upper GI bleeding by 55% and this risk doubled with NSAID use. So if you add NSAIDES on top of SSRIs, which very common people are taking ibuprofen along with their SSRIs, you have a pretty severe risk of an upper GI bleed. This is very concerning and it makes me wonder. I did a whole podcast years ago about ibuprofen. I'll make sure to put it in the show notes. I re That's one medication that thank God it exists because it has saved my hide, but I really try not to take it too often and I try to take it just very intermittently, very sparingly, the lowest dose possible. I cannot believe the doses that some doctors recommend. I just think it's crazy town, but hey, you do what you're, you know, you work with your doctor and you guys decide what's best for you. That said, um I really try to use them sparingly and as low of a dose as I can to make the pain resolve and as uh less often as I can. I I really try not to take them very often. But if you compound, you know, there's daily users and then they're taking SSRIs and then they have upper GI bleeds and they bleed out and people die from this. And it makes me wonder, you know, it's often the ibuprofen that gets blamed, but does has anybody stopped and looked and said, "Hey, were they on an SSRI as well?" because obviously the two together really compound the issue. 12 times higher when combined with NSAIDs. That's a big problem. There's also surgical bleeding risks. SSRIs are linked to higher trans blood transfusion rates peroperatively due to platelet serotonin depletion. And so that's a whole other way that these work. They basically deplete your platelet serotonin levels. And I mean that's concerning in so many ways, right? That's I'll tell you something personal. I have I have had in the past ITP which is idiothrombocytoenic perura which is a lack of platelets or lack of platelet functioning numbers and it was a big problem when I was young. It's been not an issue for years and years and years. It's autoimmune. They wanted to take out my spleen. They wanted me to go on prednazone. It was this whole thing. And I ended up working as a receptionist in the office of Dr. Dr. Rick Marinelli who was my mentor who was an amazing naturopathic physician and acupuncturist and he was like you don't need to do any of that. Here's what you need to do. You need to start eating meat because I was a vegetarian. I was more of a mac and cheese. I had to quit smoking. I had to start exercising. He's who taught me about strength training. Um he taught me so much. And he told me back then, this is 1996. He tells me about the link between serotonin levels in the platelets and what SSRIs are doing. And at the time I was on SSRIs and he was like, "You have to quit taking them. They're messing up your platelets and that's probably contributing to this problem." And uh when my daughter when I was pregnant with my daughter, my platelets got so low I had to have her induced. And so I went through that whole process which was horrific. And then my placenta wouldn't come out. And they they induced me because my platelets were so low. They were like so low that they thought I was going to bleed out and die. And they wouldn't give me an epidural because of it because they didn't want me to bleed on the spine. And anyway, she comes out and the the placenta won't come out. So, they spend like an hour trying to get it out. It won't come out. I have to go into surgery. The surgeon looks at the anesthesiologist who's up at my head and says, "You have to knock her out for just a second." And the anesthesiologist says, "I can't because she's been vomiting the whole time and she'll aspirate and die. Like, we can't have this." He said, "Turn her head." So, I was ter I remember just being in the O like I just birthed this child after God knows like 20ome hours of labor. And I was like, I did what I was supposed to do. And the anesthesiologist looked down at me. He had his hand on my forehead and he looked down at me and he said, "You're going to be okay." And I remember my head turning. Like I literally he put me out and my head turned and uh the guy went up into my uterus with his fist and pulled out my placenta and he said that to him. He said, "You have to knock her out because I have to go into her uterus." And I was like, "Oh my god." So he went into my placenta or my uterus with his fist, pulled out my placenta, and then I was awake. That was how fast I mean that was a long That was 26 years ago. And like how amazing how fast that can happen, right? So, I'm sure the medications have gotten even much better now in anesthesiology. So, phenomenal. I was like so thrilled with my anesthesiologist because I didn't have to be awake for that. And then upon waking, they are like, you know, putting pain medication in my mouth and trying to get me to come too. So, that was my experience with low platelets, one big adventure in childirth. And it was so traumatizing, I never got pregnant again. I refused to have another baby ever again because that was such a traumatizing experience. And I hated being pregnant. It was terrible. So anyway, higher transfusion rates and higher risk of bleeding. Relationship of serotonin antid-depressants and need for blood transfusion in orthopedic surgical patients.