Oxytocin is this great bonding hormone, but beyond that, it is a hormone of longevity, of immune support. There's so much that we are just finding out about really the farreaching powers of oxytocin as a neuropeptide hormone, you know, and it's hard when you're in those deep, deep, dark pits of despair and pain and emotional and or physical pain. best pharmacy in the world that is our own body. You know when we can produce oxytocin the best way. Yeah. So oxytocin is actually the most important hormone in our body. I consider it the queen mother of all hormones because when oxytocin's imbalance everything else falls into order. And um and so we look at this like when we think of oxy oxytocin we want to make sure we're not confusing it with oxycodone. the pain relieving hormone. But oxytocin, many women have received this in childirth. They receive ptocin and that is exogenous oxytocin. That's pharmaceutical oxytocin that we inject to help stimulate labor. And naturally, when we're in labor, we produce oxytocin. It stimulates uterine contraction. It stimulates milk let down. And it's part of that hormone that when you get through that child birth, and I know you had a traumatic child birth like experience, but you get through that child birth experience, all of a sudden like you're like, "Oh, maybe I can do this whole thing again." Maybe, maybe not, but oxytocin is that like you look at this child and you're like, "Oh my gosh, I am bounded to this child. I will protect this child with my life." And there's a feeling of love that goes beyond anything that you ever experience. It's the same with like oxytocin with a love partner with with um sexual stimulation and you're like, "Oh my gosh, maybe I really didn't like this guy, but now I have this great orgasm. I could see myself with him." So, it can be a little misleading sometimes, but you know, oxytocin is this great bonding hormone, but beyond that, it is a hormone of longevity, of immune support, of cognitive brain support, of cardiovascular support. There's so much that we are just finding out about really the far-reaching powers of oxytocin as a neuropeptide hormone. Yes, this is the I think of it as the hormone that we get when we get and give hugs, when we cuddle with our children and our loved ones. Um, like you mentioned, I think this is why sometimes women will bond onto a man that they maybe were just having a fling with, you know, and it was supposed to be some kind of casual fling and next thing they know they're feeling serious emotions. That's oxytocin at work. And I, in my practice was, you know, predominantly regenerative injection therapies and pain. So, I used it a lot there for people just in the realm of pain and trying to calm down the nervous system. So, >> yeah. because it's a potent analesic. That's like the part of the like even with child birth naturally forget the pains of child birth and it's an amnesic too. So between the analesic and amnesic you're like oh yeah yeah you remember only when you're in the midst of it again or something like that. But you know that it's it's a powerful analesic. >> It really works well too. It it I think that with pain what's interesting I have chronic pain and I treated a lot of pain. I mean, that's pretty much what I did for a career. And we're supposed to forget our pain. And sometimes our nervous system gets mixed up and we don't forget our pain, you know, and it's a central sensitization kind of windup central nervous system phenomenon. And I have found and that's a really terrible place to be because then you're in a loop and it's a very difficult loop to break or cycle to break. And I have found oxytocin to be phenomenal for breaking that loop and getting people to a place where it's not that you don't it's not like a opioid where you don't care about the pain. It's uh it's a calming down of the nervous system enough to move through the pain is how I've tried to explain it to my patients and what I've experienced personally. But can we can we take too much of it because I I love it. I love it. Well, and and for FDA regulation purposes, we'll say it's only, you know, exogenous oxytocin is only approved for stimulating labor and delivery right now, but it has so many far-reaching purposes, right? So, off label, we've been using it for sexual function, for pain, for nervous system, and PTSD, and what you're like the whole concept of what oxytocin does. It's like repaving those ruts in the and potholes of the roads of our life. It does go a long way to that. And the question, can we use too much of it? This is where I think we can get into some trouble because it's a power like if we're making oxytocin, it's just going to feed on itself and you're going to make more and more oxytocin. But if we're getting it exogenously, we may downregulate the receptors long term. >> Yes. >> So, we want to take breaks and pulsatal use of oxytocin, I think, is the safest way. >> Yes. I use it when I need it. I I use it to get out of a rut, literally. So, that was a great way to describe it. I use it when I we have it compounded. This is a prescription item and uh it comes in in in the compounded world. comes in different various delivery systems, but I actually just like I do with GLP-1s, I really like to keep everything as low a dose as possible and help patients utilize it again only as needed because like you said with receptors, we got to cycle things so that we don't, you know, get receptor desensitization, but it really can >> smooth out those ruts. That's a nice way of putting it. Kind of kind of gets you over the hump, if you will. And if you add it like again off label but like oxytocin nasal spray with some ketamine in it for PTSD trauma when you're deep in those ruts that and also for pain that combination of the two is like I always describe it as if you think of skiing on Christmas day at the end of the day there's like all these tracks in the snow but you look at that first snowfall that fresh snowfall before anyone gets out there and it's this lovely coating of snow and I think that's what the you know definitely oxytocin does and the combination of oxytocin with ketamine too. >> That's a great idea. Yeah, I hadn't considered that. I do find that oxytocin, like I said, it breaks that loop. It breaks that cycle. I recently I just did a podcast that should have come out by the time this is recorded. And it was me talking about the pain trap is how I refer to it. And I was really stuck in it. I had a pretty aggressive adjustment on my midspine and it lit my whole I've got some kind of funny wind up pain phenomenon. It lit my whole spine up and I was in a bad spot for about a month and I could not get out and I was in so much pain that I couldn't think straight. I probably should have reached out to you or any of my friends and asked for, you know, guidance, but I was just, you know, when you're caught in it, you can't breathe and you don't know which way to turn. And I finally caught a breather and I immediately thought of oxytocin. And so I got my hands on some and it really it doesn't take the pain away. It just and I found this with patients too. It just it opens a window of it's like you can finally breathe. And I'm such a fan when folks are in pain whether it's acute pain or chronic pain if they can move if I can get them moving then we get a window of opportunity and that usually will start to lead them down the path to feeling better. And I think oxytocin has such a nice impact there. Does it what is it doing in the brain in those cases? Because it almost feels like the one of the reasons I love GLP1s is because it quells neuroinflammation and it gives you some neuroplasticity. Does oxytocin have any capacity like that. It does the same thing. Yes, it has the capacity to do the same thing. And again, I always think in our great in the best pharmacy in the world that is our own body. you know, when we can produce oxytocin the best way, one of the things that, you know, and it's hard when you're in those deep deep dark pits of despair and pain and emotional and or physical pain to to tap into that, but there are powerful ways we can do that, too. And I think remembering that there's always one next right step that we can take to lift ourselves up or I like say pull ourselves up by our bootstraps, you know? >> Yes. So, what are what are some of those ways? because I I have a whole list of them, but I want to hear your list too. >> First was, you know, my whole my whole experience with oxytocin and actually the oxytocin cortisol um conversation like when cortisol goes up, oxytocin goes down. When cortisol is up for a long time, it signals the parventricular nucleus to suppress cortisol. It's not that your adrenals fatigue, but it's a suppression of cortisol, but you're in this dangerous place physiologically where cortisol is low and oxytocin's low at the same time. And that's the physiology of disconnect. Physiology of burnout. You know, say I'm burnout. Physiology of you go into a restaurant, you see a longtime friend, but you pretend you don't see them. Like, no one sees me, I see no one. Isolating, right? Yeah. No more trips to the grocery store during hightraic hours. That's it. you know, let me instacart instead. And >> so that's low oxytocin and low cortisol combat. >> That is Yeah, I think it's physiology of divorce, physiology of depression. There's a lot that comes into this. And so when we're in those and and I learned from my own PTSD experience and that sense like I love my husband, but I don't feel love for him. I love my work, I don't feel like going in to the office again. uh you know that complete burnout in in many aspects of life. And so as I started working on you know this this like awareness of this and started to work on increasing my own oxytocin for me it was going for walks on the beach. Um it was prayer and meditation and journaling. It was, you know, really um deepening my spiritual awareness and growth and things that I enjoyed doing and that with nutrition, addressing lifestyle. I mean, it's it's never just a one-sizefits-all, but that with these other components really made a physiologic difference. So then I was like, okay, I can work out. I can, you know, do you know I can focus more like brain and cognition just lit up for me at that point and there so the different ways we can do it like I talk to my patients about this all the time like what are you doing for fun what do what do you love to do that makes you happy you know do you have a pet because pets are a great way to increase oxytocin do you garden do you photo I think I have a patient yesterday in my office she's 72 and she just had a um a uh a surgery for uh kidney cancer and and she's you getting to the gym but she can't you know she's like struggling through her day very depressed. So what do you enjoy doing that you haven't been doing for a while and she loves photography like can you get behind the lens? Can you do something like that? And that can make a huge difference. For one of my patients it was her starting up dance lessons again. I mean, I fixed her like hormones, nutrition, detox, all these things that we do, but the thing that moved the needle for her was beginning dance lessons. And so, like things that you enjoy. And I sometimes will prescribe My Big Fat Greek Wedding. That movie is an oxytocin surgeon movie. >> Mama Mia, too. I think Mama Mia is a good one. >> Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. Is this is this why people love going like is this why girls love getting together with other girls? like having girls time. I feel like women gathering together is another oxytocin booster. >> It is. It absolutely is. And you think about the characteristics of the blue zones or the areas where we have the longest living populations. Things that are characteristic of high oxytocin are characteristic within those communities like having a faith-based practice, having long-standing marriages, having great family relationships or multigenerational households, getting out in nature, you know, good community, all of those things help increase oxytocin. And you know, like, okay, well, what is it? Is it the getting out in nature? is it's a combination of the things that I think you know when we win when oxytocin's winning that improves our physiology top down. >> So if we can elevate oxytocin we should naturally get our cortisol to decline then so we can use it as a lever. >> We can use it as a lever 100%. Like I have worked on this area now since my own like my PTSD which began in 2006. And so I've worked on this and in this concept and with patients whether you know again it's always lifestyle nutrition you know we're doing with hormones and then how do we increase oxytocin naturally and then if we need it exogenously when are we adding it and how for how long but these things all I mean it really it works as a lever and if we think so much of our even post-pandemic stress or during the pandemic stress the isolation that is a you know that will level your cortisol and and plus being inside and you know flattening out or disrupting your circadian rhythm like we're doing with blue light and and EMF exposures and so all of those things interrupt our circadian rhythm and we talk a lot about stress management I don't know about you Tina but when you know when I talk when I hear stress management I get stressed like my physiology stresses out just thinking of stress management but if we think about play and I like to say micro dose oxytocin throughout your day with oxyplay so just ways to you know, bump up your oxytocin like we talk about five minute exercise snacks. What about five minute play snacks? And that really does move the name. And we're going to work on supplements, nutrition, all that circadian reset, sunrises, sunsets, but things we can do to increase oxytocin move the needle the fastest. And people feel it and their physiology shows. Inflammatory markers go down. It's powerful. Oxytocin is this great bonding hormone, but beyond that, it is a hormone of longevity, of immune support, of cognitive brain support, of cardiovascular support. There's so much that we are just finding out about really the far-reaching powers of oxytocin as a neuropeptide hormone.