So, can we talk about that? The the disease of obesity. I don't think my listeners or some of them really appreciate this for what it is. And I have to be honest, I did not appreciate it for what it was until recent years. But I come from a long line of obese folks. And I think Oprah said it in a way that made the most sense to me. She said, "Not everyone who's obese has the disease of obesity. And not everybody with a disease of obesity ends up being obese because of just really strict willpower. they somehow they sheer sheer willpower through it. But I think that uh I think we're missing the mark for folks who really do have the disease and I think that's what we're battling online. I think that's the stigma around these peptides has nothing to do with the peptide. People are just you said it in a post. You said you just have obesity bias and I was like y that's pretty much it. And I you know I don't even blame I was just on another podcast. I don't even get mad at these people because I I had it myself. Like I was a young wrestler, pretty jacked dude and been like why why aren't these people just like eating better and exercising? Why? It seems like it's just a they're lazy and gluttonous or something like that. It wasn't until, you know, going through med school and then going to conferences, talking to very smart neurobiology experts and researchers and other obesity doctors and then talking to patients and really seeing the pattern where I started to understand it. And actually, it was when I did a bodybuilding competition and got brought my calories just the 20 trying to eat 2,200 calories, which is probably what most people be like that seems like a lot. I was starving on 2200 calories and I was I I couldn't stop myself from eating Pringles and and like I like started kind of having disordered eating like I couldn't I couldn't stop. I was like I was so ravenously hungry and craving and I and what my patients described was kind of that. So I could imagine them being, you know, in a 300 pound or 250 pound body with a lot of excess atapost tissue trying to lose weight and feeling that way just that, you know, I was already really lean, but like they're feeling that way at a higher body fat. That's what made me go like, "Oh man, I think I missed the mark." And so, um, there's two different things because there's the dis there people think of the disease in two different ways. the disease, the way the AMA kind of described it back in in 2013, the criteria of like certain signs and symptoms, certain uh associated with morbidity, mortality, those types of things like definition of a disease versus the pathofysiology of what drives it. So right now if you there's the Lancet Commission just came out with their whole um definition of obesity and they tried to describe basically preclinical obesity. So basically people that don't have this those those squella or issues from their excess atapost tissue they're healthy basically ex other than just a lot of atapost tissue. Then they they talk about clinical obesity and that that those are people with say like type two diabetes or pre-diabetes hypertension some issues arising from the excess atapost tissue. So that's how some people talk about the disease of obesity. But what I think you're getting at and what I I like to talk about is that the pathofysiology of what drives that atapose gain. Why is it that some people, you know, they just change their habits a little bit and lose the weight and never gain it back versus other people, they try to lose the weight and their body fights them tooth and nail and and and they essentially just cannot lose the weight or keep it off without some extra tool despite their best efforts and all the the amount of effort that they put into it. So, it's that it's that pathophysiology that I think is really what people need to understand because otherwise they just think it's a choice. You just think it they're just like I don't understand. It's just a calorie deficit. Well, like it can't be a disease. It's like well I always I always choice even if it were a choice that doesn't that doesn't mean that this person doesn't have a disease. I always, you know, for the bros out there, I'm always like, let's say if you knew that this woman out there had ganorrhea. Let's make it really rude. And you choose to still have intercourse with her and you and you get gorrhea. Do you not have a disease because you cho chose that? No, that doesn't even make sense. You got to think of that that good point. And then I, you know, I always talk about like what about type two diabetes? We don't think of it that way. Do we say people choose to have type two diabetes? No. So the choice thing doesn't have anything to do with it. But um going into the pathophysiology though, it's like how if it truly even if it like it's not a choice though. It's it's not a choice because like people would never choose to have obesity and people like well it's it's they're choosing the habits. They clearly chose uh an extra serving an extra helping at dinner when they didn't have to. It's like no they're it's the underlying appetite dysregulation or derangement that's driving it. The biology drives the behavior and of course the environment. So like you know a Cali means and and all these other people will say like no we we don't need drugs. We need to change our environment. We do need to change the environment. The environment will help prevent the obesity from occurring in the first place. But once that obesity develops their brain is changed. Yes. Right? Like their genes are changed. They're they're changed at the genetic level. I don't know if you saw that study. I'm sure you did last week. Like like actual genetic changes. I mean, it's like the train has left the station. Yeah. I I describe it as like think about the circuits in our brain. And the circuits in our brain control a lot of our processes in our body. One of them being appetite. In a normal brain, uh that's someone that doesn't have obesity or or struggles with their appetite. All the circuits are are working well. But think about like someone that struggles with obesity and losing uh that weight and keeping it off. They're short circuits. They're frayed and fried. And that's why these GLP-1 medicines are so cool because they seem to recircuit the brain in a way that um and again it's not necessarily permanent. They it recircuits it as long as you're taking the medicines, but it hits the receptors to basically stop the shortcircuiting of the brain. So that's so that's the pathophysiology of of it's it's really related to appetite. Uh and and people are like but it's just energy balance. I'm like yeah the appetite drives the energy balance. And so that's the gist.