Women more than men will report being cold and achy. I've noticed in my practice they can't get warm. Everything hurts. They feel like they're dying. Winter is especially hard to endure this. And the diagnosis often in a doctor's office is fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis, hypothyroid, myalgia, which is muscle pain. And it might just be low testosterone. And I've said it before with the episode. I did a few back on thyroid. Go back and listen to that one. Please get yourself up. And I did one on menopause. I've done a couple on menopause and hormones. I want you to bone up on all the episodes so you have an idea of what I'm talking about here because this whole picture goes together. But I really want you to consider in any woman over 40 following a massive bout of stress or trauma, I want you to consider low testosterone. Yes, we would obviously consider adrenal glands here. And yes, we would definitely consider thyroid and anyone over 40 years old, but testosterone is a big one. So, let's go back to the low testosterone and pain. Chronic pain patients often have low serum testosterone levels. Opioids also decrease testosterone. This is the scam that is pain management in this country. They pump people up on opioids. They basically make them sign a waiver. Go back and listen to my orthopedic medicine as a scam series. There's four parts. They make them sign a waiver that they will basically agree to become an opioid addict and then they're on opioids for the rest of their life. That's their solution. Isn't that lovely? That's the that's the best they've got. which is crazy because my whole practice was dealing with pain and I can't believe that was it. That was their answer. And pain is so prevalent. One in five to one in seven patients present to any doctor's office for pain. So pain is real. Not just acute but chronic. So opioids, they get put on opioids and guess what? It decreases your testosterone. How bad does that suck when you take opioids after a surgery or an injury, right? Imagine that. You need your androgens, which are your testosterone is your androgens. You need your androgens to heal because it's anabolic, but yet you're taking opioids which are which is dumping out your testosterone and it's up opioids upregulate microgle cells in the brain to drive pain. I've done a whole I've done a couple episodes on pain. So go back and listen to those too if this is interesting to you. Pain depletes hormones such as cortisol and testosterone via hyperarousal of the HPA axis. So, a couple studies just if you don't believe me, but low testosterone and pain. This was from 2015. A novel use for testosterone to treat central sensitization of chronic pain and fibromyalgia patients. Go back and listen to my pain episodes. We'll link them in the show notes. I talk all about central sensitization and what that is. It's a windup phenomenon in your central nervous system. And then there's another one that was from 2016. Hypogonatism. This is in men, hypogonatism and the risk of rheumatic autoimmune disease. So remember I mentioned autoimmune disease. Rheumatic autoimmune disease is like rheumatoid heart arthritis really devastating damaging type of arthritis that's immune driven autoimmune driven. So if you have autoimmune disease and you have pain I seriously want you to find somebody who is willing to work with you and look at your testosterone levels. Man or woman. Here's another one. Hypogonatal men with psoriasis benefit from long-term testosterone replacement therapy. A series of 15 case reports. This was really interesting. This is from 2016 as well. Psoriasis is a skin condition, but the link between psoriasis and seroriatic arthritis is super high. Like if you have psoriasis, you've got like an 80% chance that you will develop seriatic arthritis at some point. And from the research I've done, seroriatic arthritis is more painful than rheumatoid arthritis, which I once thought was the most was had been taught was the most painful orthopedic condition you could possibly have. But it's not. Soriatic arthritis is. And if you think of all the people you know with psoriasis, which is an autoimmune condition, and you consider that a huge percentage of them are going to end up with seriatic arthritis, you can imagine the kind of pain they're dealing with. And this is rarely addressed or acknowledged by the medical system. Rarely does somebody actually get appropriately diagnosed because lab markers can lead to a lot of false negatives. And so this gets missed. And as somebody who lives with seriatic arthritis, I can tell you it is crippling. It is crippling pain. And so when folks go off on me on social media, which happens a lot, I think it's because I'm a trutht teller and they don't like it. You couldn't possibly understand, Dr. Tina, and I'm like, "Oh, contr. Try living in my body for a day. Try spending 24 hours in my body and see what pain feels like to me because it is real. And pain is subjective. we are. It is not my job as a physician who specializes in pain to judge somebody else's level of pain. So, I never do. And no two people in pain can have a comparison because some people's nervous systems are wound up hard and other people's aren't. And when it's immune driven and you've got central sensitization and you've got this autoimmune component which is causing joint degeneration, joint fusion, all kinds of mucky, it can be really miserable. And so I feel for a lot of folks and unfortunately the best way to diagnose seroriatic arthritis is through signs and symptoms and history. And that's why it takes decades often to diagnose it because there'll be glimmers. There'll be a oneoff instance. There'll be a oneoff symptom that happens and it's weird. Like sausage digit is one. Not to go on a bender about this but this is important. sausage digit where just one digit like one finger or one toe will blow up out of nowhere. The pain is not often bilateral. It's unilateral and it mo shifts sides. It moves. SI joints are a big one. The spine is a big one. The big joints like the hips and shoulders and it'll just jump sides. So one day, so for me, I had 10 years of horrific pain in one hip and one SI joint and then actually 20 years to be if if you add in the SI joint. And then one day it just shut down, turned off, hardly any more pain, almost zero. And it just moved. Within a day it moved over to the left side and it started its whole fun adventure on that side. And that was it's still going. And it was almost worse than the right side. So I say all this to share with you because these things are going missed. And testosterone has been shown to be beneficial in psoriasis and seratic arthritis. Interestingly, estrogen levels tend to be abnormally high. So, folks will have higher levels, and this is looking at men. The only studies I could find were in men. So, men would have higher than normal estrogen levels. And they don't know if it's the chicken or the egg, or if the immune system is driving the high estrogen, or if the high estrogen is a response to try to dampen the immune system. They don't really know, but they end up with low testosterone because estrogen and testosterone recycle into each other. And so they end up with low testosterone and higher estrogen and a lot of pain and a lot of skin issues. And so testosterone therapy has been shown to be helpful here. That was my rant. Hope you liked it. Here's another study from 2020, December 2020. Testosterone protects against the development of widespread muscle pain in mice. I don't really know how they could accurately measure pain in mice without asking them, but I, you know, they had their gizmos and they found that this was widespread muscle pain, right? So that would be more of a fibromyalgia type picture and testosterone was protective. As for joint health, testosterone makes healthier sinovial fluid. So the fluid inside the joint becomes more fluid and less viscous. Again, go back and listen to my many episodes on the topic of joint health and pain. Testosterone impacts regeneration capabilities because it's anabolic. We need anabolic things. This is why I would often work with male patients particularly to get their testosterone levels up so that we could make sure that they were in an anabolic healing state before I delivered regenerative injection therapies to them because those were only as good as their ability to heal was. It is secreted by the condraittes. Isn't that wacky? Condracytes are your cartilage cells inside your joint. They secrete testosterone. So, we need it. Apparently, we need it in the joint and it improves osteoporosis. So these condrogenic progenator cells CPC's these are androgen receptors in the condraittes and testosterone influence the expression of three receptor genes as well as the condrogenic potential of the CPCs by regulating gene expression and impacting types one and two collagen which is really really different. You can see the study is quoted below a 2010 study sex differences of condrogenic progenator cells in late stages of osteoarthritis. really interesting study if you guys are into orthopedic medicine, those of you practitioners out there who follow the show. And here is another table. This is from this is a really interesting read too. Testosterone replacement essential in pain management. This is from practical pain management volume 14 issue four. This is basically this is called criticism of I'm looking at a chart. You can join me on YouTube and subscribe to my YouTube channel and you can see it too. criticism of study on possible relationship between testosterone and cardiovascular events. So what is this? There was some data that came out years back saying that testosterone was unsafe and that it caused cardiovascular disease in men. Testosterone replacement therapy was dangerous and it was a poorly done study. I'm going to go through this a little bit here on some of the high points. They also didn't track estrogens in these patients. And so if you've got a pot-bellied guy, listen to the episode from last week. I talk all about the aromatase enzyme and how it turns testosterone into estrogen and how those high levels of estrogens are what cause the cardiovascular events and these were not tracked when they were looking at these TRT um patients in this study. So all subjects already had heart disease and entered the study at the time of coronary angography. So the patient base itself in the study was flawed. They already had heart disease. This was a retrospective study of 8,79 patients who were followed for only a short time, one to three years. Cardiovascular events actually were lower in the testosterone group than the non compared to the group not receiving it. Contrary to the raw event numbers, a complex statistical system of variable exclusions allowed the authors to adjust the raw data and draw opposite conclusions. So, the data was flawed and interpreted flawed. The definition of testosterone treatment was a single prescription in a 1 to threeyear period. So, they weren't even on a consistent regimen of dosing and tracked and made sure that their levels were correct. And the mean testosterone serum level achieved was super low. Not even enough to really give these guys relief with the TRT. So, whatever you've heard in the past about testosterone being dangerous for men, it's garbage.