My original micro doing hypothesis was separate from weight loss and body composition. What if we use these in subclinical? I'm talking a fifth to a tenth of the standard starting dose. I'm talking tiny tiny little amounts. True micro dosing. And it's not just take the standard dose and break it into smaller doses, which is what some of the bro science guys say. It's just part of a toolkit. It's not a monotherapy. Exoomes are cool because they supposedly have the delivery information that the stem cell brings us. And so they are amazing. And early on I was using them for everything. >> Like what? >> Everything literally I would put them anywhere I could try. I have I have used them introvenously a lot intraarticularly. I don't do any of this anymore because the FDA started coming down years ago and I was like you know what I don't need to get in trouble with that. So I think the last time I put exoomes in a patient was probably 2020. Um I've used them intractally. I've used them intravaginally. I have >> So do you give them to patients now at all? >> No. >> You're not allowed. The FDA said no. >> It's a gray zone and I don't feel like getting in trouble. So I don't I I used to do a lot that le I do a lot less than I used to. [laughter] >> But forget about getting in trouble. Exoome like I was talking to um I was speaking to this physician from out of state just for myself just because again I had breast cancer. I'm very careful. And she was telling me that she had a patient with sta advanced stage prostate cancer and this patient received exoomes. So like I would be scared to give a cancer patient again. >> It's progrow, right? >> It's intensely progrowth. >> But she said that the swelling around the prostate came down. This guy could not urinate. And after like a high dose of exoome is it like 600 some some crazy or 300 or 600 um that this patient started urinating and all the inflammation went down. It's like a double-edged sword right with cancer you get so much inflammation around your tumor. It's great but then what does it do to that tumor? No one can answer that. That's the riskreward conversation and the and you know the risk tolerance conversation you have with a patient because it's like well you know my mom was dying of Crohn's disease dying my mom had a severe flare in 2019 of Crohn's and she was going down and there was not much I mean if I had sent her off to GI to have you know any kind of testing that was invasive. I was afraid they were going to disrupt her flora so much that she wasn't going to make it. I mean, she was she just it it happened very quickly. And I put exoomes in every hole I could get into her [laughter] in every way I could possible. And we did large doses. And we still were unsure at the time if this was being driven by maybe colurectal cancer. We didn't know. She was just so sick in front of me. And I did this under the guidance of her practitioner. It's her doctor, but I was doing the regenerative part. And I she was under the care of another doctor. and we all agreed together that you know the risk the risk was far lower than the benefit potential and we pulled her out of the tail spin. So now she's managed really well with medication and lifestyle is a huge piece of that and lowd dose micro doing GLP1s has been hugely helpful for her. So anyway, you know, it's it's that conversation. So for this prostate patient, it's like what does he got to lose kind of situation versus and I think that's a conversation for each individual patient. Well, can we talk about GLP1s? So, um, micro dosing. So, you just mentioned micro doing. I love micro doing GLP1s. I mean, I think and there's so many studies now coming out that it's >> it's great for your brain, it's great for your heart. And I guess I want to ask both of you guys this. Is it great for your brain and great for your heart and great for dementia because you've you're no longer, you know, morbidly obese and that's that that hurts your heart and your brain and all of these things? or is it great for everybody's heart and their brain? >> I will let you answer, but I would say we need a lot more studies to answer those questions, but definitely they do have anti-inflammatory >> um uh benefits. They for sure do. So my original micro doing hypothesis was and I called all of my friends that I knew who were using them clinically and I called the compounding pharmacies and I asked around and it was the conversation I was trying to see is separate from weight loss and body composition what if we use these in subclinical I'm talking a fifth to a tenth of the standard starting dose I'm talking tiny tiny little amounts true micro doing have any of you done that and what have you seen and everyone said well I've maybe used a half dose or I've maybe used, you know, just shy of the the standard starting dose, but in all cases it was for body composition or weight loss or to bring somebody out of, you know, metabolic dysfunction. And I said, "No, no, no. I'm talking about like what if we used it low-key for acne, PCOS, Crohn's, >> nailbiting, hair, >> addiction, prophylactically for cardiovascular disease, you know, just high blood pressure. Have any of you done that?" And there were some clinicians I heard about that were utilizing them for things outside of traditional use, but I could not get anybody to confirm that they were using them in these tiny little doses. And the reason I was thinking tiny little doses was because for women like you and I who are already very lean, we don't need to lose any weight. Um I, you know, I had a good 10 pounds extra on me when I started, but it was like very much inflammatory puff. I'm very much an autoimmune girl, but it wasn't a vanity weight loss thing. It wasn't even like the last 5 lbs weight loss thing. And it was nowhere near standard starting dose. And so I started utilizing it with anybody who would let me. And >> for how long you've been doing this? >> Two years. Called all my colleagues and said I I called colleagues who specifically did certain things. I called my friends who specialized in lime and my friends who specialized in mold and who had chronically ill patients and I said I want you to try this tiny tiny little dose because those patients are so sensitive you give them anything and they go sideways but we have to get them stabilized so we can start giving them something to get them to heal right and so it was really that was my conversation and it is now morphed into micro doing and most often than not I find that clinicians and these tele medicine companies are actually using the standard starting dose and they're calling it micro doing. 99% of the time they're using the standard starting dose and calling it micro doing. And that was never my intention. That's fine. Like whatever dose a patient needs, I'm not judging. But I was trying to say like what if we use the tiniest little blip on the syringe. >> You can't you know I don't know if I told you this but in 2014 I started using these medications. Back then the only thing we had was Trulicity and I was giving it to every PCOS patient who walked into my office. >> And was it amazing? >> It was amazing. And it was amazing because no one knew about it. I think if there were five doctors in this country, I was one of them prescribing it left and right. And the only thing I had was Trulicity in 2014. And I learned it from a cardiologist whenever I had an overweight because you know she knows my wellwoman exam if you're overweight even years ago. I'm like you need to see a cardiologist. You need this, you need that. So I kept referring to this cardiologist. One day he picked up the phone. He's like stop [laughter] sending all your patients to me. I can't see all your patients. give them trulity. Yes. >> Drop their weight. Yes. And then call me back. I'm like, what is truly? >> And then I started I went home and I started researching and I I started like I was a little, you know, timid to start it. Um I had never done weight loss. I mean this is 11 years ago. So I started giving it 20 lb, 30 lb, 40 lb, 60 lb, 80 pounds. And then I started just prescribing it and after that it went to Victtos. Uh and then I mean it it kept getting better and better and better. Senda, then he went to OMIC and then it went to WGOI and then anyways it just got better and better and better. But one thing I did even like years ago when patients dropped all their weight I would have them do this because even for weight when you would take them off they would either gain it back or they would come back and say I don't feel good. I'm bloated again. I'm this. I'm that. And um it that's why I get so passionate. And I get so upset when people I hear negative comments about GLP1s because it's life-changing. And I have a story. This patient was maybe in 2017. She had lympadeema and she was being treated at Stanford >> swelling of her lower extremities. >> It's horrible. >> It's horrible. And >> there's nothing that treats it. >> They could not treat her. And in 2017, she comes to my office. I'm like, "Listen, I'm not a lympadeema specialist, but I've used these medications now for 5 years. let me give it to you and let's see if it gets better. She got like maybe 80% improvement >> with the weight loss that she had with the inflammation with I mean I've seen so many so I could not agree with you everything you say I agree. I give it to my patients who drink and they can't stop drinking. I give it to my patients who obsessively pick their skin and their skin is completely scarred. And no, you cannot. If you give someone like me 2.5 milligrams of a tozepatite, I will be in the emergency room vomiting my guts out. So, you can't do that. But right now, luckily, I don't I've never prescribed compounded medications compounded, which we'll talk about in a minute. But yes, you don't. >> But the problem is patients don't know what's good or what's bad. Right. Right. You don't know where the raw materials are coming from. And it's good to use compounded medications. GLP ones I'm talking about when there is a shortage but right now we don't have a shortage you can actually get the turepides right now from in the vials so it's not a pen before it was just a 2.5 hold your breath take your zopran and inject yourself but now you can actually get the vials and you can really I have a chart in my office that I've had for for a while we used it for ompic for many years that it has it's my chart how to micro dose it and then you just give a tiny dosage of it without >> once a week. >> It depends. I might do it twice a week. >> What do you guys consider a micro dose? >> A dose below the lowest dose that's available on the market as a starting dose. That's how I describe it. But someone like the three of us in this room, let's say I wanted to micro dose you. Let's say I want to give you ompic. If the starting dose is 0.25, 25 I might start you at zero point like half that dose or a third of that dose there's not and you know I usually would give it and I'm like if you don't feel anything in 3 to 4 days redose yourself if you don't feel again then then you can literally count the clicks like if you do five clicks that takes you to I don't know I'm making this up 0.125 next week do six clicks then go to seven that's micro doing >> well so I You know, we're per menopause, menopausal, all that. And a lot of us are, you know, we become we need to work our metabolism shuts down. We get the the tire around our stomach. All these things, wonderful things that happen to us when we hit pairing menopause. >> You don't have any tires anywhere. >> I'm just saying a lot of a lot of women hit menopause and you >> I'm getting it. It's not like the constant. >> I thought micro dosing was what's the one? Um, mangaro. Mjaro that you could that you do the smallest do you do the smallest dose every three months it's all over the place so that >> right [clears throat] so that so you is that also considered micro doing >> I don't consider that migrant >> it's all over the place you some people say do it every two weeks some people say take a standard dose and break it into smaller doses I mean it's again it's the wild west like it's turned into a whole thing that I can't I cannot control the narrative anymore >> you two cannot sit here I I don't think anyone has done it in this country as long as I have really I don't know maybe the cardiologists who referred his patients to me. >> So how do you micro dose? >> I micro dose different people differently. Everyone's different. >> Am I losing the patient's weight? Am I is the patient thin like you? Then I would give you a tiny dose and on that tiny dose if I notice that you're losing weight. I either stop it or I don't stop it. I would do it like every two weeks, every 10. Every patient is different. You might take two patients, let's say like you. One, you give 0 point like half of the 0.25 and the patient's nauseous and doesn't feel good, has no energy and is sleepy and is exhausted and the other person feels nothing. One person throws up, the other person feels nothing. I have a family member of mine when you say wild west. She was visiting my mom and my mom is pre-diabetic so she's been on these medications for 11 years and in her fridge she had Zepbound 7.5, right? And this family members of our she's like, "Oh, Zepbound. I want to try it." >> Oh no. >> And she just injected herself three days ago with 7.5. >> Is she so sick? >> Oh my god. Yes. Nurse to her house. IV fluid. Zen projectile vomiting. bedridden, not being able to eat. So the point is this is not something you can do at home. That's why >> you have to have you have [laughter] to have someone experience really experienced. >> It's pretty easy to figure it out. Honestly, it's not rocket science, but you still when you want to first start, you need someone who understands it. And um I would never give a pen of 2.5 to someone with your height and weight. Never. I would never do that. >> I I completely agree with you. And I am actually even more conservative and I'll start even lower. I might start at a tenth, a fifth or a tenth of that. And I'm using other peptides and I'm doing all the things. So we're it's just part of a toolkit. It's not a monotherapy. And it's not just take the standard dose and break it into smaller doses, which is what some of the bro science guys say. And I mean it's all over the place. So I don't think we can even define it anymore, but it is lower than the standard starting dose. And I rarely even have to get people up to the standard starting dose, but I'm rarely using it for weight loss. I'm most often using it for inflammation, autoimmune disease, depression, acne, PCOS, um high blood pressure, >> just cardioprotective, just just whatever. It's it's worth a try. And and I'm not going to take a healthy patient and say, "Hey, sure. Yeah. Let me write you a script. I mean, we're going to do lifestyle." Sometimes people need the GLP-1 just to quiet the noise. And I wouldn't even say food noise, like just the noise because it works on those dopanuric and serotonin pathways in the brain. And so sometimes people just get quiet from the anxiety, quiet from obsessive thought. >> Yes. There's like a normal feeling that comes over them and they're ADHD. They're like, "Oh, I can function." And so sometimes we'll use it initially or early to give them a leg up. Other times it comes in later when we just got to maybe pull another tool out. So it really depends. But I I will say we don't have any. And the argument I keep getting is there's no studies on the micro dose. Totally agree with them. Micro doing was never intended to be a weight loss strategy. And in fact, I'll tell you the truth. It is not an effective weight loss strategy. I have said this from day one. I have been completely clear from day one. If you go back and watch any of my content, if you watch any of the other podcasts that I was on over the past year plus, if you watch my free fourpart