So there are in fact essential variables. One is a variable that is the only one anyone has ever heard about, namely calories. And and energy does [music] matter. We're not eating units of heat. You know, we're eating carbons. And so why are we calling them units of heat? Why are we calling them calories? We eat calories and calories do matter. However, [music] the calories need to be told what to do at the fat cell. I want you to share what happens when you have all this excess insulin floating around in the bloodstream and what it does to fat cells. >> Oh, yeah. I'd love to get onto that topic. Yeah. So, insulin resistance to help people appreciate um why a scientist would devote his career to it. Why your mentor focused on it well ahead of his time, I would say, 30 years ago. No one. I thought people weren't talking about it 10 years ago, let alone 30. So, insulin resistance is the most common health disorder. Like I mentioned, evidence within the US suggests that potentially up to 88% of all adults in the US uh have some degree of insulin resistance manifest based on markers of the metabolic syndrome, these five features that clump together. Well, the metabolic syndrome used to be called the insulin resistance syndrome. and and and I wish it still were because it's a more accurate name. Now, I found as a Canadian American, um I found that no one disrespects America like Americans. You know, Americans want to think that America is the fattest, dumbest uh worth worthless country on the planet. And as a person who's traveled the world and is not born here, that couldn't be further from the truth, even metabolically. So, in fact, the most insulin resistant countries on the planet, more than the US, are actually several countries through the Middle East and Southeast Asia. >> So, as bad as we think we have it, >> you know, we don't actually take top spot. We're not even in the top 20 probably, uh, to be perfectly frank. So, nevertheless, it is an extremely common problem and and it is probably the leading contributor, if not one of the main leading contributors to virtually every chronic disease. heart disease, you mentioned Alzheimer's disease, fatty liver disease, the most common liver problem, type two diabetes of course, and infertility and so on. So that just helps people put things in perspective. Now, to my great delight, one of the topics that my lab has focused on, like literally growing fat cells in petri dishes right down the hallway in incubators in my lab right now, um it has been to focus on the the the variables that influence fat cell dynamics or what is it that makes a fat cell grow and then when when we when we know that we can appreciate the variables that we can leverage to help fat cells shrink. So there are in fact two essential variables. One is a variable that is the only one anyone has ever heard about namely calories. And and energy does matter. Those little carbons that we call calories, which I don't even get me started on why we ever invoked thermodynamics in biology. I think it's one of the dumbest, most egregious directions biology ever took. We're not eating units of heat. You know, we're eating carbons. And so why are we calling them units of heat? Why are we calling them calories? Anyway, it is the game that's we're playing and so we'll play along. So we eat calories and calories do matter. However, the calories need to be told what to do at the fat cell. So or to say that all another way, in order for a fat cell to grow, it must be told to grow and then it needs to have the fuel for that growth. They're not the same thing. Ca for example um just at the level of the cell we have fat cells if they're they they can be swimming in a sea of calories lots of glucose lots of fats and they stay skinny little small fat cells they don't even look like a fat cell until we start spiking in a little bit of insulin. Then we can check four hours later they're bigger. Check four hours later again they're bigger still. check 24 hours later and they're big, fat, juicy fat cells just like you'd think about. Now, even at a human level, uh we see this um albeit somewhat tragically, there people who get diagnosed with type 1 diabetes when they are in their early teenage years, when we're very fragile emotionally, we're very um prone to being susceptible to peer pressure. People learn that they can skip their insulin injections and be as skinny as they want. This is in fact so effective and so common that it has a name called diabelmia. Anyone can look it up. This is absolute proof that there is another component to why fat cells get big in addition to just calories because these people can literally eat 10,000 calories a day of pure chocolate cake. They don't have to throw it up. They don't have to starve themselves. They can eat it and enjoy it. And they just look at that needle. I mean, imagine the temptation. They look at that little syringe and say, "You know what? I don't want to poke myself with you right now cuz I I want to be skinny." Now, they will there's a metabolic storm raging in their body because of this and it is very harmful and lethal. And yet, by directly controlling their insulin levels, allowing it to stay low when it should have gone high, um they cannot store fat. the so as much as we ardently pound the table and claim that calories are all that matters. No, I can prove that wrong and I just did. All you do is wipe out the insulin and the human body has no potential to store fat. So in the relevance of insulin with the fat cell is that the it's like the fat cell is like a naughty kid. It has all these calories around it and it doesn't know what to do with it. It needs to be told insulin is the signal that tells the fat cell it's time to grow. But then the fat cell says, "Okay, I'm ready to go." But with what? Okay, now I pull these calories in. If you have one variable up without the other, it's death. It's incompatible with life. That's why insulin, for reasons that for the sake of time perhaps I won't get into, but I'll follow your lead, but that is why insulin is referred to as the hormone of the fed state. When Dr. George Cahill, famous fasting starvation physiologist, was asked about the difference between the fed and the fasted states. He said, "It's all a matter of insulin. If insulin's high, it's the fed state." And in a fed state, the body, the fat cells will say, "All right, hey, there's energy to store. I'm going to hold on to this because we might need it later." When insulin is low, even if calories are coming in, the fat cell doesn't know it. In the absence of an insulin stimulus, the body thinks it's still in a fasted state and thus cannot. the fat cell is going to say, "Well, I'm not going to store energy if insulin isn't telling me to because I don't want to be pulling it in if other parts of the body, if we're fasted, then the mo then we need to be mobilizing energy, not storing it." So, that's a long winded way of answering your question about the relevance of insulin on the fat cell. And the short answer is it's utterly critical. >> Yes. This is why I say that when middle-aged women start getting the middle-ag middle and they go from that gyoid curvy shape to that android shape, >> that is insulin resistance starting. That is that is when we have to nip it in the bud. And we live in a society where we have normalized that because the estrogen's waning so they're becoming more insulin resistant. And society's like, "Oh, just, you know, we don't do anything until people get into some severe state or until these secondary pathologies start showing up, you know, like the cardiovascular disease and the, you know, all of it. It's it's the it's just bizarro land why we don't address these things." And, you know, going back to what you said about metabolic syndrome, my mentor taught me about that when it was called Syndrome X. Like, >> yeah, that was the very first title >> way back when and he diagnosed my mom with it. my tiny little petite mom just gained a bunch of weight out of nowhere, seemingly nowhere. It was menopause. And he was like, "Hey, we've got we've got insulin resistance here." You know, and that's when I learned about it. And it's just it's been mind-blowing that all these years have gone by, all these decades. I really thought that during the past few years with the virus that shall not be named. >> I really thought that people would take it seriously because I was like you guys metabolic disease is what's driving the poorest outcomes with this and we need to this is something we have control over. This is something we can do something about. And through trying to educate people I was just heavily censored and I that's when I knew I was like something is a ride because I was I was telling people to go for walks outside in the sun, eat meat and lift weights and I was getting censored. >> [laughter] >> Yeah. In fact, I couldn't I even to this day I'm surprised that the role of the fat cell hadn't come up more. There are multiple reasons just to touch on this topic lightly just like you are and I I appreciate that. But in order for a virus to work, it needs to get into a cell. And one of the ways in which the unnamed virus gets into cells was through a receptor called ACE2. And guess which cell type expresses more of that than almost any other cell type? The fat cells. And so it stood to reason that if someone had more fat cells, there were more potential factories to pull in and start reproducing the viral partic the virus. So yeah, there was a huge from the very very beginning we knew of that and yet you're right, you could not you could not talk about it. >> No. No. God forbid we empower people to Yeah. >> take their health and treat them like adults. >> Yes. Exactly. All right. So we've talked about insulin resistance. We've talked about fat cells. Uh let's go talk a little bit more about fat cells. So it's the big inflamed full fat cells that are the problem, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. In fact, you hypertrophy. That's exactly right. Yeah. So, there are more and more as I think about insulin resistance, I think that I ought to have, if I could make one edit to my why we get sick book, I would have described insulin resistance uh kind of along two paths, fast insulin resistance and slow insulin resistance. So, this is literally the first time I've ever articulated this um in in public because I've just really been wondering how I can present these ideas in a in a more precise way. So, there are these the fast causes like too much insulin, stress, inflammation. Those are things that will cause insulin resistance literally within hours. But as the stimulus goes away, so too does the insulin resistance. So, it's fast on, fast off. Then there's a slow insulin resistance that will settle in over time and take longer to go away and that's the fat cell. So even even the example you just mentioned where what is it about the woman going through menopause where she goes goes from the gynoid fat pattern to the android fat pattern and that happening to I I basically say that when when a woman goes through menopause she becomes a metabolic mortal that prior to that she's sort of bulletproof. She's she's a superhero. When it comes to metabolism, the the chances of a premenopausal woman getting things like heart disease and type two diabetes are so fantastically lower than her male counterparts as to make her almost, you know, a demigod. And but with the loss of the sex hormones in her favor, now she becomes immortal, if you will. And and a lot of that is I mean estrogens have myriad metabolically favorable effects. One is to tell her where to store fat. And now back to the fat cell. When we store fat subcutaneously or beneath the skin and more of the gynoid pattern, that is a healthy place to store fat because those fat cells have the ability to multiply in in part thanks to estrogens and progesterone. And that means that the potential to store fat is higher, but it means also that the size of the fat cells are smaller. And that's what matters most. Uh people like to focus on fat mass. No, it's the size of the fat cells. And the problem with the male pattern of storage android, particularly fat that is stored within the abdominal space, is that those fat cells will almost only grow through hypertrophy. So that brings us to the size. S size matters here. Small fat cells are very anti-inflammatory and very insulin sensitive. Big fat cells are in fact this is worth elaborating because it's just so fascinating. There's two there's two things that go wrong. >> So firstly, as the fat cells getting bigger and bigger and it can get like 20 times bigger than the small fat cell, there's no cell in the body that is capable of this much growth. But it's almost like a balloon. We've been, you know, the kids been filling the balloon on the tap with the with a wa making a water balloon. Now it's reaching a point of maximum dimension, but they're still dripping in water. And so rather than bursting, the fat cell says, you know what, insulin, you are high. That's why I got big in the first place. I can't listen to you anymore. If I continue to be insulin sensitive, I'm literally going to burst my membrane because like like a balloon, there's only there's only a finite capacity for a volutric expansion. And so it says, "I have to stop listening to you. I'm going to become insulin resistant." And it starts leaking out its fats. So that is one of my favorite clinical tests that can measure this right at the level of the fat cell. It's not easy to do because you have to do two uncommon measurements, but that is to look at the insulin and to look at the free fatty acids because free fatty acids or non-sterified fatty acids, NEFAs or FFAs, and they can be measured in a blood test. It's just kind of very rare and a little more expensive. those uh if you see that insulin's high, which should be inhibiting the release of free fatty acids from the fat cell, but if insulin's high and free fatty acids are high, that is proof positive that the fat cell is insulin resistant. So, you're getting it right at that kind of first cell level. And that's a test called the atapose insulin resistance index or score. But nevertheless, so that's one thing that happens now where you have the fat cell leaking out its fats with all these free fatty acids going into the blood and the high insulin. Now the body can start to experience a high degree of ectopic fat storage. So tissues like the liver or even muscle are starting to or the pancreas are starting to store a lot of fat. And you'd say, well, why don't they burn it? Because high insulin won't let them burn it. insulin is forcing other tissues of the body to store it. So that's one thing that is wrong. It took me longer than I intended to explain it. Then the second thing is totally unrelated, which is that as the fat cells getting bigger and bigger, remember like 20 times bigger than it used to be, it starts to push fat cells further and further away from blood vessels, from capillaries. And in so doing, the blood the the cells start to become hypoxic or they start to suffocate. they're too far away from the blood to get that lifegiving oxygen. And in order to try to correct that problem, the hypertrophic suffocating fat cell starts leaking out these pro-inflammatory cytoines, which are basically just pro-inflammatory hormones. Because some of those, among the dozens of pro-inflammatory cytoines being released, some will get to the capillary and tell it to follow the trail of breadcrumbs and start budding off a new capillary in order to feed the big fat cells so it doesn't have to continue to suffocate. So it's a way so in both instance. Now this inflammation though of course starts to lead to this subclinical chronic systemic inflammation which contributes to increased heart disease and insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. But lest we blame the big fat cell too readily, we have to have some sympathy because both of these things becoming insulin resistant and becoming pro-inflammatory are efforts of the fat cell to prevent its own death. that it's becoming insulin resistant so it doesn't burst because that would be very messy for the body to have to clean up. And then second, it's becoming pro-inflammatory to once again prevent its own death to try to correct the lack of blood flow. It's just that the rest of the body ends up paying a metabolic or cardioabolic price in order to keep those overfilled fat cells alive. >> On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, I am so excited I got to have Dr. Ben Bickman join us for this episode. >> [music]