! NAC, NAC, N-acetimi, NACCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCC doctor. And I know there's endocrinologists out there screaming right now. And I know there's people having a fit. I see it all the time online. They come at me, but I'm telling you, if somebody's hormones are bottomed out, another example would be a young man who's had excessive head injuries, maybe due to hockey or due to surfing or due to football. I've seen all of the above. And these guys come in in their thirties and they have no testosterone and they are plagued with symptoms. They've got chronic pain. They've got migraines. They've got all kinds of issues. And they can't sleep. They can't eat. They can't put on muscle. They can't heal well. These guys have had their heads knocked in enough that now their testosterone is low. So that's just an example. There's all different types, but it is my clinical belief that it is indicated per individual assessment that those patients could potentially benefit from some transient or maybe even cyclical long-term hormone replacement, depending on what their needs are as an individual after assessment. So I'll leave it at that. Here are some symptoms that your doctor very definitely doesn't know about. And you probably don't know either. And I want to make sure that you hear them because for you perimenopausal ladies, you might be experiencing these. You might be experiencing these as a younger woman hearing this. I know I did in my thirties off and on. And again, it was times of high stress when I was very, very thin. Why is that? Your fat helps you make estrogen. So if you are missing fat, you're not having enough of, or as much of an enzyme called aromatase converting your androgens into estrogen. And so you are functionally low estrogen potentially. And that was the case for me. And so I was experiencing these terrible symptoms and feeling awful and didn't know what it was, but it was transient in those cases. It would come and go. And so I've used estrogen transiently as needed until more recently, I finally got myself moved from a topical cream, which I got to say after years and years and years of prescribing, I'm just not as big of a fan of. I was, I was even up to a few months ago, but there's so many variations that can occur. The time of day you apply it, the time of month you apply it, how hydrated you are, how dried out your skin is, how thick your skin is, how much adipose you have, how much inflammation you have. All of those things could very potentially impact the absorption rate of that topical estrogen cream. I think progesterone creams can be very wonderful for a large variety of cases. And again, until we hit that very close to menopause age where your hormones, I'm sorry, your periods are starting to shift and it's noticeable. And you're starting to definitely have some symptomology. That's when I switch to an oral micronized progesterone. And that's when I'm going to probably put a patch on a patient because the patch is what I call steady state. So the patch is going to give us more of that steady state. So we can start to predict levels better. We're going to start to see a more leveled out absorption. We're going to start to be able to predict with more clarity how they're going to feel on that. And it's easier to on-ramp them into the hormones. We have to on-ramp hormones. It takes like 90 days really, at least to get women feeling dialed in and really hitting that sweet spot of where they feel best. And sometimes what happens, and this is very common with peptides as well, is you end up, the tissues absorb and the levels start to increase in the body. And depending on the half-life, you end up with maybe a little bit too much. And so you got to back down a little bit. And so there's just this, it's a dance. It's an elegant dance where the clinician is involved regularly. The patient is giving good feedback and maybe journaling and keeping track. And you've got to figure out where that sweet spot is, especially if you're dealing with several of the hormones and peptides. Like you can't just throw them all in at once, right? So that said, I think estrogen often gets skipped or overlooked and it could be a critical piece of the puzzle. I know it was for me and I know it was for so many patients. One of the first things I learned was from a patient who'd been medically induced into menopause, meaning she'd had a hysterectomy at a young age. I know this is a story for a lot of you women listening. And I don't know all the reasons why women get hysterectomies. I mean, I know medically why they're supposedly indicated, but I cannot think of many reasons at all why they would be clinically indicated. I think that it is a barbaric and short-sighted procedure in many cases. Many cases, these women had some kind of autoimmune situation going on and, or they simply just needed to get their health together and their health was in shambles. And so they were presenting with ovarian cysts and all kinds of different issues. I've seen cyst-filled ovaries come back to a more normalized state without having to be removed when the patient's health is really optimized, but that's a process, right? And so we're like a quick trigger medical society where we just like, oh, let's just cut it out. And then these women are thrown into medical menopause and it's a disastrous place to be. And so this woman told me one day, she said, if you don't, she hadn't really pre-planned as many patients do. They don't plan well. And in not planning well, she didn't have her labs ran. And I really needed labs to be, you know, legally from my side, I need labs every so often to make sure that we're doing the right thing. And I was not going to refill her estrogen without having labs. And she had completely sort of, she really had, she'd kind of just been sort of mamsy-pamsy about it, thinking I would refill it. And I had already given her like a 30-day bumper. So we were in a little bit of a pickle and she started melting down in my clinic. And she said, if I don't have estrogen, I am in so much horrific pain. I can't see straight. I can't function. So needless to say, I gave her another bumper to get her through, to get the labs done so that we had, you know, our T's crossed and our I's dotted because we both have responsibilities, the patient and the doctor to doing proper and good medicine. And she needed to uphold her end as well. And I obviously wasn't going to leave her high and dry because that would not be the ethical thing to do either. So we got her through, everything was fine. But when she said that to me, I had not up until that point appreciated what estrogen, the impact it can have on pain when it's low, the amount of pain somebody could be living in. And it could be anywhere. It could be knees and hips, I think are very common. Patients will, bilateral, you'll start to see a lot of bilateral pain. For me, it was crippling spinal pain, like bone splitting spinal pain to the point where I couldn't even be hugged. It was so terrible. And estrogen in a steady state patch has been miraculous for that. So joint pain and stiffness, especially if it comes out of nowhere, especially if it's bilateral, especially if you're starting to have aches and pains in areas where you haven't had trauma, you just suddenly have pain. I want you to think about estrogen. And I want you to think, have I been through tremendous stressors recently? Have I been through a tremendous illness recently? Have I had a tremendous weight loss recently? Many, many times in my clinical practice, I saw women come in with either tummy tucks or significant weight loss and just all of their hormones bottomed out. So this is where estrogen plays a role. And we have good data on this. So there's a couple mechanisms I want to share with you. Estrogen has anti-inflammatory properties and helps regulate the body's inflammatory response. With its decline, inflammation can increase in the joints, leading to pain and stiffness. Studies suggest that post-menopausal women often experience new onset joint pain, particularly in weight-bearing joints like the knees and hips, like I said, especially if it's bilateral, guys, due to the natural course of estrogen withdrawal. Tendon and ligament integrity, collagen production, estrogen supports collagen synthesis. It makes us more juicy, more elastic, which is critical for the strength and elasticity of our connective tissues, including obviously, most obviously, our tendons and ligaments. So you'll start to see tendon and ligament tears. And that is not fun. That was what I was getting constantly, these little micro tears. And they were so painful because where ligament and tendon meet bone is called the enthesis, it's highly innervated. This is where my entire practice revolved. It was around the enthesis. This is where prolotherapy and regenerative injection therapies really shine. And these women would come in with like every other month, they were like, doc, I don't know what's going on. You fixed this, we were fine. And then that pulled and tore that and these little micro tears. The absence of estrogen can also lead to changes in the biomechanics of the joints and soft tissues and actual cartilaginous changes, increasing susceptibility to injuries and chronic pain. Muscle repair and regeneration. We have stem cells that are estrogen dependent. And without them, we can't have these satellite stem cells activate and help initiate repair and regeneration of the muscle. And we won't have muscle protein synthesis as readily with the estrogen decline. So these are really important factors if women are losing muscle with each decade of age. And even if they're strength training, I was still losing muscle. That's when I knew something was up. I was like, why am I still losing muscle? Even with taking testosterone, I needed more estrogen. Estrogen modulates neuromuscular efficiency. So its loss can increase muscle stiffness and tension and aberrant firing of the muscle. So you'll see muscle twitches, muscle fasciculations. There's all different types of symptoms that even pins and needles feeling that people will perceive. Nerve sensations, pain perception that wasn't the same. We've got central sensitization, which that's a whole long other conversation. But central sensitization is a wind up pain phenomenon in the central nervous system that affects the periphery. And it can happen after any of the things I mentioned, like severe stress or severe injury or severe health compromise from something. It's really a pickle to be in. And I do believe now looking back after all my years of clinical practice and then my own personal experience with central sensitization that I think often it might be an estrogen deficiency. Not entirely. That's not the only cause, but we will start to see this microglial wind up in the brain. Neuroinflammation will drive it. But I do think that estrogen plays a role here. On this episode of the Dr. Tina show, I'm going to be sharing with you the five hazardous signs of low estrogen that your doctor probably doesn't know.