When you do cool people invite you to do more cool and so you get invited to more things. Oh, that was another big piece of this. I canled virtually every podcast and every speaking engagement through the entirety of 2025. I made that decision in June and then I act started acting on it in July and by August I had canceled everything. So I've turned down two trips to the Middle East to speak at events. Uh I've turned down trips to the East Coast. I've I've just turned down a lot of really wonderful opportunities and I hope to get back to them and I hope that those opportunities will be open to me again in the future. But I knew going into this that I just needed a break and it wasn't I didn't know what that looked like and I didn't know how it was going to play out. I just trusted that it was going to be okay. And so far it has been great. I just needed to get my life in order. I had to slow down my career and my path to get my life in order. And my life was all this stuff. So fair warning, start pitching now because you don't want to wait till you're 50some and having to go through so much stuff, right? And it's like two whole households, if you will, because I have my whole clinical life that I had for well, you know, in my big practice, brick and brick and mortar for well over a decade. And um that was that was so busy. And while we kept that very well organized, it still was so much stuff and then a whole household of stuff, right? So, like literally two things to go through. So, I'm getting there. I'm not quite done yet. I still have more to do. I'm going to have to make a couple trips back here to get the rest of it out. But this way, I know that I am situated. I am organized. And I am cleaned up. And it has been so cathartic, you guys. So incredibly cathartic. And my health has improved. My pain has come down. I was getting such a tremendous scoliosis in my spine from stress literally like condensing me down. And I feel so tall and straight and I can breathe again. Uh I feel like my rib cage is literally letting go on me for me finally. And I had now that it has been processed, I'm still working on it, but now that the majority of it has been processed, I realized that I was carrying such a tremendous amount of guilt and shame around all this stuff that I had to go through, these piles and boxes of papers. And and like I said, a lot of it wasn't even mine, but I had so much guilt that I was hauling it around and that it was impacting other people around me. you know, like my husband had to look at or watch me be stressed. He had to look at the piles of boxes that I had to contend with. Um, I just I felt so much guilt and shame. I felt like a bad human being. And I'm sure I'm sharing this because I think a lot of you can relate that. And when when you have guilt and shame over you all the time, your health takes a significant impact. It impacts your cardiovascular system. It impacts your hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis and your hormones and your immune system and your gut health and your ability to focus. Things hold energy. And the more visual clutter you have and actual clutter and closets that you have stuffed full of stuff that you have to go through unfinished business, right, it impacts your health so significantly. And so I hope that this is the beginning of something really positive for me on my health and pain journey because if you followed me for a while, you know I've had my ups and downs. And I just think that I'm on to something huge here. And I want to encourage you to also purge because if you're dealing with autoimmune disease, if you're dealing with conflict, unresolved trauma, um inability to forgive, I've forgiven so many people in this process. It's crazy just going through every slip of paper, every single file, every thing, and and having to relive those moments and remember those people. I just forgave everybody. I just did one big blanket burn on it. Like, I don't ever have to talk to these people again. I don't ever have to contend with them again. I don't have to be friends with them or ever communicate with them in any capacity. But I forgive them. And I forgive myself. And I realized also in this process what a hand I had in all of this. What a total stress addict I had become. I was chasing cortisol constantly. And I and you know that that you've heard that audio that goes over the top of people's reels or memes where they're like, "Am I the problem? I'm not the problem." Well, I really have been the problem in many situations. And I was able to process that and own that and and sit with that and like even revisit some old demons, right? We all have old demons that have inhabited our darker places and to be able to just contend with that and and look at those those crevices and just release it to God and like let God's light in and forgive myself, forgive the people that were involved with it. Uh especially when you take two or three people that are really stressed out, right? Like I think stress that's that's the take-home lesson here is when stress gets high people act crazy. And so there were some situations where you know I had um been I had been handled really poorly by others and I had was harboring a lot of resentment and animosity and that was not helping your health at all. Like that's just poisoning yourself every day. You're just self-poisoning yourself by not forgiving. So I want to extend that to you that that idea that you can forgive the people who have hurt you. You can forgive yourself for your role in it because it takes two to tango, right? And you don't have to you don't have to forget it. You don't have to ever have relationships with these people again. But we can forgive. And I know some things are really hard to forgive cuz sometimes when I mention this on social media, I get messages back from you guys with some horrific stories and I'm like, "Yeah, that would be really hard to forgive." I I totally understand. And it's definitely a when you're ready kind of thing because when people told me I had to forgive certain people my whole life that hurt me or wronged me or abused me, I was like, "Heck no. Uh, no I don't. I wanted I needed that anger to fuel me." And that's another piece I wanted to touch on. I have been so under so much stress that I have used anger repeatedly to keep me going. And while that is fuel, it is really damaging fuel. It's really cortisol driven damaging fuel. So you're you're literally destroying your body and your soft tissues and your organ systems and your cardiovascular system and your heart and your and your soul by using anger and resentment. And this idea of um which I know a lot of us feel after 2020, 2021, 2022, a lot of us feel this like when are the people who perpetuated this going to have to be called out and respons held responsible for it? And I don't think that's ever going to happen. Like I I just don't think it is. And I I figured that out a long time ago. God did give me a hit in probably around 2023 that everyone's going to get what they deserve. good or bad, everyone's going to get what they deserved following that timeline. But, um, that's not mine to deal with. Just give it to God. It's not mine to deal with. It's not. Revenge is not mine to deal with, to to enact, to see through. All I can do is pray and connect with God and take really good care of myself. And you know what? The best revenge is winning. Winning, staying healthy, staying happy, having good relationships, uh keeping your keeping your beauty intact, you know, your natural beauty, your your health, your vitality, if you will. Keeping those things intact while people around you are, you know, being eaten alive by their resentment and their anger and their desire for revenge. Like, let them have it. like not mine, not my issue. I'm going to be over here taking care of myself, keeping my cortisol low, keeping my stress response low, forgiving the people I need to forgive, working on the things that I haven't yet forgiven. Um, taking tally of my life, purging all the I don't need because you can't take it with you.