This is why it drives me nuts, Tina, when I see people at the gym training slowly. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> I'm like, don't train slow, you'll go slow. >> Yeah. >> Do you remember that whole movement towards slow? Like, it was it was even called a thing. It was in LA. It was all this I was like, that's the dumbest thing I've ever heard. >> These people were telling me that you only need to work out one time a week and you just do everything super slow. And I was like, you know what? I have too much ADHD for that. Thank you. I actually work out so that I'm not a psycho and that my brain works and I need that to happen. I need that BDNF or whatever all is happening multiple times a week. So otherwise I can't I can't be high functioning. So there's no one that's where that now you could get this with resistance training and I actually will do some of this sometimes I call it highintensity functional training but that's where that hit comes in that's so great is just getting that lactate up. >> Getting you know but I think we should be moving. I I remember back in the day we designed exercise programs very specifically that you had to have your rest days, your recovery days and I don't use those anymore. I listen to my body if it says hey like knock it off. You need to just But that rest day would be a long walk or it would be some yoga. It wouldn't just be don't move. I think we need to move every day. >> Yeah, you move every day. I know. I've been with you and you are up in Adam and doing it every day and I think that's why you look 20 years younger than you are. So, it's working. Keep it up. Um I I think just getting a little sweat on, you know, and for those folks listening who have a lot of orthopedic issues or everyday is too much because like for me if I do I'll walk for sure, but um I >> that's what I mean. Walking could be it. It could be a yoga. It's something they're moving. >> The the activity level you have would trash my adrenals. So, I have to take a little bit different route. But I will say adding in uh I like to use like I have a power plate. I like to use that to do maybe a little mini strength training workout. Um I might do some mobility inside the sauna because then we're getting that like exercise. But in both cases, the vibration and then the heat is like an exercise mimetic. It's not a replacement, but I can kind of like stack and double dip if I will. you know, so I can because I have some pretty trash adrenals, but and I have a lot of pain. But anyway, um if I don't move though, I hurt. So there's like this fine line of do you not move and you hurt or you move too much and you hurt? So like where do you find that middle spot? And I think that's just different for everyone. But you don't know until you try. And there's no version of this where it's going to get any easier or you're going to get >> stronger and looser as you age. You're just going to get tighter and weaker. So that's all I think about is like this is not going to be better if I put it off till tomorrow, you know, like there's no better time than now. And >> well, there's the I hurt because I overdid it. >> Yeah. >> Or I'm just working out way too hard. >> But that's I don't think most people I think most of us we hurt because we're not moving. >> Totally. >> And that's when I like I heard if like you know having all these orthopedic problems from doing dumb things as a kid. They would hurt when I didn't move. >> Yeah, for sure. They get all stuck together and glommy. That's I know. I don't get it. I I do I mean I guess I could understand. I've been in a place before where I was in so much pain and mine's immunologically driven. So it's like a different kind of crazy and people who know know but um you know you just end up on the couch flat on your back for days on end in just such acute horrific pain. I told you last week I had a flare and I ended up taking I had to take a little bit of a steroid just but you know why I took it? So I could start moving. I told I looked at my husband and I said, "Dude, I got to take something. I cannot get out of this. I can nothing was touching it. Ibuprofen, Tylenol, nothing was touching it." And I said, "I'm gonna take a little steroid so I can get moving." And the minute it kicked in, I was on the floor doing as much rehab movements as I could. I was planking. I was um you know, bird dog, all those things. I was doing some push-ups. I was getting some air squats. Just what I could do, but I needed a little help to get there. And I think that >> I think that uh >> anyway my point being is like don't ever stop moving and move as soon as you can if you are coming out of pain like don't don't ever delay it because it's the fast track to healing and getting over the hump. >> Yeah. It was interesting. I told you I interviewed Dr. Elizabeth Yirth a couple days ago and her biggest thing she was talking about as she's bringing people through orthop she's an orthopedic surgeon >> is first thing she's like don't stop moving. >> Yeah. Ever. you know, just don't stop. Like all the stuff they used to say, she said all that stuff about rest, I no, don't do that. Don't do that. >> Don't ever stop. The minute you can breathe, like I was in so much pain, I couldn't breathe. And so I'm outside walking laps around the house, you know, just like like just in so much pain. And I kept walking until finally I could get a few breaths in. And then as soon as I'd have a window where the pain would calm itself down, I was doing some exercises gently. Well, you look at it too, like think about what contracting like you we think of muscle as something that kind of holds everything together and helps us move. But I think of muscle like yes, it holds everything in tighter and boosts our metabolism. And yes, it gives carbohydrates a place to land, but the exciting thing about muscle is what happens when it contracts and all those messages going out of drop the pain, boost the immune system, like it's like the coolest stuff. It's like you're in there, you know, creating your own pharmacy. >> Yeah. Of my. Yeah. And this only happens when you There's so many cool things when you actually squeeze a muscle from a biochemical standpoint. Just the you have to actively squeeze the muscle. So, it's not about it's not about finding them. You know, they're hunting down medications that would allow you to not exercise. And I'm like, "No, yo, you're missing exactly like you're missing the It's the actual squeezing is what does the magic. So, you have to go squeeze your muscles in the gym. >> I wonder if, you know, because I've been deep down the creatine rabbit rabbit hole, and creatine does a lot for the immune system, too. Like, we just presented, my um buddy who who created creatine HCL and I presented at a conference, and he was showing creatine going after, you know, after cancers, like creatine basically um pumping up these killer cells to go after cancer. So, I just wonder if that would if if pumping up the dose on that >> um which I only use HCL because that other stuff will just make you bloated and crappy feeling, but pumping that dose up to like, you know, three grams of HCL would help you with some of this because it might be worth trying. >> No, that's a that's that's that's a good point. You're absolutely right. Like just get the muscles to be happier and better. It's crazy. You know, aging is no joke. And there's no version of it where I I don't know. I don't know what it was. I was not a very healthy person in my 30s. And I had a very good memory of what happened to my mom when she went through menopause. And so about 10 years prior to menopause hitting, I decided, I better get my butt in the gym and start working on this. I better start building muscle because I don't want that. Like I don't want that experience. And you know, vanity, but really pain and vanity are the big drivers of of most people. Most people will respond to pain or vanity. And when people don't, I I don't know what to do for them. If I can't get them to tap into one or the other, it's very hard to get a patient to take action. And uh for me, it was like I just didn't want to go through the hell that my mom went through with menopause. It was not fun to watch. And so I started training. And when people said, "What are you training for?" I'm like, "The zombie apocalypse." Like I'm not messing around here. And I'm not, you know, I'm not hardcore. I can't rep push-ups like you. I And Gabrielle Lion. I, you know, I mean, I you guys are hardcore. And I >> Oh, Gabrielle Lion's got like I would not want to go to the gym. >> A machine. I know. But I share this because I want people to know that there's this looks different for everyone and that's okay, too, right? Like there's just a variety. You and I can can work out together and have a really fun time and we maybe aren't doing the exact same thing and but we both have >> we were pretty darn close. You short there. I'm like you were killing it. We stamina. Again, I go down to like what are the things that if you did these things, instead of trying to do all the things, if you just said, I'm going to get those steps in and let me check out a weighted vest. Then I said, then two days a week, I'm going to do some squats, some push-ups, >> maybe a bent over row or a deadlift and a flexed arm hang or a pull-up. I use a band to assist because I I can rep out now 10 of them, but I'm trying to do multiple multiple sets. But you can use a band to help you so that you're pulling. You could do some farmer's carries and an overhead press. I mean, simple stuff that you don't need much equipment for at all. And to start, you can use, you know, few dumbbells. >> Yep. Absolutely. >> Right. And then do like a day of yoga. You can do that. You can get a little class online and do two days of hit training. >> There's so much good free stuff online, too. You know, you don't have to pay for all this stuff.