 cond condononlululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululululu somebody about a full thyroid assessment. How the thyroid works is your pituitary gland drops TSH, thyroid stimulating hormone. It signals your thyroid, which lives in your throat here, little butterfly shaped organ to make T4. T4 then goes out of the thyroid and goes out into the periphery and converts into T3. T4 is a pre-hormone. T4 is the active hormone. So T4 is not active unless it converts into T3. Where a lot of folks run into trouble is they don't convert well. So we have conversion issues. The main sites of conversion are the liver, the gut, and the muscle. So if you've got a sluggish liver, which low thyroid can contribute to a sluggish liver. So it's kind of a vicious chicken and egg. If you drink a lot, if you have a fatty liver due to metabolic dysfunction, which I talk a lot about on this show. If you want to know more about metabolic health, go back and listen to any of my episodes. I talk about it at length. I also have a metabolic revamp toolkit that you can find on my website. I think it's a great offer and it'll get you the quick and dirty, but if your metabolic health is busted, I can tell you your thyroid is going to be in trouble. The gut converts it. A lot of folks have inflamed leaky guts. We have trouble there. And then the muscle, and you guys know how I feel about healthy muscle mass. That's a drum. My beat constantly. If your skeletal muscle is not well-trained and active, and you are not actively working on it, you're going to have conversion issues there as well. So the standard of care for thyroid dysfunction, low thyroid, hypothyroid, there's hyperthyroid, which is excess. We're not going to talk about that today. That's a whole other beast. I'll mention it when I get into the autoimmune component of things, but the low or hypothyroid condition, very, very common. And the standard of care for that is Synthroid. It's a prescription medication called Synthroid. The generic name is levothyroxine. And a lot of you guys are on it. I know that is a T4 only drug. So remember when I said, if you're not actively converting into T3 somewhere in the body, you're not actually getting the active hormone. So a whole lot of you are on a drug that is the pre-hormone. That's not the active hormone. This drug got grandfathered in before the FDA ever existed way back in the day. And it's just always been the standard of care. I will preface all of this by saying the standards of care around thyroid health are barbaric. I have no idea where or how it didn't get updated, but it is like in the dark ages, really. And I'm going to tell you a little bit more as we go through this episode. All right. So some common symptoms of low thyroid. Some common symptoms of low thyroid. You may or may not think you have these symptoms. I did not fit the clinical picture. Keep in mind, I was rail thin, stressed out of my mind, living off of cortisol in medical school as a single mom going to two programs concurrently. And I did not know I was low thyroid until somebody pointed it out. I just knew I was super anxious and depressed at the same time, which is a common symptom actually. Depression is, in my opinion, one of the number one symptoms that's overlooked. It is insidious. In fact, if you look at the standard of care, they'll often say for depression to prescribe a SSRI like Paxil or Prozac. And then they'll say to add a secondary one on that might maybe something that impacts norepinephrine, epinephrine, like a, you know, bupropion, wellbutrin type thing. And then third, they'll say add in T3. T3 is the active form of thyroid. So it is a known antidepressant. And the depression, I lived with it for years, years and years. The depression that low thyroid brings is indescribable. Nothing will touch it. Nothing will touch it. No amount of antidepressants, no amount of exercise, no amount of anything will touch it. And while living clean, exercising, and doing all the good stuff for ourselves will help improve our thyroid function. So we really are addressing the thyroid. It can be a bit of a downward spiral. And so I highly encourage you, if you have depression, I should say that has seemed untouchable by other measures and you're doing all the right things, consider talking to somebody about a full thyroid assessment. I'll tell you what that entails a little bit later. Brain fog is a big one. This is the way I describe it to my patients is, you know, on, I use Mac computers, I use Apple and you know how the little wheel spins, or it might be an hourglass on a PC when your computer's stalling. That's exactly what your brain feels like when your thyroid's low. It's like you, I would be saying the same things all day long to patients. So it's almost, it's not scripted, but it's like, you could say it wrote, right? It's the same things I would say to every patient about basic treatment guidelines. And when my thyroid wasn't working, I just couldn't get the words out. I would forget words. I would, my tongue would actually get sluggish. My brain would get sluggish and stall, and it would be like the little hourglass spinning of death, you know, just the little doom spin. And I couldn't get my brain to turn on. Speaking of tongues, your tongue might enlarge. And so when you, especially as folks get older and they have a hard time speaking or articulating, oftentimes I consider thyroid and you'll actually, you can actually see enlarged tongue. I've seen this on friends of mine in pictures smiling. I'm like, Oh, they're hypothyroid. You can also see it. You can see it around the eyes. The eyes will look a little buggish, like a little bit bugged out. And at the same time, there'll be a puffiness around them and it's a, they go concurrently. And so you'll see that a lot. I, that's how I know I am getting a little autoimmunity and I'm going to talk about the autoimmune component here. Cause it's very common is that my eyes will start to get a little bit bigger, like buggish, just a tiny bit. No one else notices it, but me, and then I'll get a puff around the upper and lower lid. And that's very indicative of your thyroid being a struggle on the struggle bus. Let's see. Mixed edema is a big one. So what is this? Mixed edema happens secondary to hypothyroidism. It is a proteinaceous swelling. It's different than a fluid swelling. It's a proteinaceous swelling. And you might get pitting edema where you push your thumb into the front of your shin and a pit remains. That's mixed edema. It's pretty dangerous because what I've seen clinically, and I don't have any studies to back this up, but this is what I saw in clinic all the time. My practice was primarily in regenerative injection therapies and I treated musculoskeletal pain. That's what people came to know me for. I do believe that when thyroid is low and that mixed edematous, mixed edema, proteinaceous swelling is happening, I think it's happening everywhere because I could see it under the ultrasound. I could see it. I literally would put my ultrasound probe down on someone and be like, oh, you're hypothyroid. I could see it clear as day. And I'd have to show you the difference between healthy tissue and that to show you the difference. But most of my friends who do ultrasound type work, they don't, and I'm talking musculoskeletal ultrasound where we're using it as an imaging tool. They don't know what I'm talking about when I ask them, but some astute ones have been like, oh yeah, I know what you're saying when I show them. So anyway, but I think it actually ends up surrounding our joints as well and putting pressure on them. And our joints are very sensitive to pressure. That's why barometric pressure hurts when there's weather changes. Some people will notice joint pain. That's why we do better in dry climates that don't have our barometric pressure, right? But here in Oregon, we get a lot of rain and clouds and that can really make people's joints hurt. And it'll also surround the spine. And so I will see nerve, what's being perceived as nerve issues. And I actually think the nerves are getting squashed by this mixed edematous goo. It's gooey, to be totally frank with you. And when people are really hypothyroid, when I would pull their synovial fluid out of their joint, it would be thick and gelatinous. It should have a little bit of a gelatinous. You know, when you make jello and you're heating it in the pan for that first round, that first bit, and it's a bit, it's like really runny gelatinous. That's how your synovial fluid should be. That's healthy synovial fluid. When someone's hypothyroid, their synovial fluid's really, really thick. And it sometimes will have even proteinaceous precipitate. So there'll be floaters in the synovial fluid. And it's causing a tremendous amount of pain for these folks and their joints will swell. Literally their joints will swell up and we'll have to drain some of it off before I can then go in and inject the regenerative solutions that I'm using. So it really does impact the musculoskeletal system. I'll talk more about that in just a second. There is hair loss is very common. I know everybody's complaining of hair loss with COVID. I actually think, yes, it could be a couple of different issues, but I think at the end of the day, truly what we're seeing is COVID just takes people and puts them over the edge, whatever the edge they're on, it just sends them over the edge. So if you're on the edge of hypothyroidism, it's going to send you over the edge and your hair is going to start falling out. If you're on the edge of menopause, it's going to send you over the edge. And so it really is kind of that shove that's happening for people. And they come out the other side and they want to call it long COVID. I'm not dismissing long COVID, but you know, the NIH just announced this week, like they're no further along figuring it out. They've spent billions. They're no further along figuring it out than they were before. And if you go to any naturopathic doctor worth their salt or a functional medicine doctor who knows how to treat post viral syndrome, none of this is like surprising to us. And all of those doctors are having great success with long COVID. And yet there's what 5 million Americans that are suffering with it right now. I think what I'm trying to get at is at the end of the day, it's not so much long COVID as it is people getting shoved over the edge of whatever edge of pathology they were on. If they were hormonally unstable, if they were on the edge of menopause, if they were, you know, leaky gut, all of the things that maybe were, was kind of being maintained by homeostasis. And then boom, COVID comes in and shoves them over the edge. So they're actually dealing with a whole bunch of different issues. And I think metabolic health being at the root of a lot of these, it kind of shoves them further into pathology. All right. Eyebrow, lateral third of your eyebrow, hair loss, that's a thyroid symptom. Constipation is a big one, but I've also seen diarrhea, but mainly it's constipation. So if you're not pooping every day, every single day, you might want to consider thyroid as an issue. And like I said, I was thin and had the opposite symptom picture of people. I had the opposite of constipation. I had the opposite of weight gain. Weight gain is another one. I want to talk about that for just a minute. When my thyroid goes low, it's hard to catch it happening. This is difficult to describe, but imagine you have an eight cylinder engine and only four cylinders are firing. Your car is still going. And by the time I figure out, but it's happening in real time. And so my brain isn't working well. And by the time I figure out that my thyroid's low, I'm already past the alarm point, if you will. So I'm already dealing with the five pounds of weight gain going on 10. I'm already dealing with the depression and the low cognition and the confusion and the hair loss. And usually hair loss is one of the first indicators. And my thyroid just fell apart recently due to a medication switch. And my body did not like the new medication I tried. I'm going to talk about medication on this episode too. And my husband said, who's shedding in the shower? You know, jokingly, he said that, but he was like, honey, you've got a ton of hair loss in the drain. So that I should have, I mean, that was long before I started feeling the symptom picture of low thyroid. I'm just saying you get behind the, you kind of get behind the whole issue and it's hard to catch up. And so the weight gain can happen on that note, when you get properly medicated, because your thyroid is responsible for your metabolism and your metabolic turnover, meaning cellular metabolic turnover. So your skin will start to get coarse. You might struggle with acne. I often will get hyperkeratosis pilaris, which is the bumps on the arms. That's a big symptom for me. Everybody says that's related to how you're processing your fats and are you getting enough vitamin A and are you getting enough essential fatty acids? But I'm telling you, if your thyroid's low, you're not going to process your fatty acids well. And that's one of my first symptoms as I start getting the hyperkeratosis pilaris, which I've still got a little bit of that's residual coming off of this last, you know, thyroid debacle I just went through. But I knew that I was in trouble when I started getting really, it started, my face skin started getting very coarse, bumpy, really bumpy and coarse. And I was like, Oh, this is bad. So, you know, the hair loss didn't concern me two months prior, the low mood and depression. I just thought it was, well, it was, we had like six to eight weeks of rain here in Oregon. It was horrible. So I was just trying to get through that. And then, you know, a couple other symptoms, the weight gain started very quickly. And then of course, when my skin got very coarse on my face, I would, and my arms, I was like, okay, this is, I need to switch medications here. The depression that low thyroid brings is indescribable. Nothing will touch it. No amount of antidepressants, no amount of exercise, no amount of anything will touch it. And while living clean, exercising and doing all the good stuff for ourselves will help improve our thyroid function. So we really are addressing the thyroid. It can be a bit of a downward spiral. And so I highly encourage you if you have depression, I should say that has seemed untouchable by other measures, and you're doing all the right things, consider talking to somebody about a full thyroid assessment. And I'll-