You know, I won't even look at an MRI until I do my evaluation. I was taught that by one of my mentors, and it was great advice. So, it sometimes would aggravate patients, but I'm like, I'm just not going to look at it until I actually ask you all the questions, do my own evaluation, do my own physical exam, and then I'm going to tell you what I think, and then we're going to look at the MRI and see if it adds up. But often, you're right. I think also you have to think about and consider who is that MRI report going to, right? And do those people have any clue about physical medicine? First of all, if they're an orthopedist, hopefully obviously they know how to evaluate joints. I'm not saying they don't understand physical medicine, but they don't understand conservative care, physical rehabilitative medicine the way that you and I do. And I know we have different training, but still similarly like we're getting the patient moving. We're getting the patient active. um we're impacting the nervous system so that the tissues can move more freely. Like there's all kinds of things going on here that I don't think that the person receiving the MRI report probably has an appreciation for. What do you think about that? So, so like you said, you know, chiropractor and PTS like we actually we do the same thing in terms of getting people moving and loading tissue and and doing that whole get rehabbing someone, right? We may have different methods, but the goal ultimately is the same of getting people moving, getting people to reaclimate into activity in their life. And again, no shade at doctors, and this is not all doctors. I know some doctors are phenomenal and truly like actually take the time to learn about physical rehab, but most doctors in your general setting, in your general, whether it's a hospital, even a private practice, so many osteopaths, surgeons, like they don't understand rehab whatsoever, or their understanding of rehab is from a failed perspective. They know rehab is going to fail because traditional PT and traditional methods of chiropractors don't work. like your your run-of-the-mill PT and your run-of-the-mill Cairo, you will see no changes or or or if you do, then your issue was that minor and it was all it needed was a little bit of some kind of outside influence and it can get better on its own. But for so many people, like most of my patients, they've seen three, four, five other therapists and I'm like I'm the sixth one and the final one, but the sixth one, right? And so, but that's that's health care. So, you know, either the the osteopaths or the doctors that people go to, they they like you said are not informed about physical rehab or they have a such a low expectation of the physical rehab space that it almost like doesn't matter. Like they know they're going to have to go for surgery anyway cuz you know, rehab is going to fail and they're going to convince the patient that they need it because traditional rehab failed. It's yeah it's really it's really sad because it's so many unnecessary surgeries occur and people don't understand that surgery is a big deal you know I mean the surgical route and then it destabilizes the joint further and often from my point of view often uh because I was in the realm of prolotherapy and regenerative injections and so it was a a lot about treating the anthesis points which is where ligament as the audience doesn't know but you know where the uh ligament and tendon meets bone is the anthesis and when you inject those areas even with like a low dose of dextrose it can often stop the pain and so much of the work I did revolved around the patient you know I'm trying to put together back together a joint that is slowly but surely just decompensating because it is deconditioned and half the time I would just look at them and say like go to this strength and conditioning gym where I trust these people because they train older folks often and go get strong like go spend your money there. Do not spend your money on injections. Go get strong. Go put some shelves on those shoulders and those shoulders will stop hurting, you know. And nine times out of 10, it worked. It worked great. And it's just too bad that the system at large. Well, I think we're also looking at a lot of doctors who are not fit themselves. And that's something I always appreciated about you. I was like, "Oh, he's fit. He's mobile. You're a dancer." You guys, if you don't follow Dr. Shapiro, you must because he dances in every almost every single video. And it's so fun. So, thank you. Like that's the key, right? And so we're talking about docs who are deconditioned themselves or they're like cardio bunnies and they don't believe in strength and conditioning and you know it just gets arduous for the patient. I'm sure it's frustrating but at the same time it's like nine times out of 10 people just need to figure out how to regain some level of fitness in that region. Yeah. And just getting better guidance. I mean to that point what you just said I have a patient who's PCP um to literally to like my patient went to like hey I my my knee hurts um I I really want to be able to bike and swim and hike like I I really love being active um you know and she's she's in like you know middle-aged about 50s or so and the doctor looks at her and goes why like just chill like you know you're getting older stop doing stuff like what oh my god Oh. Oh my god. I told her immediately, get a new PCP. Get Get a new Get a new doctor. Forget it. You know that that's like that's crazy. Like, oh, you're getting older. Do less. In what world would you need to do more if