When men, especially, especially young men, start losing their hair, what do they do? They start wearing hats all the time, right? You never see them without a hat. I think that lack of sunlight on your scalp could potentially be a driver of hair loss. And I think it's under researched and it's under talked about. And I think that wearing a hat all the time and shrouding your head. And I know this is what happens. I see it in older women who are losing their hair. I see it in young men who are losing their hair. Everybody puts a hat on all the time. But having a hat on all the now, we don't want to have our scalp burn, especially if you have white hair. Like my scalp is way more sensitive to sunlight now than it used to be because I don't have dark hair anymore and particularly your part line. And I do put a little sunscreen in there if I'm going to be out for hours and I will put a hat on if I'm getting a lot of sun exposure on my head. But just the natural daily act of getting sunlight that we get, you know, we go, I always counsel you to go outside, get some sunlight in the morning. Go outside, get some sunlight in the or, you know, midday. Get, you know, 20 minutes of high exposure to your skin, 15 20 minutes. We're not burning. We're just getting our sunlight for the day, our dose. And then in the evening as the sun's setting, I recommend another visualization of the outside, being outside in that light. You're getting three very different types of light and rays. And I'm going to have somebody on to talk all about this, but getting different types of light on you throughout the day, I think, is absolutely critical to being a healthy mammal. I think when you wear a hat all the time, you might be hurting your hair follicles. That's just my hypothesis. Something to consider. So, red light caps. I didn't I I would be remiss not to mention that. Uh I don't think the red light LEDs do very much from the research I've done. It's not in the right wavelength. Uh the red light laser caps, I have a red light laser cap. It was very expensive. It was by prescription only. I don't know if they sell to the public anymore, but if they do, I'll do a whole podcast about it and I will share because and I'll share an affiliate link with you guys because I think a laser cap it does have data and I think it helps me. So, I wear a laser cap every couple of days. I also would like to believe that maybe there's deeper penetration than just the scalp and that I'm going maybe into some impact in my head. I'd like to think that, but I use this laser cap every probably two to three days. You don't want to use it every day. It gets pretty warm. So, a laser cap, the manual stimulation can be helpful. Getting adequate light on your scalp, not burning it, not overexposing it, but actually getting adequate light on your scalp, I think, can be helpful. All of these things potentially could be helpful. The biotin supplements I'm not such a fan of. I don't I don't see good data linking biotin supplementation to hair growth. Again, could it hurt? Yeah, actually could. You could OD on biotin. There's I'm not OD and die, but like you could take too much biotin and it's not good. We don't want to take any B vitamin in excess. B vitamins are like a concert orchestra. They need to all work together. Um, there's other supplements that I've seen sold like there's the Neutrifol and they kind of won't tell you what's in it. Some people say yes, some people say no. Some people swear by it, other people say it didn't make any difference. So, that's up to you. Uh, the other thing that I have seen cause a lot of hair loss is in bodybuilding competitions. I've seen I've had a lot of patients in that realm that women going to do like bikini competition or bodybuilding competition and through that process after it's all done because of the extreme weight loss and the extreme cutting that they have to do to get down to that lean mass and just paper thins you know the fat layer and the skin are just you know very very thin. I've seen hair loss come subsequently from that and again it's it's the stressor of it. So it's like few months later six months later all of a sudden they lose half their hair. I've seen that time and time again. Interesting fact about that crowd is it's so bizarre. They come to me completely wrecked, hormonally wrecked. They're amenorhea. They're I mean it's bad. Their hair is falling out. Wrecked. And we rebuild them. And almost every single time I get them back on track, they're like, "I'm going to do another competition." So, it's kind of like moms. I have so many moms that I treated and postpartum absolute dumpster fire. Like they fell apart completely postpartum physically. We rebuild them. We get their pain down. We get their hormones balanced. We do everything. And then the second they feel better, they're like, "I want to have another baby." And I'm like, "Oh gosh, this was so hard to get you back online." So, I don't know what it is about human beings. We seem to forget our pain and trials and tribulations. But all of those things, anything that leads to hair loss is probably not a good idea to keep doing if your body's not handling it well. I'm not saying stop having babies, but some women have a really hard time with child birth, and some women have a really hard time with, I guess, bodybuilding competitions and extreme weight loss. So, you know, either build yourself up really strong before you go put yourself through that again, or maybe consider that, you know, that hair loss was telling you something. It's it's a warning sign. I'll leave it at that. So, I think that's it. I think I've literally talked about everything I could possibly think about with hair loss. I hope this has been helpful. I'm not giving you any medical advice. I'm just telling you what I have learned along the way, things that I have uh sorted out with specific patients myself. Like I said, this is personal. I've I've gone through it. I'm I'm currently in the oh my gosh, I'm middleage. Am I balding moment? Uh so, I may have to start parting my hair on the other side and I'm going to keep using my laser cap. I really feel strongly that getting enough sunlight is going to be just a complete game changer for my health completely when I get to Arizona. I I'm banking on it. I'm literally moving there so that I can have more sun. Like that's the biggest driver for me. Um I think getting away from all this dampness and cold like in Chinese medicine, damp is not damp energy is not great for you. And it's just too much dampness for me here. I don't have enough heat and vitality that way. So lots of things to consider. But again, just know it's a warning sign. The root cause is often multiffactoral and there are definitely solutions. You just have to find somebody who's going to be a good investigative worker for you and help you sort this out and you're probably going to have to make some lifestyle changes. So, I'll leave you with that. If you like this podcast, please head over to your favorite podcast player. I prefer Apple podcast because that seems to be what helps get the word out. But if you could rate, review, and subscribe, it would help me immensely and it would help get the word out and so more people could get some good common sense knowledge. I'm really trying to give you guys a different level of value than other podcasts offer. A lot of podcasts just interview experts. I do that and I have expertise myself and so I'm trying to download my brain on just about every topic I could think of that I know something about. I'm not going to talk about things I don't know anything about.