We have a whole group of people out there who are gaining the weight back and who are stuck at the highest dosage and nothing's going well. They're regaining the atapost tissue and they're just waiting for reatride thinking that's going to solve the problem. But then I'm even more concerned because if you have glucagon agonism going and you're not hitting the gym, if you are hitting the gym, you're going to be put in more of an anabolic state. If you're not hitting the gym, you're going to be put in even more of a catabolic state. Am I am I over the target here or am I way off? Am I making sense? Well, you're making sense and you're trying to think your way through it and it's it's awesome. And I I I commend you on on on your thought process and you're in the right places. But I think what you have to you have to look again as it's not one way or the other. It's if we're working on improving efficiency of the cell, we are then enabling it's it's a modulator. It's not a and it works on demand. GL GLP1s they work on it's why you don't get into hypoglycemic problems um with glucose with GLP1s. It's GLP1s work more it it's an it's a more precise type of peptide that works on demand and it works as a modulator and so think of it this way if if I'm working on improving the efficiencies of the cell meaning um its ability to do what switch from amk into mtor mtor back into amk it has to have that flexibility right it's got and it loses that flexibility when it loses that metabolic advantage to use like fat oxidation when it needs it or protein catabolism which is something that occurs um to to make up sometimes this is where you get into issues with people not knowing how to utilize these appropriately as as the healthcare providers where they push things too fast they don't realize that um that yeah, the the cell is getting efficient and it may in order to provide more glucose or to to do things for um enhancing what's already happening with fat oxidation. It may it may want to catabolize like glutamine from the muscle uh you know to to utilize protein because that's kind of what's happening. it's it's getting another source of glucose. And so this is why it becomes so important to understand and you're right in in at least initially with the initial GLP1s we realized a while back that you had to have because you were you know because you were stimulating changing metabolism in not just improving fat oxidation and so forth but actually you were causing some calorie restriction because of appetite suppression. That was like a double whammy, right? You're you're improving metabolism from the metabolic aspects of changing truly fat oxidation, which just improves a uh ATP and NADH production and efficiencies of how the cell uses glucose, fatty acids, and and proteins. But you're also you're double whamming it with this appetite suppression that's further calorie restricting the body. So you've got some extra influences that you got to account for and you got to make up for that and and so you you're right in thinking initially with the GLP-1 and mTor well gosh protein we know in particular leucine has an influence on inducing protein synthesis and then exercise itself in particular resistance training has another factor to you know increasing the production of the mTor state activation and what are we trying to do retain muscle so it's not being catabolized and also to potentially even improve muscle protein synthesis which you can do absolutely just with GLP1s by themselves if you understand that. So it's a it's an understanding of the mechanisms and then also understanding that you can take advantage of those mechanisms with providing the proper stimulus. So that's where kind of exercise, strength training, protein synthesis kind of made a real difference in providing a much better environment for your patients to benefit from training. um especially if they were, you know, especially if you're using low doses and um these aren't people that are achieving weight loss, but the weight loss definitely is a different place in understanding that and and we learned all that a long time ago with calorie restriction and and and what that really emphasizes because everybody loses muscle with calorie restriction, right? What happens with the GLP1s, it's just people are using such super physiologic doses without really compensating and trying to do it too quickly and just not understanding the the mechanisms there.