Can you take us back some of the history of like didn't PBM show up on the scene during the Obama administration when we got the whole insurance thing that he brought? Like tell me about this. Yeah, sure. So, PBM started uh in the '9s. Um, and they were originally because as we grew our employer sponsored uh health insurance system here, we needed somebody to manage that that massive amount of medications. you know, it didn't feel comfortable for them to go, we cover your insurance and just everything is covered no matter what. So, they hired these companies to manage that for them. But then around uh the Affordable Care Act with Obama, that's when they really sort of took off. Um before that, we gave them a little bit of control over the price of medications, we carved out some statutes from the anti- kickback um legislation which allowed them to negotiate rebates. That's really the the key to their their power. they are they have the exclusive rights to control our drug pricing through that method. Um and Affordable Care Act really solidified that and and everything kind of skyrocketed at that point. If you look at drug prescription price data, um everything shoots up right around 2012. Um so that's really when when it all kicked off for everybody. Uh specifically with that those anti- kickback statutes, that's where they can negotiate rebates. So, in the US, we get drug prices on this extremely high list price that's like nonsense. Nobody pays this list price. Um, like if we're talking about um, you know, Ozic or whatever, those cost like $1,000 list price. And but your insurance plan doesn't actually pay that. And almost nobody pays the actual list price. We sell like barely any of those um, because you can get it cheaper so many other ways. The PBMs negotiate rebates or price reductions from that price. And so the only way you can get a real price on brandame drugs in the US is through the PBMs because of that anti- kickback. Okay. So PBMs are pharmacy benefits managers. They were brought in in the '9s because employers who were providing insurance for their employees didn't want to have to decide what was covered and what wasn't. So they hired this organization to do that job. And then when the Affordable Care Act kicked into gear, so I got my license in 2008. So I saw this happen in front of me and I was like, what is going on? And in fact, I even saw the list or I don't know what I saw the wholesale price of drugs that like let's talk about fluconazol, which is a common antifungal. I remember for a minute there when I first got my license, we could get that wholesale for really cheap for a bottle like of a hundred. Really, really cheap. And then somewhere around 2012, 2013, it shot up to like gosh, like $300 a bottle. And then it's since come back down to something more reasonable, like more like $30 a bottle. But I mean, I remember buying that stuff for like five bucks a bottle. And it was it's just been that even the little bit that I've seen of drug prices from the wholesale side. I can't even imagine what's going on. So explain to people how this works. Health insurance companies, PBMs, the drug stores them like many of theies, sorry, themselves like CVS, Wraid. Is there a connection? Like doesn't United Healthcare kind of own all the way down in some cases? Oh yeah. Well, that's a big miss. So that's called vertical integration is what we call that. Um so specifically with CVS because they're kind of the the monster in the room even with all these big guys. CVS actually went out and bought a PBM and then which was Carmark and then they went out and bought an insurance company Etna. So they bought from the middle up. They bought everything above it. The other guys went kind of the other way. They were insurance and they bought down. But the main point is all of us are in these big vertically integrated networks. The reason that we do that is that they say that that's going to help save us money. If CVS sends you to their own doctor, they're going to save you money. If they send you to your own far to their own pharmacy, it's going to save you money because they can control those prices. Of course, that's total nonsense. They do not control those prices. They shoot those prices up and then that allows them to retain a bigger part of our insurance. The higher the premiums are, the more that they can pay themselves, the more that they can keep within the company. Um, so for instance, uh, if you went to, uh, whatever doctor and they sent your prescription to CVS and you had CVS Caremark insurance, they're going to pay CVS's pharmacy about three to five times as much as they would pay my own independent pharmacy. The PBM is where the insurance is. Well, the the PBM manages that part of the insurance. Yeah. So, they're like the same. Okay. So that's preferential treatment and payment to thearmacies they own. Exactly. Yeah. And they actually use that. So that difference they pay their ownies more than they pay independentarmacies, but they don't charge less. So the way the insurance works is you pay your insurance payer, right? If you have employee sponsored healthcare or if you have Medicare, then you pay somebody else that then manages your prescriptions, right? So they don't charge less if you go to CVS Caremark than you do if you go to my independent pharmacy. They just pay less. So that difference in the middle there is called spread pricing. They just keep that money for themselves right in the middle without it going to a provider. It doesn't go to the cost of the medication. It doesn't go anywhere. It just stays with the PBM. And so by doing that, they're able to control their competition. One of the big things that's been happening lately is Walgreens and Ryaid really struggling. Raid's out of business. they're gone. Um Walgreens has sold for like pennies on the dollar and they're going to get strip mined by private equity I'm sure. Um but the reason that happens is because reimbursements for nonPBM ownedies like mine, Walgreens, Ryade, Walmart, they get paid so little that they can't stay in business. But drug costs haven't gone down. They also haven't gone up. Drug costs have been pretty stable. What's gone down is the reimbursements. So everybody's premiums are shooting up. the payment to nonPBMarmacies is is dragging down and the PBM pay is just shooting through the roof. That's insane. That's a racket. Yeah, that's a complete racket. Yeah. And then so United I saw a big thing on um one of the independent like real like middle ground, you know, just more centered political pages. They did a whole workup video on like United Healthcare and that vertical integration and they brought it all the way down and it was just mindblowing to see how they own every single step of the entire process. There's I don't even have words for it. like this is it's maddening and it's sickening and the the the you know the poor person at the end of the trail is the one getting screwed because this makes sense now why when I first started in practice uh so I've never contracted with any insurance companies I've always been paying at time of service and I've always been just solo on my own doing good work in my little clinic and I would try to play nice with some patients insurance because they needed me to right so like they needed certain things like what what could we do for to get labs covered? What could we do to get because I wasn't in network with anybody so a lot of times they couldn't get anything covered. What could we do to get, you know, get their pharmaceuticals covered? And I noticed this push from them wanting me to I would get these like faxes over the the fax machine saying you should try or, you know, you should prescribe your patients medication and 90-day supplies and our mail away, whatever. And I was like, what is this 90-day thing? Like, do they really want people I don't I'm I'm a naturopathic physician. Like I'm not a big fan of putting people on medication forever. I'm a big fan of getting people off of medication, but if they really need it, I understand that sometimes. But like it went from this you go to the pharmacy, you get the medication you need in a pinch like an antibiotic or something short term to suddenly this very chronic care model where your patients are presumed to be on this medication for life and now we want you to send away to these mailway centers. Do they own those? Is that how this started? Like do they own the the places where we're the far the big I mean if I think it was even Walgreens was doing like the mail away what's all that about am I I mean tries to do everything but they but they don't own the reimbursement that's the problem that Walgreens has but the guys that do own it express scripts optimum CVS care those are the big three PBMs and they all own their own mail orderies retail obviously also with CVS um but mail order is where those other three really want to do it and there three of the four biggestarmacies in the country, which is insane. Like Express Scripts, nobody uses Express Scripts. Somehow they've just pushed all of their patients over there on these mail order where they charge uh I mean some of the prices that they charge are are literally 10 times what they would charge at at my pharmacy, which is crazy.