At the end of the day, if we're if we're hurting our mitochondria, it's a recipe for disaster. >> So, we can help them with different things. >> We can regenerate them. We can make more like tell me about that part and how uriththna plays in there because I know that there's differences there. >> You're you're absolutely right. There are differences and we can think of the mitochondria in three stages, three parts of their life cycle. The first is the creation of new mitochondria and that's called mitochondrial biogenesis. So that's when we're actually making new mitochondria. The second is mitochondria efficiency. So once we have a mitochondria, how well are these mitochondria working? Can we make them more efficient or not? And at the end of a mitochondria's life is a process called mphagy which is that cellular breakdown of a mitochondria into its key components that can then be recycled into new mitochondria. Now, urthanise uh does play a role in that and people have probably heard of other mitochondrial supplements, things like NAD, CoQ10, NMN, things that are targeting the mitochondria and really they each look at a different process and what's unique about uriththna is that it hits that mphagy bit. It's the only clinically validated supplement that actually targets the breakdown of dysfunctional mitochondria. It's kind of like the the garbage person in our cells, right? if we leave our house, you know, and we never take our our garbage, there's going to be this accumulation of debris that causes issues, even if that's just an angry, you know, spouse or family. So, what mito what my uh mitoure does, urthan, is that it recycles these mitochondria and that feeds into mechanisms that then create new ones. Other things like NAD, that's mitochondrial biogenesis or CoQ10, that's mitochondrial efficiency. And the quality of clinical data for each is different, but mitona is really unique in targeting that mphagy component. >> Yes. Okay. And then there's a there's a playback on our muscles. Talk to me about that because I that's the part that resonated with me early on was there was some data around muscle health and uralithna. >> Yeah, certainly. And uh I'd love to hear your experience too. who I know. So we timeline the company that uh produces urolithna. It's the um obviously who I work for uh managing clinical trials. Um but what timeline uh did originally was look at ways we can increase health span. So how can we increase the number of years people are spending in good health and muscle central to that you know uh I think it's rightfully considered the longevity organ um in many spaces we we all can see and people we know as we get older we lose strength we lose muscle mass and so muscle was a primary focus in some of the early clinical studies that timeline was doing and what we saw in some of those studies after showing the safety and bioavail availability of uraliththna was that when we took a wide range of populations whether it be middle-aged men and women primarily women in these studies actually which is quite common in this space but you know 40 all the way up to 90 years old with two to four months of supplementation we were seeing significant improvements in muscle strength so whether people were taking half a gram or one gram we saw about 10 to 12% increases in muscle strength after these couple months of taking uroliththn A and that obviously was really exciting to see positive clinical results. Um that has continued to uh translate and be replicated by other researchers around the world from elite athletes who just had a study accepted uh that was in elite uh runners uh going Australian Olympic team going into the last Olympic cycle weightlifters all the way up to uh to frail adults. So muscle really was the core of what we're doing because of its role in longevity and strength uh was one of the first places we saw benefits of mitona. >> Well, it makes sense because with with adding muscle to our body, we are adding mitochondria to our body, right? Do I have that right? >> Yeah, I would and you know, I would actually think about it uh almost the other way in this case of what the mechanism might be where >> Yeah. muscle. >> Yeah, muscle is a very energetically demanding tissue, it costs a lot of energy to build muscle. >> Exactly. >> So, if we can improve that energy source in our cells and remove any of that dysfunctional mitochondria, which do have major negative impacts on our muscle, then we have the energy needed to build uh to build strength. >> Exactly. Yeah. So, that's that's how I think of it. It's like adding muscle to your body is one of the few ways that you can add mitochondria to the scene, right? And then but if you've got compromised mitochondria going on in there and they are c there's they're they're if they become scesscent cells if or if they you know they're they're part of that kind of pathway of the zombie cell you know sucking up resources not pulling their weight kind of thing to have a product on board that helps with that mphagy and that sort of junk and debris clean up makes so much sense because it's like if we're bringing in new good stuff we can't be keep you know I'm cleaning out my house right now cuz I'm moving And I I'm like, I have so much I have so much crap in here. I'm not going to bring this crap to my new house, you know? >> That's right. If we're improving the house that is our body, we need to get rid of the garbage. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, having a system on that side, I've always been hyperfocused on this side. But it wasn't until you guys came on my radar that I and I legitimately use this stuff every day. Like, this is one of the few things I just religiously take because it had never occurred to me that like, oh, maybe the mphagy part is critical. Yeah. Well, well, you're absolutely right. I know we were chatting about it off air, but supplements when it comes to what's worth it, it's a short list. And when you talk to people who have seen the trends come and go, you see the fads, you ask them what they're taking, it it's usually a pretty select list. And uh I think it it's telltale sign when something can span years and years and only have more built up evidence behind it. You know, you see things like creatine. You know, no one doubts creatine's efficacious. Yep. Some things doesn't stick around for decades if it's not. And it's exciting to see that now with almost 20 years of clinical research, that happening with Mitoure. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's exciting to see creatine get big, too, because >> Absolutely. >> I was giving it to my little old ladies a decade ago for their brain health, and now everyone's like, "You can use creatine for your brain." >> Yeah. >> Get out of here. and it is even just recently I know um well you uh rightfully called out my Canadian accent but shout out Darren Kando who's a fantastic researcher in this space uh and has a couple really nice papers this year um and and it is I think it is uh there's enough smoke that there's probably a fire and I I'm excited to see where the clinical data lead on that front because it makes sense that you know creatine at at its heart It's improving cellular energetics. So it it would make sense that it's going to have positive impacts in several tissues. >> But that brings in this piece again because if we're I always think of things in terms of pathways. If I'm revving pathways, if I'm asking the body to rev a pathway, I have to provide necessary co-actors. I have to provide the environment for it to thrive. You can't just ask a system to go and hit the gas and not have something on the other side to mitigate it. So this idea of mphagy of of you know mitochondrial cleanup that part made a lot of sense to me because usually we're we're throwing the inputs in you know we're asking systems to go harder instead of like >> what about the tail end of things we and and how do we recycle what we have? >> Exactly. It's a cycle. Exactly that life cycle of a mitochondria, you might say. But our body really is just in a constant state of turnover. It's renewal. You know, if we nick our finger while we're cutting our nails, you know that that skin because it's turning over can heal. It's the same with everything in our body, whether it be muscle, blood cells. And that's really what my mopure uriththna permits is that turnover of mitochondria to keep a healthier pool of mitochondria throughout our body.