25 year old influencers with 10,000 followers working with telemed companies using my name, sending you to my podcast, which thank you. That's great. That's, you know, that's exposure. I appreciate it. But you guys are using my name and you know who you are to sell your followers into working with the telemed companies that you are being that you are affiliated with that you're getting paid by. you're getting financial compensation and kickbacks, which I think should be illegal. If I were to take compensation or kickbacks, that would be called price splitting, and that is highly illegal. So, I don't know why it's okay. I I guess only if doctors get a kickback for making a referral, that's illegal. But when influencers do it, it's not. I think it's grosser than gross. And you guys are making a ton of cash working with some of these huge tele medicine companies and some of the smaller tele medicine companies. And you're telling your followers that they're going to micro dose GLP1s for inflammation. Wink wink. Because that makes them feel better about it. So they don't feel like I they don't have to be like, "Oh, I'm on ompic for weight loss." They can say, "Oh, I'm I'm micro doing for health reasons." You know, and your guys are just getting standard starting dose. So you're not micro doing. You're being scammed. And they're charging you an arm and a leg for it. You're being scammed. That's I don't have anything better to say about it. That to me is a scam. And you know, I don't know who's necessarily doing that. I'm not going to name names, but I see it all the time. And I am constantly getting pulled into it. Or there'll be some kind of meltdown conversation in the comment section of somebody's posts who are micro doing for health and then people pull my name in. Tina said, Dr. Tina said it's safe. Go listen to her stuff. And I'm like, whoa. I am proposing that I believe it. Okay, first of all, let's clear this up. I think it's video two or video three of my four-part video series where I go into the big scaries. And I've talked about this at length on my podcast and others, so I'm not going to go into every single condition, but the propagandized push to scare the be Jesus out of you guys in literally 99% of those cases is just nonsense. The data is not bearing out supporting those claims. the pancreatitis claims, the thyroid cancer claims, they're just not bearing out. So, you can believe what you want to believe, but the latest data looking at long-term studies, big cohorts, it's just not playing out that way. I do believe these peptides are very safe. You can go decide what you need to do after you talk to your doctor and decide what your risk tolerance is based on your health history. That said, I would propose theoretically that if a 15 milligram dose is considered safe and we have good studies to support that, that a tiny little droplet might actually also be safe. That's just my hypothesis and I'm very clear with my patients when I talk to them about this. But I, you know, if you were to tell me that, you know, let's take aspirin for instance, I think they come standard 350 milligrams in the tablets. I'm going to propose that a baby aspirin, I mean, let's call this baby GLP-1 if we will, a baby aspirin, which is 81 milligrams, I don't know where they came up with 81 milligrams, but 81 milligrams, I would suspect is probably safer than 350 milligrams, right? Can we agree on that? So, what if we took that 81 milligrams and broke it in, you know, up and made it a tenth of that dose? Could we propose that that would be even safer? We could speculate that that would probably be safer because we're doing less and less and less dosages. So, I'm not going to sit here and split hairs with doctors who want to argue that because I think that's a nonsense argument. But that said, the big scaries you're seeing just it's got to stop. It's clickbait, you guys. I don't know why. I don't know what the agenda is. That's a whole other conversation that we're not having today. I've had it on my podcast. I've had it on others podcasts. You can go listen to that. So, anyway, that's the origin story of how this all got started. And I'm just fed up at this point and I'm tired of getting pulled into it. I'm not mad that it's being popularized. I'm not mad that more people are doing it. I'm mad that it's getting misrepresented and it's turning into clickbait and it's getting super gross. And that's how everything happens, right? People hear what they want to hear. Patients would come into me to talk to me about their chronic pain because that's what I specialized in. They would come in to talk to me about their joint issues because that's I did regenerative injection therapies. That's what I specialized in. And they would very often not hear me. And what I would tell them is this, and this is the same same holds true for JLP1, specifically micro doing them. If you're not in a good healing state, meaning if you cut your finger and you don't heal well, you're probably not a candidate for regenerative injection therapies because the whole premise of them is that they harness your body's innate ability to heal. And if that is shite, then you're going to have a shite response. Okay? So if I have a patient, they want PRP, which involves me drawing their blood, spinning it out, isolating and concentrating down the platelets and reingjecting that solution back into their compromised joint structure, the ligaments, the tendons, and intraarticular of the joint that's of uh of complaint. If I, this is exactly what I would tell patients, if I I could just tell by looking them. If I take your hot mess of inflamed blood and I concentrate it down and I shoot it back into your hot mess of an inflamed joint, what do you think is going to happen? That is a disaster waiting to happen. That's like setting off a bomb. That's a terrible idea. So, ethically, I would not do it. And I would make sure that we got them optimized before I put them through that procedure, right? I've been doing this for decades. This is nothing new. We would start with terrain. Terrain first. How's your gut health? How's your strength training and your exercise? Like, are you metabolically optimized for this? How's your hormonal status? How's your sleep? All the naturopathic 101 goodies, right? Like, we address them all and then we treat because it's unethical to treat a body that isn't going to respond. Just as much as it is unethical to promise a middle-aged woman who has 40 pounds to lose that micro doing her with an $800 vial of semaglutide is going to help her lose weight. Do you know who loses weight on a micro dose? women like myself who are already dialed in and we just have maybe I don't know 10 to 15 max pounds max and usually what that is is like a inflammatory fluff as I call it. It's um it's really it's your fat cells being inflamed at the end of the day. It's as we age and as our hormones start to shift our macrofasages shift from a less inflammatory to a more inflammatory state. So now we literally have inflamed fat that's pissed off and that has a huge impact on our metabolic health. If we can address that early on, I think the better, right? when that woman comes in with an extra 12 to 15 pounds around her midsection and I haven't seen her in a year and I know this woman is dialed into a tea like this woman has the discipline of of a Navy Seal with her nutrition with her exercise habits like she's doing all the things right but all of a sudden maybe she doesn't have any weight on or maybe she's got six pack abs but all of a sudden her labs start shifting and the lipids start going up and the insulin starts serum insulin starts going up and the inflammation start the markers all of them start going up and I'm like whoa what is happening here right this that is insulin resistance that is low-key that is happening as your hormone shift and we can put them on HRT and we can still see those impacts happening the HRT isn't always the magic panacea either and by the way your HRT isn't worth a damn either if you're not optimized so going in and you know you've listened to Dr. Mary Cla and you're excited and you go in and you've got 60 pounds to lose and you're like, I want estrogen. We do not want to be putting estrogen in an inflamed obese body. That is goes down weird pathways. We got to clean up the terrain and GLP1s do a beautiful job of that. Some of you are going to need standard dose. They're still going to help you clean up the terrain. Some of you are going to get by with a micro dose and it's going to be awesome. And not only are you going to have your insulin resistance addressed, but you are potentially going to be getting some help with some of these other things. So when people say, "What's the dose, Dr. Tina? You're gatekeeping. You're a horrible person." I cannot tell you because I look at a myriad of factors when I decide dosing. I look at the individual sitting in front of me. What's their age? What's their height? What's their weight? What's their muscle mass? What's their gender? What's their short-term goals? What are their long-term goals? What are their coorbidities? What are their chief complaints? What are we trying to do here? Right? That determines the dose. And so again, it's a fifth to a tenth of the standard starting dose, but it is part of a comprehensive treatment plan. It is part of a comprehensive peptide stack. I cover all of that inside my big course, my GLP-1 DoneRight University. You will get to that and be offered a discount on it if you go through the four-part video series. If you want to grab it now, you can go ahead and head over to drtton.com. Click on the courses tab. It'll be right there for you. It is beefy. It is easy to understand and the general public can easily understand it and comprehend it, but it is beefy. And I will tell you why I made one course. Because I realize that most doctors don't have a flipping clue about what to do when it comes to metabolic health and hormones. And most of the general public is smarter than we think. And they actually deserve the highlevel education. And who am I to gatekeep it? So I made one course where I met y'all in the middle. So, if you're intelligent and you're proactive about your health and you want to know how to do this right, spend the money and get the course because I'm telling you, it will be cheaper than you going around in circles with practitioners and tele medicine companies trying to sort it out with them.