the liberation of toxins too fast can occur very very easily with you know not even mega doses but within you know your regular doctor's range of GLP-1 medication. So the easiest and probably in my opinion one of the most important things to do is support liver health and clearance of toxins when you're losing weight fast. So let's not even get into the nuance of what your dose is. If you're on these things and you are losing weight be it from a GP1 or any weight loss journey. It's really important to make sure that if you've had a background of toxin exposure, heavy metals, mold, glyphosate, pesticides, that you're doing something to clear those first and foremost because you don't do not want them redistributing in a fatty organ or another tissue in the body and it goes from being rather benign and diluted in fat to something that can then cause organ dysfunction. So definitely binders would be useful to take around bedtime away from other supplements um if you're losing weight fast. But let's get on to the most common one that you mentioned. It was first and foremost was the gastrointestinal problems that you have. The SIBO often you end up with issues with bile and fat digestion. Um and uh stomach acid can be affected but not as often. Um the reason this happens obviously is the GLP1s affect gastric motility. They slow it down. They um keep you feeling full for longer both in the brain and you know physically in the small and the small intestine the the the gut and in your whole digestive tract. So this is good in a short term but in the long term how SIBO can occur is undigested food matter. It's common for people who follow a vegan diet to end up with SIBO because of stomach acid insufficiency. Um, and with stomach acid insufficiency, you relying on your bacterial populations to break down a lot of the food because your stomach and your enzyme stomach acid and the enzymes haven't done the job well enough that you need to rely on your bacteria to help you out with it a bit. It's a decent backup system, but not one that you really want to have because long term that can lead to these overgrowths. A similar thing happens with GLP1s where the gastric emptying and the motility is so slow that the bacterial populations tend to increase or um you might get overgrowths in areas of small intestine where you really shouldn't have it. And I believe that's because of how slow that motility can get. There might be some other factors in it too, but um that's where I think we have a lot of really good naturopathic ingredients. Not even touching on peptides yet. a lot of really good naturopathic ingredients and protocols for SIBO that if that does happen, you could turn to those. Um, look at some antibacterial herbs, some gentle ones. You don't want to go crazy with oregano oil or anything like that for a long term. But one that I use with great success is Toddka is the bile acid. It's going to help with it thins your bile. It helps bile flow. And bile is a really good disinfectant for the small intestine. It dumps into the small intestines to help with fat absorption, but it's really good at clearing out um bacterial overgrowths. And then as well if you um if you got a lot of fat in your diet or even if you don't and you just don't LP1s and you want to help your absorption of fats and the fats soluble vitamins then toka is going to be fantastic and probably the first protocol when we're looking at the gut from top to bottom would be right in that um du dunum and the small intestine the first part of it support that with tide. The biggest point that you said that really was impactful is make sure your gut health is in check first. Obviously, the SIBO we just mentioned, but leaky gut as well is something that so many people, if you had to guess how many people in, let's say, America had leaky gut or some sort of low level of IBS or IBD. What would you guess that figure to be, Tina? I would >> everyone >> 40% of people have something that would be detectable on labs or or a feal biome sample or you know looking at cal protectin and zulin but it's it's pretty high so supporting >> I would say I would say everyone >> I would say I would say anyone consuming American food and American grains especially um are are probably dealing with some kind of leaky gut and then consequently leaky brain on top of it, right? If you have leaky gut, you probably got leaky brain. So, it's super common and whether you test it or not, just going off symptoms. You can, you know, if people are burping and belching and farting and uh having skin issues and having histamine issues, they've got leaky gut. >> Yeah, it's pretty ubiquitous in America, Australia, all the places that have incredibly high industrial, agricultural pesticide use. Gluten gets a lot of the blame and I don't doubt that it is a huge contributor. But I honestly think glyphosate and eating non-organic foods is the problem because as we know, as you probably said in this podcast in a prior episode, if you go to Europe and you eat the gluten, you're not going to react the same way you do in America. There's no GMOs or there might be no GMOs depending on the country. And they don't use an exorbitant amount of pesticides if at all. Therefore, the food is something that isn't going to completely wreak havoc on your gut, on your intestinal flora, and you're not going to react to it as readily. If you celiac nuance, maybe you will still react because of the um immune system activation from the gluten, no matter where it's from, but yeah, most people don't react in Europe and France and all these other countries. So, gut health, leaky gut. All right, we want to make sure that we don't have intestinal hypermeability. On our last episode, we spoke a lot about gut health and the importance of that for whole body um health, but the immune system's on the other side of our gut. So, if we've got immune issues, autoimmunity, it's really important to focus on gut health to reduce our overall inflammatory burden. But from the perspective of GLP1s, are you seeing a lot of people who are on them have ex like horrible digestion? The motility in and of itself is going to lead to SIBO and potentially lead to SIBO. Not always. There's nuance to everything we have to be um considering. But do you see elevated markers for zulin and calrotectin? And is that something that you're noticing in in your patient set or from other practitioners reporting? So what I hear about is all over the place because I have people reporting in from all over the world through my following as well. So I get a whole different it's wild. I mean it's not even just my patient base that I hear about and I hear from other clinicians and I hear from students inside my course and you know I hear because the course is for the general public and for practitioners. So I'm getting it from all over. Um, I specifically only really discuss micro doing with people. And so when they come in and they say, "Oh, I'm taking this standard dose." I'm usually like, "Buddy, I can't help you because that's not my forte." I would never I'll just say this. I would never dose somebody up super high on a GLP-1 ever. I I just I don't think it's a great idea. I'll just put it out there. So, my whole and I do use it sometimes for weight loss, but I still am very conservative with it. And I'm very careful and I still try to cycle it. So in those individuals because I just really don't love people being on it for long term. I I don't think there's any way around not getting SIBO to be honest with you. I I just don't think there's any way around that if you're on a high dose for a long time. That's just my opinion. But what I do hear about is people complaining of they don't realize it's their gut. So histamine issues will show up. We're giving it to somebody to quell mass cell activation syndrome or to quell their mass cells and because it sits on the m they they it actually binds our immune cells GLP-1 does. But then all of a sudden we get into this other bulb especially if they're doing HRT with some of these tele medicine companies or doctors who don't aren't really being super careful and we've got women on doses of estrogen that are driving histamine issues. It's a whole mixed bag. And so I see kind of the car leave the freeway, if you will, like the the train kind of goes off the tracks and they start reporting symptoms that don't match up at all what should be happening if they're truly doing this in a conservative way. I guess I'll leave it at