 PEGGoranananastrodoor, julananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananananan So inflammation is just, I mean, that's what I was trying to get at with the B vitamins across the board. When you're in a toxic and or inflamed state, you start to chew through your B vitamins. Well, all your nutrients, all your micronutrients and macronutrients too, you start to eat them up because really that inflammation is just literally burning through them. Yeah. And then I think that we'll probably find out that the gut microbiome has a lot to do with it as well. I'm sure. Yeah. Absorption and just conversion in the gut. That's got to be a player. One research group has done two studies on it, both were in rats. So that doesn't necessarily translate to humans. But what they found in those two studies when they gave nicotinamide riboside orally, great NAD booster, that for that to work and boost NAD levels in the liver, certain gut microbiomes had to interact with it and turn it into the flushing form of nicotin. And then most of what got absorbed from that lower part of the GI tract was the flushing form of nicotin. And if they did things to eliminate those good gut bacteria, then NR wasn't as useful to boost NAD levels. So the other thing that's been super clear is that NR, niacinamide, flushing niacin, all interact slightly differently with the gut microbiome. So think of the gut microbiome, which on average, maybe, you know, yours has 5,000 different species. Mine would have 5,000. Some we would share, some would be different, but they're all depending on us for their food supply. And just like us, if they don't get enough of these precursors, they'll be deficient and have issues. So my strong suspicion is that with that, you know, dysbiosis that occurs with aging, their gut microbiome's not doing the job it needs to do to optimize NAD levels in the body either. I never thought about my microbiome being deficient themselves. Yeah, they rely on us for everything. Like magnesium, right, is, you know, super important in all the energy production pathways. And if we're not getting enough, they're not getting enough. So, you know, and it's same with the B vitamins and the NAD precursors. So yeah, we're always eating for, for, you know, literally trillions. It's true. It's true. I never thought of, I'm starving them as well. You know, I always think of them as either alive or dead. I don't think of them as nutrient deficient. I don't want to starve my little bugs. I always say to eat an interesting diet so that it keeps it interesting for your biome, right? Your bugs need interesting food too. They need something to chew on that's different and unique and interesting along the way. If you feed them the same things every day, some of them die off because they're bored. You know, I know that's not as that simplistic, but that's how I describe it to patients. Cause I'm like, I don't know. I don't think you could live off of just only one food group. Like some of the, you know, these extreme diets are popular online, you know? The microbiome is flexible within some constraints for sure. And, you know, so really quickly when we dramatically change our diet, you'll start to see shifts in maybe not what is there, but the quantity of it, right? Will cause certain ones to be out-competed, so to speak. And, you know, oftentimes over time will cause some species to go extinct and we don't want that to happen. We want to keep a lot of diversity in our microbiome. Yeah, for sure. So let's go back though. So we've got Frank, Frank deficiency of, you know, pellagra. And then there's this idea of just declining NAD levels, the hallmarks of aging. So that's what we're going to start to see. Those 12 things you listed, that's, those are the things because people aren't going to know whether their mitochondria are working or not. I mean, they might feel symptomatic of something, but like, what are some things that one might notice? Yeah. So I always work backwards from what are the good things we see when we give it to people? And like, what are the things where they tell us they notice the difference? And the most common thing without question that we've seen in our studies when we measure changes in NAD levels is people reporting more energy. Like, so not, you know, energy in the ATP sense, but energy like anti-fatigue. Like there's something there, like, and maybe because we're making more ATP, maybe because more that, you know, that D dementia thing, right. That had to do with how our brain was functioning. So energy, feeling less fatigue, number one thing I see all the time. A second area that's super common is the mood category of things, right? So, and by that, I don't mean just depression or anxiety, but irritability, nervousness, again, like those cognitive things, because our, those mood things really, it's our brain that's, you know, or the gut brain axis, but both that, that interact there. So that would be the other, you know, number two big category, just better emotional resilience and, um, and feeling like our emotions aren't running away with us, that we are more the driver of the ship. And, and all these emotions are appropriate in the right context. It's just when we, when they're starting to be our constant companions, as opposed to when we need them to express themselves. I love that. I love that, that, like that version of just your emotions running away from us, but that really nails it because as I have aged, I have noticed that my tolerance bands are getting shorter and shorter. And I know that part of that's hormonal. And I know part of it is just getting older and, you know, having better boundaries. But there are times when I don't lose my cool. Actually, I'm better at keeping my cool, but sometimes, yeah, that's, that's it. The emotions sort of run away from you and you potentially ruminate on them or whatnot. And it doesn't always feel as under control as it, it used to be. Um, they, I, I know when I'm feeling good is when things are rolling off me, just no problem, right? Versus me locking in and sort of fixating on something. That's when I know I need something in that moment. I either need exercise, I need nutrition, I need sun, something like that will usually help alleviate that. So that makes sense that it would be a malnourishment. Yeah. And I use the idea of resilience, you know, like that, you, that would get what you're talking about. Like, oh, I'm resilient. Like these, I was able to respond well to this, whatever this stressful situation was. Um, but just like our whole body, ourselves, um, you know, they need to be resilient, right? Cause they're getting stressed all the time, often by many of the same things listeners are right. Toxins, radiation, poor nutrition, you name it. And, um, Charles Brenner, I mentioned that name earlier. He's, um, one of the premier NAD researchers has done a lot of the work on nicotinamide riboside. And what he told me when I interviewed him at one point is his belief was the main plus of maintaining higher levels of NAD plus as we age is so that cells could be more resilient. So that when they get metabolically stressed, they'll be able to deal with it. And when that's the case, then they don't take on the damage that causes them to become zombie cells as an example. Right. So, so we want cells to have plenty of NAD in their bank account, so to speak, to be able to spend when they get stressed. That makes so much sense because what stress cell is a metabolically compromised cell is an inflamed cell. And then, um, you know, then I guess shifting gears back, another category would be sleep that I see people very commonly when we do things to increase their NAD levels mention that they feel like they're getting better quality sleep. Would they notice, would, would this be like Frank sleep disruption or would this be more subtle in that they wake up, they, they supposedly are sleeping fine, but they're waking up feeling unrefreshed or maybe they're tracking their sleep with a ring or some such gadget and they are seeing their sleep architecture go sideways. Like, is this impacting anything specific? In our studies, when we pulled the people that have commented about sleep, it's been more that sense that their sleep is more restorative. They just aren't as fatigued during the day. They feel less sleepy. Um, it doesn't necessarily track with aura rings or other things, but it may for an individual, but it's more that restorative piece. And then the fourth area I hear a lot in part because, um, at Qualia, we tend to have a lot of high performers and athletes that we interact with is the sense that they are able to rebound quicker from exercise. That's a big deal. Actually. Let's talk about that a little bit and what some of those mechanisms might be because the older I get, the more intensely sore I am after exercise. I'm getting sore and sore and sore as I get older. And I'm like, what is going on? And I realize again, some of that's hormonal. And as I get my hormones supplemented appropriately, it tends to resolve somewhat, but it is a thing. And I know that some of us have like, you know, a genomic profile that's going to lead us more towards post-exercise soreness, but I really feel like there's something to the actual aging process that is contributing and I'm not digging it. Yeah. I mean, I think it gets one part inflammation, right? We, as we get older, we tend to make a lot more inflammatory molecules from exercise. So even, um, good things. I know in animals, a really intense workout in a young animal will maybe create a few zombie cells, but then they're gone within say a week. In an old animal, there's much more like an explosion of them, a huge number and they, they linger. And so even, even exercise, if we overdo it when we get older, just has, we're much more likely to be harmed by that than we are when we're younger. And then I think, you know, other things play a role, stem cells, which is, you know, a passion of yours, right? They get exhausted as we get older. So, um, they, um, tend to, the ones that we have, which tend up being more in a quiescent state when they do get active, they're not as active or as good at performing their functions, you know, which ties in again to that niacinamide form of B3 as an NAD precursor. And that's one of the reasons I thought that study that I mentioned was so cool because it helped, um, increase the function of muscle stem cells. And then that resulted in repair and regeneration of muscles quicker. So, um, so I think there, that tie into many of the different hallmarks is where NAD starts to weave together into that recovery because whether it's inflammation or stem cells or repairing DNA, it's just a player in so many key parts of how cells perform at their best. This is make me want to take my NAD plus supplement more regularly. I, um, yeah, I took the quiet NAD plus first thing this morning with, I, I also believe the best time to take things that help our body make NAD is early in our day. So I, um, like one of the strange things to me, I don't, I don't know if this would be the same with you, but, um, the default often is, Oh, just take this two or three times a day, like take it at breakfast and dinner or take, you know, some at breakfast, some at lunch, some at dinner. And many things because of our body clock have a better, like a good time to take them and a maybe less good time to take them. And often that hasn't been looked at. Certainly it's not, not in most cases been looked at nearly as much as it, it merits. And with, um, and the NAD molecule, it was looked at in what I thought was a really cool animal study. And so what they did is one of the reasons there was some excitement going back to David Sinclair's work in 2013 is boosting NAD over and over in different animal experiments, improve their metabolic health. And by that, you know, like lipids and blood sugar and insulin and, and those types of things. So in this study, they, um, did the equivalent of a NAD IV at the beginning of the animal's active cycle, you know, so that would be for me as a human that they'd be like when the sun rises more or less. And when they gave the NAD molecules, then it improved metabolic health. So then I said, all right, well, let's give them instead 12 hours later at the beginning of their inactive cycle, you know, when it gets dark and it actually worsened all those things. Really? So morning, morning is the ticket. And then, then, you know, that was doing the IV. So then they said, all right, well, let's give just the niacinamide form of vitamin B3 also timed. And they found the same thing that when niacinamide was given at the beginning of their active cycles, it improved metabolic health, but it worsened it later. And so my, this would just be my belief. It's obviously imperfect. It's a, you know, an animal study. We don't have the data in humans, but, um, we both have similar body clocks and are circadian organisms. So until more is known rather than being willy nilly with when I take my NAD precursors, I'm really intentional and always take quiet NAD plus in the morning. Okay. So red light in the morning is better too. So I'm going to stack them and I'm going to do it religiously and I'm going to get back to you because that, that's really compelling. It makes sense. You don't want to be, it's clearly that means there's something strong to do with your circadian rhythm, which we don't want to be messing with. So people don't get that. Our circadian rhythm isn't just from the outside light. Like, I mean, it is to some degree, but hot and cold, certain nutrients, all of those are going to impact circadian rhythm. So. Yeah. Yeah. Meal timing's really like profoundly impactful on it as well. We have like our central body clock in our brain, but then our liver has its own body clock and the liver one isn't as, as set by light and it is more set by food timing. Yeah. And ideally we want everything to be synchronized. So we want our body to be the equivalent of a beautiful symphony, not like discordant music. And so, you know, when we miss time things, we're more likely to get, you know, discordant noise than a beautiful orchestra playing. That makes sense. I will pay attention to that. I do admittedly take it mamsy-pamsy when I take it. So, and I also have been a bit mamsy-pamsy with my red light. So I, one of my commitments to myself was for the new year was to get my red light in, in the morning and not necessarily at night. Although I do sleep great with my red light at night, but NAD plus in the morning, you guys have gifted me a bottle of that and I, I need to be more diligent with the morning timing and then I'm going to stack it with my red light. Is there any utility to that? Like do it? I mean, it seems like it would optimize. Do you know anything about that? I, I've not, I recently interviewed for our podcast at Qualia, the person that founded MitoRed, which is a red light and near infrared. And I asked him about timing and, and really his main takeaway was just do, like most of us would benefit from some red light. It's less important to when. Okay. And so, but red light in, is it red light? I think it's the near infrared that gets all the way to our mitochondria, right? That penetrates more. Anyways, like both of them are good for our mitochondria and NAD is so important for that. So, you know, if they make our any, if red light makes our mitochondria form better, think of that as what we talked about, right? Like now you're removing an obstacle to using the things that help our cells make NAD. Okay. I did interview a red light guy, BioLite was the company and Dr. Mike, and he was telling me about a study of that red light in the morning improved mitochondrial function and it did not have the same impact at night. So I think that, I think that this might, I mean, I'm wondering if there's, I'm all for stacking, you know, I'm all for loading up before I hit myself with a red light, hit myself with a methylene blue and all that jazz. And I think that we're, you know, we're photosynthesizing beings. Anything I can get light working with my cells. Yep. And I tend to also think, you know, if we give people really clear instructions when to do something, they're much more likely to fit it in their life than if we're vague, like, oh, but I know even for me, if I would, for listeners at one point in my early adult life, I was an officer in the Navy. And so time was a crazy prize commodity when we were out at sea between my job, standing watches. And if I had a 40 minute window to exercise and didn't take advantage, there wasn't going to be another 40 minute window that rolled around that day. That was it. They either do it or don't do it. And what I remember finding routinely at that point in my life would be I would invariably do the exercise when I had that minimum window and had to do it. But if I had all day on a Saturday, I might never get to it. People don't get that. Our circadian rhythm isn't just from the outside light. Like, I mean, it is to some degree, but hot and cold, certain nutrients, all of those are going to impact circadian rhythm. So yeah. Yeah. Meal timing is really like profoundly impactful on it as well. Have like our central body clock in our brain, but then our liver has its own body clock and the liver one isn't as, as set by light and it is more set by food timing.