You did mention something that I think is worth noting and that I always warn folks against when they are embarking on using any kind of neurologic stimulation, you know, anything that like stimulates the brain. If you have really compromised health or you do have a lot of exposure to like latent infections or mold exposure, sparking the brain can be a little bit of a challenge. And so this is this goes back to the gut, right? But I always say like address the gut first and get that systemic inflammation down in the body so that we can address the brain without having because sometimes people get a little jumpy when you start bring you know you'll get like a paradoxical reaction that you didn't expect when you sometimes bring in neuro formulas. So I love the idea of the I love that the foundations of all of these are naturopathic in nature that it makes so much sense. That's why there that's is why I didn't know this about you until until a few days ago. This is why because every formula you've sent me a few things and I'm like this is genius but this explains it. So truly I don't know about you but my kind of order of operations for healing people is work on adrenals. Yep. Then then gut then liver and detoxification and elimination then hormones and then you can sort of do all the extras wherever else like if it's kidneys are still not functioning then you can go after them. If it's neuro brain fog, all that sort of if that's not already resolved from working on those prior ones, then you can bring in things like neuro. And then the additional things, oh, I want to like slow my rate of aging. I want to use NMN. I want to boost mitochondrial function too. That kind of plays in wherever you kind of wanted to as an add-on on the side because if we can get people feeling better, they start moving. I'm always my goal is always to get them interested in nutritious food, which sometimes isn't it's hard to do. you feel like complete garbage. You tend to eat complete garbage. Your instincts are off. Everything's dulled and your taste buds are dulled. You just feel like So, you eat like right? And that's a tough cycle to get out of for some people. And so, if we can get, this is where I really love the GLP1s because if we can give them something to get them feeling better, then they do better. If we can get people wanting to move, they start moving. When you start moving and you start focusing on that, you actually start drinking more water and you start eating better and you start going to sleep on time because you're doing we're just fancy mammals with opposable thumbs, like we're supposed to have the same things that mammals have. My dogs are way better behaved when it's not pouring rain all day and we actually get outside and they get to run the fields, right? I have much better behaved dogs. Same with us. Same with kids. It's adults are no different. And so if we can get some of those features addressed, then they start making better choices. And as they start making better choices, I hate to use the analogy of an onion, but it starts to peel back the layers and we can start to see where we need to target. But every single individual is just that, an individual. And this is why people yell at me online and they're like, "What's the dose?" They want to know the micro dose of the GLP-1. And I'm like, "I have no idea." The dose comes down to a lot of factors that I go into inside my course, but it really comes down with all of these things. Um, what are what what is our short-term goals? What is our long-term goals? what are we dealing with, right? Like what's the playing field? And this is where peptides, I think, have a nice pleotrophic effect. Yeah, they're they're a fantastic circuit breaker or a spiral reverser. If you're stuck in a downward spiral, sometimes you just need to get pulled out. And if a GLP-1 or a BPC or whatever it is pulls you out, even if it's a pharmaceutical, I'm not opposed to them if they're going to long-term get you to your health goal. like an SSRI. God, I definitely cannot say I'm a fan of them long term, but short term they might be the exact thing you need to start doing the interventional, the lifestyle, the mental things to get yourself off of them in the future and get yourself in a better state of health. So, I completely agree. They're lifesavers in the right done done properly. I micro dose those, too. You know, they're an anti-inflammatory on the brain at certain doses from what I understand. And so, and we're potentially sparking the HPA axis. So, I just think there's there's a place for everything. If people know what they're doing with them, it's when we start getting into peptides, too. When we start getting into crazy high doses, not a fan. Yeah. Long-term high dose like of anything. I'm not a fan. So, absolutely. That's a big reason I like the oral peptides is you can sort of dose up and you don't have to you're not going to make the mistakes that you can with reconstitution and you don't have to worry as much about we still have incredibly high purity. We always test on our stuff. But if you're to inject a peptide that's contaminated with LPS or heavy metals, 100% of what you inject ends up in circulation and then your body's got to deal with that. That's why it's important to really source your injectable peptides, especially from compounding canvas. Knock on wood that Kennedy makes them all available. Again, if you can do that or if you do an oral one, then like it's not good to have LPS in ingested nor heavy metals, but at least the barrier of your gut is going to selectively not let 100% of it into circulation. And I believe heavy metals in a normal gut only.1% of things like aluminium and mercury actually end up absorbed which you know over time can definitely accumulate and become a problem. But if you're taking a capsule for example, you're not going to end up with 100 micrograms of of aluminium or mercury in your body. Um if you did it orally versus injectable, you will. And there's so many people who detox heavy metals and yet will take peptides that are cheap and nasty and end up putting them back in potentially if they're getting them from really unreputable sources of which unfortunately because of what you mentioned with the FDA. There's been plenty of them um spawn up in the last sort of two two years or so. It's true. It's true. There's Yeah. the whole industry's kind of gone rogue. And so when I find a good company that makes good orals that I think it's I mean it's a no-brainer, right? We know it's clean and it's uh they work. So,