 s obsessumum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum, aromasin, obsessum aromasin, obsessum aromasin, obsessum aromasin, obsessum aromasin, obsessum aromasin, you can easily tell once you start drinking filtered water, you know, you become a little bit of a water snob. And now when you taste water, you can taste filtered water from unfiltered water. And I always said there's only one bad thing about having really clean air and having Jaspers at home is you will become an air snob. All of a sudden, you're going to go to friends' homes, family's homes, hotels, Ubers, Airbnbs, and they're going to smell like chemicals. So like if you aren't yet filtering your water at all, and you just are only drinking tap water, then I'm like, first of all, you're probably listening to the wrong podcast. And I'd be surprised because you probably are at the point where you're paying attention to the food you eat and the water you drink. Well, with water, you know, you're breathing in 17,000 liters of air per day. You're only drinking three liters of water. So your air intake is much, much, much higher than your water intake. And the worst air that you're breathing is in your home. And you're spending 90 or 95% of your time indoors. So if you think about the, you wouldn't want to drink tap water or drink straight from the pond, but you're living in your home where you're breathing polluted toxin mold and toxin VOC filled air 24 hours a day all night long. So it's not a matter of any more of like, no one has good indoor air, unless you live in like Costa Rica or in some rainforest somewhere. If you live in a normal home in the US, your indoor air is not good. So it's just a matter of how important is that to you and what are you going to do about it? Well, something that really got me after our last interview was I talked about how I had radiant heat in my floors and we don't have an, like, we don't have air. There's no moving air in our house. There's no vents or anything. And you were saying how that was even worse. And I was like, oh my gosh. So there's a Jasper in like every main room. And I have some competitors air filters as well. Cause I am trying to outfit every room and you know what I had before I met you at in the Jaspers. It's crazy when, for instance, I will spray heat protectant on my hair and then I go to use a hot tool on or even a hairdryer. And all of a sudden my Jasper kicks on. It goes from green to red, the light. And I'm like, oh my gosh, my hair product, the heat, the heating of it is creating volatile, whatever chemicals into the air. And it is turning on the Jasper. My dog, we live in a, we live on 40 acres here in Oregon. We're moving, but we're going to keep the farm, but it's pretty dusty out here during harvest season. It's crazy dusty. And my dogs will lay down next to the Jasper. We have one in the front room where they all have their beds and they all plop down and the air filter kicks up just from the dust coming off their fur. So it's super sensitive. And I was shocked because the other, the competitors' air filters are not that sensitive at all. They don't go off when those two things happen. And so I thought that was really interesting. And now I am officially an air snob at like to the point where sometimes I make, no joke, I make my husband pack up the Jasper and we check it with our baggage and I fly around with a Jasper. I cannot be in moldy hotel rooms. I die. So I am, I am officially a Jasper air snob with you. Well, we have no competitors, only collaborators. There's a lot of, there's a lot of air breathers out there. So, you know, everything's different, but, but it is unfortunate. So with my background being in floods and fire and molds cleanup, the vision for Jasper, and that's why Jasper is really an air scrubber more than an air purifier. An air purifier is like what it sounds. It's a purifier. It's designed to incrementally clean your air, maybe make it 10 or 20% cleaner, which is why when most people have air purifiers, they don't know if they're working or not. It shouldn't be that way. It should be undeniable. If anyone tracks their sleep, your sleep score should be up. Your deep sleep should be up. If you 30% of people who put Jasper's in their bedroom and use fan speed three or higher to either stop snoring or have dramatically improved snoring. It's not one of the, it's like a water filter. If the water tastes the same as the tap water after the fact, it's not working. Like the water should be much different when you filter to your water drinking filtered versus tap. The same thing holds true for your air. Um, so the vision, cause when I was doing mold remediation, we would use air scrubbers. They are so effective. Like they scrub the air so clean, but they were really loud and really ugly. So the vision for Jasper was to create the world's first air scrubber. That's why it's made out of steel and it has a big industrial grade filter. Um, it was, it was designed to be a scrubber, but a pretty quiet one. You know, we care about aesthetic because if it's ugly and loud, then you're going to shut it off and put it in the closet and it's just not going to be practical. Um, so that was really the vision and that's why it was built different. Most air purifiers out there, these companies make hundreds or thousands of different products. They make everything under the sun or really they make nothing. We only do one thing. We're just obsessed with making the best air scrubber. We don't make water filters or diffusers or anything else. We just make one thing and we make it really good. So that's just kind of how we approach things a little bit differently. It's a good looking unit for sure. It definitely adds an aesthetic to the room.