People don't appreciate that about mold. It basically just makes you sort of puff up and sort of blow up and all your systems go ary. But as you accumulate ataposity, you also have more storage for your toxins. And that's one of the reasons why you gain weight is because your body's trying to deal with that toxic burden. And so it's creating more fat cells to hold it. So now you're walking around with a fat suit of inflammation and toxins. And then your body doesn't want to let go of those if your liver's compromised. you mentioned early on that like that's one of the tiers, you know, the early tears is to address liver health because if your buckets full, your toxic burden buckets full, your fat cells are going to start filling up with toxins. And now that's a that's AI see this with hair stylists. I see this with people who work in toxic fields. Like that's a tough one to get over. So keeping that adoposity low. Yeah, you you took the words out of my mouth. Often people go straight to sauna and then they start they do like a nicein flush or they go through this extreme weight loss and then they end up very sick end up with thyroid issues. You can see really dark circles under their eyes and their liver health goes goes to and that's you know I was actually going to ask you do you think adoposity is just toxin storage but you said it before I asked because it was was put to me in naturopathic school that adaposity is a result of toxin accumulation which you know that's the world we live in nowadays. It's a very annoying reality that when we do all the things right that we can live in a house with an off-gassing couch or we can live under a freaking under a flight path or drink the water from the public um the public pipes and end up with issues. It's a very frustrating thing and again I'm putting a lot of hope in Robert Kennedy to try and remedy some of this sort of stuff but you know there's a lot of things and it's a very expensive thing to do but whole whole house water filtration or is goes a long way especially showering the amount you will absorb through your skin is a bit ridiculous. um eating organic food as much as possible. The dirty dozen stay away from them because glyphosate something my partner she was a really good teacher for me because she's a lot more sensitive to things than I am. I'll push myself and it's only once I push things to 11 that I break versus her. She has about a threshold of a three out of 10 before she starts to notice things. So when we were living in mold before I really knew it was a problem. We're like it's parasites. I'm just going to do a parasite cleanse. And then I ended up making her bedridden for two months from chronic fatigue and burnout. I'm like, "Oh crap." Sorry. Yeah, that's the parasite. I This is I agree with you on the parasite cleanse. I again, we have to go gently with things. She might have, you know, like I've got the homozygous MTHFR mutation. So, I do not detox anything and I'm very quick to I'll walk in a hotel room and we have to do the sniff test. I sniff and then I'll turn around and I'm like, "Nope." And we roll right back out. And my husband's always like, "Okay." Or we'll sit down in a restaurant. I'm like, "Nope, we got to move." and he just he rolls his eyes. But he knows I'm not wrong because there have been times when we got trapped in mold whilst traveling and he ended up day three he presents differently than I do and by day three he was having a lot of symptoms and I was like dude that's mold. This is this is what I'm talking about. Like I'm already off my rocker with a sinus infection and like losing it and he's over here having his symptoms and I'm like that's cuz we're we've been in mold for four days in this room. So it's funny you say the sniff test when we're looking at homes in New Zealand. We went into one and my partner literally looked like AST. Bernanada or a beagle going through the car with us. Yeah. And the real estate agents are like she's like, "Sorry, this one's had mold and then later on we found out it was flood damaged in the past." You knew. Yeah. Yeah. I actually I was about to buy a house. I had money down on it. And I was about to they were about to accept my offer and I brought in a mold uh sleuth tester to come in an outside guy and he did a thorough test and found all kinds of nasty stuff which unfortunately they I I mean I I said no we didn't go through with the offer but unfortunately now that house has to report that in their as they're trying to sell it and yeah it's people don't realize and again though it's how not to scare everyone because there are pe my husband's incredibly resilient to mold right? He doesn't get too sick from it at all. Whereas I get really compromised really fast. It comes down to vitality and what are we doing to stoke our vitality, which is the lifestyle factors, all the things utilizing neutrauticals and peptides as needed. And I'm just really not a huge fan of um giving up easily, you know. And so I'm I'm here for all the tools and I love to share them out with people because I think that this is this field particularly is like you said the future of medicine. If people don't get hip on this and I my goal in life I realized I can't like I would like to obliterate the the alopathic medical system as it stands. I'm not a fan. I've never been a fan. I was a very sick little kid. The reason I became a naturopathic doctor was so that I could make a change. And I realized after 10 years in practice, I wasn't making any changes. I was just getting incredibly burned out. And that most people don't want to actually make all the lifestyle changes. They weren't nearly as excited about it as I was. And so I left practice. But that said, I've realized recently that my mission on this planet through this platform, through my podcast and my social media following and and amassing a following really is to educate people, to empower them so that they can demand better out of their doctors.