! NAC, N-acetyl cairn, N-acin,ooth-alitine, N-acin, N-acin, N-acin, more than this. You know, there's impacts on the brain. There's a decrease of inflammation in the brain. There's various mechanisms by which GLP-1s impart themselves on your metabolic health overall. It's not just about calories in, calories out. But they looked at this study and they decided that because there was no metabolic adaptation change in humans, even though there wasn't mice, that therefore no metabolic impact. It truly is a calories in, calories out thing. That said, they're still amazing peptides. I want to break down what all this means because I think they're wrong. I think there is a very protective mechanism on the metabolism going on here. And I want to explain to you what these terms mean and how this works so that you understand that I think this paper actually proves that they have a really profound impact on our metabolic health overall beyond what caloric restriction would do on its own. Okay, so to truly understand this paper, we first have to get some terms out of the way and we have to understand what they mean. I want to explain what metabolic rate is, what resting metabolic rate is in the first place. So this is the number of calories that your body burns at rest just to keep you alive. That's your resting metabolic rate. All right. This is your breathing, your heartbeat, your blood pumping, all of it, digestion, et cetera. Your resting metabolic rate, RMR is what we're going to call it, is largely driven by your lean body mass and to a lesser extent by your fat mass. This is why I'm always banging the drum that you have to lift weights, that it's non-negotiable. Because when you lift weights and you add muscle to your body, you increase your resting metabolic rate, which means you get to eat more. You burn more calories just sitting around on your ass than you would otherwise. So we lift weights so that we can sit on our ass when we want to and not worry about it. You don't get to sit on your ass and do nothing if you're not lifting weights. That just turns you into a blob, a metabolically busted blob, which is what most of this country is. And that's not helping anything. So no disrespect, but most people are going from bed to the couch, to their car, to their desk, back to their car, back to their couch, back to their bed. It's no wonder why 94% of US adults are metabolically compromised. So what should happen when you lose weight, if you lose weight, especially fat and muscle, because anytime we caloric restrict, we're going to lose some muscle. Your body needs less fuel to operate. This is why it's really problematic when people lose weight. It's so difficult to keep it off and why the success rate of that is so low. It's because as you decrease your body size, you decrease your body mass, your body needs less fuel to operate. So your resting metabolic rate is going to go down no matter what. No matter how you lose the weight, you are going to have some reduction in your resting metabolic rate. And that is going to cause problems in that now you have to eat less to maintain that size. This is the cycle and loop that folks with obesity get trapped in because they lose 100 pounds, let's say, or they lose 50 pounds, or they lose 25 pounds. And now their resting metabolic rate has gone down. So it's going to take more exercise and less food to maintain what they just achieved. This is not an absolute true statement, but this is what I hear folks struggling with obesity say. It was almost easier before I lost the weight. At least I could maintain that set rate, right? And I didn't have to fight so hard to hold it. But once you lose weight, any of you who've lost any appreciable weight know to hold on to that weight loss, to hold on to where you've dropped to is really difficult to maintain. So the way that I explain this to folks is if you ran four miles a day to lose five pounds, once you've lost it, you have to now run five miles a day to maintain it, or you have to eat much less. All right? So this is the expected resting metabolic rate drop. This is what metabolic adaptation is. It's the body going into starvation mode and trying to desperately hold on to what it has. Because you've just taken away a bunch of mass if you've lost weight and your body is like, oh no, we must go into starvation mode. That's metabolic adaptation. We don't really want metabolic adaptation to go up, meaning the more that we have a metabolic adaptation, the more of a starvation mode we've gone into. Okay? So when you lose weight, there is an expected resting metabolic rate drop. But what sometimes actually happens, and they figured this out with a couple studies years back, most notably the Biggest Loser Study. I'll go through that in a bit, the Biggest Loser Study, and I'll explain what happened. But what sometimes happens is when you have a crash diet or you have a significant amount of weight loss in a short amount of time, you get an actual rate drop of your resting metabolic rate that is larger than expected. It's bigger than anticipated. This is what happens when people have a big drop in weight. That's metabolic adaptation, aka adaptive thermogenesis. It's your body going, we're starving, slow down everything, and conserve energy. So everything's going to slow down. Your thyroid function, everything's going to slow down. Your metabolic rate, everything's going to slow down because the body's slamming the brakes saying, we are starving, do not lose any more weight. This is why I'm not a fan of losing weight quickly. This is why I tell you we don't want to lose more than one pound a week because we don't want to go into a hyper response of metabolic adaptation. We expect a little bit, right? Because a leaner body needs less calories to run, but we don't want to slam the brakes here. So think of your body as a furnace. Here's a scenario. You lose 30 pounds, all right? What should happen? Your furnace turns down to low. What actually happens is your furnace goes into hypernation mode because of this metabolic adaptation. Or say you lose 10 pounds. Your furnace should drop by 150 calories a day. Instead, it drops to 300 calories a day, which is extra slowdown. That's metabolic adaptation, all right? So now let's apply it to these studies. In caloric restriction, let's say you lose 10 to 15% of your body weight. You should see about 150 calorie a day resting metabolic rate drop. But what you actually see is a 250 to 300 calorie a day drop, meaning it overcompensated. That's metabolic adaptation. This is this extra unwanted slowdown, okay? In this study, interestingly, let's talk about the mice first. So the mice lost an appreciable amount of weight. They had their metabolic adaptation attenuated by the terzepatide, meaning halted or lowered even. So they did not get the expected nor the hyper response of metabolic adaptation that one would expect when you lose an appreciable amount of weight. They had no metabolic slowdown. So everybody thought, okay, mice studies, terzepatide must be really protective to metabolic health and there's no appreciable metabolic adaptation. So yahoo! And they erroneously apply this to humans, which we do, you know, when we... This is why I always try to clarify these are rodent studies or not because it doesn't always translate to humans. But what they found in this study and the humans when they looked at the 55 individuals that were split pretty evenly down the middle into two groups, they were on 15 milligrams of terzepatide a week. That's a hefty dose. That's like the highest end of the entire dosing protocol. So they were on the highest dose. They were titrated up over like, I think, 20 weeks and meaning they had their dosage doubled pretty quickly. They got up to 15 milligrams a week. Very high dose. Very, very, you know, highest tier dose. And they lost 15%, won 5% of their body weight, which is awesome, right? I mean, that's what they were going for. These were obese individuals. Their predicted resting metabolic rate drop would be, let's say, 150 calories. Their actual resting metabolic rate drop, what happened was they only decreased it by 150 calories a day, meaning their metabolic adaptation did not, it stalled in the middle. Meaning in people with obesity, metabolic adaptation did not really happen. You know, the rumor mill going around the internet right now is, well, that just means that they ate less calories, therefore they lost weight. And it's all about the calories in, calories out kind of thing. And what I'm trying to express to you is that they had no metabolic adaptation, which means they were protected. They should have had an appreciable drop in resting metabolic rate, but they did not. They had the expected drop. So they did not have the hyper-responsive metabolic drop off. They didn't go off the cliff like what happened in The Biggest Loser when people had a massive metabolic adaptation for years after they lost the weight. Years, you guys. People don't understand this. This goes on for years. If you're a large-sized person and you lose an appreciable amount of weight, your success rate of keeping that weight off is abysmal. It's about as high of a success rate as rehab, which is also abysmal. We're talking five, maybe 10% chance of you keeping that weight off. That's what these folks are up against. So when people say, oh, just eat less and move more, it is so short-sighted and ignorant because these folks are dealing with an uphill battle for the rest of their life. So anyone you've seen lose an appreciable amount of weight and keep it off, like super kudos to them because that is not easy. It becomes literally harder than it was just to maintain the obese size is what I'm trying to get at here. If we lose 15% of our body weight, let's just say we go into caloric restriction. Let's just say we eat less and move more. We are going to not just have an expected drop in resting metabolic rate. If we do it quickly, we are going to have a profound drop in resting metabolic rate, which means we are going to have metabolic adaptation increase. With trizepatide, folks are protected from that. They just have the normal, hey, you are 15% smaller now and so we need less calories. But it's not exaggerated like it is in every other case, like bariatric surgery or when people, like on The Biggest Loser, where they're put through horrific bootcamp style training and starve to death. So eat less and move more is actually less successful in the long run than eating less and losing weight with trizepatide. Trizepatide is protective. That's what this study is showing. It's small. Again, it's a small study, but it's certainly the way that I took it was not at all. Oh, it was just the less calories they ate. I don't know if these docs actually read, like paid for and read the whole study. But the other sure signal that this peptide, these peptides are protective of metabolism and maybe even improving metabolic health overall, which I really believe. I really believe that they have a healing impact, especially long-term, the longer people are on them, on folks' metabolic health overall, is that fat oxidation increased. And the only way to lose weight is to have fat oxidation increased. So fat oxidation increasing on the peptide is a good sign that metabolic health is being protected, if not improved. And this was not a terribly long study. I think it was, I want to say it was nine months, which is, I mean, a decent amount of time. But most folks who are needing to lose significant weight, I would really, the way that I'm looking at it with my patients and with the folks that I'm working with or talking to even, is we're seeing real improvements in metabolic health and the ability to titrate down around 16 to 18 months. It just depends on the individual. And so I know lots of people who are microdosing it who really didn't have much weight to lose. Again, microdosing is not a weight loss strategy. I don't even want to go on another rant about that because it is pissing me off. I just had a gal send me a message or someone else's story on Instagram. And she's, it's crazy, you guys. I cannot rep for a telemedicine company and get paid a kickback or an affiliate kickback because that's called fee splitting in medicine. That's illegal. So that is why I have not aligned myself with any telemedicine companies whatsoever as far as financial is concerned. Influencers can. I don't know how they're legally getting away with it, but they can financially align themselves. If they're not doctors, they can align themselves with telemedicine companies, spew out whatever the telemedicine company wants them to say, have an affiliate link and get a kickback. So all these influencers online trying to teach you about microdosing, they're all getting affiliate kickbacks. Or they're sending you to like the gray market, which is a pretty hard place to get these now, but you can buy this stuff online, right? And they're sending in, God only knows what's in it because there is some counterfeit shit going down. I just talked to one of my buddies, compounding pharmacist, and like, I would stick to the brand name at this point if you can, because nobody knows even what's going into the compounding pharmacies in some cases. It's getting pretty scary out there. So, I mean, unless your compounding pharmacy knows who they're sourcing from, there is some random shit being circulated. Anyway, back to my point is these folks are getting a kickback. So this gal is telling folks that microdosing is actually just the standard starting dose, which I've been really clear about. It's not. First of all, microdosing is not a weight loss strategy. Second of all, it's not the standard starting dose. And third of all, it's a mere fraction. What that fraction is depends on the individual. It depends on a lot of factors that I go into deep on my GLP-1 done right university. That's why it's 40 hours of content plus, because this is a nuanced conversation. But that said, it's a fraction of the starting dose. So she's promoting the starting dose. And her story literally says like, this is microdosing. And, you know, it's with semaclutide, the starting dose is 0.25, which her's appetite, it's 2.5. And I literally wrote her back and corrected her. I said, that's incorrect. This is wrong. This is not at all what microdosing is. And she said, well, the telemedicine company that I rep for, this is how they microdose. So this is what they want me to say. And this gets me back to my point that I've been trying to share with you guys. A recent study has come across my desk that I wanted to share with you. I was first alerted about it by some of the big obesity docs that I follow on social media. And they came out and had one opinion about the paper. So I looked up the paper immediately, of course, and found that you had to access behind a paywall. And so, so, so. And so, so.