 an NMR? You mean NMR? Or NMN, I'm sorry, NMN is just a precursor? Yeah, so there's different ways to make the NAD molecule. There's two main pathways to make it. One is called the Price-Handler pathway, and listeners probably know that many things in medicine and biology are named after whoever discovered them. So no surprise, Price and Handler were the two scientists that, I think it was the late 30s, discovered how the flushing niacin, nicotinic acid, could be made into NAD. And the reason that a lot of research emphasis went into it then was because of the vitamin B3 deficiency disease that was really very prevalent in the early 1900s. So they were trying to figure out both how to cure that deficiency disease and then how vitamin B3 was metabolized. But so think of the flushing niacin, sometimes called nicotinic acid, kind of comes in through its own doorway and eventually makes NAD. The other classic vitamin B3 is called niacinamide. Niacinamide is then made into NMN, and then NMN is made into NAD in its own pathway. That's called the salvage pathway. And then NR was much more newly figured out. NR can either be made into niacinamide and then to NMN or go directly to NMN. So it kind of is its own new doorway to make NMN and then ultimately NAD. And so one of the things I know that I believe when cells have multiple ways of doing something, then I as a, you know, like more of a holistic thinker want to support all three. So rather than just give, oh, well, let's just give NR, nicotinamide riboside, I would want to give, let's give a little bit of the flushing niacin and let's give some of the niacinamide and let's give some of the nicotinamide riboside because they all kind of come in in their own unique ways to support cells in making it. And it seems like some cells have a preference for one form over others. Ah, yeah, that makes sense. So yeah, just sort of like give them the orchestra to do the thing. Yeah. And they'll figure it out, right? My bias has always been a big part of health isn't necessarily trying to control what cells or tissues do, but give them the resources they need and remove the obstacles for them using them. And then usually they'll figure it out, right? They evolved to be way smarter in terms of getting their needs met than we'll probably ever know as scientists. That's very naturopathic of you. Remove the obstacles to cure, right? Absolutely. Yep. And give the body what it needs and let it do its thing. Okay. So for the listeners, B3 is niacin, just so the listeners know. And when he's talking about B vitamins and then niacin, that's B3. And then, yeah, the deficiency, that was pellagra. I remember, right? Isn't that pellagra? Yeah. And we would have learned about it as the 3Ds, sometimes 4Ds, but it stood for the classic symptoms. So B3 deficiency, pellagra, 1D was for dementia, but not in the Alzheimer's type of sense, but more in the sense like brain fog, issues with mood, that like lack of mental clarity, like really poor cognitive function in many different ways. One was dermatitis. So B3 deficiency, has a really classic red scaly rash. I mean, it could also be on the tongue. And then the third D was diarrhea. And actually, it doesn't have to be deficiency, but even inadequate amounts of the molecules that make NAD tend to cause either leaning towards constipation or diarrhea, but like some kind of GI thing very commonly would show up. This sounds a lot like a lot of elderly folks though. For sure. Yep. And one of the, this was a recent study, Nestle's, the food company just sponsored a study. And what they found in animals is that niacinamide, which is another form of B3, was lower in older animals than it was in younger animals, even if the diet was kept the same. So somehow it just wasn't making its way into circulation from the diet. And human studies seem to correspond to that so far. So we, we need more of these things to make NAD as we get older, for sure. Yeah, for sure. And then the fourth D that I alluded to was death. Oh, you're bringing it all back. I'm remembering all of that. It's all coming. And then corn, right? If you eat too much corn, you can get pellagra. Yeah. So what would happen in animal foods, just like in our cells, the way to think about NAD, and usually in science, the term would be called a metabolome. And when you see that on the end of thing, think like that microbiome, it means a collection, right? Like a grouping. And so NAD metabolome is often how it's described. And what that means is that there's the NAD, there's the NADH, there's the NADP that I mentioned. There's then the things like flushing niacin and NMN and NR that we've taught, all of those other molecules, right? So there's all, there's a collection of NAD related molecules. The reason that's relevant in our cells, we have that whole collection. And when we consume animal foods, they would have the whole collection. But in plants, what they usually have is something that's more like the flushing niacin form, but bound up with fibers. And so it's not really very bioavailable. So like in a general sense, we eat animal foods, we get the whole collection of all the different molecules. But in corn, you'd only be getting that bound up form of vitamin B3. And when corn in the Native American traditions that were very corn dependent, was used as a staple food, they always processed it with limestone, alkali lime. And that both changes the calcium amount in say tortillas or corn, but it liberates that bound niacin so that it's available to use. And so what happened in the early 1900s is parts of the South where corn was a staple food, but didn't process it in that old way, where functionally became B3 deficient because they couldn't get what was in the food and they weren't eating enough animal products to make up the difference. Yep. I'm remembering all of this. And I remember that dementia described as people just not making sense. Correct. They just, people start not making sense. They get the dermatitis, they get the diarrhea, which sounds like a lot of our aging population. Yeah. Yeah. It was that like lack of mental clarity, right? But usually with a mood component that was overlaid with it. And what you would tend to see with most things that would be vitamin deficiencies is when there's not an outright deficiency, but not an optimal amount, you have lesser degrees of some of those same types of issues going on. So you tend to, what we tend to see at Qualia when people have been in our studies on the Qualia NED Plus product is the areas that most commonly we've seen improve the most our feelings of energy, mood, mental clarity, you know, the same category of things that you tend to see if in a deficiency go really, really haywire. That's awesome. Yeah. Because this is, I think B vitamin deficiencies across the board are so prevalent and some of these get used up when we're in stress state. Some of the Bs get used up in the face of toxicity. I mean, it's just this general world we live in and I think we're all running pretty low B vitamin and we can get them from animal foods and from other sources. But I think that the deficiency state or the state of just not having optimal, it's not even deficiency, it's just optimizing the cell, right? Like optimizing the individual. Sometimes we can talk about like RDAs and all of that, but I'm less interested. And I know you as an atropathic doctor are too. It's like, we're just trying to get people back to homeostasis and whatever they need, they need. And I think this is a big one. We only really learned about it. I think for the most part, aside from that, that frank deficiency state was flushing niacin in the case of cardiovascular support. And so like this whole new world of longevity and anti-aging, like this is all newer. Yeah. The other area, well, there's many more, but flushing niacin has always been part of the sauna detox protocol with that Scientology has used, which is one of the more studied types of detox actually. And, you know, the idea behind that is that the flushing niacin works in a certain way on fat cells, it tends to mobilize things that were stored there, including, we store most of the fat soluble toxins, obviously there. So that's why I said, in addition to the NAD role, that these different forms also have slight unique roles that they play. And one is, this was also a recent Nestle study, but it was, they were trying to figure out if any of these types of vitamin B3 or the NAD precursors could increase the function of the stem cells in muscles, which are called satellite cells, muscle satellite cells. And what they found was that niacinamide worked, but NR didn't. And it was because NAD wasn't involved. Niacinamide was used in a completely different way that science hadn't known about before, that didn't involve being made into NAD first. Since NR is made into NAD slightly better and easier than niacinamide, it wasn't nearly as good for this muscle stem cell role as niacinamide was. So, you know, which I thought was super cool. And it made me like very pleased that we have both in, you know, what I would think of as amounts that help optimize function in qualia NAD+. Dr. Gregg is an expert when it comes to the fields of longevity, of senolytic cells, of regenerative medicine, and we've had him on the pod before.