Um, so the issue of accessibility has been this evergreen topic. I know that you talk about this within your community. Many people relying on the compounded versions. Now, compound versions, I don't know how much you want to get into the weeds on this, but but essentially pharmacies have been compounding medicines for hundreds of years. That's what they've done, right? But back in 2013, I believe it was, the the government wanted to realizing that we had some really glaring holes in the way that drug companies were sort of outsourcing active pharmaceutical ingredients and the manufacturing of their drugs. There was this gaping hole that left the United States open to drug shortages. And so it's like what happens if all of a sudden we can't get antibiotics that are largely made primarily made in China or India. What happens if we can't get those right? And so they they basically made a big distinction and they said, you know, we're going to have 503AIES that are always have always been around. they can make a a drug that is commercially available, not in shortage. Uh but maybe a patient can't stand or or is allergic to a certain preservative or a pres certain dye or maybe even the doses that are available commercially don't work for that person. So compound a 503A always have the ability to make a branded medication in a compound form when there's a medical need that precipitates that. But they also in the food drug and cosmetic act of 2013 established another code that established 503barmacies. And basically this was to address that you know what the lawmakers could see happening with the outsourcing of drug manufacturing was if we all of a sudden let's say there's something that happens on the economic stage of the world and we can't import drugs. We need infrastructure in the United States that can manufacture drugs to make sure people have what they need. And so in establishing 503barmacies, they've established basically a pharmacy that's not like a traditional pharmacy. It's a factory. It is a a plant that can mass-roduce medicines. And unlike 503As that have to hold an individual script for a patient, if a drug goes into an FDA shortage, they can massroduce it, right? and and sort of fill in the gaps for where the drug manufacturers can't uh meet the demand or import enough etc etc. Now back these these medications because of their efficacy because they are leveling the metabolic playing field and because the disease of obesity and diabetes are so uh prevalent in the United States these went almost immediately into shortage. People like me started making content about it. They haven't even really had to advertise these that much. Of course, everybody knows the Ozmpic song, so they have been advertised to some extent, but once people really started to realize that these are absolute metabolic game changers, it's like everybody and their sisters on them. There's just no way these two drug companies have been able to keep up. So, they've been in shortage. The problem with that system is that these are essentially a handshake agreement between big pharma and the FDA that says yes, our drug is in shortage or no, it's not in shortage. Um and so when October of 2024 hit Eli Liy reported to the FDA that Mjaro and Zepbound which tzepatide it's it's the probably the not probably it is probably the most powerful anti-obesity medication and type two diabetes medication on the market. It's like the next generation of Ozic. They said our stuff is commercially available which set off a chain reaction of stopping the 503b manufacturing. And there's upwards I I have direct contact with all the people that are kind of at the upper echelons of these industries. The estimated amount of simaglletide compound scripts that were made in 2023 was 80 million. 80 million scripts for compound simaglatide in 2023. In one year. In one year. Now that's not 80 million people. That's 80 million scripts. So divide that by 12. Uh and then you sort of get how many you know prescriptions per year per people. But the other thing is tzepite at that time is estimated to have been at about 30 million scripts. That's 2023. 2024 those numbers had to have jumped by conservatively 30% probably more. I'm sure I helped with that. Yeah. Right. I was over there in 2024 going compoundingarmacies micro dose right so conservatively in 2023 the estimate is that there were almost 30 million people on compounded tzepide and so you can obviously see an increase happening in 2024 when this really blew up I'm sure you had something to do with that as well as many creators and the interesting thing is I come from the Tik Tok world right and in the Tik Tok world. There are creators that are pushing compounded versions of medications that are making $20,000 a month pushing this stuff. It's it's huge. Are they getting paid by the huge money? Okay. So, I received zero dollars for any just so that everyone knows I've never been paid by any big pharma or compounding or tele medicine company at all. I refuse to take the dollars from them because I don't want there ever to be a conflict of interest. I'm just really trying to hang my hat on this one idea that I'm trying to get across.