! NAC, APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN APRIN AP a few players again to keep in mind as I go through this. So we've got other signaling peptide hormones that play on appetite. They play on meal timing. They play on when you are done eating. They play on, are you full? Are you getting full? It's all an orchestra. And there's different players that are secreted from different parts of our body, our gut, our brain, our fat, you name it. And so this is a very complicated orchestra. And it's like asking a very high level jazz band to like forego their drummer or something. Or we could look at GLP-1 as just the bass drum, right? It's a big, heavy, that's a hammer when it comes to a band. So the bass, if the drummer starts hammering the bass drum, everyone's going to hear it more so than the guitar player maybe plucking an incorrect string. So think of GLP-1 as like the big hammer, but you can't just keep hammering. And I have warned against this and this is why I'm not a huge fan of the high doses is when you, especially if the person's not really doing all the things, because what happens then is we have somebody who comes in already very metabolically compromised, right? They're very metabolically busted. By the time they get to type 2 diabetes, they are extremely metabolically busted. And I'm talking severe mitochondrial dysfunction at that point, severe lipopolysaccharide production in the gut, which means the gut is usually way whacked out, which means the liver's whacked out and the pancreas is whacked out and the gallbladder's whacked out. Like the whole system is already in severe, severe chaos by the time we get to type 2 diabetes. That's been going on 10, 20 years. Okay. Now that person takes a dose of GLP-1, gets escalated very quickly, ramps it up very quickly, and they don't do anything to protect their muscle. They don't eat nutritionally dense food. They don't prioritize their strength, their muscle. Maybe their sleep gets disrupted because GLP-1s can definitely induce insomnia. And maybe their heart rate variability gets a bit whacked out because that can happen too. And I think the higher the dose, the higher the risk on all these things. And they start to have gut motility issues. Here's the crazy part. And I'll do a whole podcast episode about this, or I'm thinking about doing a masterclass actually. This is the big one, guys. When you take enough GLP-1 to start to slow down your gut motility, which even a microdose can do, and you don't take care of your gut health, and you... This is why I had a course and why the course was so beefy, because I had to cover a lot of this information. If you don't take good care of that gut motility and that gut health, and I think the best way to do that is through exercise. So those of you on a GLP-1 who are not exercising, I am so sorry, but you are potentially so screwed at the end of this. If that gut motility stalls, you have a very high risk for something called SIBO, which is small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. And we have data showing that like up to 45, 50% of people on GLP-1s experience SIBO. Guess what SIBO is? SIBO is when you end up with pathologic organisms in your gut, but your gut's not moving, your small intestine isn't moving. The bugs that belong in the large intestine that aren't supposed to be in the small intestine end up in the small intestine because gut motility is not going that way. It's kind of creeping back this way because everything's stalled out. This happens in people who are not on GLP-1s. I went into microdosing GLP-1s, and this is why we cycle them. I went into them with SIBO. So I have to be very careful when I'm on them. They can aggravate me. They can aggravate my SIBO. You have massive bouts of stress. Stress will completely stall out your gut and obliterate your microbiome like that. And so you've got someone who's really stressed out. They're not taking care of everything else. They're not... And let's just throw in hormones for good measure. I mean, once estrogen starts leaving the building and progesterone's off, we start to get significant changes in our gut health, our gut motility, our liver health, our pancreatic health. All of those are dependent on good hormonal milieu. And now we add in a whopping dose of GLP-1. And now we've got SIBO. And guess what SIBO is, guys? SIBO ends up with much higher levels of lipopolysaccharides. Guess what lipopolysaccharides do? Induce diabetes and chronic pain and brain fog and Alzheimer's and all kinds of things. And so I'm not saying the GLP-1 is doing this. I'm saying SIBO, which is very common. And I would say that... I mean, I joke with my colleagues when my colleagues... I think it was... Kyle from Level Up was on my pod recently and he said, how many people do you think have leaky gut? And I was like, everyone. I mean, I have never tested a gut that wasn't... I've never seen a patient come in who didn't have some gastrointestinal issues, whether it's the top end or the bottom end. They're either running out the bottom end or they're more likely not pooping at all. I mean, giving a GLP-1 to someone who's not pooping every day is just crazy, crazy to me. But anyway, I understand y'all got to do what you got to do. And keep in mind that most doctors have about seven minutes in the room with you before they're losing money. And that was back in the 90s that started. So I mean, we're in a mess. I'm not trying to upset anyone. I'm just being honest with you guys, which I know you don't all love. And I know some of you love me for it and some of you hate me for it, but this is just the come to Jesus talk. This is what we're doing here. So if we're making SIBO worse and we're elevating levels of lipopolysaccharide in the system, then we are inducing a more severe metabolic dysfunction overall. So it is severely ironic and terrible that high doses of GLP-1s induce SIBO in virtually half of the people who take them. And I'll put the link in the show notes for you to look at the study. There's a few of them I found, but this is just where we're at. Okay. So this is why I was so adamant and beating that drum and taking all the hits for it. Cause I was like, you guys, we got to bring this dose down and we got to figure out how to do it. And it is a lot of lifestyle. So there's just one tool in the toolbox. Anyway, according to the study, people on average regain at a rate of 0.4 kilograms per month after cessation of the weight loss medications, leading to a projected return of baseline weight after 1.7 years. Keep in mind, this was like the mean. So they looked at all these people in all these studies and there were some that were like on the low end and some that were on the high end and they had to, you know, come up with a mean to report the data. Although weight loss resulted in improvements in hemoglobin A1c, fasting glucose, total cholesterol, triglycerides, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, all markers returned to baseline within 1.4 years of treatment cessation. The rate of weight gain after the cessation of the weight loss medications was faster than after the cessation of lifestyle, basically. So they looked at two things here. There were 37 studies, 63 intervention arms, 9,441 adults with overweight or obesity. The drug drains from the older agents to the new dual incretins all the way up to Ters epitide. Keep in mind, retitrutide is not FDA approved, guys. If you're getting retitrutide, it's not FDA approved yet. And you're probably getting it from a research lab. So I'm not going to talk on that until we have it. The average regain, like I said, was 0.4 kilograms per month, return to baseline 1.7 years. For the newer medications, the newer semaglutide and Ters epitide, there was a faster regain of 0.8 kilograms per month and a return to baseline in 1.5 years instead of 1.7. They are stronger and more potent. They induce a more severe weight loss. So of course, when we go off them, there's going to be a rebound. After stopping medications, the following reverted towards baseline. Like I said, all of those blood markers and most markers return to baseline within 12 months, hemoglobin A1c and diastolic blood pressure in 1.4 years. So that select trial that I reference a lot, which was on the cardiovascular benefits, I would assume based on all of this, that that medication needs to be continued to continue to have those benefits. Now, somebody said last night on this, I was on a microbiome gut health masterclass that I hosted, and I'm going to be hosting a lot more of these throughout the year. So if you're not on my email list, go to my website and get on my email list because, and anytime you opt in for anything, like there's an assess your metabolic health freebie on the front page of my website. If you head to the contact us page, you can join my email list. It's at drtina.com. It's pretty simple. Anytime you grab anything from me, you're on my email list and you'll be getting invitations to these masterclasses throughout the year. But I've got so many cool friends in my world, and I just want to bring them on. I want to do more stuff with my friends this year. So this is how I'm going to do it. I have these amazing conversations with these people, and I'm like, I got to get these people in front of my audience because you guys need to see this too. And it's not just through the podcast. I love the podcast, but masterclasses are different, right? You're on live. We're all there together. It's fun. It's like a little party. So anywho, we were talking and it just became very apparent in the chat that people didn't get the microdosing thing. They kind of made up their own versions, which I've already covered. And that there's a lot of different opinions about gut health. And there's a lot of different opinions about health overall. And I could just see it in the chat. And so that's why I wanted to come on here and talk about all of this because I thought, I got to cover that study. I got to talk about this gut thing with the GLP-1s. I got to talk about, I got to clear up the microdosing thing because it's just all over the place. And I'm sure you guys are confused and I get it. I can imagine how confusing everything is out there navigating all of this. The peptides, the gray market, the influencers selling you stuff. I mean, you guys are injecting stuff that some fitness influencer with zero credentials told you to put in you. It's like mind boggling to me. So we just need to be careful. And I know doctors can also suck. I get it. That's why I became a doctor because every doctor I ran into for the most part, I was a very sick little kid. I grew up in the medical system and I'm like, these guys suck. Some of them have been amazing. And I have loved so many of the doctors I've run into. But man, for the majority, it's like the mediocre middle. And I won't go in a hospital unless I'm dying at this point. And I won't let anyone I love enter a hospital without me there as an advocate because it's just crazy what's going on. And it's not even the doctor's fault. There's so many bright young minds in medicine, but the system's so busted and corrupt that nobody wants to do it anymore. And insurance is a complete scam in my opinion. So we got some things here. But anyway, they looked at lifestyle versus just the medication. And no, it wasn't perfect because it was a meta-analysis. It wasn't like a perfectly controlled study where it wasn't a study ran the way I would love to run a study on GLP-1s. But Big Pharma hates me. So there was the weight loss medications. And then there's behavioral weight management programs. And what they found was that the people on the medications had a 0.4 kilogram per month regain. And the people doing the behavioral weight management programs had a 0.1 kilogram per month weight regain, which means the people doing the lifestyle did better than the people doing just the medications. So this drives home my point. You got to do all the things, right? And then the return to baseline was very interesting. It was 1.7 years for those on just the medications. And it was 3.9 years for those doing the behavioral weight management programs. It still goes to show though that even with the best of intentions, even with all the best weight behavioral, I'm sorry, behavioral weight management programs, people still regain. Because like I said, weight loss, sustained weight loss is, it's a slim group that actually keep it off. And I know you see them on social media. So you think, oh, they've got it figured out. You'd be shocked how many people are in GLP-1s. You'd be shocked how many influencers have reached out to me in the past few years and said, I don't want to tell anyone that I'm microdosing. And then I find out they're not microdosing. They're actually just standard dosing, but somebody told them that it was a microdose. And they're now skin and bones. And they're so thin and they're selling you programs for weight. It's ironic. But here we are. They're doing it for inflammation, right? I mean, I'm not dissing anyone. I actually got too thin when I first started microdosing and I was like, oh, that's too high. I was nowhere near even half the standard starting dose and it was too high. And I'm not, it's different. Whatever your dose is, your dose is. I'm not, I'm not saying what you should or shouldn't do. I'm not laying any shame, but you can, a little bit too much, as I've said, of a GLP-1 can be a lot too much. And that goes for anybody of any size or any amount of weight to lose. And I think that that needs to be discussed because I went from feeling great improvements in brain fog and in inflammation and in pain to suddenly my daughter was like, mom, you're too thin. And I was like, whoa, you're right. And so I don't take enough to suppress my appetite. I don't propose anyone else does if they're trying to microdose. Anyway, I'm going off on a tangent. When you take enough GLP-1 to start to slow down your gut motility, which even a microdose can do, and you don't take care of your gut health, this is why I had a course and why the course was so beefy because I had to cover a lot of this information. If you don't take good care of that gut motility and that gut health, and I think the best way to do that is through exercise. So those of you on a GLP-1 who are not exercising, I am so sorry, but you are potentially so screwed at the end of this.