We made Jasper specifically for people who wanted something that works like an industrial-grade scrubber, but it's quiet and it works really good and it's beautiful and it's not something you ever need to hide. >> You are tuned in to the Dr. Tina Show with Dr. Tina Moore. For more, visit drtina.com. On this episode of the Dr. Tina Show, we are talking about mold. This is a topic I have not really covered on this podcast because it's so complicated and convoluted, but I've recently had a mold [music] experience. I bought a new home in Arizona. Well, it's, you know, several decades old, but new to me. And I had to go through a black mold remediation before I ever moved in, which was a lot of stress, and I learned a lot along the way. But I wanted to bring my buddy Mike Feldstein back on the show. He is the head honcho over at Jasper Air Scrubbers. I love my Jasper. I have one in every single room, and I'm going to out my new home and my new office and everything with more Jaspers. And so, I wanted to bring Mike on because Mike in his previous life was known as Mike the Mold Guy. So, we're going to talk about mold in your home, what that looks like, what can you do to deal with the fact that it is everywhere and there's really no way we can avoid it. We can remediate all we want, but mold will ultimately win. So, without further ado, let's jump in. Mike, welcome back to the Dr. Tina Show. This is part two of our conversation about clean air. I'm so excited to have you back on the show. >> I'm excited to be on the show. >> Yeah. and your lovely backdrop of your home in on the lake in Texas. I love it. >> You know, as much as I love having clean air indoors, outside is even better. [laughter] So, I have a pretty strong policy about not doing Zoom calls or podcasts indoors as much as I can avoid it. >> I love it. I love it. Here we are. >> I'm going to adopt that when I get to Arizona because I live I'm moving to the high Sonoran Desert, so it's all just like beautiful 200-y old cactus around me. So, it'll make for a good backdrop. All right. So, I bought this house. It's beautiful. It's my dream home. I've never owned a home before. So, this is like first- time home buyer. I know. This is big, big, big. >> I get there. I hire when I'm in negotiations for the house. >> This is the Arizona home, right? >> This is the Arizona home. I hire a mold inspector who's a specialty mold inspector. Interesting caveat here because I've learned a lot about mold inspection and we can talk about this. Um, they inspect and they remediate. That's a conflict of interest, right? So, I hire this guy and he finds this tiny little bubbling of paint [clears throat] in the closet on the shelving in the closet. So, it's just the tiniest little bubbling. And my husband's like, "You know what? We'll just cut that little board out. I don't think it's anything. Just there's no reason to spend all this money, Tina." And I was like, "I'm spending the money." So, I have the a very very uh high quality mold remediation company come in. They're called Square One. All my mold doctor friends recommended them. They came in. He pulls back the board. He pulls back the drywall in the master bedroom or closet. He finds the mold traversing the wall. We thought it was just coming on the other side of that wall was a bathroom vanity. So, we thought it was just coming from the vanity. Nope. All the way down that wall, all the way down the wall of the toilet room, all the way up the wall, completely embedded in the insulation in the ceiling. And there's a leak. There's a leak in the roof. And it is an extens much more [laughter] I mean it was very stressful. It was much more extensive. And so I immediately called your company and I was like I got to get the house full of Jaspers because I can't I can't. And you are the creator and CEO and magician of Jasper air filters which is why I had you on the show because I thought we got to talk about this and I know that you have some insight on the mold industry. >> Well yeah my background was I was a mold man. I am still in many people's phones as Mike the mold man. [laughter] Once a mold man, always a mold man. Yeah. So I I was doing restoration after big hurricanes, floods, fires, earthquakes, big huge moldy events, you know. I I wasn't the guy that you would call. I was for a year or two like in the situation where you bought a new home, but I was mostly doing like catastrophic hurricane flood work where like it was really bad. I did about a year of like general home remediation from like leaks and and roofs and humidity issues and stuff like that. And I'm going to actually speak to that point you mentioned about the conflict of interest. >> Yeah, let's talk >> because that's that's kind of a um a funny one and that was a big line in in the remediation world when I was in the mold space directly. the testing companies would often say, you know, we're we're more trusted basically because we don't do the remediation, so we have more aligned incentives. There's some truth to that, but it's kind of weird how society we pick which areas are okay to be the inspector, like the the assessor and the solution provider, and then others it's not okay. Like, you know, you always have the eyeglass store beside the the eye doctor beside the eyeglass store and they're like supposed to be separate and you know, the the the home inspector is not supposed to be the one who does the repairs or the mold man's not. But then like the mechanic for your car is the same guy who tells you that your brakes are shot and you need a new cabin filter that does the work. when you go to a lawyer or an accountant, the same person tells you about your financial or your legal problems and then is the solution provider. So, strangely, just like society kind of picks and chooses um when it's okay to have conflicts and not conflicts with mold and floods and stuff. Typically, where I've seen that conflict story come up is when it was insurance companies, insurance always wanted like third parties and stuff like that. But I will also say the best people, how good could you be at testing and inspecting for mold when you don't know how to remediate it, >> right? That's a good point. >> You know, you're you're you're just the one, you know, you're doing the blood work, but you're not the surgeon. Like, so you're act the best mold inspectors for sure. Also a million mold testing companies have refer you their trusted third party and get kickbacks. So it's just because the business dynamics are different. So trust is is really the essence of what's important here. But I would not create some hard rule that says, you know, the I wouldn't hire someone that does both. I absolutely would, especially if they've done work from people and they have a good reputation and they're trusted because they're going to be able to do way better inspections because they're actually comfortable doing remediation. And that's how it used to be. You'd call the mold remediation company out for an inspection and for some testing. Um, so yeah, I just don't want anybody to have a hard rule because some of the best mold inspectors and testers I've seen do do remediation and you can have an untrustworthy situation where there's two parties or a very trustworthy situation where there's one party. So just something for people to kind of remember. >> Oh, I want to throw something in here. Part of the story that I didn't tell that house that I had put an offer on prior, I had this mold guy come in and he tested and he found saki which is black mold not just localized to certain areas like under the sink and behind the dishwasher. He found it in the HVAC system which means it is now airborne which is very bad, right? Like this is a sticky mold and it should stay put. It's now airborne and he found it. We found it in multiple places. Get this. I turned down the house. I get my earnest money back, I go move on to another house because this house was going to take a lot of work and I didn't feel like dealing with it. And I was like, you know what? God wants me to have a bigger, brighter house anyway. So, I'm going to find a bigger, brighter house. And uh the folks that live there had another mold guy come in and claims to have found nothing at all and then their house is back on the market for sale. So, what what was potentially going on there? Because I have all kinds of theories. Well, I will also say stackibbotric in my opinion is the most harmful mold. >> Yes. >> Um that's the one where you know most mold species some people are allergic to them, some people are less allergic or not allergic and the way they impact you varies. When you got a serious case of stakibbotras pretty much everybody is impacted. That I've been impacted by that one and that one is the one where you'll feel it immediately. It doesn't take a lot of time for you to feel it. Like if you're in a hotel and that's like when when we're saying stackibbotus when you're when anyone is actually like picturing black mold that's stacky like vis it's typical visible physical black mold growing on the wall from a water source when you think about black mold that's typically what people are referring to um and it's a really harmful one so I think you made a very good choice not purchasing that home and I'm really optimistic that you know the most expensive people thing that you buy in your whole life is a house and it is wild that you buy the most expensive thing you've ever bought and you get a home inspection done and all that home by the way I became a certified home inspector just because I wanted to see what the training was like and it was a fewday online course >> wow >> just so you guys know what that means and even to be a certified mold remediator that was a 2-day in-person course so certifications when it comes to home inspecting and mold remediation means nothing. Experience means everything. So, I learned zero becoming certified and I learned everything on the job and working with people and actually like like everything else. So, with um home inspections, when when we when you get that contract to give to somebody to do a home inspection, it basically says we're not looking for anything environmental. So, you're getting a home inspection done and the home inspector is typically looking for like roof stuff or how old is your water heater? Is there a crack in the foundation or do the plugs all work and not looking for like is this home going to make you and your family sick? So, I think it's should be absolutely table stakes to do an environmental inspection and do mold testing if you're buying a home. In my little health and wellness pocket of the world, it's a lot more normal. But nowadays, when you go to buy a home, instead of just making one of your conditions a um a regular home inspection, I would say like, you know, make sure in that home inspection process that you're also doing mold testing like you did. You literally just saved out on buying a home that would have been very problematic. So, that inspection is worth its weight in gold. >> 100%. I don't I had turned down like I think that was the third place I turned down because of the mold inspection. So, I I was not messing around. I'm moving out of Oregon. We have different kind of mold here. We have the kind of mold that wants to compost you. But Arizona has a lot of sacki which is black mold which wants to kill you. [laughter] So there's big difference. Uh you know black mold secretes for the listeners it secretes micotoxins and you can't get rid of those. Like you could get rid of the mold but you can't get rid of the micotoxins unless you remove the where it is. So, if all your clothes, if all you know, if everything you own is riddled with that stuff, like my real estate agent said, "Well, these poor people that are living in this house, this mold inspection you just did that you turned down." Um, I'm like, "Dude, they need to burn that house down." Like, that's that's how bad it is in my opinion. There's no version of that where I'm moving into that. So, but I'm hardcore cuz I'm, >> you know, mo mold was actually uh mentioned in the Bible. >> Really? >> Yes. >> Wow. >> Leviticus. Um, basically say when you would find mold, uh, the priests would come to your home and they would like clean that area and if it and then they would if it would come back, they would remove that part of the home, those bricks, take them out of the city and then if they would find it again, they would burn the home down. They would destroy the home and they would remove all of the um contaminants of the home out of city limits. >> Wow. So this is not a new issue. >> No. No. And it will I think I have a theory. I have a theory that as we become more immuno compromised through poor health and as as as just a species and as uh we develop more and more resistance to different medications, particularly anti antifungals. I think fungus is going to be the ultimate takeover. I think that's what's gonna I think that's it's like the that show The Last of Us. I'm like I don't know how far off we are from that. [laughter] I think the fungus among us is uh is going to be the winner at the end of the day. It always wins. But so the the point is you can't avoid mold. I I think you what you really can do first and foremost obviously is make yourself as resilient to it as you can. So that you can but you can't always control how sick you get because there's a genetic factor, right? Like some people in the house will get sick and some people won't in the presence of mold. >> Oh, this is 100%. So, when I was testing homes, I would often get the call. People were sick at home. They didn't know why. They've been to the doctor. They've tried allergy meds. They've tried everything. Then eventually they go on a vacation and they feel they didn't even know it was mold. But they would go on a trip and feel better and they're like, "Ah, I'm cured." And then they'd come home and get sick again. And then they're, "Oh, whoa, whoa. Is my home making me sick?" That journey would begin. But often if there's like a family of five, one or two of them could be unaffected. One or two of them could be mildly affected and one of them could be like deathly ill, brain fog, fatigue, itchiness, rashes because at the end of the day, mold is still an allergen. Like pollen can mess you up and ruin your life and take away your sleep and your energy and just make you feel horrible and someone sleeping in the same bed as you could be completely unaffected. So a lot of molds are like that. And to your point about the geographic part of mold, this is true. And you can run but you can't hide. So, a lot of people have moved from Miami to Arizona or things like that. I see just as much, if not more, mold toxicity in Arizona as anywhere. And I believe from my experience, this is due to a few reasons. Number one, if you take this the desert sand, there's mold, there's ancient molds. All that sand used to be underwater once upon a time. So a lot of people there who are really sensitive, they know a day or two before the haboobs are coming because they can detect the wind and they can feel it in their body before um there's a big wind event. So number one, the sand has it, the dust has it. Number two, because it's so dry, your baseline humidity load is quite low. So you're not really that adept to handling high levels of humidity when you're living in like a desert climate. But then you still live in a home with showers and taps and humidity. So when you do have a mold exposure event, it can be a lot more severe. And often when we test people's homes, the same species of mold we find in the sand is the same species that we find in their dust in their home. And same with their blood or their urine. So, and it's not like a don't move to Arizona situation at all. It's a it's actually a really great environment. is just people who, you know, you still have to condition your indoor environment. You still have to filter your air. Being outside is still great. You still want to pay attention to it because just cuz your the outside is dry when you create a more humid environment indoors, you still really have to pay attention to that. >> Yes. I think the key is to not be indoors so much. I mean, I I you can't get away from the mold. You can remediate, but you're going to have leaks. I mean, it's just life, right? And so I think having really really great air filtration inside the home and then trying to spend as much time outside the home, which is one of the main reasons I'm moving to Arizona is so I can have my outside life back. I grew up in Southern California and I was like an outside all the time kid and then suddenly I found myself in Oregon where I've been for decades and it's killing me. Like the lack of light is literally killing me and the cold and the rain, it makes all my joints hurt. But more importantly, I just miss being outside all the time. So, >> I forget the name of the product, but I'm gonna track it down. I'll send it to you after uh and you can share it with our with your folks later. There's this amazing doctor, scientist, researcher. I think he was a Harvard guy. Um, and he created this product. It's like a It's like a salt mist and it really hydrates your airways before flights. Whenever I go into the desert, you just you you spray a little bit of it and you inhale it through your nose and it just completely like hydrates your airways and makes you feel awesome. So, whenever I'm in in the desert environment or flying, I use it and it's so helpful. It really helps you not get sick. >> Okay. I love it. Yeah, cuz when you get That's the other thing. When you get when things get too dried out, you end up being far more prone to viral infections. If your mucous membranes are dried out, you're kind of a sitting duck for everything. And so it's that nice uh you got to find the balance for sure. So, okay. So, let's talk about air filtration because on our people can go back and I'll make sure to put it in the show notes the link to the first episode and we talked about the importance of air quality which I think we should probably touch on a bit here, but I think that in relationship to mold and the fact that you really can't escape it. I mean, it's going to happen. >> Let's talk about that and how critical it is to have a unit I believe in every single room of your house. Like that's where I'm at. like they're just in every room there's air filtration and each room collects its own amount. It's crazy like how dirty some rooms get the filter when I change it and others not so much. So, let's talk about all that. >> Yeah, sure. So, yeah, the first episode that we recorded maybe a year agoish, um I would call that air quality 101. So, if you made it this far in the episode, thanks for listening. And if you're just like, whoa, I never thought about air quality, air filtration, what's in my air, or any of it, then this would be a good opportunity to hit pause and listen to our first episode together, and then come back because that was really like an air 101. That's for everybody out there who takes their health really seriously, wants to feel better, live better, have more energy, sleep better, you know, you're aware of filtered water, you're aware of eating better, and you haven't even thought about your air. go back to the first time we spoke. If you're already air aware and you notice fragrances and Ubers and Airbnbs and when you walk by a Bath and Body Works, those bother you and you're kind of you're aware of air, keep listening. So, here we'll go a little bit deeper. But I'll give a really short like a two-minute recap for anybody who's like, "Eh, I don't feel like going back and listening to a whole episode." The bottom line is this. Our homes, especially since the ' 70s, are built very, very tight. They're built to be energy efficient. They're built to be made very cheap. They're built to be made very They're made to be fast, cheap as and as tight as possible to keep your energy bill down. The problem with that that they did not factor into the equation when they changed all the building codes was when you make a home tight, the home can't breathe. And if your home can't breathe, neither can the people who live inside the home. So think about water. If you have a stream, a waterfall, a river, a creek, and it's flowing water, that's going to be pretty clean water. Let nature do its thing. The sun, the wind, the rain, the trees. That's God's air filter, and it works great, and it's called nature, and it works amazing. The sun is the greatest UV light of all time. Now, think about a stagnant pond where the water's not moving at all. Very quickly the algae starts taking over. The water gets dirty. Now it's no longer safe for you to drink. >> The mosquitoes come, the parasites take over. >> They they that's what happens. Energy wants to be moving always just like our bodies. So if you think about air outside, you feel the wind, you feel the currents. As soon as you What happens is when the air is stuck, it's a very similar thing to a pond. So our homes, they don't breathe at all. So our homes are like these stagnant algae fililled ponds. And that's the problem. So because the homes aren't breathing at all. And your home, think about what your home is made out of, right? It has whether it's the floors, the paint, the furniture, the chairs, all of it. These were all things that were manufactured, then wrapped airtight and sealed, shipped across the world, and then all of a sudden unboxed in your home. So everything is offging. Those VOCC's could take 6 months, a year, two years or longer and they're constantly off gasing for years when they have the wind, when it's hot, sunny days. And like when you go on a vacation and you come home and your home kind of smells when you come back, that's something called the stuck effect. That's because the air has been stagnant. Windows and doors haven't been opening. Nobody's been living in the home. So everything gets really stuck. So yeah, in your home you have all of the mold, you have the VOCC's, which is the fancy word of saying basically airborne chemicals. You have all the particulate from pets, from cooking, from cleaning products, from hairsprays, deodorants, all that manufactured fragrance stuff. It's in your home and it gets trapped in your home. So, generally our our homes are not very healthy environments. The average home that we test, the air is 5 to 10 times dirtier than the outdoor air. And if you think about it, like, you know, 25 years ago, dentists didn't even wear masks or gloves. And growing up, nobody really filtered their water. Water was just water. Like tap water was the basic thing. If you would drink from your hose. Now you think about it and you you're like that hose did sort of taste plasticky. That's because it was. Um and if you really trust yourself, you can easily tell once you start drinking filtered water, you know, you become a little bit of a water snob. And now when you taste water, you can taste filtered water from unfiltered water. And I always said there's only one bad thing about having really clean air and having Jaspers at home is you will become an air snob. All of a sudden you're going to go to friends homes, family's homes, hotels, Ubers, Airbnbs, and they're going to smell like chemicals. Um, so like if if you aren't yet filtering your water at all and you just are only drinking tap water, then I'm like, first of all, you're probably listening to the wrong podcast. And I'd be surprised because you probably are at the point where you're paying attention to the food you eat and the water you drink. Well, with water, you know, you're you're breathing in 17,000 liters of air per day. You're only drinking three liters of water. So, your air intake is much much much higher than your water intake. And the worst air that you're breathing is in your home and you're spending 90 or 95% of your time indoors. So if you think about the the you wouldn't want to drink tap water and drink straight from your pond, but you're living in your home where you're breathing polluted toxin mold and toxin VOCC filled air 24 hours a day all night long. So it's not a matter of anymore of like no one has good indoor air unless you live in like Costa Rica or in some rainforest somewhere. If you live in a normal home in the US, your indoor air is not good. So, it's just a matter of how important is that to you and what are you going to do about it? >> Well, something that really got me after our last interview was I talked about how I had radiant heat in my floors and we don't have an like we don't have air. There's no moving air in our house. There's no vents or anything. And you were saying how that was even worse. And I was like, "Oh my gosh." So, there's a Jasper in like every main room. And I have some competitors air filters as well cuz I am trying to outfit every room. And you know what I had before I met you add in the Jaspers. Um it's crazy when for instance I will spray heat protectant on my hair and then I go to use a hot tool on even a haird dryer and all of a sudden my Jasper kicks on. It goes from green to red, [laughter] the light, and I'm like, "Oh my gosh, my hair product, the heat, the heating of it is creating volatile whatever chemicals into the air, and it is turning on the Jasper." My dog, we live in a We live on 40 acres here in Oregon. We're moving, but we're going to keep the farm. But, um, it's pretty dusty out here during harvest season. It's crazy dusty. And my dogs will lay down next to the Jasper. We have one in the front room where they all have their beds and they all plop down and the air filter kicks up just from the dust coming off their fur. So, it's super sensitive and I was shocked because the other the competitors air filters are not that sensitive at all. They don't go off when those two things happen. And so, I thought that was really interesting. And now I am officially an air snob. Like to the point where sometimes I make, no joke, I make my husband pack up the Jasper and we check it with our baggage and I fly around with a Jasper. I cannot be in moldy hotel rooms. I die. So I am I am officially a Jasper air snob with you. >> Well, we have no competitors, only collaborators. >> There's a lot of there's a lot of air breathers out there. So, and you know, everything's different, but but it is unfortunate. So, with my background being in floods and fire and mold cleanup, the vision for Jasper, and that's why Jasper is really an air scrubber more than an air purifier. An air purifier is like what it sounds. It's a purifier. It's designed to incrementally clean your air. Maybe make it 10 or 20% cleaner, which is why when most people have air purifiers, they don't know if they're working or not. It shouldn't be that way. It should be undeniable. Um, if anyone tracks their sleep, your sleep score should be up. Your deep sleep should be up. If you 30% of people who put Jaspers in their bedroom and use fan speed three or higher either stop snoring or have dramatically improved snoring. Um it's not one of the it's like a water filter. If the water tastes the same as the tap water after the fact, it's not working. Like the water should be much different when you filtered your water drinking filtered versus tap. The same thing holds true for your air. Um so the vision cuz when I was doing mold remediation, we would use air scrubbers. They are so effective. like they scrub the air so clean, but they were really loud and really ugly. So, the vision for Jasper was to create the world's first air scrubber. That's why it's made out of steel and it has a big industrial-grade filter. Um, it was it was designed to be a scrubber, but a pretty quiet one. You know, we care about aesthetic because if it's ugly and loud, then you're going to shut it off and put it in the closet and it's just not going to be practical. Um, so that was really the vision and that's why it was built different. Most air purifiers out there, these companies make hundreds or thousands of different products. They make everything under the sun or really they make nothing. We only do one thing. We're just obsessed with making the best air scrubber. We don't make water filters or diffusers or anything else. We just make one thing and we make it really good. So, that's just kind of how we approach things a little bit differently. >> It's a good-look unit for sure. It definitely adds an aesthetic to the room. My husband loves you. He says hi, by the way. He's out moving tractors around the property, but he Mike and Ryan are buddies. [laughter] Um Ryan thinks you're a genius, too. When he he's the one that put the filter together when it came and he or you know installed the filter into the unit and he was like, "This is genius." >> I remember I saw when I saw him at an event, he was like, "Man, your [laughter] filter looks like it's like from my tractor." >> That's what he keeps he keeps saying. >> He spoke to the he spoke to the uh ind he he he was a man who appreciates the industrial nature of it. Well, he's funny because every time I mention it and I call it a filter, he's like, "It's an air scrubber, Tina." I'm like, "Okay, >> good man." [laughter] >> Okay. >> Thank you, Ryan. >> Thank you, Ryan. Yeah. So, Ryan's a big fan, right? We got to get Ryan uh to to interview you. Just see what he comes up with. I bet that'd be interesting. >> So, oh, the other thing that sets it off is if we cook in in any oils or fats, if we cook a steak, if we have a hood, too. We have a like pretty hardcore hood above our stove. and Jasper in the corner goes off. Doesn't matter what we're cooking. Like that thing is sensitive and it's it's picking up. So, and the filter, when I clean the filter out, it's crazy. The ones that are closest to the dogs and the one in my bedroom is the dirtiest. It's It's so much dirtier than some of the other ones throughout the house at the same time frame when I when I replace them. >> And you know, like people people It's funny how products work in like psychology. People could spend $25,000 on like a bathroom renovation and then sleep with moldy chemical filled air all night. Um or they could buy a million a $1.5 million home and then get a $1,000 bed. So like people's ability to allocate their resources to what really matters most. And you know, a $1,000 air like people put 7 to like I think our whole home water filtration system was like $7 to $10,000 and it was some of the best money I've ever spent. Like you know if you think about it has an air purifier, an air scrubber that seems expensive but if you think about like for $3,000 your whole home has 95% cleaner air. And before we created Jasper we tried to make an HVAC style one out of sight out of mind connected to the furnace and it just didn't do the job properly. You really want the air to be scrubbing in the room where you need it most. And like if people can like in the bedroom is where the life-changing sleep really happens. >> Yeah, it's I have mine right on my side of the bed. That's the one that I like like I said, I travel with it at times. Um I think to note, you know, on what you were saying, something that really got me was it it actually took me a while to a see how sensitive the unit was and when it was kicking on and I was like, "Oh, it's really doing something." And B, it wasn't until I changed the filters that was really eye opening for me since we origin, you know, I originally got my first one and then I've collected a few more. And I >> that was really eye opening. And something else is we're going into cold and flu season, right? And it's not necessarily because there's more viruses and bacteria floating around. It's because we're locking ourselves up and we're drying out our mucous membranes. And it and it's sugar season, right? And vitamin D deficiency season. So, like starting on Halloween, we get a sugar holiday every month until through, you know, Easter. So, and then we go into like alcoholism summer. [laughter] So, it's it's one of those things where we're locking up the house right now. We're gathering and we're gathering for holidays. We're going to be exposed to a lot more people. This is when air filtration needs to be emphasized. And truthfully, the data during COVID was very clear. Air filtration, I gander. I know that there was a, you know, my big thing with COVID was we were sitting in a metabolic uh syndrome crisis and COVID preferentially obliterates bodies that are metabolically unsound. But that said, air filtration, there were so many studies coming out showing that if we just had installed really great air filtration into everywhere, COVID counts would have very likely dropped and they did in some of these studies. So, not to get into that, but like we are walking into that upper respiratory season and I think air filtration is critical. So, when I go to events now, I walked into an event I was speaking at last year and I walked in and they had these huge air filters down both sides of the walls and I was like perfect. Like I I am comfortable being in this room full of, you know, tons of people. Um, and the other thing to consider, so that's more of the, you know, prophylactic air cleaning, if you will, that in my head, like we're we're preventative medicine here. And then the other preventative piece is the wildfire season. If you're anywhere on the West Coast, everybody waits because I get I always do some kind of content around wildfire season. And I or the LA fires for instance, and I I couldn't believe when the LA fires happened, I called all my friends down there and the first thing I said was, "Do you have Get out? First of all, get out." until the air clears, but if you are going to stay there or you're going to come back early, do you have great air filters? And none of them had one. And I was like, what are you guys doing? Like, you have to be prepared for this. It's you can't just expect it's not going to show up for a few days if it's even in stock, you know, and you guys sometimes run out of stock when during busy seasons. So, that's why I'm having I went to LA I went to LA last February to do a bunch of air testing myself um to just see what the situation was. And there was two friends in an apartment building in Santa Monica that one was on the third floor, one was on the fourth floor. This was staggering. We filmed it. We we published the content at the time, but basically the same model unit, same building, same corner, one floor apart. She had a Jasper, just one in maybe a eight or 900 foot apartment. He did not. and they they kept power on during the um the whole situation. So, we were there to just like do testing and assess for her if her place was like safe to live. Should she move out? We tested her carpet and then she's like, "Well, you my friend lives one floor above. Will you check his too?" I'm like, "Sure." And then, you know, we did a video. Basically, we're like, "Cool. Let's see the difference. Same unit, same carpet, same layout, everything." Her air was excellent. her carpet was pretty much untouched. It was just a regular situation. Um, she said her Jasper basically like she evacuated but she left the Jasper there and it stayed on red for like a few days just cranking the cranking and keeping the place scrubbed and he had nothing to clean his air. His place was basically unlivable. His levels were like 3 400 times more contaminated than hers. So for him it was like move out. All your clothes is done. Your furniture is contaminated. your carpet's off the charts. The place had an odor. So, basically, and you know, he was renting, so insurance wasn't going to help him, but it was literally >> wild to see because we don't normally get to see Jasper performing in that situation. Um, but yeah, her her place was basically fine, no action required. And his place, this was about 5 weeks post wildfire. And his place, I'm like, you need to leave. Like, the carpets have to be ripped out. your whole place just sat in a toxic soup for days versus hers that was being scrubbed proactively. So that was really the most like controlled sample I've ever been able to see. Uh oh, and he had he had ash in the windows and the doors. Like his place was a mess and hers was fine. So >> that was just a really really cool situation. And the people who obviously had the power outage of course um if you have generator great, if not you can't solve everything. But same thing, I always recommend like having a couple water filters at home, like camping water filters. So if the power goes out, you can still filter your own water. Um, I think to me it's shocking. You go to like a naturopath or a doctor now and you fill out like hundreds of questions, even a personal trainer, and like what are you doing to filter the air in the bedroom where you sleep? And what are you doing to filter your drinking water? These two questions aren't even asked. And by far, most of your toxin load is coming from the air you breathe at night when you sleep and the water that you're drinking. So like for anyone who's just looking for like a quick win, you know, filtering your shower water and your ba bathing water is better and your water everywhere you go and your air in every room of the home, great. But like table stakes, you're sleeping air and you're drinking water. That's just a huge huge 8020 a big win for not a lot of money and not a lot of time and no effort. Those are two very lazy ways to have a and you don't have to remember to take supplements or pills. Just like sleeping air, drinking water, done, done. H you'll feel better immediately. >> Yeah. I think that people think [clears throat] it's a luxury and it's not. it's an essential and I didn't ever appreciate it the way that uh I did since I started taking it seriously, which is ironic because I was that kid that grew up with chronic allergies and had to get allergy shots and chronic, you know, just chronic low-key illness my whole life. And uh it such an easy fix to make sure that you outfit everybody's bedrooms at the very least, you know, where you're sleeping because you're spending hours and hours and hours in there. What is the I I can't remember what you told me last time. What is the square footage that a Jasper will cover? >> It's more about cubic volume than it is square footage because if you have 8 foot ceilings versus 16t ceilings, that's like twice the air. So it would be half as effective or twice as effective depending how you look at it. >> And it's also interesting to know you can't really look at this apples to apples. Every brand that tells you square footage, there's no standard. So when you when you go to Best Buy or Home Depot or Walmart or Amazon, they tell you a square foot. Do not believe that number. I would recommend it's probably about 15th of the number that you're typically seeing. You see these little tiny machines that say they're like for extra large 1500 foot rooms. What are they not telling you? What are the ceiling heights? They might be like six or seven foot ceilings. Um, it's always assuming that that air purifier is on high speed all the time, which you're typically not putting it on high speed all the time. Uh, and the other big factor is you um Yeah. So, they're not telling you it's on could be low ceilings, it's high speed, but they're also telling you what does covers mean? So, if it says that cover is 1,000 square feet, does that mean that the air is 90% cleaner or 5% cleaner? They don't tell you that. So covers really means nothing. Um, what I say though to still make it simple for people, I for me to say covers, I need to know that the air is 80% cleaner, five times cleaner on the lowest fan speed because that's the fan speed it's going to be on in a common space. And for that about a,000 square foot with 8ft ceilings and >> wait, say that again. 1,000 square ft. 1,000 square foot with 8ft ceilings for like your common area. And that's the one that you keep on smart mode and that's the one that's going to respond to your cooking and your cleaning in the main area. In a bedroom setting though, you want fan speed three on dark mode and that's when you're going to get the air like 30 or 40 times cleaner to, you know, you can make the air three to five times cleaner in your bedroom. But when you get 20 30 40 times cleaner air, that's when like that life ch 97 98% cleaner air. That's one like the undeniable. The sleep scores go way up. Your recovery goes way better. Your energy feels better. You wake up with no fle. You just feel awesome. Fan speed three and dark mode. And that's going to be good for basically any bedroom. Unless you have like a giant giant bedroom with vated ceilings, then you might want two. But for 99% of people, one Jasper in your bedroom on fan speed three with the lights off is going to be the ultimate place. >> I've got some It's still helping with your whole home. Okay, I got you. I'm trying to I'm just in my head looking through my visualizing my new house. I think I'm just going to have to send you a video and you're going to have to tell me how many >> I'll just come to your house. I'm in Arizona all the time. >> Mike Mike's like the Jasper Santa. >> I am. >> I'm gonna get you a Santa hat. Show up with some Jaspers because I have some vated ceilings and I have some big rooms and I'm not messing around this time. And I also don't I mean the desert bloom is like a whole different kind of allergy season for me. So I'm I'm getting prepared this time. I'm not I'm not effing around with my water or my air. Got to >> I think with your overall just like vibes and how good you're going to be feeling there. Uh a lot of the environmental stuff is going to be less of a thing because the vibes are going to be great. >> Yes. I hope so. I That's the plan. I'm uh Yeah. I got to get out of here. I feel like this place is killing me. Um, so let's Okay, let's talk about schools because that this leads me to another story about mold. So I went to uh Beaverton High School here on the suburbs of Portland and the advanced placement courses, which was what I was in. All the all the advanced placement courses, most of them were being held off site from the main school in this little brick building called Merl Davies. And my daughter ended up going to the same high school many years later and she's like, "Oh yeah, they condemned that building, Mom. They're going to they're going to burn it down. They're gonna or whatever. They're going to they're going to rebuild over the top because it's got black mold. The whole building has black mold." Well, I [clears throat] spent an incredible amount of time in that little building in high school. And I I had a like near psychotic break in high school. I like it. I I went sideways for some reason out of nowhere. And I could never figure it out. It was like somebody flipped a switch on me one day. And I look back, I was just going through all my stuff, my like I literally just purged my whole life. I touched every single thing I own, every paper, every picture, everything. And I, you know, it's hindsight 50/50. Like I, now that I'm in my 50s, I can look back and be like, "Oh, these were these incredible events in my life that shifted my health or shifted, you know, it's it's easier to look back on it all and piece it all together." But that time spent in that little school, I am firmly believe that that early black mold exposure did something bad to my health and set me on this autoimmune journey. And so, um, let's talk about schools because schools are I've talked with other folks about schools. They've got a lot of flat ceilings and they got a lot of mold. What's going on with schools? >> So, I think I don't know if I told you, but if I didn't tell you, I'll tell you again anyway. Um, we bought a school here in Austin. >> Wow. And um yeah, we bought a school. It's opening next August. And this was inspired because when my daughter Arya was 2 and a half and she went to her first daycare school type of thing, she um she was getting sick like every day. She was coming home congested and with a cough. And for the 2 and 1/2 years before that, we were we were traveling. We were out and about. She wasn't living in bubble wrap or anything. We're like, "What?" And you know, they kind of normalized it reading online, talking to some doctors, they're like, "Yeah, it's normal. You know, she'll just be sick all the time for the next few years till she gets every sickness that's in the school and then her immune system will be ready for it." And I just wasn't really feeling that. I didn't believe it. I I figured there's some truth to that. But I'm like, she was out, she was on planes, she was in hotels. Like, what's so unique about this school environment that there was kids, she was going to birthday parties. Like, what's going on? [snorts] And um I dug like when I looked at the school's construction a little bit more closely. You know, it had airtight windows, bright fluorescent like bright LED lights, uh very harsh toxic fragrances and chemicals and Glade plugins and just like not good cleaning products at all. They did not have filtered water. So it's like if you designed a building to maximize the spread of illness, the school would have got perfect scoring. And we I switched Arya to another school and we put five we put a Jasper into her classroom and you know they actually it was a similar type of environment. They would open the windows a little bit but anyway she basically stopped getting sick entirely. And then my other daughter Adele, she went into school and had air filters in her class right away. She never started getting sick at all. She entirely skipped that phase. And there was a study that really inspired me because I was already feeling inspired by what happened with Arya. And like like of course an air scrubber in the classroom was helping her not get sick anymore. All these kids are in an airtight box breathing and sharing air. So like duh. And with Arya, we um so there was a study in Finland a year or two ago where they put air purifiers in 50% of the classrooms across a number of schools and the absentee rates dropped by 30% in teachers and students. >> Wow. >> And then the the symptoms also decreased a lot. So the kids were feeling much much better in a cleaner environment. So what there was a school in our neighborhood that was a pocket listing. It wasn't even listed. It was the only school in our neighborhood, a little monitor school. And I found out it was for sale. And if we didn't buy it, it would have for sure been sold to a developer, knocked down. It's been there for 25 years. So, just this was a clear This was a clear sign that this is our time. And I'm 35. Since I I've been with Rachel for 16 years, we've been dreaming up and thinking about curriculums since we met in college. Like we've always been thinking about education and teaching and and things like that. So this was a perfect perfect sign. And we weren't loving the schools that our kids were going to before. Either they were like all indoors and very sick environments or they were like pure nature school like awesome and fun for the young kids but like they weren't teaching them anything. And I'm like can't we just be outside and when we are inside it's a good environment and also learn some good stuff. It's not asking too much. So our school opens next August. It's called Kindling Academy. K I N D L I N G Academy. If anybody lived in Austin, the age will be 3 to nine for the first year and then we're going to over the next few years grow it all the way up to a high school program. But basically, so there's Jasper in every classroom. There's a we're putting in whole building water filtration, so all the water will be filtered. We're using lights that are they match the circadian rhythm of the sun, but even the frequency of the sun that day. So, if it's a cloudy day versus a sunny day and even throughout the day, the indoor environment is going to be as close to the outside as possible. There'll be no toxic cleaning products whatsoever. And the kids are going to be default outside. They'll come inside sometimes, but they'll be outside and they'll be huge screened in porches so they can kind of have a hybrid environment where they still have like a roof over their heads, but fresh fresh air. And then we're going to be working to have really good data where we're going to be tracking absentee rates and we're going to be um tracking the symptoms of the kids and our the reason we call it kindling academy is this is supposed to be like the first fire that kind of sparks a better way to build schools. So the two big movements we're trying to create is number one is showing teachers and parents not that difficult to start a school. So everything we're doing, we're going to be open sourcing and putting it online. It's this school will be run as a not for-p profofit. So we're not doing this to make money. U we're going to put all of the financials online. All the products that we're using, the absentee rates, the studies, the data, everything's going to be very public and very transparent. But the public schools, they are financially motivated by attendance, which is why they have these aggressive truency laws and they don't let kids travel is because they're paid based on attendance. So my hypothesis is if we can reduce the absentee rates by 20 30 40 50%. My target is 50%. If we can get the absentee rates down 50%. Now the public schools can't afford not to create healthier schools. So we're trying to in like anytime you can align incentives, that's the best way to make a change. So if we can get the absentee rates down and show the the public schools how they can do it, too. Um, and by the way, if you if anyone listening has kids in private school, public schools are just very challenging to work with. But connect, you know, go to Jasper's website, hit contact us, and connect us with your school, and we'll donate Jaspers to all of the classrooms. >> Oh my gosh, you're the best. This is amazing. This is >> If you live in [clears throat] Austin and you're having a baby, this is another program we started. If you're living in Austin and you're having a baby, we will deliver a Jasper to the hospital to the birthing suite and then you get to take the Jasper home as a gift. Uh, and it's not for you, it's for your baby's nursery. So, our thought is like the adults parents are supposed to take care of their kids air, but if you're not going to do it, then Jasper will do it for you. >> A you're the best, Mike. That's amazing. you're like really boots on the ground changing the world which is you know we all dream of doing it but that that's the school itself like >> we're excited >> that's so exciting I you know the ADHD rates and the I mean the you when my daughter was little she's 20 almost 26 now um when she was little and she would get in trouble she because she she didn't do well in school like she couldn't sit still she wanted to dance and sing and [clears throat] you know me I was the same and they just want to put the lid on her and she and we put her in Monosuri, we put her in um Waldorf, we did all we tried everything, public school, it just wasn't a good fit. And if she would get in trouble, they'd make her sit. When I got in trouble as a kid, they made me run laps. She got in trouble. They made her sit. And these kids are rushed through lunch. Even back then, even 20ome years ago, rush. I would go eat lunch with her frequently. Rushed through lunch. Um no out little to no outside time. I mean, it's just atrocious. And I can't imagine it's any better now. It's probably much worse. I bet you're going to have incredible grades. You're going to have, you know, you're going to see all kinds of benefits come from this just from getting these kids moving, getting breathing clean air. >> If anyone's curious too, go go to kindling.academy or our Instagram. But if you go to the website, if you're interested for your kid, sign up. But uh even if you just are kind of curious to follow the progress, you can we have a button there to just like kind of follow along. So, we'll have like monthly emails going out kind of tracking the progress, what's working, what's not working, and creating assets and programs that you can give to other schools and just sort of follow along from wherever you may be. >> I love this. I love this. That makes me so happy. Good job. Good job, Mike. >> Good job, Jasper. Um, >> thank you, Jasper customers. If people didn't buy Jaspers and didn't feel the difference and the impact and trust us and tell all all your friends, then we wouldn't even be able to do any of this stuff. So, thank you. Thank you. >> Yeah. Well, people love them. I get a lot of great feedback from my followers who end up buying them and they're like, "This is a great machine." So, it's a good looking machine. It's a great machine. The price is really reasonable. Um, speaking of, you are making a really generous offer to my listeners for the foreseeable I think the week the week after this releases. So, talk about that. >> Um, and also just so anybody knows, Jasper a big big big difference. Uh, two things I just want to make sure we cover is number one, if Jasper is unaffordable for you, I really highly recommend looking at a DIY air purifier called the Corsy Rosenthal box because what I don't want you to do is go to Walmart or Best Buy or Amazon and buy a little $300 plastic piece of crap that doesn't do anything. That's the worst. The DIY ones actually clean the air really well. The downside is they're a little loud, they're a little ugly, and it's annoying. It will take a few hours to build them, but for about $150, you can make a DIY unit that's going to be way better than like a little cheap plastic box you get at the store. At least it will work, especially for people who are just doing it for wildfire season. We made Jasper specifically for people who wanted something that works like an industrial-grade scrubber, but it's quiet and it works really good and it's beautiful and it's not something you ever need to hide. My background was blue collar, right? And I was a mold man. We were It was construction. It was restoration. The first thousand Jaspers, we had no e-commerce. It on our website said, "Request the prequ consultation." And I you would talk to me for an hour about your mold and everything. And then I would send you an invoice. Like we didn't even have e-commerce. And I had never done podcast. So Jasper was very much built like a a local bluecollar style business. And even in Austin now, every Jasper that gets sold in the Austin area, we hand deliver it and we test everybody's air. So, we still operate like a local business here. Um, but we have a lifetime warranty, which is a really, really big deal because often it can be very expensive being cheap sometimes. So, if your Jasper breaks, whether it's a year later or four years later, we ship you a brand new one, you take the new Jasper out of the box, you put the old one back in the box, we give you a prepaid shipping label, and then we send UPS to your front door to pick it up. So like exc service excellence is a core value just as much as a product being good. I hate when I would buy a product with a warranty and then it breaks and I need to get like a weird shaped box, take photos, take videos, go to FedEx, pay $100 in shipping or more. That's not cool. So we put our money where our mouth is. So anything that happens with Jasper, it's our commitment to you to take care of it. So we say it's the last air scrubber you you you ever need to buy. So instead of buying a new cheap plastic one every few years, this is it. that that same one that you put in your kids's nursery or in your bedroom now you're going to have it forever. So the offer today is November 13th and Black Friday is in a couple weeks. So what we're going to do is starting today, November 13th, we're going to give a special offer. Our Black Friday deal is our biggest deal of the year. Uh last year we were sold out by more than two months before Black Friday happened. So and I anticipate that's going to happen again. So, starting today, November 13th, code Dr. Tina will be $400 off and we'll keep it live through Black Friday, but probably by November 20th or 21st, 22nd will be sold out. So, you'll still get the $400 off, but you'll be waiting a couple months. So, if anybody wants to invest in Clean Air, um, today, this is your sign. So, code Dr. Tina at Jasper spelled JASP.co Dr. Tina is $400 off. Um, and whether you buy one or two or three or four or five, it's $400 off per Jasper, not in total. Um, and yeah, hopefully this message resonates with some of you out there. And you know, it's Black Friday season. Amazon Prime Day is where you buy like your like $80 light bulb for 60 bucks. Black Friday is typically where people buy one or two expensive things. So instead of $11.99, Jasper's $7.99. So it's $400 off. And uh yeah, and if I hope hope you all learned something today. >> Oh, it's a great machine. I I honestly that's why I wanted to have you back on because it's just I'm so impressed with it. And like I said, the longer I have it, the more times I change that filter, the more I realize what it's really doing. And uh I just think your company is great and you guys are all great. Every time I reach out to anybody on your team, everybody's just so nice and really quick turnaround times and my followers have had nothing but great things to say about all of you guys. So, I so I learned something today that I I've learned several things. Every time I talk to you, I learn something. So, thank you so much for coming on the show, Mike. Thanks for being here and doing what you're doing in the world. >> Thank you. I'll see you in Arizona soon. We'll come check out the new spot. >> Yeah. All right. [music] Thanks. Thanks for listening to the Dr. Tina Show. This is a Wellness Loud production produced by Drake Peterson and mixed by Mike Fry. Theme song [music] is by John the Guilt. You can watch the full video version of this podcast inside the Spotify app or on YouTube. As always, [music] you can email the podcast at podcasttina.com. That's drt na. And if you like this episode, please rate, review, and subscribe on your favorite podcast [music] app. You can also find all of my offerings on my website at drtina.com. For more shows by my team, go to wellnessloud.com. [music] See you next time and thanks for listening. This podcast is for generalformational purposes only. It does not constitute the practices of medicine, nursing, or other professional health care services, including the giving of medical advice. I am a doctor, but I am not your doctor. [music] No doctor patient relationship is formed. The use of this information and the materials linked to this podcast is at the user's own risk. The content on this podcast is intended not to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice from any medical condition they have [music] and they should seek the assistance of their health care professionals for any such conditions.