More and more as I think about insulin resistance, I would have described insulin resistance uh kind of along two paths. Fast insulin resistance and slow insulin resistance. People like to focus on fat mass. No, it's the size of the fat [music] cells. Those fat cells will almost only grow through hypertrophy. When they hear lifestyle, they think eat less, exercise more. See [music] how wrongheaded that is? And to help us have some empathy for those who've tried it and failed. really thought that people would take it seriously because I was like, you guys, metabolic disease is what's driving the poorest outcomes with this and we need to this is something we have control over. This is something we can do something about. And through trying to educate people, I was just heavily censored and I that's when I knew I was like something is a ride because I was I was telling people to go for walks outside in the sun, eat meat, and lift weights and I was getting censored. >> [laughter] >> Yeah. In fact, I couldn't I even to this day I'm surprised that the role of the fat cell hadn't come up more. There are multiple reasons just to touch on this topic lightly just like you are and I I appreciate that. But in order for a virus to work, it needs to get into a cell. And one of the ways in which the unnamed virus gets into cells was through a receptor called ACE2. And guess which cell type expresses more of that than almost any other cell type? The fat cells. And so it stood to reason that if someone had more fat cells, there were more potential factories to pull in and start reproducing the viral partic the virus. So yeah, there was a huge from the very very beginning we knew of that and yet you're right, you could not you could not talk about it. >> No. No. God forbid we empower people to Yeah. >> take their health insurance. >> Yes. Exactly. All right. So we've talked about insulin resistance. We've talked about fat cells. Uh let's go talk a little bit more about fat cells. So it's the big inflamed full fat cells that are the problem, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. In fact, the hypertrophy. That's exactly right. Yeah. So, there are more and more as I think about insulin resistance, I think that I ought to have, if I could make one edit to my why we get sick book, I would have described insulin resistance uh kind of along two paths. Fast insulin resistance and slow insulin resistance. So, this is literally the first time I've ever articulated this um in in public because I've just really been wondering how I can present these ideas in a in a more precise way. So, there are these the fast causes like too much insulin, stress, inflammation. Those are things that will cause insulin resistance literally within hours, but as the stimulus goes away, so too does the insulin resistance. So, it's fast on, fast off. Then there's a slow insulin resistance that will settle in over time and take longer to go away and that's the fat cell. So even even the example you just mentioned where what is it about the woman going through menopause where she goes goes from the gynoid fat pattern to the android fat pattern in that happening to I I basically say that woman when when a woman goes through menopause she becomes a metabolic mortal that prior to that she's sort of bulletproof she's she's a superhero when it comes to metabolism the the chances of a premenopausal woman getting things like heart disease and type two diabetes are so fantastic ically lower than her male counterparts as to make her almost, you know, a demigod. And but with the loss of the sex hormones in her favor, now she becomes immortal, if you will. And and a lot of that is I mean, estrogens have myriad metabolically favorable effects. One is to tell her where to store fat. And now back to the fat cell. When we store fat subcutaneously or beneath the skin and more of the gyninoid pattern, that is a healthy place to store fat because those fat cells have the ability to multiply in in part thanks to estrogens and progesterone. And that means that the potential to store fat is higher, but it means also that the size of the fat cells are smaller. And that's what matters most. Uh people like to focus on fat mass. No, it's the size of the fat cells. And the problem with the male pattern of storage android, particularly fat that is stored within the abdominal space, is that those fat cells will almost only grow through hypertrophy. So that brings us to the size, size matters here. Small fat cells are very anti-inflammatory and very insulin sensitive. big fat cells are in fact this is worth elaborating because it's just so fascinating. There's two there's two things that go wrong. So firstly as the fat cells get bigger and bigger and it can get like 20 times bigger than the small fat cell. There's no cell in the body that is capable of this much growth but it's almost like a balloon. We've been you know the kids been filling the balloon on the tap with the with a making a water balloon. Now it's reaching a point of maximum dimension, but they're still dripping in water. And so rather than bursting, the fat cell says, you know what, insulin, you are high. That's why I got big in the first place. I can't listen to you anymore. If I continue to be insulin sensitive, I'm literally going to burst my membrane because like like a balloon, there's only there's only a finite capacity for a volutric expansion. And so it says, I have to stop listening to you. I'm going to become insulin resistant and it starts leaking out its fats. So, that is one of my favorite clinical tests that can measure this right at the level of the fat cell. It's not easy to do because you have to do two uncommon measurements, but that is to look at the insulin and to look at the free fatty acids because free fatty acids or non-sterified fatty acids, NEFAs or FFAs, and they can be measured in a blood test. It's just kind of very rare and a little more expensive. those uh if you see that insulin's high, which should be inhibiting the release of free fatty acids from the fat cell, but if insulin's high and free fatty acids are high, that is proof positive that the fat cell is insulin resistant. So, you're getting it right at that kind of first cell level. And that's a test called the atapose insulin resistance index or score. But nevertheless, so that's one thing that happens now where you have the fat cell leaking out its fats with all these free fatty acids going into the blood and the high insulin. Now the body can start to experience a high degree of ectopic fat storage. So tissues like the liver or even muscle are starting to or the pancreas are starting to store a lot of fat. And you'd say, well, why don't they burn it? Because high insulin won't let them burn it. insulin is forcing other tissues of the body to store it. So that's one thing that is wrong. It took me longer than I intended to explain it. Then the second thing is totally unrelated, which is that as the fat cells getting bigger and bigger, remember like 20 times bigger than it used to be, it starts to push fat cells further and further away from blood vessels, from capillaries. And in so doing, the blood the the cells start to become hypoxic or they start to suffocate. they're too far away from the blood to get that lifegiving oxygen. And in order to try to correct that problem, the hypertrophic suffocating fat cell starts leaking out these pro-inflammatory cytoines, which are basically just pro-inflammatory hormones. Because some of those, among the dozens of pro-inflammatory cytoines being released, some will get to the capillary and tell it to follow the trail of breadcrumbs and start budding off a new capillary in order to feed the big fat cells so it doesn't have to continue to suffocate. So it's a way. So in both instance now this inflammation though of course starts to lead to this subclinical chronic systemic inflammation which contributes to increased heart disease and insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. But lest we blame the big fat cell too readily, we have to have some sympathy because both of these things becoming insulin resistant and becoming pro-inflammatory are efforts of the fat cell to prevent its own death. that it's becoming insulin resistant so it doesn't burst because that would be very messy for the body to have to clean up. And then second, it's becoming pro-inflammatory to once again prevent its own death to try to correct the lack of blood flow. It's just that the rest of the body ends up paying a metabolic or cardiomatabolic price in order to keep those overfilled fat cells alive. >> This is what I call fat cells gone rogue. >> Yeah. [laughter] because your immune system gets completely screwed up in this process and it all just kind of goes to hell in a hand basket. It's it's a big mess and it's hard to come back from. This is one of the places where I really think that appropriate low personalized dosing of GLP1s can start to clean up the millu and pull people back from the brink of this edge because people just don't understand it. This whole, oh, it's just calories in, calories out, you know, eat less and move more. that whole group on the internet. I'm like, you tell me you don't understand metabolic health because that is a difficult place for some folks to come back from. And I'm all for giving folks a leg up to get them to start unwinding that. And obviously bringing in you and I both talk about this like you have to do the lifestyle stuff or it's a moot point, but >> you have to do it the correct way like you're just saying like as much as we you and I both are beating the drum lifestyle lifestyle. Well, the conventionally trained individual, including with illustrious degrees after their name, when they hear lifestyle, they think eat less, exercise more. And yet, just to really help see how wrongheaded that is and to help us have some empathy for those who've tried it and failed. You know, if Tina and I, everyone listening, if if we were hosting a really amazing buffet lunch, and we had the best chefs in the world and there's going to be tons of food for people to come and eat, and we tell people, you're going to want to try some of everything. Come really hungry. What are you going to do? Like, everyone listening, think about what you do before you go to a Thanksgiving dinner, your Christmas dinner. You do two things. You eat a little less in the days before or at least the day before and you exercise a little harder and it will work. You will go to that event very very hungry. Well, why then do we expect any different outcome when we give people that advice who have been struggling with obesity for decades? We tell them eat less, exercise more. Sure, you're going to lose a little bit of weight in the very very short term, but that is the perfect recipe for hunger and hunger always wins. And so on that long journey of weight loss, there are two variables. Those two variables that both cause fat cells to grow are the two variables you leverage to get the fat cell to shrink. Rather than having the first step be the low calorie step, if you haven't addressed your high insulin, that's going to make you very hungry very soon and you'll fail. You right before you know it, you'll be right back where you started. So take a low insulin approach. Control carbs first and foremost. Don't count your calories. That will start to take care of itself. And then you'll start to go further down the road. Metabolic rate will go up when insulin comes down, which it does. You'll start making ketones. And every time you're breathing or urinating, you're getting rid of the calories that come with those ketones. And so you're literally wasting energy from from your body, further reconciling the calorie problem. And then eventually, if you need to, then you can start looking at your calories through some sort of structured fasting. But even then, so I'm very much an advocate of people getting the right information to help them. But as as simple as that sounds, control carbs, unfortunately, all of the research into the neurobiology of addiction in humans suggests that humans display addictive tendencies towards only one of the three macronutrients. It's not fats, it's not protein, it's carbs. And so as simple as the idea sounds, control carbs, it's harder to implement than it would seem because that's what some people may have an addiction for. And that's where I, you and I are very much aligned on this. That's where I believe GLP-1 receptor agonist medication micro doing comes in. In my view, it's essentially a way of saying you're an addict to carbs and as much as you know you should be stopping them, you just can't stop. This is going to help because one of its effects is to act centrally to reduce cravings. And again, people don't crave fat. They don't crave protein. There's zero evidence in humans to support that. They crave carbs. And so that's what these medications can help with. Albeit like like you though, the lowest possible dose combined with the proper nutritional coaching. And you and I are again aligned on this, doing anything you can to keep your muscle mass. >> On this episode of the Dr. Dr. Tina Show, the quick and dirty. I am going to present to you my insanely simple guide to fat loss, longevity, and fitness. And we're going to be discussing the four quadrants of exercise as I see them. [music] I get questions all the time from super confused people who think Pilates is enough, Pilates is strength training, yoga is enough, walking is enough, strength training Only.