 we are so back. Hello, my strong, strong friends. I'm 12 weeks postpartum on my second baby, baby Violet, was born in December. You guys are gonna love today's video. Basically show you what could happen to your body, what might happen to your body after giving birth, and what to expect, and what is in your control, and what can you do when it comes to strength training and getting back to feeling like your best self, feeling strong and confident. Thanks for joining. Welcome back. All right, when someone says a deep core exercise what's happening is that they're doing a core exercise, while also thinking about their deep core muscles, which in this case, we're referring to the pelvic floor and the transverse abs. Now transverse abs, you literally never have thought of them in your life until you get to this moment. No one really understands how to activate their trans abs, which makes sense. So your transverse abs are also called your corset muscles. So it's a sheath of muscle that goes from your spine and connects at the linea alba, remember that one? So that's the transverse abs. The other part of the deep core muscles are the pelvic floor muscles. So think about doing a kegel, lifting up on your pelvic floor. My favorite cue to shorten the transverse abs muscle is to do this sound. Okay? Ssss. And let me expose my belly, and you'll see what happens when you just naturally do a forced exhale where you're ssss-ing. So if you look at my belly, ssss, get in there. Ssss. When you do that forced exhale sound, it naturally draws in the belly button and starts to wrap that TVA, that tighten that corset muscle for you. So try that, incorporate that, and then whenever you see a deep core workout or any kind of core movements like dead bugs or dead bug variations or bird dogs, you can instead of just going through the motions and doing the workout, you can ssss- activate that TVA, ssss- and pull up on that pelvic floor so that it's actually a deep core exercise. So if you've ever seen somebody doing a plank and their belly is just hanging out, hanging out like whatever, that's not belly fat. That is me doming. I am doming because my transverse abs are not activated, so my rectus abs and all my guts are just letting gravity do what it do, okay? So you want to ssss- activate that whenever you're front-loaded in a plank. And you can see me shaking, it's getting harder, so that you're using the deep core muscles. Now when you sss- you also want a pelvic floor lift. So you're connecting the breath, your force exhale, and your TVA activation all together, and that's how you train the deep core. Okay, I need to tell you about plus one. It's my pregnancy and postpartum app. If you are dealing with diastasis recti, things like loose skin or a core that like just, if your core just doesn't feel the same after pregnancy, one, I need to let you know that you're not alone. And like in that section I just mentioned, there are some things that are in your control. And inside my app and plus one, you can get expert-led workouts. I design the workouts, I partner with an OBGYN and a pelvic floor PT, and they're created specifically for pregnancy and postpartum recovery, so you can rebuild strength safely and also feel confident that you're doing the right thing and not wasting your time. You can check out the app and start your free seven day trial today and see the difference for yourself. Just click the link in my description and you can get started. Let's talk about all the things that can happen to your belly specifically after giving birth. And so I'm gonna give you things that I have dealt with, things that I haven't, just give you an overview of what to expect. So let's get started. After birth, your uterus is going to shrink from watermelon size back to pear size, but it does take some time. So that's why whenever you see a picture of someone like immediately postpartum, they still look about like five months pregnant. That uterus needs time to shrink and by six weeks, it's pretty much back to normal. So six week mark, hello. Number two is loose skin. Now this is something that I have. Some skin will regain elasticity over time while others, especially after multiple pregnancies. So I noticed it more with my second pregnancy. You might see lasting changes and sometimes you can see that characteristic of like crinkly or wrinkled skin around the belly button. So that's what that looks like. This is somewhat in your control. You can build some muscle to fill out that area, especially if you haven't been training and keep your protein high for collagen. Some people do skin care treatments like micro-natalining or PRP. So this is a skin care kind of thing. Speaking of skin, we also have stretch marks. So those might fade over time or they'll go from like red purple to white after a while. Genetics are going to play a huge role. Also hydration and moisturizing can help, but you don't want to get caught up in specific ingredients because there's no like one specific ingredient that is the one. Everyone will tell you like, this is the one. Nothing is shown to prevent it. Number four, C-section scarring. So that incision site for the surgery can cause an adhesion. An adhesion where the site is means that those tissues don't move as they used to or as the other tissues around it. So it kind of can create this like shelf-like appearance. With any C-section scar, you probably want to do special massage and mobilization techniques. And you can also do like cupping and desensitization that can help improve or reduce the appearance of that adhesion. Now, five, six, seven, they all have to do with your core muscles and tissue changes. Your abs separate, you're going to lose tension in your linea alba, which is that tissue that connects your six pack muscles. And then seven, you're going to lose a lot of muscle tone and tension in your deep core muscles. Deep core muscles, especially if you're needing the TBA and the pelvic floor. Lots of people will naturally heal and their gap will close and they'll regain that tension. But if you notice that that's not the case for you or it's going a lot slower, you can do things like deep core exercises and pelvic floor physical therapy. And you can basically improve on the strength and the appearance of that separation and the appearance of your core as a whole. This diastasis recti can really suck. Sometimes it could not bother someone, but it could be the reason for back pain or it could just mean your, your lifts suck, your weak. Okay? So diastasis recti, that is the separation of your six pack muscles. And it also is, means like a loss of tension in the connective tissue, which connects them. So like right here goes your linear album. In pregnancy, of course, it stretches like, I think it stretches like seven times its normal length. Anyone can have it. Babies can have it. Grown men can have it. Bodybuilders can have it. Okay? And some people heal naturally. Others will carry that separation and they don't even know it for a long time. So why is it associated with back pain? Well, the theory is when your core muscles don't contract as they should and your pelvic floor isn't fired up when it should, it means that your back in that canister, like your core canisters should be strong all the way around, your back will pick up the slack. So you're lifting heavy and your core is not supporting the canister. Or at the very least, it means you don't effectively train your core. So you're training your core, not activating all the muscles that you can be. And like maybe your RA is taking over. One of the things that we see is, if you're someone who's like super lean and you still have a pooch right here. So if you're super lean and you still have that little pocket of fat right here and you're working out a ton and core workouts don't seem to make a difference at all, even though you're lean, you have to be lean in order to tell. That sucks. So that's when we start to check, especially if you're postpartum. So let me show you how you can check your own diastasis. Lie on your back, feet on the ground, knees bent, then lift your head slightly. You're gonna test three sites above the belly button, at the belly button, below the belly button. We're looking for width. So can those two fingers fit in between your six pack abs and does that tissue feel like squishy and the fingers just sink? That is a sign you've lost tension there. If I just press on my bicep, the muscle kind of like hugs my fingers. It doesn't sink. Now notice and record that width, how wide some people will have a three or four wide diastasis between their RA muscles and then that tension. Are you sinking in? In my example, I have pink nail polish on right now. You can usually see at the top, my fingers don't sink very much at all, but then at my belly button and below, my fingers are sinking. You lose that pink fingernail. If you feel gap, don't freak out. You can train your core and you can improve diastasis recti in most cases, even if you are years postpartum. Thank you everyone for watching. I hope that you all enjoyed this video and found it helpful. Be sure to like the video and subscribe to my channel if you're not already. I am so back. I am so back, okay? Reminder, your postpartum body is strong and it's capable and that's something that we have to tell ourselves before we get in the gym and actually start doing it. And a lot of times when it comes to this conversation specifically, first of all, people are trying to sell you aesthetics, right? They want you to change your body and how it looks, especially for when we're talking postpartum moms, okay? And my goal for you is to give you confidence in education and also give you a little bit of confidence in how your body is performing, especially if you're on my channel. You've probably been interested in lifting for a while now. If you're postpartum, you can get back into the gym and back to doing what you love with some changes that will help you close the gap and address a lot of the things that I talked about today in this video. So yeah, I hope this was helpful. The Plus One app is amazing. It's what I run during my entire pregnancy and it's the program that I run throughout postpartum. I still use, even though I'm back on my regular programming at 12 weeks postpartum, I still use a lot of the techniques and a lot of the workouts, especially the core warmups before my Strong by the Day workouts. I absolutely love this app. Check out the content for the first three, seven days and then if you don't need an app to run a program, just cancel your membership, okay? But I think you're gonna love it when you get in there. All right, I'll see you guys in the next video. Bye.