! Where's my sign? Guys, I saw, let me show you what inspired this video. Where's my phone? Where's my phone? Oh no, it's right here. I saw this video on TikTok, and I want to show you something because it is a great example of exactly what we're going to talk about today, and it's called doming. It is sort of a position that your core takes that you might want to avoid when you're doing core movements, like a plank. So this is that silly trend on TikTok. Listen, it's going to be hard. You're going to have to dig it. He's just doing like a military plank challenge. He's playing a game. But you can see this guy, he looks really fit, but you can see when he goes up a little bit that his core is sort of pushing downwards. And what he's doing is a good example of doming. It gets better as he gets tired. Many people who don't normally experience it will see it when they start to get more fatigued. So obviously he's a really fit guy, but can you see the middle of his core by his belly button is sort of pushing down? That's what we call doming. Let me show you what it looks like when I do it. Okay, so ready? Okay, so basically what happens when you're doming is that your rectus abdominis pushes forward. Some people say it kind of looks like a bread loaf. So can you see the bread loaf when I'm going to do sit-ups here? Can you see my bread loaf? It's better bread loaf whenever I'm on the way down. My RA, my six pack muscles are pushing forward and that's not a terrible thing. But what it's a sign of is that my deep inner core muscles aren't firing as hard as my RA. That's why they're bulging out. This is called doming and it's not something that's necessarily going to hurt you unless you have some core dysfunction symptoms. But the TVA is a sheath of muscle that connects in the spine and connects in the linealba, which is in between the six pack muscles. That TVA isn't firing and the rectus abdominis is taking over. So it's bulging forward. In today's video, I'm going to show you how to avoid this and how to cue in all your exercises so that you don't notice that symptom of doming and when you're working out your core, when you're doing some core exercises, everything is firing so that you get stronger, your core gets stronger and maybe you'll start to see more ab development as a result of all of your muscles firing together. Usually we learn about doming in the context of postpartum training and prenatal training. That's because your abs and your core muscles are just getting so stretched out and lengthened through the process of pregnancy. But anyone can experience doming and it's something that I can look back at core exercises of me doing far before pregnancy and I can notice symptoms of doming. Let me know in the comments if you've ever noticed this about yourself. Most of the responses that I got back when I started talking about this were things like, oh, I just thought my core is built different or I always noticed that I do this when I get tired. Doming isn't anything to really be afraid of, but it's sort of like if you always train your core exercises and your rectus abdominis is always overpowering, it kind of be like squatting without using your glutes or squatting without using your quads. You want to make sure that all of the muscles involved in the movement are helping you complete that so that you're training the entire functional core. You're getting stronger at the movement and all the muscles involved are working together. I want you to make this sound with me and don't be all shy about it. I don't care where you are right now. I want you to go. Go ahead. All the way. Let me hear you. I'm putting this right aside so I don't spit on you. Good. Okay, that S sound. When you forcefully exhale and make that S sound like a little slithery snake, you may feel a reaction in your core already. And if you don't, pay attention to it while you keep practicing. That's the cattle or a really long one. What's happening usually when people do a forced exhale and make the S sound is they start to feel their pelvic floor and you might even feel some TVA activation. So to practice a TVA activation, you can first of all connect your breath with your pelvic floor. Exhale. Inhale. Take a few deep breaths. And think about that TVA wrapping around and engaging sort of drawing the core in when you make the S sound. I could even without making this sound, I can breathe and wrap my TVA on the exhale. That's because I have trained it. But notice I'm still forcing myself to cue that way. So try it with me. And when you make your force S sound, think about lifting up the pelvic floor. Everyone has a pelvic floor. Lifting up the pelvic floor and drawing the hip bones together. So we're going to do one and we're going to hold it for five seconds. Ready? Breathe in. Hold it. Now think about drawing the center of your TVA in. Hold it. Now think about knitting the ribs together. Hold it for five more seconds and let it go. Boom! That's called an ab wrap waterfall. That's something that I have prenatal clients do. If you've ever seen me do videos where like I'm hugging the baby or kind of like wrapping the TVA around the baby, giving the baby a little bit of a hug, that is to train the muscles that are lengthening throughout pregnancy so that they're still on, they're still active all throughout pregnancy and you're still able to train them. A dysfunctional core, sometimes you see pelvic floor issues, you see incontinence, which is a pelvic floor issue. All of those things are connected in the deep inner core muscles and anyone can have issues with them. Anyone can notice that their core isn't firing properly during those sit ups and you can fix it. You can fix it and start to train with a little bit more intention with your core movement. All right, so you're a little slithering snake and you're no longer a domer, but let's try it during an exercise that typically shows us doming. So I'm going to do that same one that I showed earlier at the beginning of the video and let me roll my shorts down so you can see the difference. As a reminder, here's me doming. Can see my hip bones there, things aren't looking very flat. When I incorporate the forced exhale and the intention of wrapping my TVA around, you'll start to notice my stomach lies a little bit more flat and hopefully you'll be able to see more core muscles being recruited in this movement. This you only see my rectus abdominis being pushed out. You can only see that being activated. But when I utilize my forced exhale, I'm going to give a pelvic floor lift. I'm going to think about wrapping my TVA around. Let's see if it looks any differently. Okay. Did it look differently? Great. You notice the difference? Okay. Even with me struggling through that one, you can see the TVA is wrapping. I'm activating more muscles to get the movement done. At the intro where I showed you guys the video of the guy doing the military plank challenge, I mean, a challenge is hard to judge just because he's just trying to get through the challenge. But when you're doing your planks, if you ever notice that your RA is kind of just doming and hanging in there, it's just kind of hanging down. Gravity is pulling your rectus abdominis lower. So can you see it? You can probably see it really well from this angle. Can you see it? Just hanging there? So the difference would be, I do my forced exhale. And I can hold it while breathing. Does that look any differently? Yeah. It's done. Yeah. So the movements may feel a lot more difficult. And that could be just with years of not really activating your TVA or intentionally activating your TVA. You might just need to train it a little bit harder. That's the end of this video, you guys. Don't be a domer. Okay? It's not the end of the world if you are. It's a relatively easy thing to fix. And it's something, if you get your breath and that sound done, you can probably fix any doming. Hopefully that means your core movements can get stronger, your core looks more jacked, which is what we always want on this channel. And hopefully that carries through some of your big lifts if you're a power lifter, if you're training for general strength purposes. Hope you guys enjoyed this one. If you have any questions and need me to elaborate on anything, just let me know in the comments below.