ogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogen First, officially summer video. This is my summer 2023 bucket list. We're starting the video off strong. Pretty simple. One, swim in the ocean. I'd like to do that. Just wants to summer. Two, see Metallica. I got the tickets already. It's happening. Three, epic Emmy birthday. Emerald's birthday is July. And I feel like last year it was a festivity. And we got to one up ourselves. I'm thinking about having a petting zoo come to the house. It's too hot, though, is my issue. It's too hot. And it's hard to have anybody outside. Anyway, that doesn't matter. Number four, get jacked. It's going to be the summer that I get jacked. Five, question mark, we're on a 5K? Maybe. I could probably do it any time. But will I? I don't know. Number six, homecoming. Go home to my home where I'm from. Home of LeBron James, that one band. What's that one band's called? I can hear this though. The Black Keys. Home of LeBron James, The Black Keys, and Meg Squats. Act in Ohio. Should we go? Should we do a little trip? Come down. Gris down. He wants to see where LBJ is from. That is my current 2023 summer bucket list. And to celebrate the kickoff of summer and the holiday weekend, we're having 20% off everything. Jump by the day annual membership. 20% off everything, Javiko, some of the equipment I'm going to use in today's training. 20% off buff chick supplements. Let's go. If you're shopping buff chick, here's my stack that I recommend. Buff greens get the iced tea lemonade flavor. And then creatine, if you get the strawberry kiwi flavor creatine, if it's still in stock, that is amazing. Or you could just do plain creatine. Onflavored. Today I'm doing one scoop of unflavored creatine. That's five grams. And one scoop of our buff pump in strawberry kiwi. I like the pump because there's no caffeine. I already had two coffees today. And I can't be adding more. I can't be adding more caffeine to my diet. I'll be crazy. I won't sleep for days. If you happen to have on your summer bucket list to get jacked, highly recommend incorporating some creatine. Take it every day. Five grams a day. It's one of the most effective supplements out there. Yeah, let's train dog. This is the update. I feel like a lot of Jack and Lean, even considering, were not too far off from the wedding. And I just had two weeks of not training and eating literally whatever I wanted. So I usually eat whatever I want. But the not training part was just something different. I feel happy in my bod. But I wouldn't mind just a little bit more. I honestly wouldn't mind just slightly bigger legs and slightly bigger glutes. Everything else I'm pretty happy with. I first start to hold fat in my lower body and then my core. But I feel like my core is looking good. That's my physique update. Let's see. Will I change? Now to the next. Let's do just a quick little warm up to get things moving. I know people always say, oh, you should warm up. And they turn it into this moral dilemma. Like you should warm up because it's better for your health. Honestly, you should warm up because it means you're probably going to lift a little bit heavier when you get to your main lifts. Your warm up doesn't have to look exactly like mine. But it's hard to be completely cold and then go close to failure, which should be your goal for much training. You hear those crackity-crackity knees? This is an overhead Cossack squat. I just made that up. I'm going to do some around the world, open up my shoulders. I do this every single warm up because it feels good. That helps me feel alive. My first exercise is hip thrust. So I'm going to do some glute bridges with an abduction here and just do like 10. And then straight into a body weight squat with this abduction still on. Let's get just a little core primer. I'm going to do just a slow bear crawl. And in the last video, we went over doming how to avoid doming in your planks and in other core movements. So we're going to utilize that sound that we worked on last video and use that to make sure we're not just letting our kind of core hang. We're actually going to do a little bit of a little bit of a hang. We're actually engaging all of our deep inner core muscles and firing everything together. So a bear crawl is pretty simple. You get in a quadruped, all four position, and then you just lift the knees. Even with that little movement and holding that plank, you can start to feel that core light up. But we're going to just slowly crawl and increase or decrease our stability. It's going to be a little bit harder. Do this like 15, 30 seconds, just as a little primer to get everything firing. OK, let's hip thrust. Today we're doing the bonus day of Stronger by the Day. There are options on the program to do either three, four, or five day. I want to do the bonus day because it is currently the hip thrust day. And I feel like my glutes need some attention. OK, let's just warm up. Oh, god. Oh, god. Going a little heavy on this. Rrr. Woo! Boom, shaka, laka, boo! Diana and Lauren are in the video today. They don't want to hip thrust with us, though. Just kidding. OK, last one. Go sit, check. This is like a Barbie crotch, Gusett. You got a Barbie crotch. It's like a hump. You got two humps? You know what that's called. And then you got one hump. That's a Barbie crotch. I've heard people say, like, oh, I can do one hump, but I can't do two. The more you know. Stick around, grid. There's more to learn. Oh, god. I have to tell you this much. I don't see your linear elbow. Single leg leg press. I love this variation as opposed to a regular leg press. I feel like you can focus a little bit more on the stretch and your glute. So if you're looking for a leg press variation, try this one. Also, it's unilateral, so it's always good to work in some unilateral work. I'm going to find a good foot position first, and I just put my other leg down. This tan is giving right now. Grit was like, did you do a self-tanner? Like, yeah, how'd you know? It's like your hands. Like, what's wrong with my hands? Can you guys tell? I never train calves. Our April Fool's joke this April was Ryan released a brand new training cycle stronger by the day and is all calf training. You made a sick edit first. It was a sick edit. Yeah, this leg press is not my favorite machine I've ever had. This week is actually a D-load week. So I love D-load when you lower your volume by sets. So just two sets of that. It's so nice. Two sets of overhead press too. It's like, I love D-load week. We're going to overhead press next. Oh yeah, this is a stringer by the day app. Sometimes I'll just train according to the snapshot, and then you're supposed to start the workout and then fill out as you go, but I like to do that in my car after. I don't know why, but I just do. Here I have really easy overhead press. I've got two sets of six at 77 pounds. Grit, how much are you going to lift? Two sets of six, maybe a bit. Oh! Yeah, I'll be lifting this small. This is only one bar. Oh, fuck, backwards. Back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back Look at my little drink spotter. This is the drink spotter from Masonomics and this is a drink spotter light. This one goes on like a J-hook, but this one is just a really strong magnet. Just hooks on to your equipment. And then you never lose your drink. I always use my drink, my phone, my watch, in the gym. Oh man. My over-epress feels so weak. So our final super set or giant set rather, is has preacher curls in it. So I want to give you guys some tips. I do have like a preacher curl machine in this gym, but I'm going to use an inclined bench. And right now we have it inclined on just 30 degrees. And the whole point with a preacher curl is I want my delts and my shoulders to be out of the range of motion out of the picture. So you want your upper arm to be supported and that way you can focus on fully lengthening your bicep throughout this movement and then push back up. So this is the movement. You're going to kind of lean over. See my legs are sort of an awkward position. If your gym has a machine or I guess a rig for a preacher curl, definitely use it. You don't need an easy curl bar, but sometimes the grip is a little bit more comfortable. You can always use dumbbells or even a straight bar if you're able to do that. Oh my God. That's pretty hard. Okay, we're super setting that with a scroll bar. God. That's pretty hard. Okay, we're super setting that with a skull crusher. It's programmed as a dumbbell skull crusher, but let me show you with both the easy curl bar and then the dumbbell as well. A skull crusher is going to isolate the triceps. So I'm going to try to keep my elbows where they are and my upper arm with that same angle and only focus on bringing that easy curl down to my forehead. So the bar will kind of just gently kiss your forehead. Try not to let it hit your forehead, but the hands will come back by the head and then try to keep those elbows up high and isolate the triceps. Okay, if you want to use the dumbbell variation, same movement, just the dumbbells come back by the ears. Final exercise is the single arm plank. I love this variation. It's a super, super hard plank. What you're going to do is get in a forearm full plank. And I find that if I make a fist in this movement, it helps me focus a little bit more, kind of drive the power through. You're going to put all of your weight on your arm, forearm that's on the floor and then get up into a low one arm plank. I like to like super arm this arm back and focus on driving my heels back towards me and keeping my hips angled parallel to the floor. It's so freaking hard. And don't dome. Don't be a domer who changed our sign. Anyway, thank you guys so much for watching this video. I'll see you in the next one. Hopefully you all enjoyed your holiday weekend. If you're celebrating in the U.S., don't forget we've got a 20% off sale Friday through Monday, stronger by the day, annual, everything on Buff Chick and everything on Haviko is 20% off this long weekend only. Bye!