 I built two garage gyms. One cost me $60,000, and the other cost me $6,000. Here's what was worth every penny, and the stuff I totally regret buying. But then I'm like, why'd you do that, you silly goose? I'll show you guys exactly when you should splurge and when you should save your money on useless gym equipment. So let's start the tour. Every Good Gym starts with a good floor. Here at Buffchick HQ, we've got 12 of these black rubber mat rolls, half inch thick to protect the floor, four feet wide. Some of them are 50 feet long, and then this half of the gym are just 25 feet long. Here at the garage gym, we have 24 horse stall mats, and horse stall mats are what I would suggest. They're what's most common in most people's garage gyms. They're really affordable. They're not perfect, okay? You can see the texture might be the most annoying, although you can find some that are more smooth. And a lot of times when you put them together, you might have some gapping, you'll have some wider seams. There's a couple of things you can do to kind of fill that in. If you have really dynamic movement, it might be something that bothers you. Overall, horse stall mats are the way to go. About $6,000 of our budget here is on strictly barbells. Let's go from most expensive to least expensive. The Kabuki Strength Trap Bar HD, Yusaka 20 kilo weightlifting bar, Kabuki Strength Transformer Bar, the Duffalo Bar, the Kabuki Cadillac Bar, stainless steel power bar, Ohio Power Bar, the Rep Fitness X Calibur Bar, Brogues Women's Weightlifting Bar, this is a 15 kilo boneyard bar. Two Technique Bars for the children, a couple of Easy Curl Bars, and Farmers' Walk Handles. Well, that was excessive here at the garage gym. We just have two barbells. We rep power bar, power lifting bar, and one weightlifting bar. One of them you power lift with, and one of them you weight lift with. The weight lifting bar will spin a little bit easier. See how much faster that spins? If you're a weightlifter, you could get away with just having one bar and do all your power stuff with a weightlifting bar. That's all the barbells we need. The Barbells We Need Plates in our garage gym are pretty bare bone. We've rep fitness bumper plates, rogue, used bumper plates, and we have some of the rep fitness iron equalizers. Really the plates here are like bare minimum of what we need to get done in order to get a solid workout in. Oh, guys, we forgot one bar. Easy curl bar. They just show up at your home gym. So that'll probably be true for yours too. Gee, we got this on Amazon, and it had a big divot in it complaining that they sent us a new one and told us to keep it so we traveled it down. See what I'm saying? Three bar. Here at HQ, we have these rep fitness colored competition weightlifting bumper plates, rogue competition bumper plates, friction change plates, which are really nice so you don't necessarily have to use a collar. For powerlifting competition plates, we have a set of Elaco competition discs, they call them. 300 kilos of the Ghost Strong 25 kilo plate. These calibrated change plates, these are just little tiny 0.25 kilos. In case you want to break a record here at our gym. And these works on collars that are in this section. For pound plates, we have these rep fitness equalizer, and we also have these cute little donut plates that were given to us by a friend of the channel. For all of our pound plates, these rep equalizers, we keep on the posts that are connected to our cages. We'll talk about cages later in the video, but this is a pretty easy storage system if you're low on space. You may have noticed this huge plate storage system, and this is really cool, but I wouldn't recommend it. I think it looks awesome, but it's not very practical. It's super hard to move. Something that's more practical, regardless of how big your gym is, is probably something like this. It's a weight tree to hold all of your weights. A lot of stuff is from Ghost Strong, so that was when we opened the gym, we collaborated with Ghost Strong. Can find some custom stuff that is similar to this on Rogue's current website. We got a lot of stuff customized to have our Buff Chick branding, and this was one of those pieces. It looks amazing if you have the extra space and the extra cash, because it is expensive. I think it's a worthwhile investment. No, a flex, definitely. Definitely a flex. You might be wondering, wow, she has so many gyms. She must know so much about lifting, and you're right, I do. In fact, I've been doing this for a decade, and I've made most of my gains in a small little garage gym by running my program stronger by the day. My program has over 25,000 members who are just like you, plenty of them running their program in a garage gym. The best part is you can try it for free for seven days. Just tap the link in my description of this video. I usually, a garage gym means you have less room for machines. Right now, we have this Gold's Gym Myth Machine Pec Deck Combo. There are a bunch of things that you could do with this machine, but I don't love it. It isn't really well maintained, and it's old. It's a hand-me-down. It gets in the way of my light when I'm trying to film stuff in the garage here, so I really would love if this would just disappear. Next, we have a machine that we have had for years and years and years. This is a lat pull-down cable. You can get quite a bit done. This is a plate-loaded machine, so you just use your plates that you'd put on a barbell. It is pretty cheap, so our cables are starting to wear and tear a little bit. It's not super sturdy, so you do need to weigh it down, but if you were to pull this cable out at an angle, it'll start to wear that cable, which we've already done a little bit. Our newest machine is this cable tower from Bells of Steel. This, I think, will replace that Amazon machine because it gives you all that functionality, but a much more smooth and high-quality design. Two pulleys that you can set up low or high or wherever you want on this. It has a super low footprint, and it feels really, really smooth. The best part about having a lot of space is you have room for plenty of machines. So let me show you all the machines we have at HQ, starting with the most used, down to the least used. First is this Rep Fitness functional trainer. Victory Fitness leg extension hamstring curl machine. Booty builder plate-loaded hip thrust machine. Oh, Facebook Marketplace find, this abricated pendulum squat machine. Power tech leg press machine. This is also power tech. It's a lever squat calf raise machine. This is the Nordic Chalk treadmill. Rep Fitness glute ham developer. Oh, God, that was hard. Cybex plate-loaded incline chest press machine. Oh, God, oh, God, oh, God. Oh, no, no, I can't do that. Heightens plate-loaded bicep and tricep machine. Plate-loaded T-bar row machine. And then the least used piece of equipment, which is my own personal problem, this is salt bike. Our newest machine is this Bells of Steel lat pull-down machine combo. So there's a bunch of different ways to use it, but you're getting first impressions here. Let's see what I have on stronger by the day so that I can do some of my workout with our newest machine. Oh, God. That feels good. It's smooth. This cable stack is really high. So at first I was like, oh, I don't get much of a range of motion, but you just need this little attachment to give yourself some leeway so that you can get more creative with them. Much better than what we used to have. I didn't like that other machine and it's discontinued, so it doesn't really matter, no T, no shade. You can also either get this machine with a weight stack like we have here, or you can do it plate-loaded. In my program today, I'm gonna play around with our substitution. So I had neutral grip pull-downs, and I want to instead, I want to instead do this supinated grip lat pull-down so you can just easily substitute and confirm, and it'll be in your workout flow. That way, no matter what equipment you have, you'll always be covered even in the app. I am not handy, but I married someone who is, and Ryan made a few things that we've had for a long time in our gym. Ryan, take it away. Three platforms here. Each sheet of plywood is three-quarter inch thick. Sheets come in four feet by eight feet, so you can make a square out of them nicely. You can lay one set this side, rotate one set this side, and kind of reinforce without a big center seam. For the top, we do one of a higher grade, so it's just a little less porous, a little smoother. We use rubber for weightlifting bumper plates when you're kind of dropping. Basically the same without the top layer. We painted them black because it matched the floor. The reason we did platforms here is also to create stations for our kind of powerlifting competition-style combo racks and give them something to anchor into. Is it such a crime to just have your combo racks not bolted in anything? They typically just move a lot, so if you're lifting hundreds and hundreds of pounds and you do one of these, the whole thing will shift because there's nothing holding it down other than the weight of itself. These are little blocks, and I feel like you see these a lot of weightlifting gyms. Two by four cut to more or less the same size, alternated like a little cross patch thing. And then the top we just did four, so the dimensions are four. I'd cut a little piece of rubber just so that you don't have seams in between, and added these little handles. Like cabinet doors? Cabinet handles, yeah. Home Depot has, I think, a table saw in the back, so if you say, hey, can you cut this into 14 and a half inch pieces, they will do it all for you. Let's get into all of our racks and where we lift from. Custom, ghosts, competition, combo racks. You can basically train with someone who is a different height from you. So you can keep the bar loaded, and with these handy dandy handles, you can take the pins out and adjust the height of your barbell. This is what it looks like when you're squatting, and this is what it looks like when you're benching. You've got the bench set up with the face savers attached to the bench. It's also this platform so that you can safely have someone spotting you, and they're in a comfortable position. Of everywhere in the gym is my favorite place to bench press. The pad is a little bit wider, but it's very similar to the setup on the combo rack. It's just specifically made for bench press so you don't have the squat rack flexibility. On the other end of the price spectrum, we have these freestanding squat stands. When we were in our old garage gym, we used these strictly, we didn't even have a combo rack or a cage or anything. We just used freestanding squat stands. Six post power racks, and we used the last post for a lot of storage, plate storage that we talked about. A couple of things that are specific to this that make this a little bit more high quality. First of all, these J-cups we call them, they are super nice and smooth whenever you need to adjust where your barbell is in the rack, if that makes sense. If you get a little bit more experience, you'll know exactly what I mean. Also something that's very important when you start lifting a lot, really heavy weights, is the spacing you can see gets really fine and really tight lower so that when you're bench pressing, you can make smaller adjustments. You might not need it when you're up high, when you're adjusting for squat height. You are a shorter person than you know exactly how it is to be benching in a commercial gym. And you know, you gotta choose between the face saver height, which is right here, or like way too high to where you need to get out of position for you to even unrack the bar. So this is a complete opposite of that, it solves that problem exactly. Our squat rack here in the garage gym is just this four post rep fitness squat rack. You compare these to the cages that we have in the warehouse. You'll notice it's a lot less sturdy, it's smaller footprint, which is great. You don't get the close variation. So you can only get so precise with your rack height, regular J-cups, you don't have the nice rolling J-cups that we have over in the warehouse. But this will get you very far. A flat bench, and we have an adjustable bench. This one I think is from Rep, it's very high quality. We used to have a very janky one, and we're glad that we got rid of it because it was kind of a hazard. At the Nordic Track treadmill, this one gets a lot more use than that one. A TV, some speakers. A mini orange fit, middle size orange fit. A middle size orange fan, and actually that's a good point. Something that's very common for people who have garage gyms. They will get a split unit. I don't know much about this, so I am gonna defer to Ryan to tell you what the hell this is. Split, it's split inside and outside. These are the Rep Fitness Hex rubber coated dumbbells. I love these, no complaints. Our set goes from five pounds all the way up to 90 pounds. We use these every day. I have the same exact set at the garage gym. Well, exactly which dumbbells Megan used because they're the ones that are not put back exactly the same as everything else. You just have to use context clues to know which one you're picking up. Kettlebells we don't use as much as dumbbells. We do have a couple of odd kettlebell weights. I like them for some exercises, but not everything. I feel like you can kind of make your choice to have one or the other. Storage system is flat here on our rack, and then for dumbbell storage, you're gonna want something that's specifically made for dumbbells. They're angled and they have a little notch so that your dumbbells stay secured. You know that video where the guy, these would never, okay? So you do wanna check, but these, these are gonna be good. And this is our third bench from Rep. Nice and thick. It has wheels on it, which I would recommend. As you can tell, we're getting into pieces of equipment where there's not much of a talking point, but that's it. Oh, I do have, okay, okay. Now can we talk about accessories? Can I tell you guys what my biggest waste of money in the entire gym was? If you have made it this far in this video, then you've definitely watched Jujimoo Fu's ultimate home tour gym video, right? Let me know in the comments. In his gym, he has these cool mirrors, and I was like, wow, these mirrors are the answer to every problem that I've never had. And so I bought five of them. Yes, five of them, and you can see where they're stored. I never use them. I guess they're nice to section off what is the studio portion of our gym. We use this for photo shoots back here. I bought five of these mirrors that are on wheels. We are in near Dallas, Fort Worth area, very windy. Almost, I think it's windier than Chicago, the windy city. These blow over all the time. We have sandbags holding them down. It's just a huge waste of money. The mirror quality is not that good because they are not glass. But yeah, why did I buy five? I think some are still in boxes like we haven't used. I've been successful enough in my career to make some dumb decisions, but not successful enough to where it doesn't hurt. You know what I mean? Do you know what I mean by that, where I'm just like spending money, but then I'm like, why'd you do that, you silly goose? Yeah, I could have started with one, desperation. That's what it was. I thought I had a problem, and then I realized like, no, that's not a problem that you actually have. And throwing money at it isn't. Anyway, that's a change, but that is the biggest waste of my money. Our mirrors over there, I mean underrated piece of equipment. I figure like people watching my channel probably wouldn't be like that invested in the mirrors, but that is something that we use every day. And in a garage gym, I think it does make a pretty big difference as far as like vibe and motivation. You gotta take a selfie, okay? It makes it feel twice as big. It does make it feel a lot bigger. If you got a pump, you're gonna wanna see it. Okay, what's Ryan's favorite piece of equipment? Let's see. Yes, tell us about that. Can you rotate it so people can see what's up? Oh man. And speaking of fans, if you're a fan of this video, then please subscribe to the channel. I post videos about lifting weights. That's it. Texas is hot, fans good. This big pan out please. Big, gym-y space is not temperature controlled. Our offices have both air conditioning and a wall unit. Actually, let's show them the outside. So we've got the gym and the warehouse space. And this half is climate controlled. This is where we do our supplements and our warehousing and our pick and pack and inventory. Hey guys, this is Simon. Hey guys. So this is our supplement company. And check out one of our newest products, our newest flavors of our most popular product, Buff Coffee. Go ahead, throw it to me. See if I catch it. This is pumpkin spice latte, guys. It took us years to figure out the formula for the flavor of pumpkin spice and Buff Coffee. But it is amazing, trust me. Because I turned down probably like 15 different samples. It was over 10. Like I said, 15 different samples. You guys are going to love it. Alex and Kenzie both tried it recently. They said they love, love, love it. It's their new favorite. Give them a plug. Shout out to Simon. We're going to link his Instagram so that you guys can check it out. What kind of car is it? This is a nice car. Thank you guys so much for watching my gym tour. Hopefully you learned something about what it's like to scale it and spend a lot of money. And then what you can do with a little bit of money and a little bit of space. Don't forget to join Stronger by the day. You can try it free for seven days. If you're in need of a training program, we are the perfect program for garage gym owners. We'll see you guys in the next video. Bye. Ugh. Okay.