 guys, it's time for more collabs on the Make Squads YouTube channel, and we're starting off strong. We have probably the strongest and smartest person. If there's a combination of like, intelligence and strength, and you morph them into one person, here he is! Everybody, this is my friend, Marcellus. Do you want an intro? Tell the people who you are, tell them how much you bench, because this is a video about them. I know she's giving me way too much praise as far as the intelligence and the straight thing, but yeah, Marcellus Williams, aka the Swolfester on YouTube, and Instagram, the coach of team craftsmanship, I benched 392 pounds. Almost at 400, let's see if we can get through that this year. My name's Make Squads, I deadlift did that one time in my life. Yeah, those are the good old days. No, they weren't actually, they weren't at all. Anyway, today, Marcellus is going to run us through a bench press tutorial. I have done multiple bench press tutorials on my page, but today we're going to get a different perspective. We did want to make this video, since Marcellus is coaching a lot of power lifters, amazing power lifters, we wanted to take some of your questions that I asked you guys to give me that were more intermediate, more advanced to dive into some maybe more power lifting techniques. So this video will be more targeted to our intermediate advanced lifters. That's probably you if you're watching. So let's go. This is my adventures five times a week, and what did you tell me today? This is the one day of the week, up for anything that I don't bench. Okay, so I'm going to be benching today. So let's start with our setup. I feel like most of my bench tapes are around the setup, so that you can get a good position because for my beginner people, it is kind of an awkward position to get into if you've never bench pressed before. But y'all are intermediates and advanced lifters. So we're just going to dive into the intermediate advanced technique. Okay, I guess you can teach setup now that there's an empty bar. Yeah, no, we can work with that. Actually, I probably will need at least one plate on this in order for me to be able to set up. Otherwise, I won't be able to set up. Let me tell you. No shade. Let me tell you a funny story. First of all, we have a new cycle of strong by the day coming out and our lifters are going to peak and taper and retest their bench press one rep max. It's called ready for the name bench baddie. So we have a bench baddie here, but we were filming videos yesterday and we did a great setup. 135 just off of that. And I was like, I'm 100% cold. But let's see what this looks like. It was really bad. It was really good. Do you train in pounds or kilos? As in like when you lift normally, are you using kilo? Yeah, yeah, I'm usually using kilos just some very big on, you know, practice how you play. Okay, I like when you're using a kilo plate and then you put how much weight it is in kilos and pounds and someone was like, that's only 60 pounds. You get that off the menu. Well, I used to when I was a little bit stronger, but all right. So when it comes to the bench press setup in terms of like how I like to teach people, everything starts like from the ground up, even with the bench, obviously we're laying on our backs. But it's this thing where everyone gets focused on like the arch, right? Like everyone wants a super big arch when it comes to parallel if you can try to boost the range of motion. But we don't want to create that arch by trying to force anything through our lower back because one that usually tends to be very uncomfortable and it just causes people to cramp up more often than anything else. So we create the arch itself through pressing into the ground with our feet, using the bar to wedge ourselves into position and depressing our scapula. And that's what's going to set us in the best position. Now, obviously a lot of people, they talk about like, oh, retract your like, you know, oh, shoulders back and then shoulders down. I don't really have people worry about retraction until you're actually set up. And then as we push our chest towards the marble naturally retract just because you can't really do both at the same time. Like if you try to retract as hard as you can and then try to press as hard as you can, these two things fight against each other. Whereas if I just really focus on depression, I can do that a lot more. If I'm not trying to emphasize retraction as well. So to start off for me personally, because I like to slide into position, I'll actually kind of have my glutes hang off the bench just a little bit. So I get my fingers in alignment with the ring first. And then what I'm going to do is use my legs to push myself into position. Because a lot of people, what they'll do is that they grab the bar like too high up, like in the fingers, that's not giving you the best position to be in terms of like transference of force. So I'm trying to wedge it right here in the lowest part of my palm. So that way when I extend my wrist, I can push up and back, which is something else I'll be going over. Because a lot of people when they first get into general fitness, they're taught, oh, when you bench press, bench with a neutral wrist position. This is the weakest position for the wrist to be in. Because when you're pressing, you can easily fold forward. And the whole reason why a lot of us use wrist wraps when we're benching is so we can properly extend that wrist and not the whole out of pressure. It actually puts in a more stacked position. If we look at it like the elbow relative to where the palm is, this is a much more stacked position to drive through with versus being like this, which isn't very stable. So okay, wait, yeah, I want to try because I want to try your bench setup. Let me show you what I do. Sure. I get under and I do focus on retraction. And I know I'm still depressing, but I kind of like walk my shoulders in and that that is retracting first. And then I feel like when I finally unwrap and put my legs down, then I'm depressed. I want to try your setup. Yeah, because the reason why I have people do it is because you want to let the scapula move freely, right? When we bench, we're coming on the way down, retraction is naturally occurring. And when you press, protraction is naturally occurring. That's where we get our power from. So if we're so focused on just pinning our shoulders from the start, one, it's a lot harder to truly depress ourselves into the highest position to push the chest towards the bar. And then a lot of times that can cause people to have some shoulder issues over time too, because you're not letting the scapula move freely when you have, you know, 100, 200, 300 pounds of weight on the bar. 100, 100 pounds. Okay, so you said you start glutes off the bench. Yep. Yep. And then am I just walking back? Yeah, so then what you what you can do if you can reach is you reach for where you want to be on the bar, right? And how far down you are is going to be relative to like your height. Yeah. So if you need to start a little bit further up, you can. But once you find the position you want to be in, you're then going to use your legs to push yourself into position while setting your hands. Okay. And while you're doing that, once you've got the bar, that's when you can already be emphasizing depression. You're using the bar to pull your shoulders down. Okay, no, I'm going. Okay. So this is right, like step one. Okay, I'm finding my grip. Start setting my hands. Yep. And then I'm going to I noticed myself still retracting though, but should I try not to hold on? No, no, I don't think about it too much. Like so, because the thing is when you're, if you're starting off flat, right, and then you just start to put yourself in position, it may feel like retracting to you because you're just used to your back being tight. But really at that point, you're kind of just depressing the scapula. Oh, yeah. Yeah, there you go. Okay. Yeah. Okay, I'm going to start using that. Yeah, I'll go through the full setup and that'll just give you a little bit of better visual too. So like I said, how far back you start depends. Like obviously, if you're someone where you're shorter, you have shorter legs, you'll probably start further up. I have, I'm a lengthier person have longer legs. So that's why I like to start here. So like I said, I'm going to use my legs, right? To push myself into position, kind of wish my opponent want and then I'm going to start with the pressure. So as I feel my glutes touch, I maintain that position here. Once again, you can see my wrist is staying extended. It's not, see, this is neutral. I'm keeping it extended. Then I like to do what I call elevate the chest. So I just breathe into my pecs. And then like I said, I let the retraction occur on the way down. And then I'm pushing up and back towards my face. And that's a big thing. And that's a big thing with it too, because if your wrist stays in this neutral position, you're going to be more prone to just kind of trying to push straight up. But the bench bar path isn't a straight up and down path. Right? We're coming like, if I were to come straight down, I would land like on my neck, essentially. So we're coming down and forward onto the chest. So the reverse that's going to be pushing up and back in this wrist extended position as well as being more depressed makes it easier to do that. I find that that I'm glad we're going to talk about the wrist position because I find myself when brand new lifters are just learning the bench press, they are grabbing it with their fingers more often than not their wrists are fully cocked back. So someone who's creating like general lifting content, I'm like, okay, let me overcorrect you and knuckles to the sky. And that is a huge difference in strength numbers for that little mini baby lifter. But once you get to becoming a more advanced lifter, and once you get some of the basic basics down, you can start to have better cues or more refined cues. Because that is definitely an overcorrection. Because I still teach that now. I'm like, oh, yeah, just punch the sky. And that's like a very generalized way to have my lifter not be like literally the bars just like now back here not supported by anything. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. No, so that makes that makes plenty of sense. But yeah, that's the general setup that I that I like to go with. Like you said, you've seen my video where me and Michael broke that down. But basically, the whole idea of why we set up that way is because we're trying to create as much tension as possible. Because that's that's what power of things all about, right? They're like, at the end of the day, it's like we're trying to produce as much force as possible. It's not necessarily always about having the weight move as quickly as possible. It's just getting away from point A to point B. But generally speaking, the more tension you have, the faster it's going to be, the more explosive it's going to be. So with this position, it's allowing me to utilize my leg drive because I'm pushing into the floor the entire time. Like for the moment that I'm setting up and the moment I'm racking, I'm pushing to the floor the entire time. So I constantly have this constant leg drive where I'm driving into the floor. And as well as even the part where I'm like elevating my chest is just to create more tension. So when I drive up and back, it feels very explosive. So that's what we're going for compared to like what I talked about in my other video where a lot of people like they conform themselves into a tight position so they feel tight. But they're not really creating tension, which is very, very different. You know, the typical like they'll bring their legs all the way back here because like, oh, I feel really tight. Right. I've found myself making adjustments, especially with my foot position, to be actually farther away from the barbell. Because I feel like I'm able to get more leg drive when I'm pushing myself back rather than being like, I mean, even if, oh my god, that difficult to get into. But see, I haven't done it in a long time. But even some listers who are able to like, in their fed push from their toes, their feet are like all the way back here. I'm like, how do you get any leg drive? Yeah, exactly. So yeah, I like that cue that tightness. And even a larger arch isn't always the answer. Exactly. A huge arch, sure, you can like use it to your advantage. But if you're not able to transfer force, then what's the point? Exactly, exactly. And everyone's different. I tell so many people what your arch is going to be like very much. It's going to just be based upon like your morphology, how you're ridden certain stuff like that. Like, two people can follow the exact same cues. And one's just naturally have a bigger arch than the other person. That's just genetics. Yeah, people, I recently answered this question on an Instagram story, because I often hear the comment, why do you only see women who have a huge arch and you don't see as many men who have an arch? Do you have an answer for that? I mean, a lot of it does have to do with, I think, a lot of general flexibility, like being able to get into that position. A lot of men tend to have more muscle on their frame. And mind you, muscle doesn't make you stiff. It's their still mobility. But the thing is, if we actually look at it relatively, and when two people set up, if you removed like some of that muscle, their arch would seem a lot bigger than what it may actually be. So that's one thing. And then another part of it too, I would say is just if we look at it, it's a lot of lighter weight women, like lighter weight females that tend to have this really big arches. Well, you see the same thing with a lot of lighter weight males. That's the thing. I think what a lot of people think about powerlifting, they look at like really big heavier dudes, like, you know, 90 kg plus 100 kg plus, those guys aren't going to necessarily have as big arch. But if you look at a lot of like, you know, 75 kg, six, seven, half kg, like these lighter weight male lifters, they tend to have pretty reasonable arches as well, just like the lighter weight females. It's not just the girly pups. I am shorter than you, so I can't keep my glutes off the bench. But yeah, Star Wars is comfortable for you. We'll kind of like walk you through it. Okay. You know what? I think I'm going to like that. Because I often, I find myself when I'm, you know, okay, squeeze something in your spine and I'm like walking back. When I walk my shoulders closer to one another, I always get uneven on the bench. Yeah. Yeah. Which makes sense because it's like, we're not perfectly symmetrical. You probably have one side is a little bit more mobile than the other. So when you're squeezing both like this, you're almost fighting against yourself at that point, instead of like more smoothly, just getting into position. Yeah. Come on, get in there. Get in there. You're like, so basically on the way down, you'll naturally retract, right? Because as I'm pushing my chest towards the bar and the weight comes down, I'm actually retracting then. But when you're first laying there, no, you're not going to retract your legs. You're going to lay yourself way flat and usually like to put yourself in a position that focus on depressing. So pulling your shoulders down versus back. Yeah. Push hard to the floor. Get that chest high. Yeah. You better lift. You better lift that 20 kilos. It looks better, right? Yeah. Yeah. It's funny because a lot of people feel like it's going to make the arch worse, but it's going to improve it. Actually, I feel like it was more comfortable too. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Because you're not putting yourself into this weird conform type position and then trying to set up. Like you're using the setup to get into the tension position. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So can you look at my wrist alignment and see if it's ideal for the cue that you gave? Yeah. Yeah. Ideal or close to ideal? Well, I'm sure nothing I do is ideal, but okay. Yeah. Yeah. It looks good overall because everyone's different too. Like how much you can even extend your wrist in the first place is going to vary. And once again, it's not like, like, because there's different, because some people will have it a little bit higher because they can hold the bar like up here and that works for them. But for me, like, so I try to wedge it here and extend my wrist as much as I can that way. And the one that helps is when you unrack, you can extend the wrist even more, right? Because it's probably going to be a little bit less extended when you're unracking for a lot of people. Just so they have the force to unrack it. But then from there, as you're unracking, you can extend the wrist even more. Sweet. Yeah. Okay. As you're setting up, I'm seeing that you're kind of really pushed with your legs and then you're kind of trying to like apply pressure with your palm. You can do the two things at the same time. So it's like pushing with my feet into the ground. I'm also allowing myself to push with my palm, like set that tension right here. And then once I feel it, then I can set the actual grip. Yeah. Marcel, I'm going to be honest with you. Like, I probably, my best bench ever is 176, which is, I don't know how much of that is in kilos. I think that's, you said 176, man. Like, at last count, it's kind of low. So we're trying to think about what that is. No, I think it's like, that's like, you know, somebody whose body weight is that? Oh, is it like, is that like 80? I think it's 80. Is it 80, Ryan? I'm really good. Yeah. I'm really good with kilo math, just only to certain numbers and above. Yeah. Pretty much. Yeah. Things I just can't relate with. But since, obviously, my training has changed since having my baby, bench wise, I think my best bench that I've done in a while is probably like 140. Okay. We're being that today for sure. Yeah. We're being that today for sure. I was hoping that you would say that and you did. Thank you. We're being that today. Okay. Okay. Okay. A little closer. There you go. Like you're pushing the floor as much as you can. There you go. Oh, God. Nice. I wonder if my feet need to stay a little farther away from me. Yeah. I was, I was going to say one thing you can do because your feet are kind of like out wide. If you can have them maybe just a little bit more in front of you so you can really push into position. Okay. And I'll probably also help you with keeping your glutes feel like they're secured to the bench as well. Yeah. A little bit more narrow and a tiny bit farther away. We'll see how that works. Yeah. There you go. Three, two, one. Oh, God. There you go. I forgot how to bench. No, check it out. Check it out. So your position, your wrist extension looked really good there. The one thing though is when you pushed, you tried to almost push straight up. Remember, you want to push up and back. Push towards your face. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Cause the setup there was good. That was really good. Try that one more time and try this. That's pushing up and back. There you go. There you go. Yeah. Now one thing for both of you, like, and this is where the retraction actually comes in. So you're doing a good job. You're setting up, you're here. And then with you, you do a really good job of kind of like trying to breathe into the chest. Just that's one thing when you're breathing, because when we squarred, we're so used to breathing into the core. So I'm not breathing into here. I'm breathing into my chest. But from here, you really want to cue pushing your chest towards the bar. So that's where the retraction kind of be emphasized. Because if we retract on the way down, it'll keep the chest higher. Whereas if we kind of just come down, that chest might sink a little bit as the bar comes down. So try to emphasize like pushing your chest towards the bar. Yeah. Can you talk about like the sink and heave verse? What's the author in this? Oh, verse like that, like soft touch or yeah. So I guess first explain what sinking and heaving is people who might not know. Yeah. So the sinking, the sinking is like when people like instead of like keeping the chest high and touching, they let the bar, they person the bar sink into their chest and they try to like, keep it off of themselves. I don't like to speak in absolutes because there's some lifters. I even have a couple of where that works really, really well, because it's they've been doing for a long time. I'll say in general for like heavier lifters. So like, wow, my gosh, like 200 pounds plus where they have the mass supported and they're really good with the timing of it. The sink press can be good because it almost makes it feel like they get a little bit more momentum. But for the vast majority of people like not 89% percent, I don't think it's great for a few reasons. One timing it and as that way gets heavier, you may think like, oh, I'm going to time as well, but then just sinks you excessively. It's also this thing where it's not as consistent, right? Because there's more movement involved with it. Because with the constant touches, okay, you touch the safe spot, you push up and back with the sink. You have to time it and then in parallel to me, it's not great because the rule is you're not going to get the press command to the bars completely still. So if I do the soft touch, cool, I'll get the command. But if I do the sink, they have to wait till the bars done sink, get to my chest and then have to hold it there until I get the press command. So in my opinion, it's not going to be ideal for most people. And then if we're talking about from a standpoint of like hyperspeed, like just using the bench press for muscle mass, I think the constant attention touch point is better too. Just because it's less momentum involved, it's the muscles doing the work to move that way from a dead stop versus you trying to heave it off yourself with body English. Yeah. All right, let's not sink and heave. And I'm about to lift 65. 65 is? That's one. Is that 143? Oh, I thought you said you didn't know how to count that look. I have no female litters that touch this. In regards to your girly pops, what's the best bench and what's her name? Let's give her a shout out. Oh, that's definitely going to be Lysha Gardner. 120 kilos is 264 pounds. Oh, she's strong. All right, I'm coming for you. Just kidding. Three, two, one. Nice. There we go. Did my butt come off the bench? I felt like maybe it's a little bit bad. Yeah, baby. Yeah. Yeah. Three, two, one. You got it back, back, back. Tech's up. We're going to try that one more time. Okay. Okay. And I'm going to show you something. So with that, you came down, you barely touched me, tried to come immediately. So it's kind of like if you do a touch and go rep, you get momentum. If you do a properly pause rep, you get a platform to push off of. If you kind of do half and half, you get neither. So trust yourself because your position was great. Trust yourself. Let yourself come down here and then just push up and back and keep driving back towards your face. I definitely, when I felt it in my hands, I thought touching good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I did not trust myself. Yeah. Trust yourself because you can definitely do it because you could even see coming up, the strength was fine. But when you got to this stall where you kind of try to just push straight ahead, you got to constantly go up and back. Yeah. Yeah. Three, two, one. There you go. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Yeah. That's all right. That's all right. Yeah. I see what you're doing on this one at this point. You got it. You just have to, as you get used to this setup, your touch point, keeping that consistent because compared to the, well, the 143 on the 143, anything below, you're touching kind of like right near your sternum. Now you're touching a little bit higher up. This was making it a little bit hard for you to push up and back. But that's just getting used to the setup. But I haven't attempted this in a long time. Yeah. You have a very close grip. This is where your close grip used to be because you were before. I thought that when I did that and when you said where my touch point is, I said, I think my grip is a little too. Yeah. But I'm excited to use my new setup in typical training sessions, not just like one rep max. Yeah. So do you keep everything the same when you're hitting like a high volume bench day or when you're hitting like higher reps sets? Yeah. Yeah. The setup stays the same. It stays consistent. Even if I have like a close grip day, the way I set up is still the same way. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. On that note, are there any, a lot of people when I asked for questions, noted something about a plateau, they're in a bench plateau, they can't get out of it. Do you have any advice or maybe like what you've seen has helped your lifters? Yeah. So the first thing I'll say is, because oftentimes people have talked about like increasing bench frequency, like going up in days. The only time where I think that should be your first move is if you're only benching twice a week. I think most people are going to be able to progress really well off three days a week benching. So that's where you want to start. Now, assuming you're already benching three times a week before you try to go to four times a week or five times a week and like that. The first thing I'm going to say is look if you can increase workflow with what you're already doing. So can you get away with doing more volume on the three days you're already doing? Like, oh, can I add a set on each of my three days? Because bench is something where just needs a lot of stimulus for growth. So try to see if you can increase workload in that way first. If you feel like, well, I'm already doing as much volume as I can on my three bench days, if I try to do more, then it might like get to a point where it's impact recovery. Can you increase your accessory workload? Can you do more dumbbell press, weighted dips, chest press, things of that nature? If you feel like you're already pushing that, that's when you would increase bench frequency, like add in a fourth day. Okay, what's your favorite like secondary variation? And then what's your favorite accessory that doesn't involve the barbell bench? Gotcha, got you. My favorite variation for bench is probably long pause bench. Just because one, it builds a lot of confidence. Because if you're somebody where you have a tendency of like, you know, rushing on the way down or like, you know, trying to touch and go or something like that, long pause bench is going to give you confidence. Because if it's like, okay, I can hit 300 pounds with a two, three count pause, and it's like, okay, I can hit 305, 315 with the regular duration pause. So probably long pause bench for sure. And then as far as accessory weighted dips, like 100%. 100%. Yeah, yeah, because it's a fun movement. Like there's certain movements where like, for example, like chest press is a great bench accessory movement, because it's easy to recover from. Like, you don't have to stabilize anything, you're just, you know, machine your pressing so it directly impacts the muscles involved. And then of course, you know, dumbbell press or incline bench, those may feel like they have a little bit more skill carry over because they're kind of similar to the bench press. What I like about the weighted dips though, is that it's just a fun movement to push. And I like that it's very different in terms of movement from the bench press. So you can get the muscles involved bigger, stronger, but without taxing the same type of position. For your dips, do you, what does like the volume, the sets and reps look like for those? Are you trying to like max out your weighted, like, got you. So I actually structure weighted dips kind of similar to the bench press where I'll have like a lower rep top set first, and then back down. So like, let's say it's like a three block period, right? The first block might be like, okay, a top set of five, then two back down sets of eight. The second block might be a top set of four, and then like two back down sets of eight, and then the third blocking by a top set of three, then two back and sets of eight. So I'll keep the back down volume kind of consistent. So we're constantly building that. But like so the fun part about weighted dips is actually pushing that top end threshold. That's what psychologically stimulates a lot of people. So I like to have like a lower rep top set and let us like that way. When we first met Marcellus was in Colorado, and he showed up to the gym with his carry on bag, his gym bag, and his dip belt. Because you never know if you're traveling to your gym and you're doing weighted chin. Yeah, I don't know if they have it or not. Yeah, I'm being on the way to pull some discs. I always had mine with me. How heavy are you going on your weighted dip right now? Oh, the heaviest weighted dips I've done is 225 pounds for like, it's like three or four reps. I can't remember what's up in my head. I have to go back to Instagram. But yeah. So my backpack trick won't work. But if you ever find yourself without a dip belt and you're not doing 200 pounds, that's insane. You can grab a band, a thicker band depending on how heavy you're going, and then just loop. See my weighted dips weight is more something like this. So you I like to do these for weighted pull ups. So you can always loop it through and then you have your little backpack. Oh, yeah, I would do that. Yeah. Yeah, could you do it? I guess you could do it in front for dips if you wanted to. Yeah, so that your weight is more. Yeah. All right, we're going to try it one more time. And if I if I can do it, then I'm ending the video here. I want to find your grip. Yeah. You got this. Come on. Here it is, Meg. Make it count. Three, two, one. You got it, Meg. Come on. Come on. Drive it, Meg. Yeah, back, back. Come on. Keep going. Keep going. You're right there. You're right there. Almost, almost, almost. I almost had it. I feel like that's good enough to end the video here. Thank you guys so much for watching. I'm going to let Marcellus give all his plugs. Go check him out, especially if you're a power lifter. Well, do you coach a general pop too? ogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogen Bye!