 pilates is everywhere. You need to go to pilates. You want to pilates? I mean, you need to do my thing. I just take a shot every time I say pilates. PILATES! Hey, mamas. Is it your first class? And more and more, the pilates' girlies are being pitted against the strength girlies. And I'll be honest, I am a pilates' hater. Pilates' hater. I do not think it's a replacement for strength training. I do not think the resistance is enough to even be considered a workout at all. I just don't get it. So I was super confused when a friend of mine who is probably one of the most successful power lifters and bodybuilders that I know became a pilates' instructor. So I'm on a mission to figure out, what does he know that I don't? What do all the pilates' girlies get that I don't get? I'm going to take a class every single day. I am just a lowly gym girl, and I'm a strength coach who loves lifting weights. But I want to figure out if pilates is a method that people like me should try. And maybe I can convince some pilates' girls to try a little bit of strength training. Let's go. My first pilates' class, I don't even know what to wear. I'm somewhat comfortable, like a lion fabric. So this first class is going to be a bar pilates' class, which is something I've never done. One hour later. How was it? It was kind of stupid. Oh, I want to like it. But that was, can't help but feel like that was a waste of time. Day one was a flop, but I'm not losing hope. I need a game plan, and I need some guidance. Today, I signed up for one-on-one private instruction. They are pricey, but I signed up for more so that I can get eyeballs on me and only me more regularly. So I'm getting coached well, and I know that I'm doing the right things. I cannot afford to do one-on-one every single session. So my next mission is to find out where else can I take some cheaper classes. Absolutely no surprise that I liked the most expensive option way more than the group class yesterday. I need to do some research because this was nothing like the class yesterday. I have serious goals for this challenge, and let's go over them. My assumption is that pilates will be good for my core. I'm going to take a few pre-challenge test pull-ups. Now I know that my pilates classes most likely won't be training pull-ups, and they won't make my upper body any stronger than it already is. But I do have a suspicion that my hollow body hold by the end of the challenge will be either stronger or have better endurance. Maybe it might make a max effort set of pull-ups a little bit easier. I will be continuing with my lifting protocol, lifting three days a week, typical strength training, kind of powerlifting style strength training on stronger by the day. I am going to adjust the frequency to three days a week from four days a week. I just have to make that work because I'm going to be doing so many classes. But my next test is going to be an L-sit. Now this is a movement that I don't do, and you can see I can't really do it. I'm not going to train it at all again until the end of the challenge. I'm going to purposefully not try to train it at all. I want to avoid any skill acquisition that comes with the specificity of trying this movement again and again. And next, I wanted to try a pull-up specific movement that I could try and master. I opened up the classic Return to Life through Contrology book, and one that really stuck out to me was the double leg rocker. Is that what it's called? Double leg rocker. The rocker with open legs. It looks fun. It looks a little cuckoo cuckoo. Let's see if I can do it. My first week of class was mostly private sessions, and I almost immediately get on more equipment than I expected. So we all know the Reformer, but I also used the Matten Tower, the Wonder Chair, and the Ladder Barrel. The apparatuses and movements that I'm working on this first week are more classic, meaning that they're pretty close to what the creator of Pilates, Joseph Pilates, originally taught and intended the practice to be. Now there is a legit lineage from Joseph, and you can go out of your way to find more classical interpretations. But you'll see in the rest of my video, most of my classes use some sort of contemporary variation that is like kind of Pilates, or things that people commonly think of as our Pilates, but they're really not Pilates at all. I'm going to a solid core class. They have a different Reformer. I use something called a Mega Reformer or a Custom Reformer. Apparently it's supposed to be higher tension and get you closer to muscular failure, which I am not looking forward to. Also why is a crumble next to the Pilates place anyway? That was so hard. This shit was hard. Does hard mean good? I have to figure out more about what my goals really are, but it was kind of fun. It was kind of fun, and I really did feel like I was working hard at something. Starting this clip here to talk about the open leg double leg rocker, I sent it to my friend Ryan after attempting it multiple times. From what I understand, the original 34 exercises are really meant to build off of one another, and the open leg rocker is a level three exercise. I don't think that by the end of this challenge, I'm going to be able to successfully complete it. I also don't think the open leg rocker is as iconic. Instead, I had an instructor suggest the teaser. When I'm not training Pilates in this challenge, I'm using my training app, Stronger by the Day. If you are serious about building strength and muscle in 2026, then this is the app you need. Science backed programming that's easy to follow and it adapts as you progress. Instead of guessing what to do when you hit a plateau, you have a program and an app that knows exactly how to move you forward. Shout out to all the Stronger by the Day members getting stronger each and every day. This community is truly something that has changed my life and makes me so happy to see all every single day in there. We are changing the way women approach fitness by focusing on getting stronger instead of getting smaller. And if you're watching this before the end of January 2026, you are just in time to join before our next cycle. We're all be bringing in everything I've learned from this Pilates challenge, especially my favorite principle of Pilates, which is the idea of control. And I wanted to give you guys a code to get your first month for just $1. So use code PILATES2026 and you can get that first month for just $1. So if you're already in the app, tag me so that I can feature you. And now let's get back to class. Little mid challenge update. I am about 20 classes through and I will say by class 12, I was kind of like, okay, okay, I get it. I am getting it. I think a lot of gym girls think when they try one Pilates class is they think that it's too easy. There have been moments and movements in every single class where I think, oh my God, this is extremely hard. I have the shakes. I'm close to failure. I need a break. Every single class I have experienced that. But in a lot of these contemporary classes where you're working on the reformer, you're doing movements that you would see on a gym floor, squats, lunges, calf raises, chest flies, front raises by subcruise glute bridges. And it usually takes 50 minutes to an hour for me personally. I am doing a lunge or a squat. I am doing it to build strength and muscle in my legs. The resistance applied in Pilates is not enough for me to build strength. Even if I'm keeping tension the entire time, even when I'm going slow and controlled, if I wanted to train lunges and squats, I would not ever do it on a reformer. I would go on the gym floor. I would load up enough resistance so that I can continue to make progress and get it done in half the time. Which brings me to one of my takeaways. If you haven't guessed, I don't like contemporary Pilates. The farther it's removed from the classical, the less core work I get. And I think for gym people like me, the most attractive thing about Pilates is the focus on core. And that even leads into my next takeaway, which I don't even think Pilates should be considered as a workout at all. I love this comment from an instructor. I don't think that all instructors would agree with a statement that Pilates isn't and shouldn't be considered a workout. That is currently how I feel and that has confirmed some of the reasons why I never liked it in the first place. There are six core principles of Pilates. You have centering, concentration, control, precision, breath and flow. As you can see, none of those things relate directly to principles of strength training. It is just not ever meant to be a place to build strength. So I think it's unfair to call Pilates strength training or expect a ton of strength from Pilates. Instead, I like the idea of thinking of Pilates as a practice similar to yoga. You can unlock and progress things within that practice, within the movements that are provided. It's also not something that you're going to necessarily do to look a certain way. However, lots of people do use Pilates in an attempt to look a certain way. Students and instructors will advertise their method will lengthen your muscles or build long-leaf muscle. When really, the method doesn't build much muscle leaner otherwise and the typical Pilates body type might just be folks who are more slim and slender and might naturally gravitate towards Pilates or things like it. If you're aiming for an aesthetic goal and the way you want to look is leaner or you have a weight loss or fat loss goal, you would be far better served by lifting weights and eating in a caloric deficit. I personally love the look of muscle on my body and I like growing my muscles. I feel like I look more feminine and I love being capable of lifting heavy shit overhead and the power that comes with knowing I can just handle myself. If you really wanted to prevent muscle growth while still being active, Pilates could be a way to do it, but you're really not taking off any of the physical activity guidelines. The resistance that you see in Pilates classes has a pretty low ceiling where if you are completely untrained, yes, you will build strength, but once you get to that ceiling, there's really not much more adding to improve that strength further. With that, you can get better at the practice. You can get stronger within the practice and get more control. That's really not like strength building for strength as we know it on earth, using gravity, resisting gravity to have a better life as the way humans need to operate. You know what I mean? One thing that Pilates gives that is something that I've never thought about and that is flow. Their principle of flow I think explains a lot. I've never thought about flow before, which flow as a principle kind of speaks to why dancers gravitate towards Pilates. It's very graceful. It's dance like you transition smoothly and with control and precision like ballet. It can be fun to focus on making movement look a certain way or making it look pretty. When it comes to physical activity guidelines, I think that can be distracting, but is it fun? Yeah, it can be fun. It can be enjoyable and it can kind of like, I don't know, make you feel pretty like a pretty ballerina. Okay, I'm going to show you guys the Pilates shakes. If you go to solid core, you are definitely going to experience the shakes, muscular failure basically in the entire class. So I'm going to demonstrate what it looks like. Point down. I'll also show you guys my teaser progress. I'm almost done with the challenge. Okay, so at that point in my teaser, you start to see me rocking a little bit. That's no longer balance. That is me shaking. It's not super dramatic. But that is... Oh, teaser. Can you do it? That is the Pilates shake. The Pilates shakes are famous in most of my classes and structures use the shake as some sort of feedback. You'll either cut your range of motion right when you start to shake or you'll sit in your shake in order to train it. Because this is something that doesn't really happen when you're doing traditional strength training. But basically your muscles are just getting fatigued and your body is trying to recruit more muscle fibers to help stabilize and hold that position. Your nervous system is juggling muscle recruiting and you're getting more and more fatigued. So if you hold that position, you will keep shaking. Okay, we're finally ready for all of my tests. Let's first take a look at my teaser progress. Here's me on day one. And then let's compare it to my final class after 43 classes of Pilates. And I am proud of my improvement. It's clear my core has gotten stronger and I'm able to control my way up and down into the pose while still leaving a lot of room to improve. I think this challenge of trying to master or improve my teaser is really where my Pilates journey begins. And that's kind of how it goes. You attempt moves and you do the workout and you progress in the principles of Pilates like control precision and flow to really define your practice. Ready to see if this has any carryover to movements that I care about more regularly. Pull ups. I had my day one test. Let's do my final day test. Day 43. This is almost too close to call. I see some added control in my lower body, which is exactly what I hypothesized. So that's good. My hollow body hold looks more solid after the challenge. Is it worth 43 hours of Pilates for that extra control? No, that carryover is minimal. I'm actually even surprised my pull up strength is at the same spot because the many, many hours of Pilates classes has come at a cost to my regular training. I just don't have enough time to do it all. But the L set is much more promising. This has been something I've never really been able to do. Hence my complete and utter failure on day one. But now this is way easy. I am quaking and shaking. Yes, in my upper body, but I do feel like I'm able to control my L set hold. So excited to see this, I guess. I think that's good. That has to be good, right? Right? That has to be impressive. What the fuck is that? I don't know. Don't push it. It is finally time for my final takeaways. First up, Pilates is cool. A lot cooler than I originally thought. To be clear, Pilates is not strength training. But to think of it as strength training is a misinterpretation entirely. Pilates was never meant to replace strength, although contemporary classes do make that even more confusing in my opinion by promising a full body workout and doing a bunch of cool exercises on the reformer, which is fine. I think people should move however they want to. I think you should know what type of Pilates that you're doing. Pilates has a huge branding problem. So make sure you know what you're getting when you get into a class. My recommendation is to try something that is like more classical first. If you're just exploring or even some of the original 34 exercises from Joseph Pilates that you can try at home. Most asked question in this series is, should Jim people add Pilates in for extra core strength? And I think if your ultimate goal is to add more core strength, there are much more efficient ways to do that than investing a lot of time and a lot of money into a bunch of Pilates classes. Instead, I would do Pilates if you are attracted to anything that you see in this video really, or some of the principles that you get in Pilates classes. It will be entirely different to lifting weights. And I would really advise against trying to like muddy the waters and make them work for each other. They are just different things entirely. I would say 100% you should try Pilates if anyone ever invites you to a class. Just say yes. Should Pilates people be lifting weights? And my answer of course is absolutely 100% without a doubt. And as someone coming in from the other side, I think people who are really good at Pilates will have a fantastic time lifting weights. You already understand a lot about balance, control, and you have this awareness of your pelvic floor and your hip and rib positioning that are things that are really hard for us to teach in lifting weights. These things that you already know just make for great technique under a barbell. And literally just a tiny drop of strength. I'm talking like one day a week, three heavy compound movements would make a difference in your Pilates practice and in your bone density score. So thank you guys so much for watching this video. I put in so many hours in this one. So if you could subscribe to my channel, if you're not already, my goal is to get to 700,000 subscribers in the year 2026. So if you can help me achieve that goal, I would greatly appreciate it. And last before I sign off, thank you to the many, many instructors and friends who helped me in this journey. I leaned on your expertise so much and I just had so much fun, a lot more fun than I ever expected. So thank you all. Bye.