! Hello, my strong, strong friends. Today, I'm going to go over creatine. Okay, this video is going to be all about creatine. Why the frick would you want it? Well, let me explain in this video. So first of all, what is creatine? Okay, we have creatine already in our muscles. Creatine helps us produce energy. So you need energy for basically any movement that you do. You're using energy to do this. During high-intensity activities, like weightlifting, like sprinting, our muscles use ATP. ATP is the form of energy that we use so that our muscles can move in that high-intensity rate. Creatine helps produce more ATP. So you're producing more energy that is used in those specific instances. So if you're lifting, maybe if you're a sprinter and doing really quick, high-impact activities, creatine supplementation might help you in those workouts. When you take creatine, you don't just with no work get bigger muscles. It's not like that. You need to pair creatine supplementation with working out, with lifting so that you're using that energy that it's producing. So over time, creatine really works because it produces more energy so that in a given session or in a given set even, you can get a couple more reps when you're using it regularly over weeks and weeks and months and months. Maybe you get dozens of extra reps each session and that over time is going to result in muscle gain and strength gain. So that's how creatine works. It's not a magic supplement. It's not a steroid, which some people who have no idea what it is when they hear that it's performance enhancing, they might hear performance enhancing drug. That's not what creatine is. Creatine is very well researched, very legal and very healthy. It's shown to be very safe for you to use. Other benefits that creatine has that have been studied are that it boosts muscle and strength gain. We already know that. It improves your anaerobic endurance. It reduces muscle damage and soreness from exercise. It increases the amount of glycogen your muscles can store and it helps preserve lean muscle mass and strength while you're restricting calories. We'll get back to that last one in a little bit when we're talking about some of the myths. But the creatine supplementation recommendation is just five grams of creatine per day. Generally, if you're a rather large individual, then you might want to look into a higher dose of creatine supplementation. You do not need to load creatine. The way creatine works is that you need to saturate your stores of creatine. So it is something that you experience the benefit over time. Some people will take double, triple, even quadruple the recommended dose in order to load or saturate their creatine more quickly. But if you're using creatine over a long period of time, it doesn't really make sense to load and get there like one week faster when you're going to be taking it months and months at a time. It's not really shown that you need to cycle off of creatine, although sometimes people do that very often. But you're going to experience the benefit when you're taking it on a daily basis over a long period of time. We sometimes see companies pushing the loading phase so that you can take a lot of creatine when you're first getting started. But since loading creatine and taking quadruple the recommended dose could result in some gastrointestinal distress, we recommend against it. And also, we don't really find that it's necessary and the research doesn't show that it's necessary and it doesn't really give you too much of a benefit. As far as taking creatine for months and months at a time, there is no evidence that suggests short or long-term use of creatine up to like 30 grams a day for five years is what's been studied has any negative effect on healthy individuals. Okay, we talked about how much creatine you should take, when should you take it? The most important factor with creatine as we've already discussed is just consistency. So it doesn't really matter what time of day you take it. You could take it at different times of the day, just stay consistent. I do find that when I'm pairing my creatine with my pre-workout, which seems to make sense for a lot of people, I sometimes forget to take my creatine on rest days. So I have recently changed my creatine supplementation routine to be early in the day when I take a morning supplement, when I take my reds and greens, the first thing I drink in the morning, it is a better way to stack my creatine habit so that I don't forget on my rest days. Let's talk about some myths about creatine. We already touched on the idea that creatine is a steroid. That's a myth. Okay, it's very safe. It's very legal. It's very shown to be effective. The shown to be effective part is where some of the benefits of creatine also overlap with the benefits of anabolic steroid use, or at least the reported effects of anabolic steroid use. So they do overlap. It is performance enhancing, but it is not an illegal thing. It's not an unsafe thing. It is shown scientifically to be really safe, and it's something that's already in the body. You're not giving yourself a foreign substance. Myth number two, and sometimes people avoid taking creatine for this reason, is that they think it's going to lead to fat gain or some weight gain. And that is not shown in the research. Many people do report some bloating when they first start creatine, but that temporary water retention, first of all, doesn't happen to everyone, and also is something that could just be temporary. It doesn't mean that you're gaining weight. It doesn't mean that you're gaining fat. Lots of people wonder if they should lose weight before they start taking creatine, to which I would recommend if you're on a fat loss or weight loss journey, and also pairing that journey with strength training and looking to still build some muscle and maybe gain some strength, regardless of what other tertiary or secondary goals you have. I would still use creatine because it's going to mean that you train a little bit harder session to session. It's going to mean that you might be able to lift a little bit heavier session to session, which could result in some fat loss, could result in some weight loss if you're doing dietary things that help you get there and also staying in a caloric deficit. Next myth is that creatine supplementation is only for men. It's not a supplement that woman should take, and this is completely false. So if you have any of the goals that I mentioned, building strength, maybe losing fat, gaining muscle, all of that stuff that we typically talk about on my channel, and if you're a woman or not a man, or you are a man, creatine supplementation is going to help you get there. Typically because supplements are usually marketed to men, it is something that is more synonymous with male lifters, and women may just not know that much about it, although lots of you watching are probably savvy to creatine, regardless of your gender or sex. Last thing on that is a lot of the studies that have been reported are studied on men, but it's not just men, and when women are involved in the studies, it does still show to be an effective and safe supplement. Since we're talking about studies, I do want to share with you guys a really great resource. It's called examine.com. If you haven't ever heard of examine.com, it is a database of supplementation information that you can just pop in any old ingredient or supplement that you can think of, and it will break down the research and give you summaries of supplements very similar to what I'm sharing with you here, and it is very easy to understand. They are not affiliated with any third party, any company. I love this website for just a quick refresher to break down the information. The science can be very dense and hard for the average person to understand, so this website is a godsend for us non-chemists, us non-scientists out there. The next myth is that creatine causes kidney problems. To address this myth, first of all, it is false, but let's talk about creatinine. This is a metabolite of creatine, and it can be used as a marker that helps show us our kidney functioning. Excessive creatine use supplementation, which is far beyond the recommended dose, can potentially show an increase in creatinine, which could signal a false potential problem with the kidneys. Aside from those creatinine levels increasing, there's no evidence that creatine supplementation, again, in those recommended doses, negatively impacts kidney health. However, if you're someone who has issues with your kidneys or has a medical condition that makes it so that you shouldn't supplement with something like creatine, then I would avoid it and also discuss something like this with your doctor. Obviously that goes without saying if you have any medical condition, then you should be discussing any supplementation and health and fitness regime with your doctor. There are several short and long-term clinical trials that assess the effects of creatine supplementation on kidney function, and they've been published showing that there are no adverse outcomes in healthy individuals without kidney problems. Now on to a couple of frequently asked questions that we get on the budget supplement side. One of the reasons I'm asking this is, can I stack creatine with other supplements? So I mentioned already that that's what I do. I like to pair it with a supplement. Creatine usually comes in an unflavored monohydrate. So if you're shopping for creatine, I would look for a monohydrate. We also, since we realize maybe if you're not stacking this, we do have flavored options of creatine. Buffcha currently has icy blue razz flavor and strawberry kiwi flavor. They are both delicious. There are a couple of our top flavors on the pre-workout and pump side. So we put them into creatine so that you can stack it with pre-pump or you can have it on its own. Some people do report some side effects with creatine use. Usually this is in the form of gastrointestinal issues. And again, unless you're loading creatine, you'll be less likely to experience those gastrointestinal issues. But sometimes people will report bloating, water retention. My biggest recommendation here is to make sure that you are drinking enough water with creatine use. Recently, I saw a TikTok where someone was just dry scooping creatine and then also saying that they didn't drink enough water to be able to continue their creatine use. And to me, that doesn't make any sense because you could just have the creatine with water right then and there. Anyway, I didn't understand it, but make sure that you're pairing creatine with water. I would recommend getting around a gallon a day if you can, especially if you're in the gym working out, which creatine supplementation should be paired with strength training. You do want to make sure that you're getting enough water and not being dehydrated. Thank you guys so much for watching our creatine Bible. I recommend if you're looking for creatine, of course, Buff Chick supplements has a couple of different options of flavored and non-flavored creatine. If you're shopping somewhere else, just look for a creatine monohydrate. That's what you want to look for. Make sure it's a creatine monohydrate. It's going to be the best option for you. And the next recommendation is to look for a brand that is third party tested, especially if you're an athlete, if you get drug tested at work or with anything else going on in your life. I don't know. I don't judge. You can take our supplements knowing that they are third party tested and there are no band substances in our creatine or any other products that Buff Chick. Thank you guys so much for watching. I will see you guys in the next video.