 hello, my strong, strong friends. Today, we are training, like, Jake Gyllenhaal in Road House. ["Road House"] Road House. ["Road House"] Road House. What's the point? Oh, god. Oh, god, I'm getting nervous. You guys all saw Road House. Did you see Jake Gyllenhaal's abs? I got to figure out what he's doing. He looks so good. I'm calling it. I want to look like Jake Gyllenhaal in Road House is the new I Want to Look Like Brad Pitt in Fight Club. Right? Anyway, we're going to do Jake Gyllenhaal's workout that he used in preparation for filming Road House. The movie is unbelievable. I freaking loved it. And he looks so good in it. His trainer is Jason Walsh, who I swear to god, this guy must have the best marketing team. He trains every single superhero. Years back, we did Brie Larson's video, her training for Marvel. She also is strong as heck. This guy's getting famous actresses that lift their faces off. So shout out to Jason Walsh. In the workout given, they start off with some mobility drills. They have this $70 stick. That looks pretty cool. But it's basically a PVC pipe. But on the ends, it has some flexibility capability. I don't have that. And I did think about spending the $70. But let me just show you what I do with the PVC pipe. He does a lot more exercises than just a shoulder pastor. They're using the sticks. Going all. He's like going all. Yeah, they're going all doing some stuff. Maybe I got to get the stick, OK? Maybe I just got to spend $70. In the mental health video that they posted, they've got this Proteus motion machine. It looks like the most badass thing I've ever seen. Some performance centers have them. Eric Kressy endorses it. Eric Kressy is like, oh, gee, strength, god, right? It looks like a great tool for elite athletes, where you need explosive power. So it gives you resistance on the way back and on the way forward. We don't have that. So we're going to use a landmine. I've got a couple of different ways to set up a landmine. This little implement that you can get from Rogue can just go into a stack of plates. And then you get your barbell and put it into this sleeve. And you have something that can work some rotational movement. If you wanted something to set up to work on some explosive rotational work, you could get a landmine implement and do this oblique twist, kind of like a long range of motion, rushing twist. And load this. You don't have to go really heavy, but you can get some oblique work. His abs, like I said, are popping. And he does so much rotational work in this program. Do I get to punch you in the eye? No, that wasn't in the program. OK. There's a ton of movements you can do with a landmine. You can do a simple press or get another attachment, do a Viking press. You can also do a clean to press to work on that transfer and make it more explosive. Very versatile tool. If you don't have the little sleeve that I have, some people will also get a tennis ball, cut it open, and use that as your fake landmine. They do give a little segment on nutrition. It's very short. They show chicken breasts, and they show some protein powder. So I wanted to share with you guys my protein powder, butchic supplements. If you are a lady or a guy, whoever you are, we have a women's performance supplement brand. One of our best sellers is our protein, because I am very picky when it comes to protein flavor. Top seller for our Buffway is Fudge Brownie. It's amazing. But lately, I've been working out in the morning, and I've been doing orange creamsicle, Buffway, and orange Gatorade powder. It is so good. You've got to try it. Since I haven't uploaded in a long time, you guys have not even heard of our new top product, which is Buff Coffee. We've got 18 grams of protein per scoop and 125 milligrams of caffeine. These are amazing. These are our cult favorite. People sell them out so quickly. You can use code MEGSQUATS for 10% off all things BuffChic supplements. Roadhouse! Ready for the first big strength bit of the training program, sled pushes. When Jake Gyllenhaal is shown doing a sled pushes, it looks like he's going pretty slow. But the weight stack is all the way up, so I thought this would be fun. For Grid and I, who's behind the camera, to max out our sled push. Sound good, Grid? Mm. About two years ago, Grid and I did a lot of sled pushes when we were preparing for the Army Combat Fitness Test, which has a sled portion of the test, but it is pretty lightweight. And the idea is to pull it very quickly. So we've trained with sleds before, but have we ever maxed it out? Absolutely not. Let's see if we can go as heavy as Sir Gyllenhaal. Sir, distance you're going for on this? Ah. Ha ha ha ha. Come on, mate. Hold on, you need a little more momentum. Okay. Okay. I'm going too fast. He's not going super far. He's indoors in the gym. There's no way of telling how easy his sled is to push in the gym floor, or how much harder it is to push for him. But we can't see how much weight he's loading, so we're just gonna look around and find out, I guess. It's really more so like the initial part. You do need to get momentum or something to push off of. Doing my plug. This is our first video back in almost a year. I know a lot of you guys have been asking, am I gonna be back? If you're new here, hey, subscribe. I'm back if you didn't know. And people always ask like, what happened? I'm like, oh, I did this crazy thing. I had a daughter, when she was really little, it was super easy to stay on top of things. And then she turned to a toddler and it just became impossible. But now we're managing. I think. She's a little wild one. She do be running a lot. She really be trying me. 120 is 264. Well, that's like 275, right? Cause it's 55. 275 plus like maybe 90 or something. Yeah. Drive. Roadhouse. What would Jake Gyllenhaal do? He would push your shit cause he has eight abs. Come on, man, push. Keep pushing. That might be it. I think I gotta top out and let you finish. It is a really dusty day for us. So we might be sliding everywhere, you know? Yeah, we've been a, oh, I thought you meant like weird, dusty. Oh no, it's so dusty. It's so windy today. Oh yeah, yeah, blame it on the conditions. Let me try one more time. Break it up into two sets. Come on. Push. That might be it. I do like this way of doing very heavy sleds pushes. Felt my posterior chain being lit up, whereas in my prior experience, doing it for just endurance training was very difficult, but it's kind of nice to feel your muscles moving instead of just your lungs. It was very hard. That was very hard, but we loaded it up as heavy as we could go. I can't tell how much Jake Gyllenhaal is pushing. Next we have like a conditioning circuit. So we're going to put together a lot of his more less loaded movement and see. We're going to be using force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force range of motion. The lift gets easier because there's less weight being held up by your body. His push-ups are pretty wide grip. Usually I come in more narrow, but let's see. Okay. Oh, shit. He gets kind of stiff at the top. Yeah, it's just because we don't have a great implement for this. We're trying to make it work for our home gym, but let's see. Okay, that's easier. No, the battle ropes don't really work for this. Can you see why? Yeah. I mean, I am listening it on the way up, but I get no resistance on the way down. So anyway, we tried. All right. Finally, we've gone to the video of something I actually do know about. Jake Jillon Hall looks like he uses a lot of safety squat bar and it looks like he does a couple of modifications for a shoulder injury. So he seems pretty conscious of that with this movement in particular. If you're someone who wants to squat, but you have a hard time getting into your rack position, so if you have shoulder mobility, is there elbow pain or wrist pain, all of the above, try this. This is a safety squat bar and what this can do for you is work around those injuries, or if you're someone who gets some like upper back rounding in the squat, this can help with that weakness. A safety squat bar will be more of a quad dominant squat variation. You're really going to want to push up on these or pull down on these. And you sort of just want to use it to center your balance and make sure you are balanced and holding on to something. Try not to out of the whole push up on this and move the distribution of the load. This bar is very special. It's actually not just a safety squat bar. This is called the Kabuki transformer bar. It can transform into all different kinds of barbells. So you can see here, you can change where the load is or transform the squat to be more loaded like a goblet squat or front squat. Right now I'm on the safety squat bar and then you can even move. It's kind of like your load placement to be more similar to a back squat. So it's more behind you. And then also a low bar squat. Also, you can change how high the load is. Right now it's on the lowest setting to make the bar with the load that I have on here right now even feel even heavier. Why would you want something like this? Well, first of all, it is really expensive. So make sure you want something like this. But it is very high quality and you get a lot of versatility. I would get it if I was someone who's exclusively trained at my own garage gym and also at the same time had some sort of shoulder issue where I just didn't ever want to get into any kind of like barbell rack position where I'm wrapped either in a front rack or wrapped with a bar on my back because you have so much versatility with this. It could be worth the almost $800 that it is. Most safety squat bars are way, way under that. This one's 55 pounds. Kabuki strength system. They make awesome, very, very high quality stuff. Oh, God! I'm like crashing into my elbows. It's been a while. I mean, it's been a while since I've used this and I've always been to work on my form and get into the habit of it. But I'm okay with that way. Not my best performance on this one. We can move on. We can move on. Jake would move on. Jake Jillon Hall in his video does a lot of direct forearm training. It's kind of a lost art, but there are two ways to do the exercise that he's doing without necessarily the machine he has. This is a very simple way. It's a dowel roll. So you just get a dowel or a PVC pipe and connect it to a band and a plate for your weight. You're going to hold your arms out straight and then roll. You're first roll to start looping and then roll for some forearm training. Now this, obviously my arms are extended as well so I can feel it going up through my arms and also in my delts and my shoulders. If you wanted to take your shoulders out of the equation, you can do something more similar to what Jake's doing in that video and you get a barbell, a band, and your plate and then you won't have to isometrically contract your front delts the whole entire time, but you're still doing that same rolling forearm work. You can roll all the way up and then control the roll on the way down. I could probably stand to go a little bit heavier here. One of the things that you see in the men's health video is just a little note on this exercise that your forearm strength and grip strength does translate to longevity and they're referencing a pretty recent study or at least exposure of this study that did show that grip strength and the skill of like being able to just hang from a bar does translate to a longer life. So having some grip strength, I mean usually just picking up heavy weights with your bare hands tends to do the trick, but if you want to improve your grip, this is one way to increase the strength that does help your grip. Now we're on to his bench press variation which he is using a swiss bar or a football bar. I have a Cadillac version of the swiss bar. It seems like he's conscious of his shoulders and some of the variations that we're seeing so we can kind of assume that he has some sort of shoulder issue. So instead of having a bench press where when you're lying down your palms are facing away from you and grip like this, you get to take a more neutral pushing position. This bar has a couple of different options and widths that you can grab. Usually it means you can get a longer range of motion even more with this variation because the bar that I have is cambered. He's not using a cambered bar so it doesn't give me too much more range of motion and also he is floor pressing which would limit how far down your elbows can go. I do like the football bar but again it's just like another thing to have in your gym but it's cool that we get to see a lot of specialty bars in his training. Literally didn't I just say watch your head when you're going in and who bonked his head on the land? Oh this is a really big range of motion. Yeah see you get a little bit more triceps. I love it. Yeah watch you. Take take care coming out of that. Only cues that I have for this are to just grab the bar in the middle of your handle here because it can be really easy to like shift your weight in your wrist when you're grabbing this because it's heavy and this is pretty big big area to grab. All right that's the rest of the Roadhouse workout. Hopefully you guys enjoyed it. The only thing that really surprised me in Jake Gyllenhaal's training program obviously is just a snippet who knows what his like day-to-day training looks like but I'm surprised there's not more like direct ab hypertrophy because his abs looked so awesome in the video or in the movie so I'm surprised there weren't more like weighted crunches like hanging leg raises and stuff like that but he's probably getting so much rotational work so much like functional core work that his abs just be popping and genetics and he's always been in shape. I love you Jake Gyllenhaal. I love you Jason Malsch. Thanks for sharing your programming. We are back on YouTube you guys. Welcome back to the Make Squats channel. Our last video was posted eight months ago and it went viral and we just decided to take a little break after that and go out on a win but we are back. We're not committing to one video per week but we are going to do several videos per month. I just want to make sure we're on the same page as far as scheduling goes and we're so excited to be back. I think we will be updating some of our general strength training tutorial videos overhead press squat bench deadlift how to do all of those because my opinions have changed on some of those since I last posted them and I can't wait to update you guys and I will see you in the next video. Bye!