 I did a Pilates class every single day for 43 days. Pilates, in my opinion, has a huge branding problem, so it makes it really hard to understand what someone's talking about. So in this video, I'm going to share with you all the different styles that I tested and give you my perspective on what I like best and what I liked the worst. PILATISFUSION, slash BAR. BAR is totally not my thing. You're doing a lot of pulsing. It's lots of tiny pulses and tiny movements. I find to just be kind of annoying more than anything. Totally see the overlap, but altogether, BAR is just not for me. Down the list. Number eight, contemporary reformer class. Probably the most popular way to do Pilates. One of my instructors did say, oh, contemporary is kind of like doing cool stuff on the reformer. Usually I'll use a reformer. The classes were packed and we almost always hit a full body workout. So footwork, lunges, a surprising amount of chestwork, and front dealt work. I had difficult times in these classes, but not truly enough resistance to really feel like I'm killing myself. The classes were moving through this flow-like state routine. So if you wanted to add more resistance for an extra set or something, it would be hard to do that and also keep up with the class. OK, let's move on down to number seven. Springboard reformer. It was very, very fun. The thing that I don't like about springboard reformer classes is that they are marketed as like a cardio class, which I didn't really feel like my heart rate got up much in this class, but it was very fun. You are on a reformer that has a large board at the end of it, kind of where your foot bar would be. The idea is that you're pushing against the board, jumping while lying down and getting some hang time. It does take you a minute to really get the hang of jumping and getting kind of like the timing of it in itself is a kind of fun challenge to do. If you are ever invited to a springboard reformer class, even if you've never tried Pilates, I highly recommend doing it, especially if it's beginner friendly or marketed as beginner friendly. It is so much fun. This next section, I think Pilates purists will say, well, that's not Pilates, and they're right. So let's get into it. Solid core. Solid core is insanely popular. The differences between solid core and traditional Pilates are instead of being done on a reformer, it's done on something called a mega-former. It is this huge piece of equipment. The solid core classes are done in a really jam-packed room. The mega-formers are very close to one another. Now, people who do solid core are absolutely obsessed with it, and I get it. You get a really tough workout. In fact, if your goal is I want to kick the shit out of myself, then I highly recommend you do solid core. This shit is very, very hard. Lunges, chest press. Bye, thanks for the class. That's a deep-lined chest press. Cable fly, lots of chest work. Oh my God, my chest is fried. It was kind of fun. It was kind of fun, and I really did feel like I was working hard at something. It will have a huge emphasis on your core starting off immediately in the class with a plank. My number one complaint about the solid core experiences that I had was it was so hard to hear what the instructor was doing. Pull your abs to spine, spine to mat, mat to tailbone, tuck to 155 degree angle, we pulled through the line. We pulled through the floor. Now, people who love solid core have told me after your fifth class, you really start to understand. Like, you start to be able to clock what she's saying every time. So there is a steep learning curve. That's not to discourage anyone from trying it out. I think you'll be fine if you're in control of your body at the end of the day. Like, you don't have to do everything that she tells you to do. Solid core doesn't program any rest. So if you need to take a break, then that's on you. It is intense. Number five is solid core's cousin. ["Solid Core"] If you guessed, legree, you would be right. Legree and solid core, like I said, are cousins. In fact, there is some pretty serious drama. The founder of solid core was once a protege to the legree people. And legree, like Pilates, did not trademark or did not make it so that someone couldn't completely copy the style and start their own franchise. And so, don't quote me on this. This is all rumor-alleged. Someone DM'd me this once. They are very close, but they do have different ways of referring to certain movements. In both, you're on a mega-former. Legree is also music up, lights down low. I much more enjoyed my experience with legree, the studio that I went to. It just, because it's not a huge franchise, it just felt more boutique. It kind of felt really calm when I was in there. Definitely more calm than solid core. But yeah, legree just had a little bit more personal of a vibe, which makes sense because solid core has a ton of locations. And each legree studio, each studio that has their own legree will have their own distinct style. I did do several legree classes. One was on the big mega-former. And then they also have some classes that can be on a mini mega-former. You will hit most of your full body, and a lot of it you are reaching kind of like muscle endurance failure, I would say. Or maybe for me, it's just like mental failure. Cause there were a lot of times where I'm like, okay, I could pulse this for a hundred more times, but I literally just don't want to. Now that is a me thing because I'm not doing Pilates to build muscle or reach muscular failure for something like a lunge. If I wanted to do a lunge, I would just go to the gym and do it very heavy. Now I know, especially Pilates teachers don't necessarily agree with that way of thinking, but for me, if I'm training a movement pattern, it is to build strength in that movement pattern so that I'm more powerful whenever I need to do it in real life. And in my opinion, pretty much all methods of Pilates don't load heavy enough for me to get that result. And in the bottom half of my list, I think the thing that separates it from the rest is really a lot of these classes would leave me doing things where I personally was just kind of like, this movement is not difficult for me. It's just uncomfortable. So just because something is hard, just because something is burning, doesn't mean that it's going to get you closer to your goals. Okay, let's go into number four. And then I think this is really where we start to see things that I really enjoyed in my Pilates experience, obviously. Some of you guys are wondering, girl, why are you doing so much Pilates? So let me explain. Usually I'm in the squat rack. If you didn't know, I'm a strength coach and I've been getting women like you stronger for the past decade. And we do it all on the Stronger By The Day app. And I'm serious about continuing my education and staying on top of coaching best practices. Not just reading the research, but testing it myself to see what actually works and why people love things like Pilates so much. Unlike our venture-backed competitors with their icky marketing tactics, we're built by coaches like me for real women. Just search our thousands of five-star reviews on the app store and start your free seven-day trial today. The Contrology Book. Let's do a history lesson. You may or may not know that Pilates comes from the one and only Joseph Pilates. During World War I, he developed controlled mat exercises to keep people strong in confined spaces. After he moved to New York City, he published his book, Return to Life Through Contrology, which is this book, and that introduced the original 34. So this is a fixed sequence of mat exercises designed to restore your posture, breathing, spinal mobility, and full body control as a daily health practice. A lot of people who did his method in his New York studio were dancers. You can trace from Joseph Pilates and his protégés and then things split off from there. A lot of his protégés have their own certification programs, but you can look at the lineage and try to get as close to what Joseph Pilates intended. A lot of the movements in here will look very familiar. The hundreds where you're pumping your arms. The teaser is in here as well. And I believe when someone says I'm doing classical Pilates, it is the 34 original Contrology exercises in the exact order. Number three, now we're getting to my favorites. If you didn't notice, I'm getting more and more talkative. A mat class. These are kind of similar. If you sign up for a Pilates mat class with someone who is kind of more classically trained, it will look very similar to Contrology. Again, you'll be on the mat, on the ground, in the same order. I guess these are kind of the same thing. Getting in a Pilates mat class is just kind of badass. It's brutally hard, but also you're kind of working closer to something that is more similar to calisthenics, which is picking up skills that you can do elsewhere. Okay, let's move on to number two. Mat and Tower. Now this is fun. There was one studio that was near me and I made friends with the instructors and I loved when we did a mat and tower class. On a mat and tower, you have the mat where you sit, a push through bar and springs on the tower portion coming from above. And I believe springs on the bottom as well. You can just get a lot of different movements and work on here. And I find the push through bar to be one of my favorite ways to train the teaser. I think it combines some of the things that you get from Contrology or a typical classical Pilates mat class, but with a little bit more umph. It's not boring, mat class is not boring, but you get a little bit relief and more fun without being just a reformer class. And my number one favorite way to do Pilates, it kind of has a catch, but it is a private lesson with a comprehensive, trained Pilates instructor. Now let me explain what this means. Most of us who know about Pilates are already familiar with the reformer, but now you know, you have the mat and tower, you also have things like the ladder barrel, the wonder chair and the spine corrector. Now, when you do a private lesson with a teacher who is comprehensively trained or comprehensively certified, you get to play with all the different apparatuses. And that's where you can really dive in and get into what your goals are with Pilates. I also really like the fact that you're with a teacher who has eyes on you and Pilates does really pride itself on form and being precise with movement or at least working towards that precision. So it was kind of fun to really focus on making movement look beautiful and have a sort of flow that I don't normally get in my regular workouts. I would say as you go down this list, you kind of get closer and closer to something more like calisthenics where you're mastering moves and you're building the strength to make movement look a certain way as a means to achieve the skill or achieve the goal of it. And with the exception of solid core and leguri, because those can be really core heavy, I would say you get more and more core focused as you go down the list. The biggest con about my number one is that it is insanely expensive. I'm talking $150 per session, at least where I took the classes. But I feel like that is somewhat on par with what personal trainers can cost. Semi-privates are definitely less expensive, but the thing that I don't like about that is in the semi-privates that I did at the same location, you tend to get more contemporary reformer because your class isn't specific to what you want. Now it makes total sense to me that in a semi-private, you have different ages and people looking for more full body workout. Whereas me, I'm just like, no, I want to train my core and I want Joseph Pilates to look down on me and say, oh yeah, she is kind of doing it. If you're able to find a semi-private class where you have more than just the reformer, I feel like that's a good place to start if you want something more classical and do a little history lesson, if you will. Well, that's all for my list. Let me know what your favorite method of Pilates is. Or if you've only tried one or two of these, let me know what you think about them. I had so much fun in my Pilates experience and I was just shocked at how many different variations of Pilates are. So next time somebody invites you to a Pilates class, make sure you ask them, well, what are we talking about here? And if you guys are new here, then please subscribe to my channel. I am on a mission to get 700,000 subscribers by the end of 2026. So I would greatly appreciate it if it could help me reach that goal. I will see you guys in my next video. Bye.