 I took creatine for 30 days and I'm documenting my physique and my strength, all the way from day zero to day 30. If you've ever been on my channel, we talk about lifting weights and getting strong and getting jacked, and of course creatine is the most popular legal supplement out there that gets those things done. It's safe, it's affordable, and everyone knows it works. Don't worry, there aren't any side effects, none at all, none at all. Oh, don't listen to those, those are silly, let's keep it moving. Now why am I doing this? I haven't consistently taken creatine for about nine months and I have a nice and unique opportunity to start completely fresh and see if I actually see a difference in just 30 days. Happy August, it's August 1st, my first day of taking creatine in a very long time. Both chicks, creatine monohydrate, it's micronized creatine, it blends super well. This is the unflavored version, you want to make sure you take it every single day, even on your rest days. Time of day that you take it does not matter, it doesn't matter, just take it every day. The amount is five grams, generally speaking, everyone is good with five grams. Now you could do more if you're in a larger body or you could do less if you're in a smaller body, but that sounds like it's more complicated than what it's probably worth. I just finished training outside and it was pretty sweaty. It's August in Texas and so I'm gonna have a hydropack which is like electrolytes. This is the strawberry kiwi flavor. This tastes delicious, adding something that tastes good to your creatine will remind you to take it every single day. A lot of people just do pre-workout, which is totally fine, just make sure that you're taking it every day, so you're probably not taking pre-workout every day, but you do need the creatine every day. Let's do a little physique check-in. I used to compete in powerlifting at 63 kilos, 138, and I am 138 pounds, which is crazy. A lot of that has to do with loss of muscle during multiple pregnancies and that's fine. It's just kind of a how it goes. So I'm excited to see if we end up gaining a little bit of muscle back, maybe a little bit of weight back in this process and it's kind of cool to start at a lean weight. I am going to try to not eat completely out of line and I'm not going to intentionally bulk or anything, so let's see if I end up gaining any weight by the end of the 30 days. I'm sorry to say this, I got a little dehydrated. I'm in this spot where a lot of people find themselves whenever they experience a little bit of a creatine side effect or what they think is a creatine side effect. I don't know if it's the creatine or was I just dehydrated and I had a little bit of a headache. I think I might have been coming down with something. There's just too many different variables to point to creatine as being the culprit and I think whenever people hear a performance enhancing supplement, even though it's legal and well researched, they usually want to blame creatine for something going wrong and anything going wrong, which makes sense if it's the new thing that you added into your routine, then it could be it. But when it's studied, there are not a lot of reports of creatine having any negative side effects. Now gastrointestinal distress is the most common and I'll put on screen what you should do to avoid gastrointestinal distress, a little upset tummy. I'll keep an eye on any other symptoms and if I experience anything else other than a little bit of a headache. Happy August, I'm doing a little challenge. I'm getting back on the sauce, the nady sauce. Okay and every day I'm taking these back to the table. Checking in day 19 and I'm starting to feel the effects. Let's talk about it. I am a pretty big slacker so any excuse to slack off, I will take it. But yesterday I noticed just for no particular reason I started feeling super inspired. Kind of like that little slacker voice was a lot quieter. So the little like voice in my head that's saying, Meg, you can be a little banshee, it's okay, okay, you're a mother of two. Take it easy. Was quiet, was going harder, was going heavier and I was having fun while doing it and that makes sense because right about now around week three to week four is when I should be feeling that my creatine stores are at full load. My creatine stores should be fully saturated is what we say. This is how it works. It's not like creatine stores are saturated and boom you're strong. No, you start to feel a little bit stronger like you could go a little bit heavier session after session. So over time after months and months of use and months and months of training when it comes to muscle building and gaining strength you do need to train to put the extra creatine saturation to work. I'm going to put it to the test with a leg day so let's see if I feel that same feeling that I felt yesterday. Okay, yes, I am training harder. Yes, I am having fun while training a little bit harder. Is it a crazy difference? No, as we know, we don't expect a crazy difference just a little bit of edge session after session. Okay, let's talk some of the negative side effects that we always hear about creatine. The most concerning or scary sounding is kidneys. The connection between creatine and your kidney. When you take creatine your body produces more creatinine. It's just a waste product. You just pee it out and if you have healthy kidneys it's not really a concern. You're just peeing it out. Now if you have kidney disease that's where that can be a problem for two different reasons. First off your kidneys because you have kidney disease might have a hard time peeing out that creatinine and processing that creatinine. On the other hand creatinine levels are a marker for kidney health and so if you have any kind of health problem that you're trying to get some answers on and your doctor sees really high creatinine levels on your labs it might be confusing for them to figure out what's going on. So anyway, talk to your doctor if you're supplementing with creatine and if you have any health issues and you're taking labs regularly to figure out what the problem is then supplementing might not make sense. Generally speaking creatine has been shown time and time again to be a safe supplement to take. We have more studies on creatine than pretty much any supplement so it's generally safe. There isn't anything that points us to believe that creatine itself causes kidney problems. As far as permanent weight gain when supplementing with creatine that is something that may happen especially if you are gaining muscle. This is where I would check in with your ultimate goal. Is your goal body recomp to where you're losing fat and gaining muscle or is your goal just weight loss meaning do you only care about the number on the scale. Gaining muscle and having a more lean looking physique is more important to you than overall weight number on the scale then I would still supplement with creatine even if you are up a few pounds because you will be leaner. So yes maybe you will gain a little bit of weight because hopefully that is gained muscle mass but you're still reaching your goal of body recomp, losing body fat and gaining muscle. Can you say hi? Can you say hi Violet? Hi! Okay this is Violet she is eight months old. Obviously you guys have seen me taking creatine and I am still nursing her. You want to play? Oh she might be hungry. First of all creatine seems to be really safe when it's studied in adults and elderly people. It has obviously the strength benefits but what's more interesting in this case are the cognitive benefits. When it's studied in a lab with animals creatine seems to have some neuroprotective benefits. Whenever the mom was supplementing with creatine it seemed like the babies that she had had better outcomes when it came to birth asphyxia. So the animal studies with creatine during pregnancy are really interesting and promising. Human studies are less so and they are interesting. None of it gives us clear answers as to whether or not it's safe or unsafe. It seems to be safe, it seems to be beneficial but we don't know for sure yet. The biggest risk when it comes to supplementation during pregnancy and nursing is contamination. So that's why you always want to choose a brand that is third-party tested. When it comes to nursing we know even less. Creatine is passed on through breast milk but there's no way of telling or calculating how much. The cognitive benefits that we receive from creatine are really interesting and maybe they're beneficial for baby but we don't know that and I waited until she started on solids. It's just what I felt comfortable with especially considering that she's healthy a little bit older now and now getting more food than just my breast milk. Isn't that exciting? Isn't that exciting? It's September 1st an entire month 30 days maybe 31 days of taking creatine. Let's see if there are any changes. My kids are running around crazy right now. Okay we'll be right back. Let's put back on my rainbow tie-dye bikini. See if we have any changes. Okay do you guys see what I see? I 100% look leaner. I can see in my core look where my waist dips in and look at where my thighs meet. You can see I lost fat in my legs and in my waist. I am in disbelief honestly fully expected to put on some weight. Side view I don't see that much of a difference honestly but on my back you can see even more my waist and like my butt shake line looks like more prominent so I'm calling it. Bigger glutes were made front double by my biceps just look more lumpy. Did not expect this kind of result so let this be a testament because a lot of people ask me like oh can I take creatine when I'm cutting? Yeah yeah you definitely can. The only thing that I changed during this challenge was creatine. I was honestly just happy with the feeling of going harder in my workouts but I'm definitely happy with being leaner without really doing much different. So okay I need a hype song carry oh my god I cannot believe I was able to lift that off the floor. If I can hit this I will literally laugh out loud. I'm nervous. Oh my god I can't believe this is real it's magical honestly. If you're not into strength training then you won't understand how impressive this is. Long training age 10 years of training specifically strength training. It is hard hard especially I'm 37 years old. It is very hard to go in and get like 90 percent 95 plus without kind of getting specific with that training so it's been a month and my training is not optimized at all to hit that right now. So I am mind blown right now. Well 30 days of creatine at only five grams and I am very very happy to see those results. I'm actually shocked that it made such a big difference. I will needless to say continue my regular dose and I might even up it to 10 grams of creatine per day. I'm looking more into it and researching more about that dose recommendation and it seems like it's safe and might even be more effective. So I will report back if I happen to do that for another 30 day challenge. If you guys are looking for another creatine video then be sure to check this one out and of course if you need creatine then check out buff chick supplements. It is very rare to find a brand that is women owned and women run and buff chick is one of those brands. We're third party tested and you can get your creatine in both unflavored and in flavored versions. So I highly highly recommend that brand obviously. We'll see you guys in the next video. Bye.