 têteogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogen the fourth because the fourth is the newest one that we picked up but let's go see how they're going, how they're doing. Hey how you guys doing? Can we come check it out? You want to be in the YouTube video? Wow looks great! Wow so anyway you can see I'll show you the current Buff Chick warehouse where all the supplements are warehouse that is on the other side of this wall that they're gonna be tearing down so it's basically gonna be all warehouse space. I think each of these is 1600 square feet something like that. We'll have to work and he'll know exactly the score footage but super exciting to be expanding. I think by the time we get back from the wedding because I'm getting married this will all be done so hopefully in the next video that you guys see it'll all be finished. So this is the current Buff Chick warehouse I'm sure Diana and Lauren will be like don't show them just because they're preparing to move and reorganize everything. We do have a Javiko launch today the rest hard lift heavy sweats so they're working hard on that and let's train okay! In Kanto we're listening to in Kanto today. We don't talk about it. Did I say that for you? In Kanto! Kanto! Because I saw Disney on ice not too long ago and funny story so did Grid. He went to a separate show. We both had front-row tickets. Yeah! Life in Texas is rough! Okay! Alright so we're gonna train we are on week one of bench baddie which is a new macro cycle of stronger by the day. Exciting developments with the app. We now have a three-day a week option so if you've been avoiding downloading stronger by the day or trying it out there's a free seven-day trial. If you've avoided doing that because there wasn't a three day before now you can join. But anyway I know the cycle is called bench baddie but of course we still prioritize movements other than bench. There is just basically the biggest difference is a peak and taper for your bench. With that we still hit lower body lifts. So today I'm actually going to deadlift. This is my deadlift focus day. I've got a lot of lower body accessories so join me on this workout and let's warm up! Yesterday we benched with my new form from Joe and Marcella so feel a little sore today. You feel sore today? Well I benched and then I did the weighted dips too. I can't wait to see. So I initially warmed up with some sun salutations. I'm gonna do some shoulder pass-throughs to open up and try to work out some of that soreness and then I'm gonna do some around the world. Try and get my back and mid back nice and mobile to be ready to deadlift. Check. This cheap Amazon shorts don't have the best coverage if you know what I mean. And for my last little warm-up sequence I'm going to do an empty barbell complex of a bent over row and a Romanian deadlift. So I have eight of each one. I like empty barbell complexes just to get moving. This one specifically is something that I'm gonna be working on since I'm deadlifting so I'm gonna take an empty bar anyway but it keeps me moving for more reps while working different exercises so I'm warming up my body a little bit. It's a little faster pace because it's so light and I'm kind of drilling in those movement patterns that I'm gonna see in the workout. Which is fine because today's deadlifts are not super super heavy. I'm only training at 77.5% so for me that's 202 pounds which I feel confident doing that. It's 95 kilos. So since we are peaking our bench in this macro cycle the deadlift and the squat will be really base building focus so we will see some of those lower percentages throughout the next eight weeks. I'm looking forward to that. I'm definitely looking forward to increasing my bench one at max because I haven't moved my bench numbers in so long. My all-time bench I think is 178 pounds. I don't know if it's realistic to like get there but maybe. Maybe I could get to like 165. I'd be happy with that but we'll see. It'd be sick to hit a bench PR. Now that I have my new setup too I'm unstoppable. This is my last warm-up. I'm just gonna take three here. Okay update Ryan came in and it's 3,000 square feet of warehouse. I can relate with Isabella and Louisa because I'm both beautiful and strong. It's crazy. Exactly. So I'm gonna be the next Disney star. Well my story I'm a little too old. Oh Lego Lego la do it. Oh do I like deadlifting in these little blazers? This is what all the gym girlies wear. I was actually sick last week and even the week before so I sort of didn't come to the gym at all. I didn't train. I just didn't want to put my body through that. Like I know I would have a shitty workout so some of the days that I came in here I just did one or two things. I did a little bit stretching. My advice when you're feeling like crap is there's no need to like put your body through that especially if you're not going to be able to put your workout to good use. That's my tip on working out while feeling like crap. Don't do it. We almost forgot we need a little pre-workout. Let's have it before my first Amrap set. My only Amrap set. We have new flavors at Buffjake. This is peach Bellini. Our two new flavors are Mimosa and peach Bellini. A little bit of boozy brunch vibes. Boozy brunch on an afternoon workout. You know, haven't been drinking as much so it's kind of nice to like. I don't have FOMO now. Oh, it's light. It's refreshing and I love it. And it has caffeine instead of alcohol so you're gonna get the opposite effect that I get when I'm having champagne right? Bellini or champagne? Yeah I'm a fucking mess. Give me champagne. I'm gonna be asleep in one hour and light-headed and hungover the next day. I feel like champagne hangovers are like... they're the worst. It hits like during the drum. Oh yeah. Amrap set. I just did an extra credit. I was doing touch and go. In the middle of my set I was like, should I be doing touch and go? Do you have any surprises at the wedding that we're not gonna know about? Yeah. Yeah, do you want me to tell you? Do you don't spoil it? Okay, do you want it to be a secret? You want me to take the camera? Okay. We're having fireworks one night. The night of the wedding. Yeah, we got the biggest package of fireworks. They had three options. I was like, the biggest one. You know, this thing is pretty expensive. Maybe some people wouldn't say that's super expensive, but that's a lot of money. What else? There's gonna be a mariachi band during cocktail hour, like eight piece mariachi band. Then there's live music for the actual ceremony part, like cello and the violin. There's some other entertainment. Maybe there's a Cuban band, one of the like, either the welcome or the rehearsal night. So yeah, but the best part is my outfits. I'm still waiting on one dress though. I ordered it from Coca's website. It was sold out. Like I ordered it, placed the order and then called them two days later. I was like, what's going on? Never got confirmation. They're like, oh yeah, we're sold out of this. So then I had to find out a different store. Anyway, what other surprises do we have coming for the wedding, Ryan? I think that you want to add? Baby number two. Yeah, I will not be getting pregnant after now. We are going on our honeymoon, but I will not. First of all, our existing child will be there, so we will not be making another. We have to take care of number one. Okay, on to our first superset of this workout. We have leg press and leg extensions, but both of them have long negatives. So we're doing a four second negative here. I'm going to, of all the machines that we have, I feel like this is our least favorite one. Okay, so what is it? Four second negative? Yeah, four second negative. So we're going to control it and try to draw out our negatives so that it's even on the way down. Sometimes it's really easy to miss time. So you're like one, two, three, oh four and you try to catch up, but let's not do that. Okay. Yeah, that's usually where I put it. Okay, now on to our leg extension. So this one, same thing. Leg extension and then a three second negative. I find that when you have negatives on your leg extension, the hardest part is when you get to the very top, not letting that weight pull you back down. So try to focus on that contraction on the way up and stay strong at that end range of motion. You don't want to, the wrong way to do it would be to just like, grind this out and then you're starting your negative already bent. So I'm going to control it up, squeeze and then start my negative. I got to work on my timing. Up. Ryan had a note for me for my leg extension, so he's going to explain the adjustment that we just made. Now I was just saying that the original setup, her knees were kind of way behind the little pivot point. If you find that little circle. So it was just making it a little bit awkward and more challenging in a non stimulus way. So that looks better. I think we could go back one. Yeah. Okay, thanks for my adjustment, Ryan. Let's see if this is a little bit better. I adjusted the seat so to line my knee basically up with where the machine is pivoting. So let's see if I feel any difference. Okay, not so bad. I kind of like a workout like this where I'm using some negatives, especially because I mentioned that I was feeling sick. So it's challenging, but I know that I'm not just like loading the machine or the bar as heavy as I possibly can. I'm challenging myself in other ways. Our next super set are monster walks and alternating box step ups. So monster rock is pretty simple. It's just a body weight movement with a mini band. You put it just above your knees and then you're walking. Is this how a monster would really walk? Like this. So the idea is that you're maintaining tension on your glutes and kind of similar to what you would do for like a glute kickback, but it's a shorter range of motion and you're just continuing the whole time. Try to keep the tension on the band. You don't want to come in, lose tension and then get it again. You want to keep that tension even throughout the whole walk. And that's your monster walk. Boom. Next we have our alternating dumbbell box step up. For this one, my main cues are to choose a box that is going to be like shorter than what you think it needs to be. A lot of times we see people who choose a too high a box and they're kind of using their momentum to actually get up there. We want to take our momentum out of the equation altogether so that we can kind of lean in on the box, lift ourselves by pushing through the box. So see my toes coming up, but that's because I'm pushing through my foot and using my glute to get me up there. You don't want to just kind of box jump up. So, since these are alternating, I'm going to have a dumbbell in each hand and complete eight per side. Oh, those guys are smoking. Can you smell it? That's a big no-no. I'm going to go yell at them. Next I'm doing a Spanish squat. I was going to use this band, but let me get a thicker band. I'll be right back. Okay, so we recently touched on the Spanish squat and I have personally changed the way that I do these. So either way you do it, you're going to be working some terminal knee extension at the top. So make sure that that band is set up around your anchor and behind your knees so that you feel the resistance and that it's hard to kind of stand all the way straight and squeeze that VML at the top. Now, I've been enjoying doing these by getting a stronger band than that option over there and making it so that the band can somewhat support me so that I can get my hips behind and avoid forward knee travel in this movement. So what that means is that I don't have much knee travel and I'm making this more of a glute movement with that little VML squeeze at the top. So try to think about keeping those shins vertical, sit back, and then pull up to activate the quads only at the end. Not only at the end, but mostly at the end. Yeah. It is hard. You want to try it, Grace? You can play with your balance a little bit and try to focus on keeping your balance on your toes if you're not feeling confident in that band holding you. But I would actually take the band and put it a little bit higher behind your knee. Yep. Nice. Now try to get your torso upright. It's hard, right? You kind of do have to trust the band a little bit. Dude, it's burning already. You enjoyed it a lot. Yeah. On TikTok a couple months ago, there was a trend where people would have the cable machine and a straight bar and they would basically do that movement with the straight bar. Okay, so yeah, this is what they were doing on TikTok. They'd set up an anchor at about knee height and then grab the straight bar. I don't know if they would get too far away from it, but they would basically perform their squats like this. I do not like this option as much as the banded option. You do need a thick band. You can't just use like a little thin flimsy band that you would do for band pull-parts. But this, I mean, it makes no sense to like tie up the cable machine for this exercise when you can do the Spanish squat version. You're not getting anything out of the weight except for stability, but you can get that with the band. So I prefer the banded Spanish squat over this version that was popular on TikTok. Next, we have alternating reverse lunges. I love to do a reverse lunge in a rack with a barbell. It is programmed as dumbbell, but I'm going to switch it up for the sake of you, my friend. I feel it with the barbell, but I can load this. I would say today I would be able to load it up to like 95 pounds, which is a lot more than I think I would get holding dumbbells. It's also a little bit more comfortable for me. So, and also if you want to just go ham and load it up because the reps game is only seven per side, you have the safety. So you just get crazy. Remember in yesterday's video when Joe was talking about stretching the muscle for the dips specifically and like getting more hypertrophy from like getting a bigger stretch. That is what is happening in lunge variations. So a lunge variation is probably the most stretch that you can get in your glute. People still don't favorite over something like hip thrust. Maybe that's to do with load management. But my biggest thing with lunges is it is the one exercise that most people are going to be really, really sore from the next day. Keep that in mind if you ever have lunges programmed where you program them for yourself and what you're hitting the next day too. So if you're designing your own program and you want to hit lunges pretty heavy or Bulgarian split squats pretty heavy, maybe do that when you know you're not hitting legs the following day. Okay. Last exercise is a kettle ball windmill. I love windmill variations. They're an awesome core exercise that we can use to help stabilize our core and also build some rotational strength. So the kettlebell we're going to press our kettlebell up, have our feet pointing in the opposite direction at an angle from our kettlebell. Take the free hand and then push the hip out, keeping my arms and shoulders stacked over one another, touch the ground and then push back up. So when you push back up, you're going to press through the shoulders and feel a stretch in the core. So I'm stabilizing on the way down and then pushing through. That's it. Thank you guys so much for watching this video. Hopefully you learned something new. If you're interested, check out our macro cycle. It's brand new. It's called BenchBaddy. Today was a non-bench day of that program, but if you want to check it out for free on Stronger by the Day. It's my app. It's amazing. We have officially reached over a thousand reviews on the App Store. So you can check out the reviews and see what people are saying about it. It's unbelievable. You're going to love it. And you can try it for free. So check that out. The link in the description of the video. Thank you guys. I'll see you the next one. Bye.