 everyone knows that Hyrox is the new it-girl of fitness competitions. And I don't know about you guys, but I can't help but feel like this is not me. I get it, there are some weights, but Hyrox is a true endurance event. I've been asked so many times on whether or not I'm going to try Hyrox, but that is the same question as asking me if I'm going to run a marathon. It's just not something for a meathead like me that is completely in line with my goals. But I will say the community, the vibes, and the competition aspect as a whole gives me major, major FOMO until I heard about this brand new fitness event held down in Austin, Texas called Apex. Apex is a seven event competition to test your speed, power, strength, and endurance. Now this is what I'm talking about. This is where the meatheads, the former college athletes, and the slightly thicker boys and girls belong. So this weekend we're packing up the kids, we're heading on down to Austin, and I'm going to figure out how athletic I truly am. Apex this weekend, listen up. There's one thing that is going to make or break your experience and your ability to perform your absolute best at the competition on Sunday. And it's this, wear cleats. You need to lower your body without slowing down. To do this, you need to plant your heel directly under your knee. If you plant too far out in front of your knee, you're going to lose momentum. That's too hard. First event is the Fast 40. Luckily you don't have to approach from blocks or start from blocks, which I think is in my favor. I made a friend yesterday, so let's just ask her like two tips. Mom, please, do you guys talk about five minutes? We're going to head over for the first one. Okay, we just got a five minute warning. I haven't really warmed up, but I think I'm going to do just fine. Okay, one warm-up tip and one tip for the 40. A-Skeps, getting off the ground as fast as possible. And then one tip for during the 40 is run past the 40 yard line. Don't shoot for the 40 yard line. So like act like you're trying to run at the 60. Because a lot of people will slow down at the end. We got this. I'm hyped. I can't get so close. It felt fast for me. It was fast. Let's see how fast it is when we get there. I need more adrenaline and that being in the official arena will help me there. It's on! Let's see you, Meg. Head down, then open. Drive, drive, drive! Come on! Okay, you guys low-key, am I semi-decent out there? Like, I don't know, but it felt good. And after this first event, my nerves were just mostly gone. And I was starting to have more fun with everyone who was out there. The competition so far feels big and important enough to feel like you're doing something cool. But small and intimate enough that like people's families are there, my kids are running around. And I'm making friends while also feeling supported and like important people are watching me. Like there are some legit coaches out here volunteering and throwing this event. I just feel special. The next events are the med ball toss, the broad jump for distance, and a vertical jump. The women's med ball is six pounds, so it's not very heavy. But the ball is big and awkward enough of a size that this is the event that I wish I would have practiced. Of all the events, this is the one that I am definitely least prepared for. I've done a similar med ball toss where I've trained this for the ACFT, but that was also one of the only categories I've ever been able to do. So I should have known better and I should have prepared. Whoopsie! You have to stick the landing so you can't shuffle off, your hand can't touch the ground. Okay? You good? Jump, you're gonna get your measurement, heel off. The broad jump was really tricky for my first heat. The rules are you have to jump with both feet and land with both feet and stick that landing. So you can't fall forward, you can't fall forward, you can't fall forward. If you do, it is a fault. In my heat, six competitors faulted on their first jump. So I was absolutely shitting myself at this point. Okay, you guys, we are finally at my time to shine. We're in the trap bar deadlift portion, the strength portion. We've got one minute to do as many reps as possible. And if you know stronger by the day, then you know that we love an AMRAP set. I went into this knowing that the winner from last Apex Games hit 44 reps out here. So my strategy was to do just one long AMRAP set for as long as I could hold onto the bar and then set it down and break up with as big of sets as I could before I moved on to just singles and short sets. I thought my hands were gonna be the limiting factor here, but my traps and my glutes were lit up. And I know that I have to run the mile next, so I am saving a little bit in the tank, but I will say I kind of regret that. Okay, let's move on to bench. We've got 115 pounds on the bar for one set. After holding on to that deadlift bar for so long and going straight into bench, I was gassed. I did have time to put my cleats on because we are benching on the turf. So I think the cleats were the move on the turf for the bench press. I'm so nervous and I'm feeling a little pukey. It's raining baby. Yeah, right, our fall family is here and there's a bunch of competitors with their just one leg. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. And learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning So, Emerald is having a blast. I love my new baby. Aw, she's so cute. You show the baby over here? A little repuncle. Yeah, I am surprised at how tough my grip felt in the first, whenever I got to bench, I am surprised how my hands just did not feel strong at all from going straight into deadlift. There's not a lot of recovery time. There's not a lot of time to get your bearings or even warm up. Things are moving very quickly. I am happy that I'm in the second sheet of the mile. Yeah. They're corralling everybody and they are on it. It is 10 a.m. We started, I would say, probably at 8 30. So, it's a quickly moving event. We have 80 competitors here. So, it's a lot of people to make sure they're in the right places. But, so far, it's very well run and very fun. Like, I'm just having a lot of fun with all the competitors. And here's Hannah. Let's go, Hannah! Woo-hoo! Yesterday, when everyone was asking, what's your goal for the mile? I kept saying I would love to run an eight minute mile or just like sub eight. I had no idea how I was gonna feel after the deadlifts though. I feel pretty dead and mostly I feel nauseous. Like, I'm gonna vomit. Luckily, literally every girl in my heat has said the exact same thing, that they feel nauseous and like they're gonna throw up. I just felt 10 move the trash cans to the end line. So, I think that means some of us are gonna definitely throw up. Oh, we're starting on the cone. Today's the shooting game. Let me make sure I got everybody. You are in. After you. Have a warm up. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Okay, we did it, and I hit my goal of a sub eight minute mile. I am so happy that I was able to do that. I cannot believe it. One of the women in my heat, her name is Paige and she's an ultra marathoner and I knew that she was going to be fast. I kind of hung out with her for the first lap. Well, I at least saw her in my sights for the first lap and then found a little bit of a pack with some friends that I made in my heat. I ran faster than any mile that I had in my 30 day challenge. So I am happy that I did that in preparation for this one. Really the mile was the only thing that I trained for a little bit. All together, I am so impressed with how kind of athletic I am. Like I feel like I was in the middle of the pack for most events. We will see how scores shake out. I thought I was going to perform way, way worse, way, way worse. It's nice to be around so many diverse athletes. There are some guys here who I could see jumping the vert and I was across the field. I could see them popping up over the tents over here. It's crazy. Okay. I got out of your 15. Out of how many? How many? How many? How many? 40. 40. Dude, that's good. I'm in the upper half, baby. I'm in the upper half. Hold on, hold on. Let me hit a bit on that. What number were you? The competition is over and out of 38 competitors, your girl Meg Squats placed 11th. 11th! I would say that I did pretty well considering what I thought I would do. I would say that I did pretty well for a 37 year old mom. The other women who had kids there, they beat me too. Of course. My friend Hannah was there and she ran a six minute mile. 606 was her final mile time and she said that that was slow for her. And I made a new friend Paige and thank God Paige and her family were there because her daughters entertained my daughter the entire time. And it just gave me all the good vibes. Both of their families were there and our kids got to play together, which was just like the best feeling ever. Overall, the entire competition made me feel like a badass, loved and supported by my family and this community. And I had so many moments of just watching our girls there all hanging out and so proud that this is the community that we get to raise our girls in. These are the kinds of women that I want my daughters growing up around and looking up to. Mom, you have this kind of pressure to do it all like, and I don't think there is room to truly do it all, but I think there is a ton of room and an even more room for growth for just moms doing badass shit and being recognized for it, which I think, you know, not all of the women there were moms, but for me, this was a perfect representation of moms doing cool shit. I'm someone who started lifting because of CrossFit and it really pains me to say, I hope I don't get canceled for saying this, but CrossFit feels very over now. It's just over and Hirox, it's just too much running for me. It's too much running for me. So thanks to Tim Riley and all of the people who put on this awesome event. I had a great time. My conclusion is that I do think that this is going to be bigger than Hirox and I am so excited to see better and better athletes at the next one. The next one's in April. I think maybe I could adjust my training to really make it work and try to improve my apex score. What do you guys think? Let me know in the comments if I should expect to see you guys there in Austin for the next one. If you like this video, then you're definitely going to love my Army Combat Fitness Test series. Check that one out here.