! You guys, I am dealing with the same kind of trap pain, but now on the other side, I think I'm a little too sedentary. Lifting heavy and nursing a lot is not a great combo. Let's move around and see if motion is the lotion that I need. Here's my session for the day. Squats, five sets of 3 at 85%, deadlift, and then accessories. I'm going to try and go heavy on those Bulgarian split squats. 17 on squats. Last time I squatted, I was at 225. Deadlifts are also at 225, but those are ascending sets. Try to go heavier each time. We'll see how heavy I want to go. Actually, I thought that looked like too much volume because it was. I was on the regular gym program, but I personally run Express. Whoa. I'm also timing my workout to try and make sure I stay on track and I'm not here for too long. If you didn't know, I'm nursing. The reason I haven't been coming back here to the Buff Trick Gym is because I cannot pump anymore. I can't do it. I can't do it anymore. Just like every time I pump, I just can't get anything out. I just can't. I had to stop. It was also driving me a little bit insane because I would pump for not kidding you, like 30 minutes, and pumping is painful. It would be painful and uncomfortable, and I would pump it for 30 minutes, maybe even an hour while I have another kid running around and get nothing. All that to say, it's a 20 minute drive here, 20 minute drive back. It's where I need to be out of here in at least an hour, and it makes it hard to do when I'm filming everything because I want to make sure it's a helpful video too. It feels fine, but knowing that my trap is giving me issues today, I might just lower the volume just a little bit and count some of my warm-up sets as my working set. I'm gonna hit this clip. All right, 215. Just for free is all we need. Not far there. Walk out. Jesus. See, I'm already 22 minutes in, and maybe it's just the out of time of setting up the camera, but I'm only on my first exercise. This is the final set. I gotta keep my deadlifts moving, dude. We haven't had like over 100 degree days, but my knee sleeves are like melting off of me. I like to have a little bit of electrolytes. I'm noticing there's only so many supplements that I'm having, but electrolytes are usually generally in the clear. Generally for a salted kiwi, it is so good. If you like a little bit of salty, but not crazy salty like other brands, this is the way to go. It's so good. And it's not overly sweet. There's not like added sugar in it. I made a video the other day that said, this is how I know you've either been lifting in the gym for like under one year or you've been lifting for over 10 years. Do you know what I mean? Can you see what I mean? A lot of people. A lot of people had no idea what the hell I was talking about. And that's how I know they've been either lifting for over one year or under 10. I'm 30 minutes in and on the second exercise. I know that's relatable for a lot of people. Be having that be my life these days. Maybe even a couple of months when she's on more solids. I forgot I switched to sumo. This volume day on deadlifts is actually not that bad because surprisingly my deadlift has taken longer to come back than my squat postpartum. And I'm fully back. Like everything feels pretty good for the most part. Floor feels strong, which is usually my limiting factor. And now I'm just ramping back up. I still lift heavy during pregnancy, but I'm not really testing my one rep max strength. I'm not really peeking my one rep max strength, which is what I'm doing in this current macro cycle. I was working with someone on their deadlift the other day. And a common thing that I see in beginners is that they try to reverse the deadlift on the way down, meaning that they bend their knees too early on the descent. So if you ever feel like your deadlift is awkward or like you run into your knees on the way down, think about just pushing your hips back. You don't need to keep a lot of tension in that barbell. Watch how I'm just like not dropping it. I'm guiding it down, but I'm not staying tight to like slowly lower it down to the ground. That's unnecessary, especially when you're training for one rep max deadlift strength or to see how much you can really deadlift and if you have volume sets. So if you have more than one rep, this is going to be even more important. So instead of thinking about reversing the deadlift and sliding it down your legs, which is going to be very painful and awkward, just push those hips back. Kind of think of it like an RDL. Push those hips back and then you can bend the knees to guide it down. It's going to feel much better on your way down. Okay. One of six, I want a little heavier, three, 25 on my timing sets. Not bad. I'm going to call it there. Okay. Next we've got a heel elevated goblet squat. This is a great movement if you don't have a leg extension machine. Somebody asked me that question the other day. What kind of movements can I do without a leg extension machine and a goblet squat with their heels elevated is going to give you more knee flexion so that you can keep that torso much more upright and go heavy. I see so many people on their goblet squats not going heavy enough. You can carry a lot of weight. When someone asked me that, I was thinking, oh, should I do a video just like kind of old school YouTube resource videos of what to do if you don't have a leg extension machine or what to do if you don't have a hamstring curl machine? Because a lot of my stronger by the day members, they run the workouts from their garage gym. I have so many tricks up my sleeve because I started training out of garage gym when I trained powerlifting and was at the, I guess, height of my powerlifting career. If you can say that. When I was most into it, I was training with myself on a program very similar to stronger by the day just in my garage. Okay. We have our last giant set and I'm going to start off with Bulgarian split squats. Now this is an exercise that is commonly performed incorrectly based on your goal. There's two different ways to do it. You can do a quad focus or you can do it glute focus. First off, you want to get a bit longer of a stride. Now I have seen people do this trick where they just sit down on their surface, extend their leg and choose their stride there. If that works for you, then great. You just want to make sure that you're getting enough of a stretch in your glute muscle. When you're at the bottom position, I don't want to see a lot of knee angle. If I want this to be more my glute. What I want is to have more of a 90 degree angle at the bottom. And last is the torso tip. I don't want to have my torso straight up and down. I want more of a forward lean so that I can dig into this working foot and I'm not pressing off on the back foot. So think of like an escalator and not an elevator. That's all for more glute focus. Say final movement is AB stance RDL. One of my favorites and this is pretty much like a power lifters glute day. The whole workout ended up taking me 65, 60, 6 minutes. So that's with me recording. Usually I like to tell people like, oh squat deadlift days will usually take about an hour maybe a little bit longer. It really just depends on how strong you are. The stronger you are, the more warm ups you need to take. The harder those warm ups are and the harder the working sets are. So you might need more recovery in between the body. I'll be honest, you should take me a little bit less. You can run the full gym program. We'll take it a little bit longer than express program. I always run four day a week express on the Stronger by the day app. I like to have they say like, ah periods don't affect women. Like that. Today we're doing fatho. I always overthink this YouTube channel so today we're just working out. Currently wearing this shirt that Ryan got me when he went to go see Black Sabbath, Ozzy Osworn, his final show. Crazy. But I'm going to change into workout clothes obviously. So let's pick a outfit. We are so back. I got this bag from Fliu. I did notice a yellow outfit which is bold and I even brought this yellowish hat to wear. Got a more Meg-esque color. I thought you said wish me luck. Just wish me lucky freak. And here's the fit. I'm not usually a yellow girl but I think she looks pretty cute. Small update to the gym. A few boxes over here because we are finally replacing this lat pull down machine. Ryan hates this lat pull down machine and it's gotten a lot stickier over the past couple of years. Could be the heat. It is so freaking annoying. Let me show you. Brand is victory. We got this from Rep. We love Rep but this machine sucks. You don't have anything really to brace against when you use the horizontal pull. This is just stuck. Like I can hardly get this out. It's almost impossible to put it in. Okay well now it's actually going in. You're just going to have to trust me that 80% of the time it doesn't work. So a new lat pull down for here and then also a kind of cable system for our garage gym at home. Currently at the garage gym we have like $160 Amazon lat pull down machine so we'll kind of compare different price points. Let me know if you guys want to see that. Alright let's get into the workout. In our final month of bars loaded. Bars loaded is on struggle by the day. It's our program. The goal is one hour max strength. Today what we have is our heavy over. Wait hold on notes what? PB's PR's wherever you're from. I know. In town they call them PB's. I've got my heavy over and press thing. We'll start to paper down as we get closer to our one rep max test in the squat bench and deadlift. The bench press is my volume day. I'm doing one second pause. Work on those pause. My bench has been slackened so we'll see how we do today. I've got a crick in my neck. Like right here. I feel it right here. You can see it right here. I just wish I could pull off my skin and massage it out. That's not a possibility. But I figured this day would be better for my current situation than my volume squat and deadlift day. So that's why we're pressing today. You're going to feel a little bit better after some movement here too. Yeah I think so. Warm up. Let me show you my little mobility routine I have whenever I've got it. Could you show them the whole day? Oh yeah. That's what it's got. We'll get there. We'll get there. Who cares about these when you've got this and this. A long time ago I met with a physio. It's actually way back when. I had a physio with Kevin Oak and the physio. I can't remember his name right now at this moment. But he taught me these exercises whenever you have like a pain in your neck. He basically told me, oh you hold your head way out here. You've got that tech's neck or laptop neck. You have the instinct to want to stretch it out but stretching it out isn't always the answer. So here's what I find helps me. I'm ready for war. I'm coming for throws to turn into a ghost. I need to know everything. Now you'd be surprised at the info you get is by letting them talk. So I'm letting them talk. Gotta keep quiet, maneuver and stance to let them talk. If they body another one body that's just how it go. I got some secrets I'm shaking the game so they stay on their toes. Staying or laying out or stay on their goal. I can't play with the pros. Not like the rookies or they overlooking. They not the beloved. Get none of them nose. None of them cold. They just got lucky but never adapted. So I'm to the one that's coming to blows. My enemies cutting it close. I let them think that they got me but what do you know? I had them beat before we ever spoke. I'm ready for smoke. I need to know everything. Who in the what and where I need everything. Trust me I hear what you're saying but I like as new what you're telling me. I'm curious George. I hop in the Porsche. Five and a horse. I'm ready for war. I'm coming for throws to turn into a ghost. I need to know everything. Now they ain't go harder than me. They need a blade and a sheath. They're shanking the piece of crave for the heat. The army of flea. The tank and the jeep. The navy and sea. Where they some marine. And ace up they sleeve. A team of Marines. The freak on a leash. A beast with an appetite. Raising for teeth. And still they were laid. Feels good. Your barb out looks good. My crick in my neck. Well it's not in my neck. But they didn't hold me back. You persevered. You know what they say. If it doesn't kill you. Makes you stronger. Is that it? No. What were you gonna say? You know what they say. Like ah periods don't affect women. It's like that. Is that what they say? That's what they, yes that is what they say. Okay let's get into my accessories. I had banded face pulls programmed as my first exercise. And I did some of this to add that external rotation. So since I'm dealing with this little pain in my lower trap my goal was to shorten these muscles even more and get a little bit more activation. You can see in this view comparing my back. Look how much more activated my back actually is. In the stronger by the day app this is a super super simple swap. You just easily choose to substitute an exercise. That way you don't feel like you're going way off program when like in my case you need to make a little change. I attempted the 70s a second for my dumbbell row and I completely failed. Sorry about that.