

=== FILE: Build Capped Delts with Good Form (Overhead Press) [2aGuuHxrUE4].txt ===

ogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogen a progression for the overhead press so you can lift goddamn 100 plus pounds over your head and also How you can build some nice belts? You know what I'm saying? We'll talk about that and more Let's get it first. Let's talk about what we're doing. We're gonna talk about the strict overhead press here What that means is that your lower body is static You're not gonna use any hip movement to like get the bar up there like in some Olympic weightlifting training They'll program push press so you're getting a little lower body momentum or they'll do as we know Oh god, I'm gonna do a jerk. They'll do jerks or even a Split jerk. Okay. That's another video. What we're talking is strict overhead press So isolating the upper body a little bit more some people are overhead press haters and I am not one of them Okay, I love programming this movement for many different reasons one. It's fun Why do people hate it so much? Generally speaking it is not optimal for building like really capped delts So it's not optimal for building your lateral side delt. It is more of a front delt movement in the overhead press You get lots of front delts you get some triceps. It's a super long range of motion, which is great And you get some upper traps and some upper pecs. I love this movement because it's very functional We all have the experience of lifting our suitcase into the overhead bin We all have to reach up for things and pull them down and usually before you pull it Now you had to get up there in the first place. So it's super functional movement. I think it's bad ass My take is the optimal functional training camp gets a little too optimal You know, I mean sometimes we just are lifting for fun and sometimes we don't always program for a Perfect body right we program for a function We program to enjoy ourselves in the gym and build brute strength and that's what you get with the overhead press All right, let's get into it. Let's talk equipment. You could do this button a kid first of all You don't really need much a flat shoe that has a stable flat sole will be helpful You don't want a cushy running shoe even though we are isolating our upper body with a strict press you will be kind of rooting from your feet and Maintaining tension in your lower body. So you do want something that's gonna give you some good ground contact outside of your shoes You might as you get more experience use a belt I like a velcro very simple very lightweight kind of belt when you get to be pressed in the whole world Then you might try a heavier duty powerlifting style leather suede belt some people like wrist wraps I personally don't use wrist wraps in the overhead press or in the bench a lot of that has to do with just feeling really Stacked with my wrist position So I'll cover that and the last piece of equipment you might consider is some chalk Just to get a really good grip on that bar with any lift when you dial in your setup and get in a good start position That usually means the actual lifting portion kind of takes care of itself You want to find a bar height that is about your mid-delta height It will be very similar to where you're setting up for a low bar position for your Hand width like where to actually grab onto the bar. I like to extend my thumbs out from my delts and grab there So that is my width for getting on the bar when we actually grab the bar We want to make sure that the bar is sitting close to the like butt of our palm or like the heel of our palm Won't be back in the fingers like this where I'm cocking my wrist back It'll be comfortably on the heel of my hand so that the bar is directly over my wrist here You will see like a little bit of a cockback and that's okay It really just depends on your wrist mobility The biggest thing is that when you're pressing you're pressing the elbow through the wrist through the bar lots of lifters Choose a false grip in the overhead press. It's really personal preference You can either wrap your thumbs if you feel more comfortable there or you can false grip a false grip Basically means instead of my thumbs being are fully around the bar I have it next to the rest of my fingers some people get worried about this position Because we don't want to do it in certain lifts like the bench press the risk of me dropping a bench is really high Because my body is under the bar whereas for the overhead press. It's probably one of the safer lifts Because truly should you ever fail an overhead press? It is not going to fall on your body You can just step out of the way if I were to get stuck in the middle of an overhead press I can just come back down instead of like dropping the bar You know what I mean really you want to choose what's best for you and what you're most comfortable with But I do find that that false grip makes that stacking the bar over the wrist a little bit easier now that we've got our Handset let's think about where our elbows are in the start position the elbows should be Slightly pointed away from you so it has a little bit of a negative angle there Bring the elbows forward so that when you unrack the bar sort of like floats over your clavicle You do not want to rest the bar here in like a resting front rack The bar will be like floating over the clavicle and that starting position is sort of like your base from where you'll start your first Rep if you look at me from the front angle my forearms will be parallel to one another and perpendicular to the bar with a little bit of that elbows in front of the bar form you will want to think about Full body tension. We're not getting momentum from our lower body and we're not pressing from our lower body But we will do things to like activate so that they're tight and like connected to the floor The main thing that I want you to think about is your torso Think about shortening the space between the bottom of your ribs and the top of your pelvis What this will do will shorten that space You'll squeeze your glutes and flex your quads now as you start overhead Pressing heavier and heavier weights you will be inclined to kind of get in this stretch position to cheat a little bit And I'm gonna tell you that's okay, but when you're starting I want you to get that full lower body tension Shorten the space here abs are tight and engaged And you've got a solid base to start pressing a rule of thumb when you're lifting weights Is you always want the bar to be in a mostly straight line? The issue with the overhead press is that there's something preventing me from pushing it in an exactly straight line And what would that be grid? Yes, exactly your heads in the way So you can't just press from the bar being right here kind of like under your chin to straight up, right? So you have to move your head out of the way when you're setting up at the beginning I want you to think about tucking your chin and as the bar presses up and Passes your eye gaze then push your head through it's kind of like you're pushing your head through a window so your window is the space that your arms are making and As the bar goes up you like Hello, good morning Now some people don't love to push your head through cue because as the bar gets really heavy You will find it hard to actually do that or you'll mess up the timing in my opinion as you become a better lifter You will understand that timing and he will understand where the bar is. Alright, we've got our perfect setup Next we're going to actually execute the overhead press when we get our elbows wrists and torso in position You will walk out from the rack just take a super short three-step max walk out Squeeze from the floor Make sure that your bar is floating over the cat clavicle. The bar is not moving We're going to initiate the movement by pressing from the elbow through the wrist through the bar and Press all the way up so that we're fully stacked now one tip here as we're thinking about pushing the head through is Once that bar passes your eye gaze you will feel through the triceps Kind of initiate more and you want to think about shortening the tricep and pressing all the way up to finish the press Let's transition to my favorite cues for the overhead press I've already mentioned that you do want to have a strong contact from the floor up But whenever the overhead press starts getting hard just think squeeze my butt squeeze my butt I swear to God that cue works all the time for initiating that contact again And also like giving you that little bit of tension to finally finish your rep My second tip and this one is a little controversial because it doesn't always work for everyone But most people I find have more success in the overhead press when they rest at the top Think about it like a squat you don't rest at the bottom in a squat That would be silly you rest at the top when the bar is rested and it's stacked on top of your skeleton Same thing with the overhead press my skeleton is supporting the weight of the bar when it's fully up here not my muscles on the way up and also I'm not in that floating over my clavicle very very tiring resting position here I also find it's kind of like the starting strength camp are very passionate about this one I find that most of the time when they Take their reps from the bottom from this position. They are still like dipping and driving so they're still getting Probably about the same amount of Momentum that I do because they're kind of dipping and driving with their overhead press So I find that you just be unnecessary To not have the opportunity to like take a breath collect yourself and rest especially when you're working with like sets of five plus Before we wrap I want to talk about mobility and I have an exercise that you have to be doing Especially if the overhead press Causes any pain or you always have a problem lifting your arms overhead You want to listen to this section because this is the best exercise and I've had so many people comment that this has like saved their Shoulders alright, let's talk mobility if your shoulders feel like shit when you're lifting weight or reaching for something overhead Then listen up I have the exercise that you need to be doing and let me show you it's called the blackbird first of all it counters that like Hunched over posture and I don't know about you But there are days when I'm on my computer all day or on my phone for hours and I feel so stiff and sore it makes training really hard The blackbird will train the rotator cuff which is often neglected super strong lifters Especially those watching those videos do a lot of pushing like benching or overhead press or lat pull downs So they avoid these like rotator cuff movements that'll keep the shoulders healthy when you're lifting weight The entire exercise is performed facing down You'll move your arms in a big circle kind of like a reverse snow angel Keep your thumbs to the ceiling and retract your scapula think about squeezing a pencil between your shoulder blades Eventually you'll get to a point where you need to turn over your hands and internally rotate the shoulder to complete your snow angel You want to reach as far and wide as possible before that turnover bring the hands together Give a little crunch for the low back remember to always rest your forehead Relax the neck muscles and try not to shrug try them at work when you notice yourself hunched over Take a break and do like two to three sets of six reps The blackburn will engage and strengthen the scapula to stabilize that are super stretched and an active in that posture When you're at the gym you can do them before any pressing movement work them into your warm-up two to three sets For about six reps will be fine before we get into the progression for the overhead press if you want to ensure and make sure You're making progress in your training the best way to do that is by following a program that is set up to get you stronger And of course stronger by the day is the best strength training app out there And that's an actual fact you just got asked the sports illustrated through review tons of top-of-the-line apps and continue to run stronger By the day for over a year and she quotes I've been lifting for nearly six years now But I started making way more progress once I started using this app stronger by the day So you can choose from our options gym at home or express for shorter workouts It programs everything you need exercise weights sets reps frequency and of course the progression you need to get stronger by the day and Especially in your overhead press we have over 400 exercises in our exercise library So you know exactly how to perform each lift with perfect form that big library also means you have tons of Substitutions so you can never be confused on how to get stronger again join stronger by the day today and start your free trial You can click the first link in the description and I'll see you there progression Let's talk about how to get a bigger overhead press one of the biggest issues that we see is if your overhead press is Under a hundred pounds it is crazy to make like a five pound jump Especially if you're working towards a PR a new one our max so for example if my best overhead press is 60 pounds Then it's gonna be really hard to make two and a half pound jumps for a new 65 Pound PR that's a big percentage of my max So what you can do is buy micro plates first of all I'm an idiot because look what I bought so all the sun names on like wow don't these look great Was all the way from a quarter pound to One and a half pounds one pounds. Let me show you my issue My goodness fit that on there. I ordered the wrong thing So it should you order these you can get it from the same brand micro gains Just make sure you get the ones with the wide hole that'll fit on a barbell Which is my mistake so I'll be returning these in exchange for those other options that I found that aren't as small of a Jump as those are these little adjustable one and a quarter pound micro plates You can fit it on the inside of your collars for your barbell or you can fit it fit them on a lot of dumbbells So these might be a little bit more versatile Especially for lateral raises if you need to add a little bit to a lateral raise without making again a five pound or two and a half Jump try these lots of my lifters on my discord from stronger by the day We're talking about using ankle weights Which is something you might have lying around or your gym might have these really cute Amazon kind of broke down ball of bands So what they're called ball of bands? Yeah, the really expensive ones Don't get the really expensive ones to get these ones that were like 20 bucks And these are one pound weights that you can take then a two pound jump on your overhead press to kind of fill in some of the gaps God I can't believe I ordered the wrong thing another barrier to entry that a lot of people have is they simply cannot Yet overhead press 45 pounds So check in your gym if they have either a woman's Olympic weightlifting bar, which will be 33 pounds Or if they have a training bar, so this one is made by rep fitness. I believe Yeah, and this is a rep technique bar and it's 15 pounds There's no shame in using lighter bars that aren't yet the 45 pound bar as you work up to build that strength And that sometimes is a better alternative to just subbing out the movement to something like a dumbbell overhead press or a landmine Press as opposed to some other barbell lifts the overhead press when you fail it is probably like the safest one to fail so you can really get closer to failure without worrying too much about Safety, honestly the biggest concern that I would have and that I've done before is knocking your chin on The way up so watch out for that You just want to make sure you tuck the chin before you push the head through I did have someone comment on a post recently that they hit their boobs on the way up And I am not that blessed, but should you be that blessed? Just keep that in mind I mean if you're floating over the clavicle like I recommended I can't see how that would happen, but hey I'm not here to body shame anyone. All right. That's amazing You know a lot of these videos really do be telling you all the info that you need But I never seen none of them max out their overhead press. So that's what I'm gonna do today I am going off program what is recommended for strong by the day, but It's for you I've already warmed up about a hundred times So if I don't hit a PR then you know it's cuz I shot all the b-roll before doing this It's always nice to put the 25s on then you really do feel like a bad bitch. That's when I know She ain't fucking around Renee No, she's not interested she has a YouTube channel check it out She's not interested in club with me I Need one of you guys to hop in because then I'm just gonna not rest enough greatly That's all you can do anyway This is way but that's what I want to do this video because it's way better than trying to max out my squat This Is 75 75 I'll look up in between this my best ever press I want to say it's either one or five It's on the internet somewhere Okay, okay feeling good. Let's go 85 all rights 85 pounds I guess I will continue to make five pound jumps all the way up Okay Fine babe, do you know my best ever overhead press Oh Okay On the internet right now it's at a hundred so by magic today I was like had been like 20 pounds heavier that's if you really want to spend a lot of money You can get the alaco chips. These are so pretty, but we do have these so I might use those if I can Chip a hundred if my hundred looks okay Bro no no no I'd rather match my PR first say okay, I hit a hundred All right, can we turn on some music at least make No, that ain't going up dog I'm like I can't put my head through if my chin's right there. I'm gonna cheat a little here I'm gonna get a little bounce. It's hard to PR your strict press one rep max because you're starting from the dead stop You get no momentum, so I'm gonna try and cheat get a little bit of momentum here I also made the mistake of taking my breath and brace and then I Unwrapped walked out and I took another breath and I'm not gonna do that I'm gonna hold it the whole time. I might not even walk out actually You know I did I get up high that time Okay, yeah, well guys really wish I wouldn't have listened to my friends and I would have just tried to get a hundred again But sometimes peer pressure will do that to you Make sure you stay Following your program and your initial plan that you had going into the gym, but at least I press 95 That's not by 95 is like a daily minimum though I gotta say see that's where it gets tough because I could probably walk into the gym any day and do 95 But it is really hard to Get much higher than that with my overhead press. Yeah, sometimes I'll just fuck around and find out you know what I mean Anyway, thank you guys so much for watching the video I hope you enjoyed and learned something new be sure to subscribe to the channel Give this video a like send it to someone with an overhead press That's experiencing a plateau even if it's yourself save it for later. I'll see you guys in the next video. Bye

=== FILE: Changing my bench press form [yqtxznCjM9U].txt ===

 am... Me, me, me. Hello. How are ya? I got tickets to Adele. Okay? Let's open the video there. You know how hard that is? I considered buying the Front Row $2,500 ticket. Oh my God. But I had to buy three tickets, so I was not. My credit card limit is only so high. Anyway, with that news, welcome to today's video. Today, we have a special guest. Hi, guys. Adele. I'm just kidding. This is Joe. I've known him for forever. You want to tell people who you are, what you do? And what's Game Day Barbell? Yeah, so I'm Joe Sienic. I'm a powerlifting coach, and I also own a gym in Austin, Texas, Game Day Barbell. We're a 13,000 square foot facility that caters to powerlifting, weightlifting, bodybuilding. We got to go down to Game Day for whatever summer series we come up with. Last year we had a crazy summer series. I don't know what this year is going to be, but maybe I'll start weightlifting because you have some weightlifting just at your gym, don't you? That's true. Go check out Game Day Barbell if you're in the Austin area for sure. And also, we're celebrating because Joe is launching his YouTube channel. I am. I'm really excited about it. You can check it out. For mostly powerlifting content, I'm doing a series where I actually interview a lot of the best powerlifting coaches in the world. As a powerlifting coach, I'm always really interested in that. So I've had Marcellus Williams, who I know you just had on the channel recently. Our most recent collab. As well as Steve Dinovi, Matt Holden, a few other really great coaches. So you'll see a lot of that content on there as well as just different tips and tricks when it comes to powerlifting. It's been my living, well, since you've known me. So I think I know a thing or two about lifting some weights on a barbell. It's like a bunch of super, super smart, super, super strong people and they're just talking about lifting weights. Yeah. I love it. And then there's my channel, where I'm going to see Adele. Anyway, today is so many exciting things going on. We have new flavors and Joe's going to try his first time trying buff chick supplements. We're going with mimosa. Okay. I just got married, y'all. We went down to Mexico and I had a wedding by the time you're watching this, it's already done. And we had some mimosas while we were there. So we thought, why not give our lifters, our favorite supporters, a little taste of mimosa. So let's try it. Taste test. I'm going to need this because I had a very long drive up. Oh, wait. No, I can't do the pre. It's caffeine. I usually do pump. Do we have mimosa pumped too? What? This is going to be my third serving of caffeine today. Oh boy. I'm going to be on 500 grams. Ah! It's good. Oh, that's good. It's light. It's tangy. It's tasty. It's missing the champagne alcohol and it's not as bubbly as a mimosa would be, but it's delicious. I'm really impressed with this. Yay! It has a little bit more tang than I would have expected. Honestly, I feel like I don't need any mimosa's going forward. I can just have this. Who needs to get drunk on Sunday brunch when you can just get jacked? That should be the tagline for this. Anyway, we have mimosa, newest flavors, mimosa and peach bulini in our Buff Free. Go check it out. So I know you have some bench press. I do as well. I'm just like three weeks out from powerlifting being myself right now. So last few heavy workouts, which I'm excited about. So I've got bench press and then I have my light deadlifts to do as well, which are just light beltless work. How light are your light deadlifts? Like three reds, nothing crazy. How much is that in pounds? Oh my gosh. I don't usually have to convert this. It's like three 74, something like that. Yeah, I did that once. Once when I when I met you in Scran, I recall you yelling really loud for your last deadlift as you came out. Yeah, I used to go nuts to come to finish in like at least like 40th place. 40th ain't bad. No, I was going to say I would kill for 40th place. I'm barely, barely qualified for nationals these days. We are old people now. I haven't even checked what the qualifiers are for women anymore, for anyone anymore. So they're they're pretty high these days. I mean, from my weight class, which is 220, it's like a little over 1500 just to qualify. Damn. Yeah. Yeah. So it's it's pretty crazy when you can't do coach. That's been my whole career. All right. You want to work on your bench too? Yeah. Another thing that I didn't really mention in my little intro is obviously I got a pretty big following on TikTok. Oh, super famous on TikTok guys. Like when I saw a TikTok, I immediately messaged him like, what's the secret? What's the sauce? Give it to me. Nobody likes me on TikTok. Number one easiest tip for TikTok is get in early. That's that's kind of how I managed to do it. But what I was going to say was on TikTok, something that's kind of become the norm for a lot of people is to hate on barbell lifts. Basically they're just like, if you're not concerned with lifting the most weight possible, why are you even doing those lifts? Which I kind of get. Like, you know, it makes sense. Like if you want to be as jacked as possible, one could argue that like a dumbbell bench might get your pecs bigger than a barbell bench. To your point, if you're going to learn to lift weight on a barbell bench, you probably want to do it like a power lifter because those are going to be the people that are moving the most weight, you know? Yeah. And finally, I spoke about the very depressing epidemic of girls who lift on social media especially. A lot of times they're coaches, they have apps, they have programs that thousands of people follow. They lift so heavy, they are hip-dressing 500 pounds and they refuse to barbell bench press. They just don't do it. So that's why our program for this macro cycle is called Bench Baddie. Because we're kind of distinguishing. There's gym baddies everywhere. We love them. We love everyone to make their own choices. But then there's bench baddies. And they use the barbell. I love that. I love that message. It's just the girls that get it get it and the girls that don't don't. So if you a barbell bench in, then see you later sister. Just kidding. I mean, just go to somebody else's ad. It's fine. Or you can use the substitution feature on Chonger by the day. Download now for a free seven day trial. Okay, enough plugs. Let's lift. You see, Joe? If you want one of these, I can hook you up with one of your shirts. Oh, I can definitely rock that. Give me a few months. Yeah, get your summer body ready. All right, Joe, you want me to show you my stuff? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Let's see this. Okay, well, first one need to get my ass over here. Okay. I just wanna Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap You totally tell that Marcellus taught you that setup because of how you drive your hands into the barbell. That's a signature way that Marcellus teaches the bench press of driving hard into the bottom of the hands like that. You know, he's my neighbor, so I gotta listen to Marcellus. He lives right down the street from me. Oh, you're kidding. Nah. He's been to Emerald's birthday party. Me and Amber are always talking about mom stuff, you know. Yeah, they live super close to us. That's so cool. Yeah. I I just wanna... Oh, no. Nice. Are you open to one small tweak? Yes! Ok, so, the only thing that I would say, that I don't love about your setup is actually where you're starting from. So with where your grip is, you're ending up leading with your elbows a little bit more than I would typically like to see on a lifter. So when you get down to the bottom, your elbows are a little bit ahead of where the bar actually is. And when the weight gets heavier, that's going to make it a little bit harder to reverse the weight because the elbow is not directly under the bar on your chest. So what I would say is I want you to bring the barbell out just a little bit more, a little bit closer to your touch point because that's going to make it easier for you to then lower the weight with your elbows directly under the barbell. So all about joint stacking. I've never heard that cue before so I'm excited. I'm just going to go in so I don't freaking forget it. Yeah. Oh, that feels easier. There you go. Yeah, that's exactly what I'm talking about. I love that one. Yeah. Do you have any deletions? Yeah. Yeah, you got to put more weight on that joke. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Moving is pushing into the floor. A lot of people try to yank on the barbell too much and they end up in a position where, you know, when the weight gets heavy enough, they usually get stuck about here at their knees and that's because they're just using their upper body to move the weight. Whereas in general, if you just think about pushing the floor away from you when you get started, that's gonna make the deadlift infinitely easier and make it a lot smoother through the entire rep. So just simply put to illustrate that, like if I were to use my upper body more and sort of yank on it like this, I would probably get stuck about here, right? Whereas if I'm using my legs when I start pulling, it's kinda all the way through going to be easier. So easiest way to implement that, just push the floor away from you. I like that. Pretend you're Chuck Norris and you're pushing me the earth away. Ah! Let's see what we're doing here. We have a cluster set. I feel like this might be a little too heavy for me, but we're just gonna see with my new setup. It goes three, two, one. We're resting for 15 seconds in between and I'm gonna do the self-lift off. Well, you guys just keep an eye and if I fail, you just make sure I'm not dead, these are here. We've been incorporating cluster sets into this new macro cycle. One of the reasons why I like them is that it does allow you an opportunity to practice your Unrack and practice low rep sets while still, I'll be doing six reps here. So I'm still getting six reps in, but I get to practice my Unrack three times. Let's see how it works out. It's like I'm gonna Unrack it and then immediately start my setup again. Let's go Maggie, you got it. Oh no, no, no. Let's go. Ooh, that kinda felt good. Look good. Just crack my neck and then go right back into it. Just take your time with the actual setup, make sure you get all the components right. There you go. Oh good God. You got that last one in yet. Last one, single. Come on, easy. There you go. That was pretty good. I feel like the cluster is helping me get a little bit more efficient and not drag it out as much. Not that that's a huge problem to drag it out, but I mean, trying not to. I feel like most power lifters, like if you give them the chance to rest for 20 minutes, they will. So, you know, way to go against the grain on that. Time efficiency. So something else that you'll see about my dead lip setup in particular is you're gonna see that I pull with a little bit of a rounded back, which I know the internet does not love. But for me, it makes my pull a little bit more efficient, makes the Sumo deadlift, which is traditionally a little bit harder off the floor, a bit easier. And for me, I have pretty large quads and oftentimes when I pull with a straight back, I'll end up getting stuck on them. Whereas if I pull with a rounded back, I'll usually be able to kind of pull around my quads because of where it puts my hands. So when I pull with a rounded back, it actually ends up making my grip slightly narrower. And that allows me to kind of get past the point on my quads where my hands typically drag. It still will happen, but it'll happen less, if that makes sense. The other thing that I do, which you just saw me do is I never pull a rep without re-gripping the marble. I reset for every single one, which is pretty typical for a lot of power lifters, just because we're never in a situation where we will have just done a repetition in competition. Yeah, I know a couple of you need to start full reset in your deadlifts, because rep two, three, and beyond, it looks like shit, okay? So take your time, let's do a full reset, just like relax a little. There's a time and place to try touch and go if you want, but especially if you're struggling with those later reps, if you're struggling getting something off the floor, or if you're struggling with your form at all, why not just take your time, you could even step away for a second, look at the bar and re-approach as if it were a single, and you're just like stringing some singles together. There's nothing wrong with doing that. In fact, maybe even for newer lifters, you might want to do that more often than you try something like touch and go. I see some people just bang the deadlift on and off the floor, and I'm just like, why don't you just relax, take it easy, just give me a moment, okay? Scary. In particular. Great new setup. So new, you haven't had the chance to really practice it. Seriously. Coach Joe? He's kind of already got the positioning down, where he's got his hands a little bit closer to his chest than his shoulders, so he's definitely implementing what I taught you right away. The only thing that I would say is, you do have a little bit of a tendency to kind of rush the repetition. So leg drive is such a huge part of the bench press, and I think it's the thing that most people miss when they're doing a lot of work. When it comes to the bench, it's almost like it's your bracing for the lift, right? And what a lot of people do when the weight is light in particular is they don't think about their leg drive as much, and that tends to translate over to when the weight gets heavier. Like they're not implementing it right away as they're getting set up. So my only advice there would be just kind of treat the weight like it is heavy, because I would imagine if this were two or three blue plates on the barbell, you'd be being a little bit more careful about how tight you are when you get set up. Everything actually looks good, the way that you bench looks good, I would just say, just treat the weight like it's much heavier. Consistency. Great, you know that your feet are like this. Oh, I thought you were doing that on purpose. You like it like that? I don't know, I mean, I still haven't figured out. Yes, let's keep going heavier for you so you can just go. So if that isn't on purpose and you're open to it, I could potentially see you adjusting your feet just a little bit in terms of where you put them and you might get better leg drive that way. I think I like keeping my feet more narrow and my toes sort of pointed forward, and that way when I push my toes through the front of my shoe, because if you were to, I mean, I guess you could push through like the sole of your foot. No, I'm probably exaggerating, but you're probably like right there. It was pretty flared. Yeah, pretty flared. And the reason that I didn't necessarily correct it is I do see some lifters feel like when they're this outturned that they're able to drive better with their legs. So I don't know, I thought you, like I said, I thought you were doing that on purpose. The only people that I see do that usually have a little bit more of a narrow foot stance though. You know, like you, we were talking about Sean Noriega. If you look at his bench press setup, he puts his feet very far forward and he out turns them so that he's able to drive harder with his legs that way. So you're just trying to be like Sean, Greg? He's trying to cheat is what it is. He's trying to cheat. We love Sean. Really focus on pushing into the floor as you bring that bar down to your chest, Meg. There you go. Woo! Yay! Okay. He likes that little turtle back there when I just hit him. I'm gonna go get him. I'm gonna get him. I'm gonna get him. I'm gonna get him. I'm gonna get him. I'm gonna get him. Okay. Okay. Nice. Oh! I liked your tip though, on focusing on leg drive on the way down. I definitely wasn't doing that before. I was gonna say, yeah. So like I said to him, whereas we brace a lot through our core when we're squatting or deadlifting, the legs are your brace in the bench press. And if you pay really close attention to that clip, you'll see that as you're bringing that barbell down, your legs start to come forward. And to me, that's usually a sign that that weight is exerting more force on you than you were exerting on it. So if you need a little easy visual tip as to if you're using leg drive properly, it's always are my legs shifting down the bench as I'm bringing that barbell down. So if you see them moving, you aren't driving hard enough with your legs. Oh! Woo-hoo! What is the bench like seven days a week? Seven days a week, three sessions a day. How much is the bench? How much is the bench? Five, 29 at 165. Raw. Drug free. If you deadlifted that, I'd be like, holy shit, you're amazing. Jeez. Yeah. Dang, what's his range of motion though? Somewhere in between flat backing and having like a huge arch. Ah, okay. So it's respectable. I mean, not that it's not respectable when you can like bump bump, but. Yeah, let's see if I can find a. He's like, I don't respect that. If I can find a good clip. This is my last clush to shit. I'm liking the cluster's dog practicing. I know, I don't know this, but I would be willing to bet that I couldn't do a set of six of this without the cluster. Like once. I think you're the first set you could have. Maybe? Okay. My second set felt better form wise. Okay. I though, for sure. I'll take it, I'll take it. Oh, I think my feet are a little too close to being under my butt, I'm going to bring Nice. Oh, I think my feet are a little too close to being under my butt. I'm going to bring them out just a hair maybe. Yeah, I felt like I didn't quite feel a little more uncomfortable too, to be honest. Yeah, there you go. Oh, yeah, boy. I'm done venturing until I'm married. You know what I mean? Love that. I take my mic off when I go pee, just in case you're recording. Sanitary. I don't want to get. And also for sanitation purposes. So, Joe, I noticed in one of your TikToks that you mentioned one of your favorite bench accessories to improve your bench was weighted dips. And that's not something I have a ton of experience with. I definitely do bodyweight dips as an accessory movement, but I've never really pushed my weighted. So, I'd love to get some tips from you on that. Can you talk about why you like it so much or anything to add as far as using it in your programming? Yeah, so like I said, do you just now off camera? It's almost like a, at least the way I program it, I almost treat it like a secondary bench session within your bench session. I will usually have my lifters work up to a top set and then they back off. The reason being is that a lot of the ways in which the musculature is challenged in a weighted dip is very similar to a bench press. So, as long as you set it up correctly, the pecs are going to be stretched in the same way, the triceps are going to be stretched in the same way, that sort of deal. But it tends to be a little bit easier to push and therefore recover from. Not to mention that you get a lot of long muscle lengths, which we know from research is generally the longer you can train a muscle as far as length goes, the more hypertrophy you're going to get. And the one thing that I would say, the bench press kind of lacks in, at least from a powerlifting context, but honestly even in general, as long as you're using good technique is you'll typically cut down on some range of motion. So the weighted dip is useful in that sense that it makes up for that. Again, also just kind of challenging musculature and your joints in a slightly different way is also going to generally be a little bit better for injury prevention. Again, at the end of the day, it's more about just making sure that you're on top of your recovery, that sort of stuff. But in a sense, if your bench press kind of goes awry and maybe your shoulders in a weird angle or something like that, just being in a position that it's a little bit more prepared for and say like a weighted dip can be useful, that way it's more prepared to take loading in that particular way. Sick. And you just told me I get to work up to a top set. Yeah. A top set of one? Usually I'll go anywhere between three and five. I'm going to try and hit a one rep max though. Just kidding. No, I'll go three to five. That's a real thing. There are weighted dip competitions in the world. Oh, sick. Yeah. You know, powerlifting might not be for me anymore, but what did you call it? You called it backdoor powerlifting. Yeah, yeah. Is that a common phrase? I don't think so. I think I just kind of came up with that on the cup. I think that's what I do. That's the point of that is. Like, I mean, the best way that I would put it would be just kind of doing something similar to what powerlifters do and that you're trying to, you know, go as heavy as possible on lifts and get the best, best total amongst certain lifts just with random lifts. Oh, that's us. We do, I would say in between that and power building, what people refer to as power building. Is there a difference between power building and backdoor powerlifting? I mean, yeah, for sure. Like, I don't know. I don't love the term power building personally. Like, I understand why people say it because they want to be as big as possible and also as strong as possible. But I think to me, good powerlifting training is that. I think especially when you're like far from competition, if you were to look at all the best powerlifters training programs, they're going to be pushing their, their lifts so that they stay strong, but then they're also going to be really pushing that accessory work. Like, if I would describe the way that I program for people, it is heavier top sets, then all your back down work is pretty easy so that you can just kind of continue to refine your form. So therefore it's not going to push you as hard, tack you as hard, your muscles are still going to be slightly fresh afterward. And then you go into your accessories and go ham on those and then you get bigger that way. That's, that's how I program powerlifting. That's how Marcellus programs for powerlifting and honestly, most of the really good coaches these days, I guarantee you, if you put all of our programs side by side, you would see that. We do offseason powerlifting. I say that stronger by the day is great for offseason powerlifting. If you're a powerlifter and you're like, you're not working with a coach one-on-one, you're on a cycle. But we are focusing on our bench, but the rest of the program is like offseason squat and deadlift. Oh, God, I haven't done dips in a long time. All right. Any tips for my dip form right now as you see it? Well, for one, I would have you switch around where you're facing. Oh, here? Yeah. All right. And would you rather my hands be more narrow or out here? So I always say for you to, because we're talking about within the context of having a strong bench press, because we're bench baddies around here. We're bench baddies. I always have my lifters adjust their grip so that it's at least close-ish to what they do on the bench press. So something like that. So that you take a similar, so that you're at a similar angle. So not my start, but my bottom position. Yes. So that it ends up being kind of similar. Something like that. Oh, God, it's okay. ogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogen bit more movement out of the humerus, which the goal of the peck is to move the humerus back and forth, right? So we involve the pecks a little bit more that way. And then I always have my lifters kind of having sort of a proud chest, kind of similar to how they look when they're arching, right? Because when you're arching, your back is usually slightly retracted, your rib cage is high in the air, that sort of thing. And then just for stability purposes, usually people have plates in between. I don't have people up to my feet long, because that helps keep the plates in place so that it's not shaking around. Most of the time, most people's ribs are not exactly the most stable things in the world. So adding anything that you can to be more stable is going to help you get more out of an exercise. Generally speaking, the more stable your system, the easier it's going to be for your muscles to express force, which is why in powerlifting, we try to be as stable as possible. We try to be as rigid as possible through the core on the bench press. We're using our legs to stabilize ourselves. The more stable we are, the more weight move. All right, let me try straight leg, bench baddie. And again, if that wide is intolerable for you, it's always going to be better to just go with what you're comfortable with. It's not that it's intolerable, it's just kind of harder. Well, you did just do a pretty heavy bench workout as well. Oh, actually, I really like keeping my feet straight, because I get nice little rest here at the bottom. Well, you probably need to increase the height of that, just a smidgeny. There you go. Oh, okay, all right. All right, I think I can go a little heavier with a set of three. So you say work to a top set, and then, oh, when you reached over here, I definitely thought you were going to grab a little puppy. I'm thinking I'll add a five kilo. That's what actually should I go lighter? I was going to say, you can always go up, right? So like I said, one last tip before you do this, if you put your thumbs on there, you're going to be able to drive more of the meat of your hand into the rig. It'll help you be a little bit more stable. Oh, do I like that? There you go. Come on. Right there. No, I'm going three. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, three. You want something that's a rep, like an eight RP, two reps left in the tank, that sort of deal? That's usually what I strive for on the top set. I think that was my eight RP. Yeah, let's go five kilos. Let's do this, do it. Come on, baby. It's okay to push through around a nine. Nothing wrong with that. Yeah, nothing wrong. Okay, this might be my top set. We're on five kilos. For five pounds. For three. Plus two. Maybe I'll do a cluster. Cluster. Remember, she's got to do back downs after, so you don't want to completely kill her. Yeah, exactly. Ryan, you want to see my new bench baddie dip form? He said yes. There you go. Really good, man. One more. There you go. All right. That's my three rep max, y'all. Yeah. Any other tips with that after- So after that set, I usually will have a lifter drop about 10% of that weight and do that for as many repetitions as it takes for them to get back to an eight RP. So two reps left in the tank. And I'll usually do that for two or three sets. For someone like you who isn't doing weighted dips a whole lot, I would probably only say two. All right, y'all. Thank you so much for watching. I hope you learned something new with our guest coach, Joe. Go check him out. His YouTube channel has just launched. So you could be one of his first subscribers. He's giving away free video content on YouTube for his first thousand subscribers. So let's get him to a thousand. Thanks, guys. And check out his YouTube channel. If you're in Austin, Texas area, check out his gym, which is amazing. I hear probably biggest, baddest, best gym in all of the world. Whoa. High praise. Yeah. So thank you, Joe. Thank you. For joining us. Anything else you want to plug? You guys can find me on TikTok too. There's a lot of smaller tips on there. It's at the Joe Stannock on TikTok. And like she said, if you're in the Austin, Texas area, please come check out Game Day Barbell. We are 24 seven for everybody. So even if you are a guest, you can jump into the gym just by hopping on the website. Even if it's three o'clock in the morning, you can unlock the door through there. So please come check it out. Check out all of our brands, fun stuff like that. All right. Thank you guys so much for watching. We'll see you in the next video. Bye.

=== FILE: DON’T BE A DOMER ｜ Learn how to use your entire core! [dIVN9GUG7zo].txt ===

! Where's my sign? Guys, I saw, let me show you what inspired this video. Where's my phone? Where's my phone? Oh no, it's right here. I saw this video on TikTok, and I want to show you something because it is a great example of exactly what we're going to talk about today, and it's called doming. It is sort of a position that your core takes that you might want to avoid when you're doing core movements, like a plank. So this is that silly trend on TikTok. Listen, it's going to be hard. You're going to have to dig it. He's just doing like a military plank challenge. He's playing a game. But you can see this guy, he looks really fit, but you can see when he goes up a little bit that his core is sort of pushing downwards. And what he's doing is a good example of doming. It gets better as he gets tired. Many people who don't normally experience it will see it when they start to get more fatigued. So obviously he's a really fit guy, but can you see the middle of his core by his belly button is sort of pushing down? That's what we call doming. Let me show you what it looks like when I do it. Okay, so ready? Okay, so basically what happens when you're doming is that your rectus abdominis pushes forward. Some people say it kind of looks like a bread loaf. So can you see the bread loaf when I'm going to do sit-ups here? Can you see my bread loaf? It's better bread loaf whenever I'm on the way down. My RA, my six pack muscles are pushing forward and that's not a terrible thing. But what it's a sign of is that my deep inner core muscles aren't firing as hard as my RA. That's why they're bulging out. This is called doming and it's not something that's necessarily going to hurt you unless you have some core dysfunction symptoms. But the TVA is a sheath of muscle that connects in the spine and connects in the linealba, which is in between the six pack muscles. That TVA isn't firing and the rectus abdominis is taking over. So it's bulging forward. In today's video, I'm going to show you how to avoid this and how to cue in all your exercises so that you don't notice that symptom of doming and when you're working out your core, when you're doing some core exercises, everything is firing so that you get stronger, your core gets stronger and maybe you'll start to see more ab development as a result of all of your muscles firing together. Usually we learn about doming in the context of postpartum training and prenatal training. That's because your abs and your core muscles are just getting so stretched out and lengthened through the process of pregnancy. But anyone can experience doming and it's something that I can look back at core exercises of me doing far before pregnancy and I can notice symptoms of doming. Let me know in the comments if you've ever noticed this about yourself. Most of the responses that I got back when I started talking about this were things like, oh, I just thought my core is built different or I always noticed that I do this when I get tired. Doming isn't anything to really be afraid of, but it's sort of like if you always train your core exercises and your rectus abdominis is always overpowering, it kind of be like squatting without using your glutes or squatting without using your quads. You want to make sure that all of the muscles involved in the movement are helping you complete that so that you're training the entire functional core. You're getting stronger at the movement and all the muscles involved are working together. I want you to make this sound with me and don't be all shy about it. I don't care where you are right now. I want you to go. Go ahead. All the way. Let me hear you. I'm putting this right aside so I don't spit on you. Good. Okay, that S sound. When you forcefully exhale and make that S sound like a little slithery snake, you may feel a reaction in your core already. And if you don't, pay attention to it while you keep practicing. That's the cattle or a really long one. What's happening usually when people do a forced exhale and make the S sound is they start to feel their pelvic floor and you might even feel some TVA activation. So to practice a TVA activation, you can first of all connect your breath with your pelvic floor. Exhale. Inhale. Take a few deep breaths. And think about that TVA wrapping around and engaging sort of drawing the core in when you make the S sound. I could even without making this sound, I can breathe and wrap my TVA on the exhale. That's because I have trained it. But notice I'm still forcing myself to cue that way. So try it with me. And when you make your force S sound, think about lifting up the pelvic floor. Everyone has a pelvic floor. Lifting up the pelvic floor and drawing the hip bones together. So we're going to do one and we're going to hold it for five seconds. Ready? Breathe in. Hold it. Now think about drawing the center of your TVA in. Hold it. Now think about knitting the ribs together. Hold it for five more seconds and let it go. Boom! That's called an ab wrap waterfall. That's something that I have prenatal clients do. If you've ever seen me do videos where like I'm hugging the baby or kind of like wrapping the TVA around the baby, giving the baby a little bit of a hug, that is to train the muscles that are lengthening throughout pregnancy so that they're still on, they're still active all throughout pregnancy and you're still able to train them. A dysfunctional core, sometimes you see pelvic floor issues, you see incontinence, which is a pelvic floor issue. All of those things are connected in the deep inner core muscles and anyone can have issues with them. Anyone can notice that their core isn't firing properly during those sit ups and you can fix it. You can fix it and start to train with a little bit more intention with your core movement. All right, so you're a little slithering snake and you're no longer a domer, but let's try it during an exercise that typically shows us doming. So I'm going to do that same one that I showed earlier at the beginning of the video and let me roll my shorts down so you can see the difference. As a reminder, here's me doming. Can see my hip bones there, things aren't looking very flat. When I incorporate the forced exhale and the intention of wrapping my TVA around, you'll start to notice my stomach lies a little bit more flat and hopefully you'll be able to see more core muscles being recruited in this movement. This you only see my rectus abdominis being pushed out. You can only see that being activated. But when I utilize my forced exhale, I'm going to give a pelvic floor lift. I'm going to think about wrapping my TVA around. Let's see if it looks any differently. Okay. Did it look differently? Great. You notice the difference? Okay. Even with me struggling through that one, you can see the TVA is wrapping. I'm activating more muscles to get the movement done. At the intro where I showed you guys the video of the guy doing the military plank challenge, I mean, a challenge is hard to judge just because he's just trying to get through the challenge. But when you're doing your planks, if you ever notice that your RA is kind of just doming and hanging in there, it's just kind of hanging down. Gravity is pulling your rectus abdominis lower. So can you see it? You can probably see it really well from this angle. Can you see it? Just hanging there? So the difference would be, I do my forced exhale. And I can hold it while breathing. Does that look any differently? Yeah. It's done. Yeah. So the movements may feel a lot more difficult. And that could be just with years of not really activating your TVA or intentionally activating your TVA. You might just need to train it a little bit harder. That's the end of this video, you guys. Don't be a domer. Okay? It's not the end of the world if you are. It's a relatively easy thing to fix. And it's something, if you get your breath and that sound done, you can probably fix any doming. Hopefully that means your core movements can get stronger, your core looks more jacked, which is what we always want on this channel. And hopefully that carries through some of your big lifts if you're a power lifter, if you're training for general strength purposes. Hope you guys enjoyed this one. If you have any questions and need me to elaborate on anything, just let me know in the comments below.

=== FILE: Deep Core Workout for Postpartum [G--kPn4CGKk].txt ===

 we are so back. Hello, my strong, strong friends. I'm 12 weeks postpartum on my second baby, baby Violet, was born in December. You guys are gonna love today's video. Basically show you what could happen to your body, what might happen to your body after giving birth, and what to expect, and what is in your control, and what can you do when it comes to strength training and getting back to feeling like your best self, feeling strong and confident. Thanks for joining. Welcome back. All right, when someone says a deep core exercise what's happening is that they're doing a core exercise, while also thinking about their deep core muscles, which in this case, we're referring to the pelvic floor and the transverse abs. Now transverse abs, you literally never have thought of them in your life until you get to this moment. No one really understands how to activate their trans abs, which makes sense. So your transverse abs are also called your corset muscles. So it's a sheath of muscle that goes from your spine and connects at the linea alba, remember that one? So that's the transverse abs. The other part of the deep core muscles are the pelvic floor muscles. So think about doing a kegel, lifting up on your pelvic floor. My favorite cue to shorten the transverse abs muscle is to do this sound. Okay? Ssss. And let me expose my belly, and you'll see what happens when you just naturally do a forced exhale where you're ssss-ing. So if you look at my belly, ssss, get in there. Ssss. When you do that forced exhale sound, it naturally draws in the belly button and starts to wrap that TVA, that tighten that corset muscle for you. So try that, incorporate that, and then whenever you see a deep core workout or any kind of core movements like dead bugs or dead bug variations or bird dogs, you can instead of just going through the motions and doing the workout, you can ssss- activate that TVA, ssss- and pull up on that pelvic floor so that it's actually a deep core exercise. So if you've ever seen somebody doing a plank and their belly is just hanging out, hanging out like whatever, that's not belly fat. That is me doming. I am doming because my transverse abs are not activated, so my rectus abs and all my guts are just letting gravity do what it do, okay? So you want to ssss- activate that whenever you're front-loaded in a plank. And you can see me shaking, it's getting harder, so that you're using the deep core muscles. Now when you sss- you also want a pelvic floor lift. So you're connecting the breath, your force exhale, and your TVA activation all together, and that's how you train the deep core. Okay, I need to tell you about plus one. It's my pregnancy and postpartum app. If you are dealing with diastasis recti, things like loose skin or a core that like just, if your core just doesn't feel the same after pregnancy, one, I need to let you know that you're not alone. And like in that section I just mentioned, there are some things that are in your control. And inside my app and plus one, you can get expert-led workouts. I design the workouts, I partner with an OBGYN and a pelvic floor PT, and they're created specifically for pregnancy and postpartum recovery, so you can rebuild strength safely and also feel confident that you're doing the right thing and not wasting your time. You can check out the app and start your free seven day trial today and see the difference for yourself. Just click the link in my description and you can get started. Let's talk about all the things that can happen to your belly specifically after giving birth. And so I'm gonna give you things that I have dealt with, things that I haven't, just give you an overview of what to expect. So let's get started. After birth, your uterus is going to shrink from watermelon size back to pear size, but it does take some time. So that's why whenever you see a picture of someone like immediately postpartum, they still look about like five months pregnant. That uterus needs time to shrink and by six weeks, it's pretty much back to normal. So six week mark, hello. Number two is loose skin. Now this is something that I have. Some skin will regain elasticity over time while others, especially after multiple pregnancies. So I noticed it more with my second pregnancy. You might see lasting changes and sometimes you can see that characteristic of like crinkly or wrinkled skin around the belly button. So that's what that looks like. This is somewhat in your control. You can build some muscle to fill out that area, especially if you haven't been training and keep your protein high for collagen. Some people do skin care treatments like micro-natalining or PRP. So this is a skin care kind of thing. Speaking of skin, we also have stretch marks. So those might fade over time or they'll go from like red purple to white after a while. Genetics are going to play a huge role. Also hydration and moisturizing can help, but you don't want to get caught up in specific ingredients because there's no like one specific ingredient that is the one. Everyone will tell you like, this is the one. Nothing is shown to prevent it. Number four, C-section scarring. So that incision site for the surgery can cause an adhesion. An adhesion where the site is means that those tissues don't move as they used to or as the other tissues around it. So it kind of can create this like shelf-like appearance. With any C-section scar, you probably want to do special massage and mobilization techniques. And you can also do like cupping and desensitization that can help improve or reduce the appearance of that adhesion. Now, five, six, seven, they all have to do with your core muscles and tissue changes. Your abs separate, you're going to lose tension in your linea alba, which is that tissue that connects your six pack muscles. And then seven, you're going to lose a lot of muscle tone and tension in your deep core muscles. Deep core muscles, especially if you're needing the TBA and the pelvic floor. Lots of people will naturally heal and their gap will close and they'll regain that tension. But if you notice that that's not the case for you or it's going a lot slower, you can do things like deep core exercises and pelvic floor physical therapy. And you can basically improve on the strength and the appearance of that separation and the appearance of your core as a whole. This diastasis recti can really suck. Sometimes it could not bother someone, but it could be the reason for back pain or it could just mean your, your lifts suck, your weak. Okay? So diastasis recti, that is the separation of your six pack muscles. And it also is, means like a loss of tension in the connective tissue, which connects them. So like right here goes your linear album. In pregnancy, of course, it stretches like, I think it stretches like seven times its normal length. Anyone can have it. Babies can have it. Grown men can have it. Bodybuilders can have it. Okay? And some people heal naturally. Others will carry that separation and they don't even know it for a long time. So why is it associated with back pain? Well, the theory is when your core muscles don't contract as they should and your pelvic floor isn't fired up when it should, it means that your back in that canister, like your core canisters should be strong all the way around, your back will pick up the slack. So you're lifting heavy and your core is not supporting the canister. Or at the very least, it means you don't effectively train your core. So you're training your core, not activating all the muscles that you can be. And like maybe your RA is taking over. One of the things that we see is, if you're someone who's like super lean and you still have a pooch right here. So if you're super lean and you still have that little pocket of fat right here and you're working out a ton and core workouts don't seem to make a difference at all, even though you're lean, you have to be lean in order to tell. That sucks. So that's when we start to check, especially if you're postpartum. So let me show you how you can check your own diastasis. Lie on your back, feet on the ground, knees bent, then lift your head slightly. You're gonna test three sites above the belly button, at the belly button, below the belly button. We're looking for width. So can those two fingers fit in between your six pack abs and does that tissue feel like squishy and the fingers just sink? That is a sign you've lost tension there. If I just press on my bicep, the muscle kind of like hugs my fingers. It doesn't sink. Now notice and record that width, how wide some people will have a three or four wide diastasis between their RA muscles and then that tension. Are you sinking in? In my example, I have pink nail polish on right now. You can usually see at the top, my fingers don't sink very much at all, but then at my belly button and below, my fingers are sinking. You lose that pink fingernail. If you feel gap, don't freak out. You can train your core and you can improve diastasis recti in most cases, even if you are years postpartum. Thank you everyone for watching. I hope that you all enjoyed this video and found it helpful. Be sure to like the video and subscribe to my channel if you're not already. I am so back. I am so back, okay? Reminder, your postpartum body is strong and it's capable and that's something that we have to tell ourselves before we get in the gym and actually start doing it. And a lot of times when it comes to this conversation specifically, first of all, people are trying to sell you aesthetics, right? They want you to change your body and how it looks, especially for when we're talking postpartum moms, okay? And my goal for you is to give you confidence in education and also give you a little bit of confidence in how your body is performing, especially if you're on my channel. You've probably been interested in lifting for a while now. If you're postpartum, you can get back into the gym and back to doing what you love with some changes that will help you close the gap and address a lot of the things that I talked about today in this video. So yeah, I hope this was helpful. The Plus One app is amazing. It's what I run during my entire pregnancy and it's the program that I run throughout postpartum. I still use, even though I'm back on my regular programming at 12 weeks postpartum, I still use a lot of the techniques and a lot of the workouts, especially the core warmups before my Strong by the Day workouts. I absolutely love this app. Check out the content for the first three, seven days and then if you don't need an app to run a program, just cancel your membership, okay? But I think you're gonna love it when you get in there. All right, I'll see you guys in the next video. Bye.

=== FILE: FULL LOWER BODY WORKOUT ｜ Summer Fitness Bucket List [0tU8BsceFic].txt ===

ogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogen First, officially summer video. This is my summer 2023 bucket list. We're starting the video off strong. Pretty simple. One, swim in the ocean. I'd like to do that. Just wants to summer. Two, see Metallica. I got the tickets already. It's happening. Three, epic Emmy birthday. Emerald's birthday is July. And I feel like last year it was a festivity. And we got to one up ourselves. I'm thinking about having a petting zoo come to the house. It's too hot, though, is my issue. It's too hot. And it's hard to have anybody outside. Anyway, that doesn't matter. Number four, get jacked. It's going to be the summer that I get jacked. Five, question mark, we're on a 5K? Maybe. I could probably do it any time. But will I? I don't know. Number six, homecoming. Go home to my home where I'm from. Home of LeBron James, that one band. What's that one band's called? I can hear this though. The Black Keys. Home of LeBron James, The Black Keys, and Meg Squats. Act in Ohio. Should we go? Should we do a little trip? Come down. Gris down. He wants to see where LBJ is from. That is my current 2023 summer bucket list. And to celebrate the kickoff of summer and the holiday weekend, we're having 20% off everything. Jump by the day annual membership. 20% off everything, Javiko, some of the equipment I'm going to use in today's training. 20% off buff chick supplements. Let's go. If you're shopping buff chick, here's my stack that I recommend. Buff greens get the iced tea lemonade flavor. And then creatine, if you get the strawberry kiwi flavor creatine, if it's still in stock, that is amazing. Or you could just do plain creatine. Onflavored. Today I'm doing one scoop of unflavored creatine. That's five grams. And one scoop of our buff pump in strawberry kiwi. I like the pump because there's no caffeine. I already had two coffees today. And I can't be adding more. I can't be adding more caffeine to my diet. I'll be crazy. I won't sleep for days. If you happen to have on your summer bucket list to get jacked, highly recommend incorporating some creatine. Take it every day. Five grams a day. It's one of the most effective supplements out there. Yeah, let's train dog. This is the update. I feel like a lot of Jack and Lean, even considering, were not too far off from the wedding. And I just had two weeks of not training and eating literally whatever I wanted. So I usually eat whatever I want. But the not training part was just something different. I feel happy in my bod. But I wouldn't mind just a little bit more. I honestly wouldn't mind just slightly bigger legs and slightly bigger glutes. Everything else I'm pretty happy with. I first start to hold fat in my lower body and then my core. But I feel like my core is looking good. That's my physique update. Let's see. Will I change? Now to the next. Let's do just a quick little warm up to get things moving. I know people always say, oh, you should warm up. And they turn it into this moral dilemma. Like you should warm up because it's better for your health. Honestly, you should warm up because it means you're probably going to lift a little bit heavier when you get to your main lifts. Your warm up doesn't have to look exactly like mine. But it's hard to be completely cold and then go close to failure, which should be your goal for much training. You hear those crackity-crackity knees? This is an overhead Cossack squat. I just made that up. I'm going to do some around the world, open up my shoulders. I do this every single warm up because it feels good. That helps me feel alive. My first exercise is hip thrust. So I'm going to do some glute bridges with an abduction here and just do like 10. And then straight into a body weight squat with this abduction still on. Let's get just a little core primer. I'm going to do just a slow bear crawl. And in the last video, we went over doming how to avoid doming in your planks and in other core movements. So we're going to utilize that sound that we worked on last video and use that to make sure we're not just letting our kind of core hang. We're actually going to do a little bit of a little bit of a hang. We're actually engaging all of our deep inner core muscles and firing everything together. So a bear crawl is pretty simple. You get in a quadruped, all four position, and then you just lift the knees. Even with that little movement and holding that plank, you can start to feel that core light up. But we're going to just slowly crawl and increase or decrease our stability. It's going to be a little bit harder. Do this like 15, 30 seconds, just as a little primer to get everything firing. OK, let's hip thrust. Today we're doing the bonus day of Stronger by the Day. There are options on the program to do either three, four, or five day. I want to do the bonus day because it is currently the hip thrust day. And I feel like my glutes need some attention. OK, let's just warm up. Oh, god. Oh, god. Going a little heavy on this. Rrr. Woo! Boom, shaka, laka, boo! Diana and Lauren are in the video today. They don't want to hip thrust with us, though. Just kidding. OK, last one. Go sit, check. This is like a Barbie crotch, Gusett. You got a Barbie crotch. It's like a hump. You got two humps? You know what that's called. And then you got one hump. That's a Barbie crotch. I've heard people say, like, oh, I can do one hump, but I can't do two. The more you know. Stick around, grid. There's more to learn. Oh, god. I have to tell you this much. I don't see your linear elbow. Single leg leg press. I love this variation as opposed to a regular leg press. I feel like you can focus a little bit more on the stretch and your glute. So if you're looking for a leg press variation, try this one. Also, it's unilateral, so it's always good to work in some unilateral work. I'm going to find a good foot position first, and I just put my other leg down. This tan is giving right now. Grit was like, did you do a self-tanner? Like, yeah, how'd you know? It's like your hands. Like, what's wrong with my hands? Can you guys tell? I never train calves. Our April Fool's joke this April was Ryan released a brand new training cycle stronger by the day and is all calf training. You made a sick edit first. It was a sick edit. Yeah, this leg press is not my favorite machine I've ever had. This week is actually a D-load week. So I love D-load when you lower your volume by sets. So just two sets of that. It's so nice. Two sets of overhead press too. It's like, I love D-load week. We're going to overhead press next. Oh yeah, this is a stringer by the day app. Sometimes I'll just train according to the snapshot, and then you're supposed to start the workout and then fill out as you go, but I like to do that in my car after. I don't know why, but I just do. Here I have really easy overhead press. I've got two sets of six at 77 pounds. Grit, how much are you going to lift? Two sets of six, maybe a bit. Oh! Yeah, I'll be lifting this small. This is only one bar. Oh, fuck, backwards. Back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back, back Look at my little drink spotter. This is the drink spotter from Masonomics and this is a drink spotter light. This one goes on like a J-hook, but this one is just a really strong magnet. Just hooks on to your equipment. And then you never lose your drink. I always use my drink, my phone, my watch, in the gym. Oh man. My over-epress feels so weak. So our final super set or giant set rather, is has preacher curls in it. So I want to give you guys some tips. I do have like a preacher curl machine in this gym, but I'm going to use an inclined bench. And right now we have it inclined on just 30 degrees. And the whole point with a preacher curl is I want my delts and my shoulders to be out of the range of motion out of the picture. So you want your upper arm to be supported and that way you can focus on fully lengthening your bicep throughout this movement and then push back up. So this is the movement. You're going to kind of lean over. See my legs are sort of an awkward position. If your gym has a machine or I guess a rig for a preacher curl, definitely use it. You don't need an easy curl bar, but sometimes the grip is a little bit more comfortable. You can always use dumbbells or even a straight bar if you're able to do that. Oh my God. That's pretty hard. Okay, we're super setting that with a scroll bar. God. That's pretty hard. Okay, we're super setting that with a skull crusher. It's programmed as a dumbbell skull crusher, but let me show you with both the easy curl bar and then the dumbbell as well. A skull crusher is going to isolate the triceps. So I'm going to try to keep my elbows where they are and my upper arm with that same angle and only focus on bringing that easy curl down to my forehead. So the bar will kind of just gently kiss your forehead. Try not to let it hit your forehead, but the hands will come back by the head and then try to keep those elbows up high and isolate the triceps. Okay, if you want to use the dumbbell variation, same movement, just the dumbbells come back by the ears. Final exercise is the single arm plank. I love this variation. It's a super, super hard plank. What you're going to do is get in a forearm full plank. And I find that if I make a fist in this movement, it helps me focus a little bit more, kind of drive the power through. You're going to put all of your weight on your arm, forearm that's on the floor and then get up into a low one arm plank. I like to like super arm this arm back and focus on driving my heels back towards me and keeping my hips angled parallel to the floor. It's so freaking hard. And don't dome. Don't be a domer who changed our sign. Anyway, thank you guys so much for watching this video. I'll see you in the next one. Hopefully you all enjoyed your holiday weekend. If you're celebrating in the U.S., don't forget we've got a 20% off sale Friday through Monday, stronger by the day, annual, everything on Buff Chick and everything on Haviko is 20% off this long weekend only. Bye!

=== FILE: Get Your FIRST PULL UP in 2026 💪 [VIYZMd7FbKU].txt ===

 when you're using a band, you get most of the help in the hardest part of the range of motion. The band is making it easiest in the part of the lift that you need the most help on, so it doesn't make any sense to train banded pull-ups at all, unless you already have your first pull-up. If you're fighting for that first one, you need to grease the groove of the hardest part of the range of motion, and for most people, that is going to be right here. If you never get a chance to grease the groove, you are going to be stuck not having your first pull-up forever. So in this video, I am going to show you exactly what to do instead, and I'm going to bust myths, like women can't do pull-up, you should just train heavy lat pull-downs. These are usually things that are said by men who've been able to do a pull-up since they were age 11 and just haven't added much body mass since. So let's get into the video. When we think pull-ups, we usually think of our lats and our biceps. Those are the biggest muscles involved with getting you your first pull-up, but those muscles are not very actively engaged in the first two to three inches of the range of motion. The muscles that are engaged are our scapular depressors and the smaller muscles that make up our rotator cuff. So why don't you just join me on this exercise, and I want you to take your shoulders and shrug them up. Bring your shoulders up to your ears and shrug like you have no neck at all, okay? Hold it for five seconds so that you feel what that feels like and get really active and short, and then I want you to slowly lower back down. I want you to look at my shoulder blade, okay? So right here, keep your eyes right here. See this little area? I want you to also think about what your shoulder blade is doing in this movement. What are you doing up here? And then what happens when you take your delts and bring them away from your ears and lower down? What happens to this part of your body, okay? Go down. Think about what happens there. Now, lift your arms overhead and then shrug again. Take those delts, delt, touching my ear. So you'll be in this position, shrug up, and then bring them down. Shrug up and bring them down. So what you just did there in that little exercise is called scapular depression. So you can imagine when you go from delts to the ears down, you're starting to make a move. You're starting to move from the bar, from dead hang to getting more active. You're getting closer to getting your chin over the bar with that. And what also is happening is you're kind of setting your shoulder blade so that you're ready to pull and those bigger prime movers, those bigger muscles, are getting set into the position that they can turn on. Up here, it's gonna be harder to get your lats in. And that movement is called the scap pullup. Exercise one is done. Next, I wanna show you the movement that should be the movement that you replace all banded pullup work with. And it's called the negative pullup. You're gonna find a way to jump up so that your chin is over the bar and then you're going to slowly, slowly lower yourself down. Your body is naturally going to want to lower and it's gonna feel so nice and easy, nice and easy. And once your elbow hits about this angle, you're gonna wanna just let go. No, as you get lower and lower, force yourself to slow it down and draw it out even more. You're gonna be really strong right here. From chin over the bar to the first 75%, it's going to feel pretty easy, but you need to keep yourself very honest and make sure that you're greasing the groove from here to here. That's the little bit of range of motion that we really need to work on. And our goal with the negative pullup is to increase time under tension. And you can see how the negative is like the opposite of a banded pullup. With the banded pullup, the easiest part of the range of motion is gonna be the hardest part of the range of motion in the negative pullup. Once you've got that negative pullup down, you want to progressively overload with time under tension. If today you can only do a negative pullup for five seconds, tomorrow try six, then next day try seven, or you need a slower progression. Next week you try six second negatives. Do you know how many pullups statistically? One, yeah. Unassisted? Unassisted pullups, how many do you think they can do? On average, probably 1.5. How many do you think? Four? Zero. Really? Zero. The answer is zero. As a reminder for all of us women, it's not why we train, but it can be super satisfying to just train and then be able to say like, fuck you, dumb, dumb, idiot, stupid, ha ha ha. And it's not just idiot podcast bros who continue on the narrative that women just generally can't do pullups. Even the New York Times recently ran a piece that had literally the title, why women can't do pullups. And there are very legitimate reasons why women are less likely to be able to do pullups than men. For example, our center of gravity is lower. Our shoulder girdles are more narrow and have less muscle. We have less testosterone. And some of my best content is on teaching people how to get their first pullup. And I think that's all to do with the fact that millennial women especially love proving people wrong. And that is exactly why I built Stronger by the Day and why we have over 25,000 current active members. It's my app for gym girls who are serious about strength goals. And a lot of us are there because we've spent our lives with dumb idiots telling us that we can't do things and making fun of women as a whole for not being as strong as men. While also being advertised incessantly that we should be as small as possible. And that was something that I was always sick of and that's why I fell in love with lifting. So in the app, you're gonna find a community of badass women, badass serious lifters just like yourself who have decided that fitness is not where we want to just get smaller but instead fitness is where we collectively want to get stronger because we've been told that we either shouldn't be or we can't be our entire lives. In the app, you'll find fresh workouts every single week, a tracker so that you can punch in your numbers today and will make sure that the program adjusts to your progress and your starting strength levels. This is all based on the coaching logic that I have refined for over a decade. And it is the app that I use every single day while I'm training. What you won't find is shaming you for being too big or not strong enough. We don't have any diet culture nonsense in there and we definitely don't promote the idea that women are weak. There's a myth that constantly goes around anytime I post a, how to get your first pull-up video. Okay, so if I'm 140 pounds and I can do a 140 pound lat pull-down, I can pull up my body weight with a lat pull-down. I can pull it down. I should be able to do a strict pull-up. I'm strong enough to do it, right? Not exactly and let me explain why. First, the lat pull-down is gonna completely remove the dead hang, which we've already covered in this video is where most people get stuck. Second, on the lat pull-down machine, you get a lot of mechanical leverage that you don't get on your dead hang. The lat pull-down machine, most importantly, allows you to wedge your thighs under pads. You can change your torso angle, change the line of pull, you can use more momentum. And third, the skill of doing a pull-up requires a lot of anti-rotation and anti-swing core control. You have to remember that the pull-up is, yes, a strength movement, but it is a skill. You have to work on the skill of getting your first pull-up. The lat pull-down is not totally useless, but it doesn't guarantee that you're gonna be able to do a strict pull-up. So that brings me to the end of the video. Make sure you take your bands and throw them in the trash. I'm just kidding. There's a time and a place for them, but I find that in the conversation of pull-ups, it's just like there's so many other things that you could be doing. But I hope that this video helped you a little bit, understand what is worth your time and what might not be worth your time when it comes to getting your first strict pull-up. I have plenty of videos that go more in depth in the programming side of what you can do to get your first. Make sure to check those out in this video. And if you do decide to join stronger by the day, I'm actually gonna put a QR code here. If you're watching this, not on your phone, scan this QR code. Let's see if that works. Or you can check out the first link in the description if you want to join stronger by the day. I'll see you guys in my very next video. I hope that you guys enjoyed this one. Have a great day. Bye.

=== FILE: HOW TO BENCH PRESS FOR POWERLIFTING ｜ 1Rep Max Strength Tutorial ｜ Changing my Form [_hLhivX7rDw].txt ===

 guys, it's time for more collabs on the Make Squads YouTube channel, and we're starting off strong. We have probably the strongest and smartest person. If there's a combination of like, intelligence and strength, and you morph them into one person, here he is! Everybody, this is my friend, Marcellus. Do you want an intro? Tell the people who you are, tell them how much you bench, because this is a video about them. I know she's giving me way too much praise as far as the intelligence and the straight thing, but yeah, Marcellus Williams, aka the Swolfester on YouTube, and Instagram, the coach of team craftsmanship, I benched 392 pounds. Almost at 400, let's see if we can get through that this year. My name's Make Squads, I deadlift did that one time in my life. Yeah, those are the good old days. No, they weren't actually, they weren't at all. Anyway, today, Marcellus is going to run us through a bench press tutorial. I have done multiple bench press tutorials on my page, but today we're going to get a different perspective. We did want to make this video, since Marcellus is coaching a lot of power lifters, amazing power lifters, we wanted to take some of your questions that I asked you guys to give me that were more intermediate, more advanced to dive into some maybe more power lifting techniques. So this video will be more targeted to our intermediate advanced lifters. That's probably you if you're watching. So let's go. This is my adventures five times a week, and what did you tell me today? This is the one day of the week, up for anything that I don't bench. Okay, so I'm going to be benching today. So let's start with our setup. I feel like most of my bench tapes are around the setup, so that you can get a good position because for my beginner people, it is kind of an awkward position to get into if you've never bench pressed before. But y'all are intermediates and advanced lifters. So we're just going to dive into the intermediate advanced technique. Okay, I guess you can teach setup now that there's an empty bar. Yeah, no, we can work with that. Actually, I probably will need at least one plate on this in order for me to be able to set up. Otherwise, I won't be able to set up. Let me tell you. No shade. Let me tell you a funny story. First of all, we have a new cycle of strong by the day coming out and our lifters are going to peak and taper and retest their bench press one rep max. It's called ready for the name bench baddie. So we have a bench baddie here, but we were filming videos yesterday and we did a great setup. 135 just off of that. And I was like, I'm 100% cold. But let's see what this looks like. It was really bad. It was really good. Do you train in pounds or kilos? As in like when you lift normally, are you using kilo? Yeah, yeah, I'm usually using kilos just some very big on, you know, practice how you play. Okay, I like when you're using a kilo plate and then you put how much weight it is in kilos and pounds and someone was like, that's only 60 pounds. You get that off the menu. Well, I used to when I was a little bit stronger, but all right. So when it comes to the bench press setup in terms of like how I like to teach people, everything starts like from the ground up, even with the bench, obviously we're laying on our backs. But it's this thing where everyone gets focused on like the arch, right? Like everyone wants a super big arch when it comes to parallel if you can try to boost the range of motion. But we don't want to create that arch by trying to force anything through our lower back because one that usually tends to be very uncomfortable and it just causes people to cramp up more often than anything else. So we create the arch itself through pressing into the ground with our feet, using the bar to wedge ourselves into position and depressing our scapula. And that's what's going to set us in the best position. Now, obviously a lot of people, they talk about like, oh, retract your like, you know, oh, shoulders back and then shoulders down. I don't really have people worry about retraction until you're actually set up. And then as we push our chest towards the marble naturally retract just because you can't really do both at the same time. Like if you try to retract as hard as you can and then try to press as hard as you can, these two things fight against each other. Whereas if I just really focus on depression, I can do that a lot more. If I'm not trying to emphasize retraction as well. So to start off for me personally, because I like to slide into position, I'll actually kind of have my glutes hang off the bench just a little bit. So I get my fingers in alignment with the ring first. And then what I'm going to do is use my legs to push myself into position. Because a lot of people, what they'll do is that they grab the bar like too high up, like in the fingers, that's not giving you the best position to be in terms of like transference of force. So I'm trying to wedge it right here in the lowest part of my palm. So that way when I extend my wrist, I can push up and back, which is something else I'll be going over. Because a lot of people when they first get into general fitness, they're taught, oh, when you bench press, bench with a neutral wrist position. This is the weakest position for the wrist to be in. Because when you're pressing, you can easily fold forward. And the whole reason why a lot of us use wrist wraps when we're benching is so we can properly extend that wrist and not the whole out of pressure. It actually puts in a more stacked position. If we look at it like the elbow relative to where the palm is, this is a much more stacked position to drive through with versus being like this, which isn't very stable. So okay, wait, yeah, I want to try because I want to try your bench setup. Let me show you what I do. Sure. I get under and I do focus on retraction. And I know I'm still depressing, but I kind of like walk my shoulders in and that that is retracting first. And then I feel like when I finally unwrap and put my legs down, then I'm depressed. I want to try your setup. Yeah, because the reason why I have people do it is because you want to let the scapula move freely, right? When we bench, we're coming on the way down, retraction is naturally occurring. And when you press, protraction is naturally occurring. That's where we get our power from. So if we're so focused on just pinning our shoulders from the start, one, it's a lot harder to truly depress ourselves into the highest position to push the chest towards the bar. And then a lot of times that can cause people to have some shoulder issues over time too, because you're not letting the scapula move freely when you have, you know, 100, 200, 300 pounds of weight on the bar. 100, 100 pounds. Okay, so you said you start glutes off the bench. Yep. Yep. And then am I just walking back? Yeah, so then what you what you can do if you can reach is you reach for where you want to be on the bar, right? And how far down you are is going to be relative to like your height. Yeah. So if you need to start a little bit further up, you can. But once you find the position you want to be in, you're then going to use your legs to push yourself into position while setting your hands. Okay. And while you're doing that, once you've got the bar, that's when you can already be emphasizing depression. You're using the bar to pull your shoulders down. Okay, no, I'm going. Okay. So this is right, like step one. Okay, I'm finding my grip. Start setting my hands. Yep. And then I'm going to I noticed myself still retracting though, but should I try not to hold on? No, no, I don't think about it too much. Like so, because the thing is when you're, if you're starting off flat, right, and then you just start to put yourself in position, it may feel like retracting to you because you're just used to your back being tight. But really at that point, you're kind of just depressing the scapula. Oh, yeah. Yeah, there you go. Okay. Yeah. Okay, I'm going to start using that. Yeah, I'll go through the full setup and that'll just give you a little bit of better visual too. So like I said, how far back you start depends. Like obviously, if you're someone where you're shorter, you have shorter legs, you'll probably start further up. I have, I'm a lengthier person have longer legs. So that's why I like to start here. So like I said, I'm going to use my legs, right? To push myself into position, kind of wish my opponent want and then I'm going to start with the pressure. So as I feel my glutes touch, I maintain that position here. Once again, you can see my wrist is staying extended. It's not, see, this is neutral. I'm keeping it extended. Then I like to do what I call elevate the chest. So I just breathe into my pecs. And then like I said, I let the retraction occur on the way down. And then I'm pushing up and back towards my face. And that's a big thing. And that's a big thing with it too, because if your wrist stays in this neutral position, you're going to be more prone to just kind of trying to push straight up. But the bench bar path isn't a straight up and down path. Right? We're coming like, if I were to come straight down, I would land like on my neck, essentially. So we're coming down and forward onto the chest. So the reverse that's going to be pushing up and back in this wrist extended position as well as being more depressed makes it easier to do that. I find that that I'm glad we're going to talk about the wrist position because I find myself when brand new lifters are just learning the bench press, they are grabbing it with their fingers more often than not their wrists are fully cocked back. So someone who's creating like general lifting content, I'm like, okay, let me overcorrect you and knuckles to the sky. And that is a huge difference in strength numbers for that little mini baby lifter. But once you get to becoming a more advanced lifter, and once you get some of the basic basics down, you can start to have better cues or more refined cues. Because that is definitely an overcorrection. Because I still teach that now. I'm like, oh, yeah, just punch the sky. And that's like a very generalized way to have my lifter not be like literally the bars just like now back here not supported by anything. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. No, so that makes that makes plenty of sense. But yeah, that's the general setup that I that I like to go with. Like you said, you've seen my video where me and Michael broke that down. But basically, the whole idea of why we set up that way is because we're trying to create as much tension as possible. Because that's that's what power of things all about, right? They're like, at the end of the day, it's like we're trying to produce as much force as possible. It's not necessarily always about having the weight move as quickly as possible. It's just getting away from point A to point B. But generally speaking, the more tension you have, the faster it's going to be, the more explosive it's going to be. So with this position, it's allowing me to utilize my leg drive because I'm pushing into the floor the entire time. Like for the moment that I'm setting up and the moment I'm racking, I'm pushing to the floor the entire time. So I constantly have this constant leg drive where I'm driving into the floor. And as well as even the part where I'm like elevating my chest is just to create more tension. So when I drive up and back, it feels very explosive. So that's what we're going for compared to like what I talked about in my other video where a lot of people like they conform themselves into a tight position so they feel tight. But they're not really creating tension, which is very, very different. You know, the typical like they'll bring their legs all the way back here because like, oh, I feel really tight. Right. I've found myself making adjustments, especially with my foot position, to be actually farther away from the barbell. Because I feel like I'm able to get more leg drive when I'm pushing myself back rather than being like, I mean, even if, oh my god, that difficult to get into. But see, I haven't done it in a long time. But even some listers who are able to like, in their fed push from their toes, their feet are like all the way back here. I'm like, how do you get any leg drive? Yeah, exactly. So yeah, I like that cue that tightness. And even a larger arch isn't always the answer. Exactly. A huge arch, sure, you can like use it to your advantage. But if you're not able to transfer force, then what's the point? Exactly, exactly. And everyone's different. I tell so many people what your arch is going to be like very much. It's going to just be based upon like your morphology, how you're ridden certain stuff like that. Like, two people can follow the exact same cues. And one's just naturally have a bigger arch than the other person. That's just genetics. Yeah, people, I recently answered this question on an Instagram story, because I often hear the comment, why do you only see women who have a huge arch and you don't see as many men who have an arch? Do you have an answer for that? I mean, a lot of it does have to do with, I think, a lot of general flexibility, like being able to get into that position. A lot of men tend to have more muscle on their frame. And mind you, muscle doesn't make you stiff. It's their still mobility. But the thing is, if we actually look at it relatively, and when two people set up, if you removed like some of that muscle, their arch would seem a lot bigger than what it may actually be. So that's one thing. And then another part of it too, I would say is just if we look at it, it's a lot of lighter weight women, like lighter weight females that tend to have this really big arches. Well, you see the same thing with a lot of lighter weight males. That's the thing. I think what a lot of people think about powerlifting, they look at like really big heavier dudes, like, you know, 90 kg plus 100 kg plus, those guys aren't going to necessarily have as big arch. But if you look at a lot of like, you know, 75 kg, six, seven, half kg, like these lighter weight male lifters, they tend to have pretty reasonable arches as well, just like the lighter weight females. It's not just the girly pups. I am shorter than you, so I can't keep my glutes off the bench. But yeah, Star Wars is comfortable for you. We'll kind of like walk you through it. Okay. You know what? I think I'm going to like that. Because I often, I find myself when I'm, you know, okay, squeeze something in your spine and I'm like walking back. When I walk my shoulders closer to one another, I always get uneven on the bench. Yeah. Yeah. Which makes sense because it's like, we're not perfectly symmetrical. You probably have one side is a little bit more mobile than the other. So when you're squeezing both like this, you're almost fighting against yourself at that point, instead of like more smoothly, just getting into position. Yeah. Come on, get in there. Get in there. You're like, so basically on the way down, you'll naturally retract, right? Because as I'm pushing my chest towards the bar and the weight comes down, I'm actually retracting then. But when you're first laying there, no, you're not going to retract your legs. You're going to lay yourself way flat and usually like to put yourself in a position that focus on depressing. So pulling your shoulders down versus back. Yeah. Push hard to the floor. Get that chest high. Yeah. You better lift. You better lift that 20 kilos. It looks better, right? Yeah. Yeah. It's funny because a lot of people feel like it's going to make the arch worse, but it's going to improve it. Actually, I feel like it was more comfortable too. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Because you're not putting yourself into this weird conform type position and then trying to set up. Like you're using the setup to get into the tension position. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So can you look at my wrist alignment and see if it's ideal for the cue that you gave? Yeah. Yeah. Ideal or close to ideal? Well, I'm sure nothing I do is ideal, but okay. Yeah. Yeah. It looks good overall because everyone's different too. Like how much you can even extend your wrist in the first place is going to vary. And once again, it's not like, like, because there's different, because some people will have it a little bit higher because they can hold the bar like up here and that works for them. But for me, like, so I try to wedge it here and extend my wrist as much as I can that way. And the one that helps is when you unrack, you can extend the wrist even more, right? Because it's probably going to be a little bit less extended when you're unracking for a lot of people. Just so they have the force to unrack it. But then from there, as you're unracking, you can extend the wrist even more. Sweet. Yeah. Okay. As you're setting up, I'm seeing that you're kind of really pushed with your legs and then you're kind of trying to like apply pressure with your palm. You can do the two things at the same time. So it's like pushing with my feet into the ground. I'm also allowing myself to push with my palm, like set that tension right here. And then once I feel it, then I can set the actual grip. Yeah. Marcel, I'm going to be honest with you. Like, I probably, my best bench ever is 176, which is, I don't know how much of that is in kilos. I think that's, you said 176, man. Like, at last count, it's kind of low. So we're trying to think about what that is. No, I think it's like, that's like, you know, somebody whose body weight is that? Oh, is it like, is that like 80? I think it's 80. Is it 80, Ryan? I'm really good. Yeah. I'm really good with kilo math, just only to certain numbers and above. Yeah. Pretty much. Yeah. Things I just can't relate with. But since, obviously, my training has changed since having my baby, bench wise, I think my best bench that I've done in a while is probably like 140. Okay. We're being that today for sure. Yeah. We're being that today for sure. I was hoping that you would say that and you did. Thank you. We're being that today. Okay. Okay. Okay. A little closer. There you go. Like you're pushing the floor as much as you can. There you go. Oh, God. Nice. I wonder if my feet need to stay a little farther away from me. Yeah. I was, I was going to say one thing you can do because your feet are kind of like out wide. If you can have them maybe just a little bit more in front of you so you can really push into position. Okay. And I'll probably also help you with keeping your glutes feel like they're secured to the bench as well. Yeah. A little bit more narrow and a tiny bit farther away. We'll see how that works. Yeah. There you go. Three, two, one. Oh, God. There you go. I forgot how to bench. No, check it out. Check it out. So your position, your wrist extension looked really good there. The one thing though is when you pushed, you tried to almost push straight up. Remember, you want to push up and back. Push towards your face. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Cause the setup there was good. That was really good. Try that one more time and try this. That's pushing up and back. There you go. There you go. Yeah. Now one thing for both of you, like, and this is where the retraction actually comes in. So you're doing a good job. You're setting up, you're here. And then with you, you do a really good job of kind of like trying to breathe into the chest. Just that's one thing when you're breathing, because when we squarred, we're so used to breathing into the core. So I'm not breathing into here. I'm breathing into my chest. But from here, you really want to cue pushing your chest towards the bar. So that's where the retraction kind of be emphasized. Because if we retract on the way down, it'll keep the chest higher. Whereas if we kind of just come down, that chest might sink a little bit as the bar comes down. So try to emphasize like pushing your chest towards the bar. Yeah. Can you talk about like the sink and heave verse? What's the author in this? Oh, verse like that, like soft touch or yeah. So I guess first explain what sinking and heaving is people who might not know. Yeah. So the sinking, the sinking is like when people like instead of like keeping the chest high and touching, they let the bar, they person the bar sink into their chest and they try to like, keep it off of themselves. I don't like to speak in absolutes because there's some lifters. I even have a couple of where that works really, really well, because it's they've been doing for a long time. I'll say in general for like heavier lifters. So like, wow, my gosh, like 200 pounds plus where they have the mass supported and they're really good with the timing of it. The sink press can be good because it almost makes it feel like they get a little bit more momentum. But for the vast majority of people like not 89% percent, I don't think it's great for a few reasons. One timing it and as that way gets heavier, you may think like, oh, I'm going to time as well, but then just sinks you excessively. It's also this thing where it's not as consistent, right? Because there's more movement involved with it. Because with the constant touches, okay, you touch the safe spot, you push up and back with the sink. You have to time it and then in parallel to me, it's not great because the rule is you're not going to get the press command to the bars completely still. So if I do the soft touch, cool, I'll get the command. But if I do the sink, they have to wait till the bars done sink, get to my chest and then have to hold it there until I get the press command. So in my opinion, it's not going to be ideal for most people. And then if we're talking about from a standpoint of like hyperspeed, like just using the bench press for muscle mass, I think the constant attention touch point is better too. Just because it's less momentum involved, it's the muscles doing the work to move that way from a dead stop versus you trying to heave it off yourself with body English. Yeah. All right, let's not sink and heave. And I'm about to lift 65. 65 is? That's one. Is that 143? Oh, I thought you said you didn't know how to count that look. I have no female litters that touch this. In regards to your girly pops, what's the best bench and what's her name? Let's give her a shout out. Oh, that's definitely going to be Lysha Gardner. 120 kilos is 264 pounds. Oh, she's strong. All right, I'm coming for you. Just kidding. Three, two, one. Nice. There we go. Did my butt come off the bench? I felt like maybe it's a little bit bad. Yeah, baby. Yeah. Yeah. Three, two, one. You got it back, back, back. Tech's up. We're going to try that one more time. Okay. Okay. And I'm going to show you something. So with that, you came down, you barely touched me, tried to come immediately. So it's kind of like if you do a touch and go rep, you get momentum. If you do a properly pause rep, you get a platform to push off of. If you kind of do half and half, you get neither. So trust yourself because your position was great. Trust yourself. Let yourself come down here and then just push up and back and keep driving back towards your face. I definitely, when I felt it in my hands, I thought touching good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I did not trust myself. Yeah. Trust yourself because you can definitely do it because you could even see coming up, the strength was fine. But when you got to this stall where you kind of try to just push straight ahead, you got to constantly go up and back. Yeah. Yeah. Three, two, one. There you go. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Yeah. That's all right. That's all right. Yeah. I see what you're doing on this one at this point. You got it. You just have to, as you get used to this setup, your touch point, keeping that consistent because compared to the, well, the 143 on the 143, anything below, you're touching kind of like right near your sternum. Now you're touching a little bit higher up. This was making it a little bit hard for you to push up and back. But that's just getting used to the setup. But I haven't attempted this in a long time. Yeah. You have a very close grip. This is where your close grip used to be because you were before. I thought that when I did that and when you said where my touch point is, I said, I think my grip is a little too. Yeah. But I'm excited to use my new setup in typical training sessions, not just like one rep max. Yeah. So do you keep everything the same when you're hitting like a high volume bench day or when you're hitting like higher reps sets? Yeah. Yeah. The setup stays the same. It stays consistent. Even if I have like a close grip day, the way I set up is still the same way. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. On that note, are there any, a lot of people when I asked for questions, noted something about a plateau, they're in a bench plateau, they can't get out of it. Do you have any advice or maybe like what you've seen has helped your lifters? Yeah. So the first thing I'll say is, because oftentimes people have talked about like increasing bench frequency, like going up in days. The only time where I think that should be your first move is if you're only benching twice a week. I think most people are going to be able to progress really well off three days a week benching. So that's where you want to start. Now, assuming you're already benching three times a week before you try to go to four times a week or five times a week and like that. The first thing I'm going to say is look if you can increase workflow with what you're already doing. So can you get away with doing more volume on the three days you're already doing? Like, oh, can I add a set on each of my three days? Because bench is something where just needs a lot of stimulus for growth. So try to see if you can increase workload in that way first. If you feel like, well, I'm already doing as much volume as I can on my three bench days, if I try to do more, then it might like get to a point where it's impact recovery. Can you increase your accessory workload? Can you do more dumbbell press, weighted dips, chest press, things of that nature? If you feel like you're already pushing that, that's when you would increase bench frequency, like add in a fourth day. Okay, what's your favorite like secondary variation? And then what's your favorite accessory that doesn't involve the barbell bench? Gotcha, got you. My favorite variation for bench is probably long pause bench. Just because one, it builds a lot of confidence. Because if you're somebody where you have a tendency of like, you know, rushing on the way down or like, you know, trying to touch and go or something like that, long pause bench is going to give you confidence. Because if it's like, okay, I can hit 300 pounds with a two, three count pause, and it's like, okay, I can hit 305, 315 with the regular duration pause. So probably long pause bench for sure. And then as far as accessory weighted dips, like 100%. 100%. Yeah, yeah, because it's a fun movement. Like there's certain movements where like, for example, like chest press is a great bench accessory movement, because it's easy to recover from. Like, you don't have to stabilize anything, you're just, you know, machine your pressing so it directly impacts the muscles involved. And then of course, you know, dumbbell press or incline bench, those may feel like they have a little bit more skill carry over because they're kind of similar to the bench press. What I like about the weighted dips though, is that it's just a fun movement to push. And I like that it's very different in terms of movement from the bench press. So you can get the muscles involved bigger, stronger, but without taxing the same type of position. For your dips, do you, what does like the volume, the sets and reps look like for those? Are you trying to like max out your weighted, like, got you. So I actually structure weighted dips kind of similar to the bench press where I'll have like a lower rep top set first, and then back down. So like, let's say it's like a three block period, right? The first block might be like, okay, a top set of five, then two back down sets of eight. The second block might be a top set of four, and then like two back down sets of eight, and then the third blocking by a top set of three, then two back and sets of eight. So I'll keep the back down volume kind of consistent. So we're constantly building that. But like so the fun part about weighted dips is actually pushing that top end threshold. That's what psychologically stimulates a lot of people. So I like to have like a lower rep top set and let us like that way. When we first met Marcellus was in Colorado, and he showed up to the gym with his carry on bag, his gym bag, and his dip belt. Because you never know if you're traveling to your gym and you're doing weighted chin. Yeah, I don't know if they have it or not. Yeah, I'm being on the way to pull some discs. I always had mine with me. How heavy are you going on your weighted dip right now? Oh, the heaviest weighted dips I've done is 225 pounds for like, it's like three or four reps. I can't remember what's up in my head. I have to go back to Instagram. But yeah. So my backpack trick won't work. But if you ever find yourself without a dip belt and you're not doing 200 pounds, that's insane. You can grab a band, a thicker band depending on how heavy you're going, and then just loop. See my weighted dips weight is more something like this. So you I like to do these for weighted pull ups. So you can always loop it through and then you have your little backpack. Oh, yeah, I would do that. Yeah. Yeah, could you do it? I guess you could do it in front for dips if you wanted to. Yeah, so that your weight is more. Yeah. All right, we're going to try it one more time. And if I if I can do it, then I'm ending the video here. I want to find your grip. Yeah. You got this. Come on. Here it is, Meg. Make it count. Three, two, one. You got it, Meg. Come on. Come on. Drive it, Meg. Yeah, back, back. Come on. Keep going. Keep going. You're right there. You're right there. Almost, almost, almost. I almost had it. I feel like that's good enough to end the video here. Thank you guys so much for watching. I'm going to let Marcellus give all his plugs. Go check him out, especially if you're a power lifter. Well, do you coach a general pop too? ogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogen Bye!

=== FILE: Here's the biggest waste of money in my home gym [2zgu33w8I6I].txt ===

 I built two garage gyms. One cost me $60,000, and the other cost me $6,000. Here's what was worth every penny, and the stuff I totally regret buying. But then I'm like, why'd you do that, you silly goose? I'll show you guys exactly when you should splurge and when you should save your money on useless gym equipment. So let's start the tour. Every Good Gym starts with a good floor. Here at Buffchick HQ, we've got 12 of these black rubber mat rolls, half inch thick to protect the floor, four feet wide. Some of them are 50 feet long, and then this half of the gym are just 25 feet long. Here at the garage gym, we have 24 horse stall mats, and horse stall mats are what I would suggest. They're what's most common in most people's garage gyms. They're really affordable. They're not perfect, okay? You can see the texture might be the most annoying, although you can find some that are more smooth. And a lot of times when you put them together, you might have some gapping, you'll have some wider seams. There's a couple of things you can do to kind of fill that in. If you have really dynamic movement, it might be something that bothers you. Overall, horse stall mats are the way to go. About $6,000 of our budget here is on strictly barbells. Let's go from most expensive to least expensive. The Kabuki Strength Trap Bar HD, Yusaka 20 kilo weightlifting bar, Kabuki Strength Transformer Bar, the Duffalo Bar, the Kabuki Cadillac Bar, stainless steel power bar, Ohio Power Bar, the Rep Fitness X Calibur Bar, Brogues Women's Weightlifting Bar, this is a 15 kilo boneyard bar. Two Technique Bars for the children, a couple of Easy Curl Bars, and Farmers' Walk Handles. Well, that was excessive here at the garage gym. We just have two barbells. We rep power bar, power lifting bar, and one weightlifting bar. One of them you power lift with, and one of them you weight lift with. The weight lifting bar will spin a little bit easier. See how much faster that spins? If you're a weightlifter, you could get away with just having one bar and do all your power stuff with a weightlifting bar. That's all the barbells we need. The Barbells We Need Plates in our garage gym are pretty bare bone. We've rep fitness bumper plates, rogue, used bumper plates, and we have some of the rep fitness iron equalizers. Really the plates here are like bare minimum of what we need to get done in order to get a solid workout in. Oh, guys, we forgot one bar. Easy curl bar. They just show up at your home gym. So that'll probably be true for yours too. Gee, we got this on Amazon, and it had a big divot in it complaining that they sent us a new one and told us to keep it so we traveled it down. See what I'm saying? Three bar. Here at HQ, we have these rep fitness colored competition weightlifting bumper plates, rogue competition bumper plates, friction change plates, which are really nice so you don't necessarily have to use a collar. For powerlifting competition plates, we have a set of Elaco competition discs, they call them. 300 kilos of the Ghost Strong 25 kilo plate. These calibrated change plates, these are just little tiny 0.25 kilos. In case you want to break a record here at our gym. And these works on collars that are in this section. For pound plates, we have these rep fitness equalizer, and we also have these cute little donut plates that were given to us by a friend of the channel. For all of our pound plates, these rep equalizers, we keep on the posts that are connected to our cages. We'll talk about cages later in the video, but this is a pretty easy storage system if you're low on space. You may have noticed this huge plate storage system, and this is really cool, but I wouldn't recommend it. I think it looks awesome, but it's not very practical. It's super hard to move. Something that's more practical, regardless of how big your gym is, is probably something like this. It's a weight tree to hold all of your weights. A lot of stuff is from Ghost Strong, so that was when we opened the gym, we collaborated with Ghost Strong. Can find some custom stuff that is similar to this on Rogue's current website. We got a lot of stuff customized to have our Buff Chick branding, and this was one of those pieces. It looks amazing if you have the extra space and the extra cash, because it is expensive. I think it's a worthwhile investment. No, a flex, definitely. Definitely a flex. You might be wondering, wow, she has so many gyms. She must know so much about lifting, and you're right, I do. In fact, I've been doing this for a decade, and I've made most of my gains in a small little garage gym by running my program stronger by the day. My program has over 25,000 members who are just like you, plenty of them running their program in a garage gym. The best part is you can try it for free for seven days. Just tap the link in my description of this video. I usually, a garage gym means you have less room for machines. Right now, we have this Gold's Gym Myth Machine Pec Deck Combo. There are a bunch of things that you could do with this machine, but I don't love it. It isn't really well maintained, and it's old. It's a hand-me-down. It gets in the way of my light when I'm trying to film stuff in the garage here, so I really would love if this would just disappear. Next, we have a machine that we have had for years and years and years. This is a lat pull-down cable. You can get quite a bit done. This is a plate-loaded machine, so you just use your plates that you'd put on a barbell. It is pretty cheap, so our cables are starting to wear and tear a little bit. It's not super sturdy, so you do need to weigh it down, but if you were to pull this cable out at an angle, it'll start to wear that cable, which we've already done a little bit. Our newest machine is this cable tower from Bells of Steel. This, I think, will replace that Amazon machine because it gives you all that functionality, but a much more smooth and high-quality design. Two pulleys that you can set up low or high or wherever you want on this. It has a super low footprint, and it feels really, really smooth. The best part about having a lot of space is you have room for plenty of machines. So let me show you all the machines we have at HQ, starting with the most used, down to the least used. First is this Rep Fitness functional trainer. Victory Fitness leg extension hamstring curl machine. Booty builder plate-loaded hip thrust machine. Oh, Facebook Marketplace find, this abricated pendulum squat machine. Power tech leg press machine. This is also power tech. It's a lever squat calf raise machine. This is the Nordic Chalk treadmill. Rep Fitness glute ham developer. Oh, God, that was hard. Cybex plate-loaded incline chest press machine. Oh, God, oh, God, oh, God. Oh, no, no, I can't do that. Heightens plate-loaded bicep and tricep machine. Plate-loaded T-bar row machine. And then the least used piece of equipment, which is my own personal problem, this is salt bike. Our newest machine is this Bells of Steel lat pull-down machine combo. So there's a bunch of different ways to use it, but you're getting first impressions here. Let's see what I have on stronger by the day so that I can do some of my workout with our newest machine. Oh, God. That feels good. It's smooth. This cable stack is really high. So at first I was like, oh, I don't get much of a range of motion, but you just need this little attachment to give yourself some leeway so that you can get more creative with them. Much better than what we used to have. I didn't like that other machine and it's discontinued, so it doesn't really matter, no T, no shade. You can also either get this machine with a weight stack like we have here, or you can do it plate-loaded. In my program today, I'm gonna play around with our substitution. So I had neutral grip pull-downs, and I want to instead, I want to instead do this supinated grip lat pull-down so you can just easily substitute and confirm, and it'll be in your workout flow. That way, no matter what equipment you have, you'll always be covered even in the app. I am not handy, but I married someone who is, and Ryan made a few things that we've had for a long time in our gym. Ryan, take it away. Three platforms here. Each sheet of plywood is three-quarter inch thick. Sheets come in four feet by eight feet, so you can make a square out of them nicely. You can lay one set this side, rotate one set this side, and kind of reinforce without a big center seam. For the top, we do one of a higher grade, so it's just a little less porous, a little smoother. We use rubber for weightlifting bumper plates when you're kind of dropping. Basically the same without the top layer. We painted them black because it matched the floor. The reason we did platforms here is also to create stations for our kind of powerlifting competition-style combo racks and give them something to anchor into. Is it such a crime to just have your combo racks not bolted in anything? They typically just move a lot, so if you're lifting hundreds and hundreds of pounds and you do one of these, the whole thing will shift because there's nothing holding it down other than the weight of itself. These are little blocks, and I feel like you see these a lot of weightlifting gyms. Two by four cut to more or less the same size, alternated like a little cross patch thing. And then the top we just did four, so the dimensions are four. I'd cut a little piece of rubber just so that you don't have seams in between, and added these little handles. Like cabinet doors? Cabinet handles, yeah. Home Depot has, I think, a table saw in the back, so if you say, hey, can you cut this into 14 and a half inch pieces, they will do it all for you. Let's get into all of our racks and where we lift from. Custom, ghosts, competition, combo racks. You can basically train with someone who is a different height from you. So you can keep the bar loaded, and with these handy dandy handles, you can take the pins out and adjust the height of your barbell. This is what it looks like when you're squatting, and this is what it looks like when you're benching. You've got the bench set up with the face savers attached to the bench. It's also this platform so that you can safely have someone spotting you, and they're in a comfortable position. Of everywhere in the gym is my favorite place to bench press. The pad is a little bit wider, but it's very similar to the setup on the combo rack. It's just specifically made for bench press so you don't have the squat rack flexibility. On the other end of the price spectrum, we have these freestanding squat stands. When we were in our old garage gym, we used these strictly, we didn't even have a combo rack or a cage or anything. We just used freestanding squat stands. Six post power racks, and we used the last post for a lot of storage, plate storage that we talked about. A couple of things that are specific to this that make this a little bit more high quality. First of all, these J-cups we call them, they are super nice and smooth whenever you need to adjust where your barbell is in the rack, if that makes sense. If you get a little bit more experience, you'll know exactly what I mean. Also something that's very important when you start lifting a lot, really heavy weights, is the spacing you can see gets really fine and really tight lower so that when you're bench pressing, you can make smaller adjustments. You might not need it when you're up high, when you're adjusting for squat height. You are a shorter person than you know exactly how it is to be benching in a commercial gym. And you know, you gotta choose between the face saver height, which is right here, or like way too high to where you need to get out of position for you to even unrack the bar. So this is a complete opposite of that, it solves that problem exactly. Our squat rack here in the garage gym is just this four post rep fitness squat rack. You compare these to the cages that we have in the warehouse. You'll notice it's a lot less sturdy, it's smaller footprint, which is great. You don't get the close variation. So you can only get so precise with your rack height, regular J-cups, you don't have the nice rolling J-cups that we have over in the warehouse. But this will get you very far. A flat bench, and we have an adjustable bench. This one I think is from Rep, it's very high quality. We used to have a very janky one, and we're glad that we got rid of it because it was kind of a hazard. At the Nordic Track treadmill, this one gets a lot more use than that one. A TV, some speakers. A mini orange fit, middle size orange fit. A middle size orange fan, and actually that's a good point. Something that's very common for people who have garage gyms. They will get a split unit. I don't know much about this, so I am gonna defer to Ryan to tell you what the hell this is. Split, it's split inside and outside. These are the Rep Fitness Hex rubber coated dumbbells. I love these, no complaints. Our set goes from five pounds all the way up to 90 pounds. We use these every day. I have the same exact set at the garage gym. Well, exactly which dumbbells Megan used because they're the ones that are not put back exactly the same as everything else. You just have to use context clues to know which one you're picking up. Kettlebells we don't use as much as dumbbells. We do have a couple of odd kettlebell weights. I like them for some exercises, but not everything. I feel like you can kind of make your choice to have one or the other. Storage system is flat here on our rack, and then for dumbbell storage, you're gonna want something that's specifically made for dumbbells. They're angled and they have a little notch so that your dumbbells stay secured. You know that video where the guy, these would never, okay? So you do wanna check, but these, these are gonna be good. And this is our third bench from Rep. Nice and thick. It has wheels on it, which I would recommend. As you can tell, we're getting into pieces of equipment where there's not much of a talking point, but that's it. Oh, I do have, okay, okay. Now can we talk about accessories? Can I tell you guys what my biggest waste of money in the entire gym was? If you have made it this far in this video, then you've definitely watched Jujimoo Fu's ultimate home tour gym video, right? Let me know in the comments. In his gym, he has these cool mirrors, and I was like, wow, these mirrors are the answer to every problem that I've never had. And so I bought five of them. Yes, five of them, and you can see where they're stored. I never use them. I guess they're nice to section off what is the studio portion of our gym. We use this for photo shoots back here. I bought five of these mirrors that are on wheels. We are in near Dallas, Fort Worth area, very windy. Almost, I think it's windier than Chicago, the windy city. These blow over all the time. We have sandbags holding them down. It's just a huge waste of money. The mirror quality is not that good because they are not glass. But yeah, why did I buy five? I think some are still in boxes like we haven't used. I've been successful enough in my career to make some dumb decisions, but not successful enough to where it doesn't hurt. You know what I mean? Do you know what I mean by that, where I'm just like spending money, but then I'm like, why'd you do that, you silly goose? Yeah, I could have started with one, desperation. That's what it was. I thought I had a problem, and then I realized like, no, that's not a problem that you actually have. And throwing money at it isn't. Anyway, that's a change, but that is the biggest waste of my money. Our mirrors over there, I mean underrated piece of equipment. I figure like people watching my channel probably wouldn't be like that invested in the mirrors, but that is something that we use every day. And in a garage gym, I think it does make a pretty big difference as far as like vibe and motivation. You gotta take a selfie, okay? It makes it feel twice as big. It does make it feel a lot bigger. If you got a pump, you're gonna wanna see it. Okay, what's Ryan's favorite piece of equipment? Let's see. Yes, tell us about that. Can you rotate it so people can see what's up? Oh man. And speaking of fans, if you're a fan of this video, then please subscribe to the channel. I post videos about lifting weights. That's it. Texas is hot, fans good. This big pan out please. Big, gym-y space is not temperature controlled. Our offices have both air conditioning and a wall unit. Actually, let's show them the outside. So we've got the gym and the warehouse space. And this half is climate controlled. This is where we do our supplements and our warehousing and our pick and pack and inventory. Hey guys, this is Simon. Hey guys. So this is our supplement company. And check out one of our newest products, our newest flavors of our most popular product, Buff Coffee. Go ahead, throw it to me. See if I catch it. This is pumpkin spice latte, guys. It took us years to figure out the formula for the flavor of pumpkin spice and Buff Coffee. But it is amazing, trust me. Because I turned down probably like 15 different samples. It was over 10. Like I said, 15 different samples. You guys are going to love it. Alex and Kenzie both tried it recently. They said they love, love, love it. It's their new favorite. Give them a plug. Shout out to Simon. We're going to link his Instagram so that you guys can check it out. What kind of car is it? This is a nice car. Thank you guys so much for watching my gym tour. Hopefully you learned something about what it's like to scale it and spend a lot of money. And then what you can do with a little bit of money and a little bit of space. Don't forget to join Stronger by the day. You can try it free for seven days. If you're in need of a training program, we are the perfect program for garage gym owners. We'll see you guys in the next video. Bye. Ugh. Okay.

=== FILE: How I Cycle Sync My Workouts ｜ Menstrual Cycle Training [sQS_Zn6Ik48].txt ===

 I'm woman, I bleed, I go, I lick heavy even when bleeding! Sorry, I bet that was so loud in the mic, sorry. Today's video, I'm gonna take you through a day in my life where I am on my period! Oh! Just started, haven't been tracking my cycle, so it was a little bit of a surprise. I thought it would be a great opportunity because it was unexpected that I was going to be training on the rag today, so let's talk about what we do. Let's talk about what we do, how I accommodate my program, how I change my program. Do I cycle sync? And we're gonna address some of those things because haven't you seen? Cycle syncing is all the rage right now. Everybody's doing it. Everybody who's anybody's doing it, except for me. I don't cycle sync. That's good. Yeah. What phase are you in right now? Uh, I'm at the end of my period. Okay, let's get started. I have no form out for this video, so we're just gonna jump right in. Before we get into this conversation, let me just let you know, everyone's period is different. Okay, there's a lot of inter-individual variability and there's a lot of changes month to month. If a life event happens, let's say you're really stressed, that's gonna mean your period is gonna be different. Could be worse, could be fewer, negative symptoms of menstruation. Also, if you have a child, it's gonna be different. If you have a second child, it's gonna be different. If you breastfed for a long time, you might not have a period. So there are so many different things in between us as people who all have periods and it makes it really hard to study. So when we're talking about things like cycle syncing, there's currently no true evidence that suggests that we should cycle sync. And if you didn't know, cycle syncing is the idea, at least what people refer to it on the internet, that you should change your strength training protocol and your training protocol in order to go with the different phases of your period, of your cycle. I'll put on screen some popular ones, what they suggest, but there is no evidence that shows us that that's what we should do. However, I don't say that to discredit you if you have really negative period symptoms or really negative symptoms at other parts in your cycle. The issue is I can't tell you, oh, everyone feels like shit on their first day of the period, which is my experience, because people are different. Some people feel terrible for five days during menstruation. Some people only menstruate for two days. So it is really hard to design a program that underlies principles of what we know to be true, that also is an accordance to the many different experiences of menstruation that we have. Okay, sorry, that's a long intro to this video, but let me show you what I do, but let's actually train while we do it. Do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do. Biggest symptom that's not physical for me is I'm just like, this is a great excuse not to train. This is like the best excuse I have not to train. But I'm going to, I'm going to, and pump will make me feel better. Not feel better, but pump will amp me up and it will give me a pump so that I'm more motivated to train. What flavor? Oh, good question. If you guys been watching the last couple of videos, watermelon pump is my go-to. Watermelon's my favorite flavor. Just kidding, I still, I love it, but strawberry kiwi is Nox watermelon out as the top flavor. Strawberry kiwi is the new top flavor for me. Also, great agrees and Ryan agrees. The girls on the other side, I don't know what they're smoking because they did not say strawberry kiwi is their favorite. Different strengths for different folks, but three out of the five agree. Strawberry kiwi is the best flavor so far. Okay, let's do a warm up. Okay, while I'm warming up, let me just briefly explain what people mean when they say cycle thinking for the most part, at least from what I've seen. So the idea is that throughout the month of training, you have periods of lower intensity and then you have periods of high intensity as you get closer and closer to ovulation. So first day of your period in the cycle, you've got first day of your period over here and then you've got first day of ovulation over here and then there's a circle. That's the cycle. Okay, so what they're saying is that you're strongest towards ovulation and then you're weakest towards menstruation. So what they do is experiment or manipulate intensity. So you're doing intense workouts, heavy lifts over here by ovulation and then things are really light. We're doing some yoga, we're doing stretching and recovery work over here. Now I'm a fan of macro cycle training, which if you were able to, you could set up a D-load so that the D-load would line up to where you feel weakest. The issue is not everybody feels strongest or weakest during that time. So that's the basic overview of what cycle thinking is. Okay, I'll work on. My symptoms of menstruation, back cramps, fatigue. I ran this morning and I was like, why do I feel like shit today? It was a tough run. I can notice a difference. Those are my symptoms. I feel like my resting heart rate too, or at least when I'm running and I have a heart rate monitor on, I notice that it takes more effort to keep my heart rate in the range that I want it to be in when I'm running. Today I'm gonna do our feet up close grip bench press and our overhead press is our main movement of the day. I typically on this day of the week would do a lower body session, but since as we have discovered, it's the first day of my cycle, I'm just gonna switch things around knowing that I can be flexible with the days of the week, knowing that I might feel a little bit better tomorrow. So I'll save squats when I feel better tomorrow. Okay, first exercise is a banded pullover. We've got a two second pause at the bottom here. Back in my bag and I got a bag, I do this shit forever. When we was down and we had nothing, we had to share a meal. We put the shit in overdrive when no staring well. Shorty throw that thing back in a pair of heels. Yeah, she be riding on that thing like a Ferris wheel. Yeah, I love them dark skin, brown skin, caramel. You know I had to bring it to her. That's good. Yeah, that exercise, sometimes you'll see some coning in my abdomen, anything overhead, you'll see that more often. That's more specific for my mamas, my people who done given the birth. Next we've got a seated cable row. There's only six reps each set. So I'm gonna try and go a little heavy. So this is just a warm up set. I'm gonna set a hut like she can't serve when she keep on turning head. Cause when she walk that thing jiggle, and we going back to back on them like we here we in, we Raleigh. Just that back in my back flow, we back against the holly. Just that back in my back flow, we back to take the climb. Just that back in my back flow, we bring the force like Tommy. Boom, whoop-ah! Back in my back flow, back in my, yeah. Menstruation mommy, menstruation muscle mommy. Just kidding, just kidding, just kidding. I'm feeling good on my lap pullovers. I'm gonna switch to a different attachment. You can actually do a lap pullover with many different attachments. I don't get too caught up in what attachment I'm using, especially if I'm out of gym and it's busy. And I just need to go boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. I don't wanna mess about. So I really love this handle. This is like a wide Y strap. So same thing, you just have the same hip hinge for the lap pullover. Why did I put it so heavy? So you have the same hip hinge. Make sure you've got a stable base with your feet. And then you're keeping the arms straight and using the lat to bring hands from up top over your head down to the thighs. So since this is so wide, I'll even be able to get a little bit more range of motion than I would if it were a straight bar. I'm back in my, yeah, I'm back in my bag, yeah. I'm back in my, this is my, back in my back flow. Back again, yeah we keep on stacking it, what's happening? Everything been Gucci got me feeling like I'm Dapper Den. Life has been a movie, yeah, so shout out to the cameraman. Pull up to the scene, it's going down like I have a lens. Ready going up like a travel plan. If you guys didn't know, cycle syncing is bullshit in my opinion. I don't think there are any principles that are proven or shown in evidence. That means that we should cycle sync in the way that I described, okay? Now you can always play with the intensity of your training. Hopefully your training is based in science already, which could mean a couple of things. One, it's super specific. So based on the example that I gave you and based on the example that we often hear about cycle syncing, it lacks a lot of the specificity that we need in order to get better at lifting, to get proficient and efficient at movements so that we can get stronger, get more jacked, okay? So cycle sync by all means if you want, but realize that it's usually in direct conflict with the basis of strength training, strength training science and what we know to be true about strength training. And that includes research on men and women, okay? In this workout, I'm gonna give you guys a couple of ideas of things that I do when I'm on my period, when I'm not feeling my strongest a day like today, and how I make adjustments so that I'm good to go, okay? The first thing I mention is that I'll swap around the days based on my worst feeling day, which would usually be the first day of my period. So today instead of doing dead lifts or heavy squats, I'm doing a bench day. Lower intensity overall, less movement and pressure on my pelvic floor because grid's here, so I don't wanna embarrass him, right? You know what I mean, pelvic floor and my uterus is shedding a layer, okay? So you feel me. Anyway, let's do some band pull-up parts. Ba da ba da ba da ba. Next super set includes band pull-up parts. So we start with an overhand grip and do 10 band pull-up parts, and then we switch to a supinated grip and do 10 band pull-up parts. Down, it's enough to go around, you probably know it's them, but really you don't know it's not. Okay. Alrighty. That felt heavier than I expected, which is a good segue. Cycle sinking is basically a form of regulation and a good strength program will already have some sort of auto regulation built into it. So by auto regulation, I mean things like rate of perceived exertion or something like reps and reserve. So stronger by the day, my program today has feet up, close grip bench presses, which is what I'm doing now. And it's written as three sets of seven with three reps in reserve. So sometimes you'll have a strict percentage that you need to hit or a strict number that you need to hit. Sometimes it'll be three sets of seven at 125 pounds. But today it's written with auto regulation. So I get to choose based on how I feel, how heavy I'm gonna go that day. It could feel really awesome. And then I go heavier or it could feel really crappy. And then I kind of hit the bare minimum. So because I am experiencing menstruation and maybe typically I don't feel as strong, I use the auto regulation that's already built into a good strength program to regulate how heavy I go. And that's that. And that's all there is to it. That's the thesis. You don't need no cycles, sinking, do some yoga today. I'm not doing no fucking yoga today. I'm woman, I bleed. I go, I lift heavy even when bleeding. Sorry, I bet that was so loud in the mic, sorry. It was either chase or dream or go to jail but none of us ain't going back to back on them. Like we here, we here, we Raleigh. Just that back in my back low, we back against O'Hally. Just that back in my back low, we back to change the climate. Just that back in my back low, we bring the force like Tommy. Back in my back low. You think that was three reps in reserve? Yeah, okay, I'll take it. A lot of times when athletes self-report, a lot of them do say that they notice an impact of their menstrual cycle on performance. However, when it's studied in a lab, it's not really shown that any specific phase points to one impact. There could be a couple of different reasons for this and it's hard because it does sound like you're being gaslit because so many people report that they notice a difference. So for me to just say like, well, it's not shown in any studies, one, a test in the lab versus a test out on the field, those are two different experiences and it is really hard to create the same environment when you're being like actively and scientifically studied. So it's not the same as a game. It's not even the same as a practice. They're very different experiences. Next thing with this is sometimes we conflate physical discomfort with an effect in our performance when you can experience physical discomfort and still perform well. So my back is cramping right now, but that doesn't always mean that my bench is going to suffer because of it. So keep that in mind when you're looking at something like cycle sinking and those two reasons also make it super hard to study and super hard for us to have a answer, a general answer for everyone. Boom! Next lift is our overhead press. If you didn't know, we are in a body part split for Stronger by the Day right now. So it's kind of nice. For this day and kind of this topic that we're talking about, you do get a chance because upper body days are a little less intense. It takes less time to set up because you're not lifting as overall intensity heavy. I like it because some days you don't really be feeling like squatting or deadlifting. So you get an overhead press and bench day. I love it. I love it. All ready! This is 65. First warm up. Second warm up. Feels kind of nice. I'm gonna be repeating myself a lot in this video, but since we know that everyone's period's different, your period for month to month is gonna be different, it's hard to say do exactly this, everyone should do it. We do know however that we can, with lifestyle changes and diet changes, manipulate how hard our period hits us. Some people have very few period symptoms. Some people have massive debilitating period symptoms. Some people have PMDD, which fucking sucks. Okay, so since we're all different, we do know that what I'm gonna tell you, things that affect and may make your period symptoms be less dramatic are things like a healthy diet, enough sleep, lower stress, Chasberry, activity, and there are some supplements that are proven to lower the symptoms of your menstrual cycle. Something like Chasberry, which is found in our product flourish, if you guys wanna check it out. Did I say diet, lifestyle, exercise, be a healthy person? For the most part, healthy lifestyle choices are going to make it so that your period affects you a little bit less. Not saying that it's going to remove all symptoms, but generally diet, nutrition, things that we know are good for us may help lessen your symptoms. Okay, is this loaded? Okay, this is my first set up, overhead press. Oh God. Yeah. That's good. That's good. That's good. That's good. Double up. Double up. Do a diet, really, no. Don't try. Don't try. We're doing another experiment today's video. We're gonna see, am I weaker on my period? So another way that we use an auto regulation is with an AMRAP test. So for my overhead press today, I've been doing sets of six. And I have two sets of six and then one set of six plus, meaning that my minimum to hit is six, but let's see if I can go for as many reps as possible. The range that I'm in is six to 10. And if I were to hit 11 reps, then that would trigger in our app a training max increase. So this is kind of like a test to see, am I stronger today? Even though I'm on my period, strong enough to raise my training max to basically ace my little test that I have today and keep moving things forward so that next week the weights are a little bit heavier. What do we say? Any bets, grid? I think I can hit 11. Yeah, it's pretty easy. Easy? I'm gonna go that far, but I think I can do it. Come on. Up. Come on. Nice. There it is. Let's go. No. What? That was 11 though. I went for 12. I went for 12 just to prove, you can make strong on your period. Not that that's my like one rep max test or anything, but it was a test that I'm pushing myself and I'm able to even push really, really close to failure. I mean, I failed on that one. So everyone's gonna be different. Not that my experiment shows you how you're gonna perform in the gym, but it is possible to overperform and to perform your best, even when you're in a state of a cycle where you might not feel your best. Perfect example of this, of course, that some people find motivational is when Michael Jordan had the flu and he had an amazing game. I don't know how many points, yeah. Do you remember? No. Okay, anyway. I thought maybe you know basketball, so. But you know, there's that classic story of how he was feeling really terrible and he ended up just performing incredibly that night, even having flu-like symptoms. So your physical symptoms and your physical like wellbeing even doesn't always need to be an indicator of how well you're gonna perform. People can perform in spite of menstruation symptoms or PMS symptoms and perform really, really well. And actually when it's studied in a lab, it's shown that people still can perform well even in that phase of feeling not their best. All right, next we have a three position tricep burnout. The exercises are a closed script pushup, overhead tricep extension, and then it's programmed as bench dips, but we're gonna go ahead and see if we can do regular dips. You do eight reps each exercise and that's one set. You got four sets. All right, let's go. Four sets. Who wrote this? Me. Oh God. Yeah, yeah, back in my bag, y'all. Oh God. Back to bench. Oh shit. Not a joke. Our next exercise are cable curls with a three second negative. I like to use this sort of easy curl attachment over the straight bar. Do a dive, do a curl. Don't drop. Our last exercise in this one is an ab walkout. So this is gonna be a core focused movement. It's sort of like, it's an anti extension movement. So very similar to an ab rollout, but instead of having the wheel that rolls you out, you're gonna slowly take your hands and walk away, away, away from the body. And back. It's almost harder than an ab wheel because an ab wheel, you can get some momentum and sort of sink into that end longest range position. Oh, but you can't do that here. Oh God. Oh God. Okay. That's the last exercise for today's workout. Hopefully you guys enjoyed it. Hopefully you enjoyed my perspective on cycle sinking. Let me know what you guys think. Is it something that you've experimented with? Do you do things that I do in order to make things work without necessarily cycle sinking as it is referred to on social media a lot of the times? Let me know. And thank you guys so much for watching. I will see you guys in the next video. Bye.

=== FILE: How To Deadlift With Good Form： Conventional vs Sumo [mt1OhOyXqG8].txt ===

 Welcome everyone, I'm gonna teach you how to deadlift in today's video. Oh wait, I forgot my outfit. I'll be right back. Okay, that's better. It is I, as you know, the deadlift queen. I'm gonna give you all my tips and tricks on how to have a beautiful looking deadlift, conventional sumo, whatever it is, we're gonna cover it, that and so much more. Subscribe to my channel if you're not already. Like the video and let's go. Let's get right into it. Are you a sumo-pooler or conventional? I will go over both in this video, but if you're newer, you might be wondering which you're more suited for and the differences are pretty simple. In sumo, your legs are gonna be wider and your hands are gonna be inside. With conventional, your legs are more narrow, hands are outside the legs. But because of those differences, your hips are gonna be the big differentiating factor. They'll either be closer to the bar in sumo or farther away in conventional. Also a huge change in the back angle and that back angle is really important because conventional is gonna bias more of your back erectors and hamstrings. In sumo, you're gonna work more of your adductors and quads. So when you're deciding which one you wanna do, take into consideration if any of those biases correspond with your training goals. Now if you're powerlifting and you're just looking for which one you're most suited for, meaning which position will it be easiest for you to pull the most weight possible, then typically shorter lighter lifters prefer sumo, taller athletes prefer conventional. That's gonna be a generalization, but longer limbs and short torsos tend to be conventional pullers. Sumo will favor shorter arms and a longer torso. So you get the benefit of having a shorter range of motion with sumo, but if you have hip issues that external rotation in sumo could aggravate it. Now if you are watching and you're a true beginner, I like to always start you at conventional and then give it some time before you switch so you can compare those two with some experience. The last thing, if you happen to be training with any youth athletes, for some reason, usually prefer sumo. Like their back angle looks so much better with a sumo deadlift. Hello, hello. It is I, yet again, the deadlift queen. Thank you for checking out this video. If you want to ensure you're making progress, because I know you're here to learn how to deadlift, but also to become a badass at the deadlift, then the best way to do that is to follow a program. And let me tell you a little bit about something that I created called Stronger By The Day. It's the best strength training app out there. That's a fact. Just asked Sports Illustrator who recently reported, and I quote, she said, I've been lifting for six years and I started seeing way more progress once I started using Stronger By The Day. I don't choose from our in-gym, at home, or express track for short workouts, the app programs, everything you need, exercises, weights, sets, reps, frequency. And of course, the progression and the deadlift progression you need to get Stronger By The Day. We have over 400 exercises in our library with video and written demonstrations and tutorials like this one. So you know exactly how to perform each lift with perfect form, or as close to perfect as you're going to get. The extensive library makes it so easy so every movement can have a substitution. You can work around any injuries or equipment constraints, whatever they may be, and you never have to be confused on how to get Stronger Again. Join Stronger By The Day. Start your free seven day trial. It's free. Click the first link in the description and I will see you there, my deadlift queen. Time to crown the next deadlift queen. This could be yours. If you think Sumo's cheating, then this section's for you. Let's talk about conventional. We're going to approach the barbell. We want to make sure we're setting up with our feet about hip width apart. It could be more narrow. If you got a little belly, it could be a little wider. But you want to walk up to the bar and stop when your shoelaces intersect the bar perpendicular. This gives my shins enough space so I'm not crashing into them, but I'm also close enough to the bar so it's not drifting away from you. After you have your feet set, you want to allow the arms to naturally fall to your side. We're not ready to grab the bar yet, but when choosing a grip width, you want the arms to be, again, perpendicular to the floor. Don't go any wider because a wider hand grip means that I'm going to have to pull the bar a lot longer. As you saw there, I automatically grabbed a mix grip. You can do mix grip or double overhand. That mix grip will help your grip a ton, especially when it gets heavy. Our weakest link in the deadlift is usually our grip. If you think about it, these larger muscle groups back here are a lot stronger than my hands and my phalanges. So you can try mix grip or even straps if you notice that your grip is what's holding you back. You'll find a spot on the floor to lock my head in and just focus on it. It'll be a few feet in front of me on the ground. And then we're going to use a three-step setup. Here are the steps. One is the hip hinge. Two is the knee bend. Then I'm going to reach for the bar. That hip hinge can be really hard for beginners, especially, but we're really just pushing the hips back. I like this little trick where you can take your thumbs and put them on top of your obliques and then your middle fingers on top of your thighs and just pinch together. In order for me to pinch, I need to shorten this space, so I need to bend and hinge back. I get that hip hinge down, then I'm going to bend the knees slightly and I'll lower even more. And then after the knee bend, I still want the shins to be perpendicular to the floor. You want to make sure that you're not getting into a knee angle like this. It's going to be harder to pull it. So we hinge, we have our knee bend, and last we're going to reach for the bar. That reach is where everything will start to come together and we'll start to position so that shoulders are over the bar and we'll also set our hip height. Ensuring that from hip height to shoulders, our spine is in a neutral range. So now we found a good start position. There are two big components before the bar actually starts to leave the floor. We've got the wedge and the slack pull. The wedge is when we're going to use the weight of the bar to set our shoulders and set our hip position so that we're ready to pull and create some full body tension. So what's going to happen is I'm going to tug on that bar just a little bit like 10% and my hips are going to lower, come closer to the bar and my armpits, instead of shoulders over the bar, I'm going to come back further because I'm sort of leaning to get my wedge and I'll have more armpits over the bar. So the idea with the wedge is that we're setting the hips in a position so that they don't move until the bar passes the knees. When you don't get a good wedge and when you don't get a good starting pull position, you will see a lifter pulling and giving it their all. But the only thing that's moving is their hips. The bar is not moving at all. Whereas in a good wedge, you'll get into your true start position. You'll create tension and some good lat setting so that when you're putting all that effort in, the weight is actually leaving the floor. So other things to think about are setting those lats, like I said, and when your armpits get set over the barbell, you can think about packing the lats or depressing the scapula or even like squeezing an orange in your armpits. When you complete some of those like lat setting cues, you'll naturally be pulling back on the bar and creating more tension. And you might accomplish what we call the slack pull. The slack pull or like hearing the click is the moment where the sleeve of the barbell reaches the top of the inner circle of your plate. So it sounds like this. It's like this little bit of space that's stopping my effort from moving the barbell. So we need to pull the slack so that we don't have like a jerky deadlift where we're pulling the slack out and then finally pulling it. So to avoid that, you want to get your good wedge, get tension in the start position, pull like 20% effort. And then when you hear the click, pull 100%. It might take a while to get that timing, but try not to overthink it. That's a more advanced cue. If you're a beginner, you can worry about that later. Once the bar starts to leave the floor, think about pressing the ground away from you while also keeping the bar as close as possible to your shins. Those lat cues will help you do that. So as the bar starts to pass your knees, finally, you want to drive the hips forward like you would in a hip thrust to continue your lockout. A good deadlift at the top looks like knees locked out, hips fully extended. All right, conventional is out the door. Now we're ready for our sumo pull-ins. Obviously the biggest difference is going to be our foot width. You want to get in a pretty wide stance while still making sure that when your knees are bent in the start position, you want this shin angle to still be perpendicular. We don't have a physical cue like feet under hips, like we do in conventional. So you might need to use some of the patterns of the knurling on the bar to understand where to set your shin. Still thinking about bar closeness, you will intersect your shoelaces more or less. And you might externally rotate the toes so that it's easier to activate your adductors and make space to get your hips close to that bar. Of course, your arms and hands are going to go inside the legs to avoid crashing and also to give you a shorter range of motion, which is one of the benefits of a sumo pull. So since our grip is more narrow in sumo, you do want to make sure that you're still getting some of that knurling. So I like to make sure that my middle fingers are on the edge of the knurling. However, there are some people who will do, instead of mixed grip, they'll do a double overhand hook grip. That's a more advanced tool, but it does help you get even longer range of motion because you have to pull a little bit less because your arms are a bit longer. And it is more advanced. Unless you're a more advanced lifter, I wouldn't go through it because it hurts your little thumbs, okay? But it is something that you can revisit as you get better at deadlifting and if you should choose to become a power lifter. All right, there's some of our setup. Now we've got the same start position sort of routine as conventional. I want you to lock your head in by focusing on the spot on the floor, feet in front of you, and then go through that three step setup. Let's ride one hip hinge, then our knee bend, then our reach. Now our hip hinge cue, if we remember that, we'll take our thumbs on our obliques, middle fingers on the thighs, and then push the hips back. Now your knee bend with sumo will be a lot greater. So when you start bending the knees, you'll notice my back angle becomes more upright and my knees are a lot more bent. So in this position, you'll be even closer to the bar when you complete the setup and the reach. It depends on every lifter, but step one, step two, and it's just a little bit to get down to that bar. Now that we found our start position, there are again the two big components before the bar starts to actually leave the floor. That's the wedge and the slack pull. I talk about an unconventional similar cues here. Go back to that conventional section if you want more info on those both, but just to reiterate, the wedge is where we're going to use a little bit of the weight of the bar and set our start position, create some tension, and the slack pull is where we hear that little click or click. Lack cues are the same. Pinch the lats, pack the lats to press the shoulder blades, or squeeze oranges in your armpits. Another one is pretend I'm about to tickle your armpit. I know that's weird. But once the bar starts to leave the floor, you'll think about again pressing the ground away from you and keeping the bar as close as possible to your shins. Now Sumo is notoriously slower off the floor, so when this gets heavy for you and Sumo, you need some more patience, and that is a skill that you can build. But as the bar starts to pass the knees, again, drive the hips forward, and you can think about squeezing your glutes like you would in a hip thrust. And then Sumo also think about squeezing the quads to fully lock out. So at the top, you should see knees fully locked out and hips fully extended. I do have a quick note on lowering cues, which seems like it shouldn't mean a lot, but I see beginners mess this up all the time. But when we're lowering down, I want you to initiate at the hip hinge with a controlled descent first. You can keep the knees soft, but you don't want to like crash the bar into your knees or fully reverse your deadlift. It makes sense to reverse your squat. So a lot of people think, oh, I'll just do the same thing on the way down that I did on the way up, but it doesn't always work for the deadlift because you start to crash into those knees. So if you're a beginner, just think hips back first, control the descent and set the bar down. All right, when you start to get more efficient with the deadlift, you might want to introduce some equipment to help you lift more. So to be clear, you can deadlift without any of these things, but I'll explain why some of them could be helpful. First up are shoes. What you want, and this one isn't the best option I have, is a flat, non-compressible sole. Okay, here's a good example of a really flat shoe that could work, not like those ugly dad sneakers that are super popular. Personally, I like to deadlift in my socks, and back in the day, if you were a sock deadlifter in powerlifting, the only thing that you could do were these really ugly slippers to get like a really minimal shoe. And now there are tons of brands who make shoes just for deadlifting or some lifestyle, but they are really, really flat. Okay, next is chalk. Chalk will help increase the friction between your hands and the barbell so that you're not losing your grip, especially when it gets really heavy. Most gyms will have a bucket like this or a nicer bucket version of loose chalk or a block of chalk, but if your gym doesn't allow you to use chalk, you can get away with something a little less messy with liquid chalk. All right, straps, we've talked about it before. The grip is usually your weakest link, and if you don't want it to hold you back from your training, because you don't want these to hold you back from like effectively lifting for your glutes and your posterior chain, you can use straps, especially when you're working with higher volumes. These can be a lifesaver. The last one is a belt. This is the one that has a little bit of a learning curve. It requires some know-how, but like one session of understanding how to breathe and brace will mean that you can use this. Okay, so what you're going to do is you're going to breathe in, expand the torso. This rigid belt will not only help cue that expansion, but also it will provide some external rigidity so that your back angle can maintain the same and you don't flex over the load. Your back is going to want to flex and you're going to want to have that round back. But a belt will help you keep your neutral spine position when it's used effectively. The three things you need to understand is how to expand the torso, not just belly breathing, but expand in 360 degrees. You'll need to understand the Volsalva maneuver and how to contract the core muscles or the brace. I have a video on how to use a belt that I'll link here for you guys. But before closing out the video, I want to give a quick note on another weakest link, which is the pelvic floor. Lots of women watch my channel and men. Everyone should know this, but if you've ever been to a powerlifting meet, you might notice stress, urinary incontinence on the deadlift, especially in the Sumo deadlift. So if you recall to my note about grip strength being the weakest link for some women instead of the grip, it's their pelvic floor. What's happening is since we exert so much pressure into our intraabdominal cavity and combine that with a wide stance with Sumo, with maximal weights, I mean, at powerlifting meets, they're lifting 100 plus percent. Instead of seeing a form breakdown or an addition to a form breakdown, the pelvic floor gets so taxed that it can't do its job of holding in urine, right? So you're working so hard that it dysfunctions, you break down and form. So a simple strategy you can use is to activate the pelvic floor on exertion. So you want to pull up on the pelvic floor and ensure that you're not bearing down on the pelvic floor. Now, bearing down is that sensation that we do when we really need to pee and we finally get to a toilet and we release, that is bearing down. So if you notice that you're pushing down on the pelvic floor as you're pulling up on the deadlift, you can adjust that. On that exertion, instead, we want to engage the pelvic floor like a kegel contraction or what you do, like that feeling of if you really needed to hold in a fart or hold in a poop because it can't make it to the bathroom. So imagine those sensations. And if you're a guy, you might be tuning out now, but you also have a pelvic floor. And although it might not be as obvious when you're Sumo deadlifting, meaning you don't see you urinating on the platform, you might see symptoms of hemorrhoids after lifting or associated with lifting that would be the same kind of pelvic floor issue of bearing down and put that pressure going exiting, right? So another strategy would be also to instead of holding your breath would be to exhale on exertion along with that pelvic floor lift. I wanted to add that in here because lots of deadlift tutorials don't talk about that. And that is going to be especially for women, women of a certain age or women who have pelvic floor issues. It is going to be, like I said, your weakest link. So I feel like it should be incorporated in every single deadlift conversation that we have. Thank you. Thank you to my Royal subjects for attending my deadlift video. Hopefully you guys enjoyed it. Hopefully you learned something new. I will pass the crown on to the and coronate. Is that a word? Coronate. Anyway, thank you guys so much for watching. Now you know how to deadlift. You've got to progress in the deadlift. That means a program that includes progressive overload also considers your recovery. Lots of variables of strength training. It is a science and you need someone to kind of figure it out for you. That's not a rocket science, but why, why tackle it on your own when you can join the Stronger by the Day app for free. Get your first seven days free. Come on, my deadlift queens. Join me. Join me on the Stronger by the Day app. I will see you there on Coronation Day.

=== FILE: I Did Pilates for 43 Days (here's what happened...) [TWvN3HOB1Sg].txt ===

 pilates is everywhere. You need to go to pilates. You want to pilates? I mean, you need to do my thing. I just take a shot every time I say pilates. PILATES! Hey, mamas. Is it your first class? And more and more, the pilates' girlies are being pitted against the strength girlies. And I'll be honest, I am a pilates' hater. Pilates' hater. I do not think it's a replacement for strength training. I do not think the resistance is enough to even be considered a workout at all. I just don't get it. So I was super confused when a friend of mine who is probably one of the most successful power lifters and bodybuilders that I know became a pilates' instructor. So I'm on a mission to figure out, what does he know that I don't? What do all the pilates' girlies get that I don't get? I'm going to take a class every single day. I am just a lowly gym girl, and I'm a strength coach who loves lifting weights. But I want to figure out if pilates is a method that people like me should try. And maybe I can convince some pilates' girls to try a little bit of strength training. Let's go. My first pilates' class, I don't even know what to wear. I'm somewhat comfortable, like a lion fabric. So this first class is going to be a bar pilates' class, which is something I've never done. One hour later. How was it? It was kind of stupid. Oh, I want to like it. But that was, can't help but feel like that was a waste of time. Day one was a flop, but I'm not losing hope. I need a game plan, and I need some guidance. Today, I signed up for one-on-one private instruction. They are pricey, but I signed up for more so that I can get eyeballs on me and only me more regularly. So I'm getting coached well, and I know that I'm doing the right things. I cannot afford to do one-on-one every single session. So my next mission is to find out where else can I take some cheaper classes. Absolutely no surprise that I liked the most expensive option way more than the group class yesterday. I need to do some research because this was nothing like the class yesterday. I have serious goals for this challenge, and let's go over them. My assumption is that pilates will be good for my core. I'm going to take a few pre-challenge test pull-ups. Now I know that my pilates classes most likely won't be training pull-ups, and they won't make my upper body any stronger than it already is. But I do have a suspicion that my hollow body hold by the end of the challenge will be either stronger or have better endurance. Maybe it might make a max effort set of pull-ups a little bit easier. I will be continuing with my lifting protocol, lifting three days a week, typical strength training, kind of powerlifting style strength training on stronger by the day. I am going to adjust the frequency to three days a week from four days a week. I just have to make that work because I'm going to be doing so many classes. But my next test is going to be an L-sit. Now this is a movement that I don't do, and you can see I can't really do it. I'm not going to train it at all again until the end of the challenge. I'm going to purposefully not try to train it at all. I want to avoid any skill acquisition that comes with the specificity of trying this movement again and again. And next, I wanted to try a pull-up specific movement that I could try and master. I opened up the classic Return to Life through Contrology book, and one that really stuck out to me was the double leg rocker. Is that what it's called? Double leg rocker. The rocker with open legs. It looks fun. It looks a little cuckoo cuckoo. Let's see if I can do it. My first week of class was mostly private sessions, and I almost immediately get on more equipment than I expected. So we all know the Reformer, but I also used the Matten Tower, the Wonder Chair, and the Ladder Barrel. The apparatuses and movements that I'm working on this first week are more classic, meaning that they're pretty close to what the creator of Pilates, Joseph Pilates, originally taught and intended the practice to be. Now there is a legit lineage from Joseph, and you can go out of your way to find more classical interpretations. But you'll see in the rest of my video, most of my classes use some sort of contemporary variation that is like kind of Pilates, or things that people commonly think of as our Pilates, but they're really not Pilates at all. I'm going to a solid core class. They have a different Reformer. I use something called a Mega Reformer or a Custom Reformer. Apparently it's supposed to be higher tension and get you closer to muscular failure, which I am not looking forward to. Also why is a crumble next to the Pilates place anyway? That was so hard. This shit was hard. Does hard mean good? I have to figure out more about what my goals really are, but it was kind of fun. It was kind of fun, and I really did feel like I was working hard at something. Starting this clip here to talk about the open leg double leg rocker, I sent it to my friend Ryan after attempting it multiple times. From what I understand, the original 34 exercises are really meant to build off of one another, and the open leg rocker is a level three exercise. I don't think that by the end of this challenge, I'm going to be able to successfully complete it. I also don't think the open leg rocker is as iconic. Instead, I had an instructor suggest the teaser. When I'm not training Pilates in this challenge, I'm using my training app, Stronger by the Day. If you are serious about building strength and muscle in 2026, then this is the app you need. Science backed programming that's easy to follow and it adapts as you progress. Instead of guessing what to do when you hit a plateau, you have a program and an app that knows exactly how to move you forward. Shout out to all the Stronger by the Day members getting stronger each and every day. This community is truly something that has changed my life and makes me so happy to see all every single day in there. We are changing the way women approach fitness by focusing on getting stronger instead of getting smaller. And if you're watching this before the end of January 2026, you are just in time to join before our next cycle. We're all be bringing in everything I've learned from this Pilates challenge, especially my favorite principle of Pilates, which is the idea of control. And I wanted to give you guys a code to get your first month for just $1. So use code PILATES2026 and you can get that first month for just $1. So if you're already in the app, tag me so that I can feature you. And now let's get back to class. Little mid challenge update. I am about 20 classes through and I will say by class 12, I was kind of like, okay, okay, I get it. I am getting it. I think a lot of gym girls think when they try one Pilates class is they think that it's too easy. There have been moments and movements in every single class where I think, oh my God, this is extremely hard. I have the shakes. I'm close to failure. I need a break. Every single class I have experienced that. But in a lot of these contemporary classes where you're working on the reformer, you're doing movements that you would see on a gym floor, squats, lunges, calf raises, chest flies, front raises by subcruise glute bridges. And it usually takes 50 minutes to an hour for me personally. I am doing a lunge or a squat. I am doing it to build strength and muscle in my legs. The resistance applied in Pilates is not enough for me to build strength. Even if I'm keeping tension the entire time, even when I'm going slow and controlled, if I wanted to train lunges and squats, I would not ever do it on a reformer. I would go on the gym floor. I would load up enough resistance so that I can continue to make progress and get it done in half the time. Which brings me to one of my takeaways. If you haven't guessed, I don't like contemporary Pilates. The farther it's removed from the classical, the less core work I get. And I think for gym people like me, the most attractive thing about Pilates is the focus on core. And that even leads into my next takeaway, which I don't even think Pilates should be considered as a workout at all. I love this comment from an instructor. I don't think that all instructors would agree with a statement that Pilates isn't and shouldn't be considered a workout. That is currently how I feel and that has confirmed some of the reasons why I never liked it in the first place. There are six core principles of Pilates. You have centering, concentration, control, precision, breath and flow. As you can see, none of those things relate directly to principles of strength training. It is just not ever meant to be a place to build strength. So I think it's unfair to call Pilates strength training or expect a ton of strength from Pilates. Instead, I like the idea of thinking of Pilates as a practice similar to yoga. You can unlock and progress things within that practice, within the movements that are provided. It's also not something that you're going to necessarily do to look a certain way. However, lots of people do use Pilates in an attempt to look a certain way. Students and instructors will advertise their method will lengthen your muscles or build long-leaf muscle. When really, the method doesn't build much muscle leaner otherwise and the typical Pilates body type might just be folks who are more slim and slender and might naturally gravitate towards Pilates or things like it. If you're aiming for an aesthetic goal and the way you want to look is leaner or you have a weight loss or fat loss goal, you would be far better served by lifting weights and eating in a caloric deficit. I personally love the look of muscle on my body and I like growing my muscles. I feel like I look more feminine and I love being capable of lifting heavy shit overhead and the power that comes with knowing I can just handle myself. If you really wanted to prevent muscle growth while still being active, Pilates could be a way to do it, but you're really not taking off any of the physical activity guidelines. The resistance that you see in Pilates classes has a pretty low ceiling where if you are completely untrained, yes, you will build strength, but once you get to that ceiling, there's really not much more adding to improve that strength further. With that, you can get better at the practice. You can get stronger within the practice and get more control. That's really not like strength building for strength as we know it on earth, using gravity, resisting gravity to have a better life as the way humans need to operate. You know what I mean? One thing that Pilates gives that is something that I've never thought about and that is flow. Their principle of flow I think explains a lot. I've never thought about flow before, which flow as a principle kind of speaks to why dancers gravitate towards Pilates. It's very graceful. It's dance like you transition smoothly and with control and precision like ballet. It can be fun to focus on making movement look a certain way or making it look pretty. When it comes to physical activity guidelines, I think that can be distracting, but is it fun? Yeah, it can be fun. It can be enjoyable and it can kind of like, I don't know, make you feel pretty like a pretty ballerina. Okay, I'm going to show you guys the Pilates shakes. If you go to solid core, you are definitely going to experience the shakes, muscular failure basically in the entire class. So I'm going to demonstrate what it looks like. Point down. I'll also show you guys my teaser progress. I'm almost done with the challenge. Okay, so at that point in my teaser, you start to see me rocking a little bit. That's no longer balance. That is me shaking. It's not super dramatic. But that is... Oh, teaser. Can you do it? That is the Pilates shake. The Pilates shakes are famous in most of my classes and structures use the shake as some sort of feedback. You'll either cut your range of motion right when you start to shake or you'll sit in your shake in order to train it. Because this is something that doesn't really happen when you're doing traditional strength training. But basically your muscles are just getting fatigued and your body is trying to recruit more muscle fibers to help stabilize and hold that position. Your nervous system is juggling muscle recruiting and you're getting more and more fatigued. So if you hold that position, you will keep shaking. Okay, we're finally ready for all of my tests. Let's first take a look at my teaser progress. Here's me on day one. And then let's compare it to my final class after 43 classes of Pilates. And I am proud of my improvement. It's clear my core has gotten stronger and I'm able to control my way up and down into the pose while still leaving a lot of room to improve. I think this challenge of trying to master or improve my teaser is really where my Pilates journey begins. And that's kind of how it goes. You attempt moves and you do the workout and you progress in the principles of Pilates like control precision and flow to really define your practice. Ready to see if this has any carryover to movements that I care about more regularly. Pull ups. I had my day one test. Let's do my final day test. Day 43. This is almost too close to call. I see some added control in my lower body, which is exactly what I hypothesized. So that's good. My hollow body hold looks more solid after the challenge. Is it worth 43 hours of Pilates for that extra control? No, that carryover is minimal. I'm actually even surprised my pull up strength is at the same spot because the many, many hours of Pilates classes has come at a cost to my regular training. I just don't have enough time to do it all. But the L set is much more promising. This has been something I've never really been able to do. Hence my complete and utter failure on day one. But now this is way easy. I am quaking and shaking. Yes, in my upper body, but I do feel like I'm able to control my L set hold. So excited to see this, I guess. I think that's good. That has to be good, right? Right? That has to be impressive. What the fuck is that? I don't know. Don't push it. It is finally time for my final takeaways. First up, Pilates is cool. A lot cooler than I originally thought. To be clear, Pilates is not strength training. But to think of it as strength training is a misinterpretation entirely. Pilates was never meant to replace strength, although contemporary classes do make that even more confusing in my opinion by promising a full body workout and doing a bunch of cool exercises on the reformer, which is fine. I think people should move however they want to. I think you should know what type of Pilates that you're doing. Pilates has a huge branding problem. So make sure you know what you're getting when you get into a class. My recommendation is to try something that is like more classical first. If you're just exploring or even some of the original 34 exercises from Joseph Pilates that you can try at home. Most asked question in this series is, should Jim people add Pilates in for extra core strength? And I think if your ultimate goal is to add more core strength, there are much more efficient ways to do that than investing a lot of time and a lot of money into a bunch of Pilates classes. Instead, I would do Pilates if you are attracted to anything that you see in this video really, or some of the principles that you get in Pilates classes. It will be entirely different to lifting weights. And I would really advise against trying to like muddy the waters and make them work for each other. They are just different things entirely. I would say 100% you should try Pilates if anyone ever invites you to a class. Just say yes. Should Pilates people be lifting weights? And my answer of course is absolutely 100% without a doubt. And as someone coming in from the other side, I think people who are really good at Pilates will have a fantastic time lifting weights. You already understand a lot about balance, control, and you have this awareness of your pelvic floor and your hip and rib positioning that are things that are really hard for us to teach in lifting weights. These things that you already know just make for great technique under a barbell. And literally just a tiny drop of strength. I'm talking like one day a week, three heavy compound movements would make a difference in your Pilates practice and in your bone density score. So thank you guys so much for watching this video. I put in so many hours in this one. So if you could subscribe to my channel, if you're not already, my goal is to get to 700,000 subscribers in the year 2026. So if you can help me achieve that goal, I would greatly appreciate it. And last before I sign off, thank you to the many, many instructors and friends who helped me in this journey. I leaned on your expertise so much and I just had so much fun, a lot more fun than I ever expected. So thank you all. Bye.

=== FILE: I Followed The US Dietary Guidelines (1992-2026) [byeWs7ObFmk].txt ===

 I'm about to eat according to four different USDA dietary guidelines. 1992's the original food pyramid, 2005's my pyramid, 2011's my plate, and the brand new 2026... It's upside down. What? Sir. The pyramid is upside down. Turn the pyramid upside down. Four eras in four days, let's see what the government has been telling us to eat over the past 35 years. If you're a millennial like me, you probably remember seeing this thing and learning about it all over school. The base of the pyramid is bread, cereal, grains, pasta. The government really like looked at Americans and was like, you know what you guys need? Bread. Then you've got your fruits and veggies in the middle. Next level up, we've got dairy and protein. Two to three servings of meat, poultry and fish. And at the very top, that tiny little peak of the pyramid, oils and sweets recommended to use sparingly. One hour later. I think I got what they call bread belly. My tum tum hurts. This breakfast couldn't be any more different from what I usually eat. Volume is high, so I'm feeling very full. On to a midday snack, I'm having a latte made with skim milk, no fat milk in this video. Well, in 1992. And making skim milk latte art is really hard, but I did nail this one. I gotta say. Also, we are having more bread. This is just half of a bagel. I'm adding a tiny bit of butter, but don't worry using it sparingly. One of the biggest criticisms about the 1992 pyramid is that whole grains weren't really emphasized, just grains in general. So I am taking advantage of having just straight up white bread this entire time. It will change tomorrow though. And that is what I enjoy. People say like, oh, people don't follow the nutritional guidelines, but this is very similar to things that I would have ate a lot of because we were just poor. So I didn't have a lot of fruits and vegetables just floating around my house. I remember my mom saying one time, she's like, oh, you guys never had berries. I mean, I guess we would have apples and bananas, but when you have so much cereal and when you have so much bread and stuff, it's just not something you're going to reach for when you're a kid. And we were latchkey kids. So we were left to our own devices. I've got to cut it in triangles for, and here's my lunch. I do feel like this is a lot of food. Am I tripping? Something that you have to understand about these guidelines. First of all, if you didn't know the USDA and DHHS, so that's RFK, the Maha movement, they combine to create these guidelines. And together they're supposed to provide unbiased dietary advice to the public. But they're not going to be the same. And the kind of makes sense. Like if we're growing more plants, agriculture, and people are eating those plants, they're getting things straight from the source. That should be healthy, right? Mary and Nessle, author of Food Politics, once referenced, good advice about nutrition conflicts with the interest of many big industries, each of which has more lobbying power than all the public interest groups combined. The Department of Agriculture's Food and Agriculture Department, came out, and there was an enormous scandal about that in 1991, because the cattlemen protested against the way that pyramid was likely to go, and the Department of Agriculture withdrew it. And so it's very difficult for federal agencies to give any kind of dietary advice that indicates that people should eat less of anything, because eating less is very bad for business. Because eating less is very bad for business. And that's why we're doing this. Eating less is very bad for business. Because eating less is very bad for business. And that's how it was. I've been thinking, I've been thinking, I've been thinking, I've been thinking, I've been thinking, thinking about you. I'm running, cause you're playing, cause I don't know, and you can't find my voice to pull. I'm running, I'm scared by the night night, look at me, my crazy boy. Hey, we're doing 2005's My Pyramid. I used to freely make videos. I will need to spend some time decoding exactly what I can eat today. But I'll definitely have less of the white bread and bagels like I had yesterday, and more whole grains. When comparing My Pyramid to the 1992 pyramid, what I noticed is that there's no real hierarchy of food. It looks like grains and veggies are closer to a one to one ratio, and like meat and beans are less than half of milk. I can't really tell if milk is the same size as veggies or not. There's also no serving size suggestions on this graphic, so it's hard to tell what my meals should be. You may have noticed one big difference between the pyramid, and it's not just the colors, okay? It's the little dude climbing up the pyramid. And this is one of the first times we see exercise recommended in the dietary guidelines. Oh, I'm gonna go on a run. Maybe climb my own pyramid. I lifted a little bit. I am absolutely starving, so I went shopping for whole grain granola bars. Oh my gosh, these are so tiny. The rollout of My Pyramid required a website to customize these suggestions, and I tried the Wayback Machine, but couldn't really enter in my own info, so I did find this chart for a 25 year old woman on a 2200 calorie diet, which is around the amount that I usually eat. And I'm getting a little bit nervous because I'm starting to run out of room. I punched in the exact servings or weight suggestions into my calorie counting app, and the calories, including the six teaspoons of oil, comes out to about 1700 calories, which is far less than the 2200 guide here. Obviously we're gonna need some wiggle room, but my pyramid is so low-fat that I'm pretty far away from hitting an amount of calories to keep me from getting hungry. I guess everything outside of the serving size suggestions are discretionary calories, so outside of that you can kind of eat whatever you want, okay? That's good. I'm not trying to stick to the food groups that they give, but it's kind of confusing. First of all, you're not allowed to make fun of my hair. Let's move on. I have about 300 to 400 calories under what I ate yesterday. I feel like the My Period is a lot harder and less intuitive than the 92 pyramid. So anyway, since I basically hit my protein goal, I'm gonna have some waffles. So, there it is. So far I like the 1992 one better. We have time traveled, guys. The year is 2011. My plate. My plate! The One More Pizza's are vegetables. Okay, did you guys hear him? I have to add this in. Is this the one where pizza is a vegetable? And he's right. So here's what happened. When my plate was released, and at a glance you can already see it's no longer a triangle, it's a plate, and in that plate there's more fruits and vegetables, and this kind of implies that every meal needs to have some fruits and vegetables. When the DGA is updated, federal programs like school lunches need to also comply. You get new school meal standards, so the companies that provide those school meals need to update their recipes, they need to update their products. So, school pizza. The companies that sell school frozen pizza argued that the tomato paste in the pizza should count as a vegetable serving, and they lobbied through Congress, Appropriations Language, and they won. Obama signed the bill, and that's why we hear yes, tomato paste in pizza counts as a vegetable. Now, major changes still happened in school lunches, but this is one that the industry won. My plate is the most straightforward at a glance. You make your plate look like the one pictured, similar rules that we've already seen on the other pyramids, but now it's on a plate. You know, I've always personally liked my plate, but as I'm making my meals, I'm realizing most people just don't eat like this in separate food groups on a plate. It is probably going to be more nutritious, but it doesn't really reflect the meals that most of us eat, especially when we're trying to communicate and teach this to kids. I can see how my plate wasn't the kind of solution to everything. Although I've been having skim lattes this entire video, I am a full fat dairy person. Well, when it comes to my coffee, I love having half and half in my coffee. In the updated pyramid, we get full fat dairy, and that is encouraged. Great for me. I don't know if it's great for the American public, but let's see what my amateurs are like at the moment. Hello, hello. Very exciting news, mid video to update you. That's not to do with dietary guidelines at all. I am redoing my garage. So let me show you. We have some equipment outside that we're bringing into this space. I'm afraid that I won't have enough room for all the equipment that I have, but you'll see that in my next video, I guess. But one thing that the dietary guidelines do have is structure. And diet is one thing, but when it comes to lifting weights and your time in the gym, when you have zero structure and your goal is getting bigger muscles or getting stronger, then it's kind of like doing expensive cardio. And if you want a training program that actually works, then try my app stronger by the day. In the app, we have a full gym and express for short, but effective workouts and a body weight program so that you can train at any time at any place. Stronger by the day is all about lifting you up. So no creepy marketing, no progress photos needed. And shout out to all of our stronger by the day members. We are 25,000 lifters strong. And I love seeing you guys lift all the heavy weights on social media. So keep tagging me in those posts. If you're ready to quit those random workouts and instead have a system for hitting your own personal goals, then you can try stronger by the day for seven days free. Just use the link down in my description or scan this QR code. We'll see if by the end of this video I can get some of this equipment back in here. But yeah, this is like a new era. I got to find some better posters. One mistake that I think I've made is trying to just follow the guidelines so incredibly strictly, where suggestions are so clean that it's hard to hit my calorie requirements, especially in the middle of the day. Because and by clean, I mean whole foods based, which is great. But basing most of your diet, especially in this one where wheat is at the very bottom. And I want to avoid that. I need to not avoid it at this moment in time. So I'm going to have a bagel. I would normally put peanut butter on this, but I'm not going to because I need to watch my saturated fats while also choosing whole fat milk and steak. The mistake is like huge on this pyramid and choosing like cooking with beef tallow. I'm happy to do that. I like doing that, but I am keeping an eye on that saturated fat. So I guess no peanut butter. I'll start a little confusing. Oh my God. You guys! It's hard. Let's look at the dietary guidelines and how they compare to farm subsidies. Here's what the US government suggests we eat, mostly fruits and veg. And here's what the US government subsidizes production of. Now we grow a lot of grain in the US and a lot of it is for animal feed. Now there are great reasons for subsidizing these commodities, but this does illustrate that the dietary guidelines are not purely public health driven and we should be skeptical of them. And my final meal was by far my favorite of the entire challenge, but following the pyramid and eating foods like steak. And in the picture, this is definitely a ribeye, a fattier cut of meat and having whole milk throughout the day means that my saturated fat content came to 39 grams or 350 calories from saturated fat. And that was 16% of my calories for the entire day. The beef tallowing introduces this ideological influence that RFK has on these guidelines. And that ideology has a conflict with guidelines themselves. If I wanted to lower my saturated fat, I could have easily done that by just not using butter or beef tallow and instead using olive oil or avocado or acetyl. Let's make some of that, mom. Aw. There's one thing I won't be having. Ready? Um... Asper tam is the devil. Well, that got a lot more political than I originally intended, but I hope that you guys enjoyed this video. Let me know in the comments if any of the dietary guidelines throughout the years are similar to the diet that you have or maybe the ideal diet that you wish you ate like. All in all, I think they're all pretty relatively healthy diets, complete common sense nutrition guidance. So that's good. If you're still here and you're not yet subscribed to my channel, then please subscribe right now. I have a goal of getting to 700,000 subscribers before 2027. So I would greatly appreciate it if you could help me reach that goal. And I will see you guys in my next video. Bye.

=== FILE: I Ran 1 Mile Every Day for 30 Days. Here's what happened. [UDQVJLiLq04].txt ===

 strength train three to four times a week, get 10,000 steps per day, 150 minutes of cardio a week, 150, how? Who does this? Is it just me or are fitness goals unreasonable for most human adults? It has been a minute since I incorporated any type of cardio into my routine, and I'll be honest, I feel very out of shape. But here's the thing, when it comes to cardio, I need simple, quick, and effective because I'm really busy. So I'm challenging myself to just one mile a day. Is one mile a day enough to make a noticeable change? Is it even worth it? Let's find out. ["Miracle Day"] Within the challenge, I have a separate challenge. This challenge is by necessity, but I have two kids. I see so much running content, and I'm always like, where are your kids? I know you have them, where are they? My challenge is to see if I can still do this and find creative and new ways to make sure that they're good and I'm reaching my goals. So today, we're just at this football field trespassing a little bit. We're just gonna let them play because the track is somewhat enclosed. So let's get to it. My goal is... I'm feeling nervous. 10 minutes. I'm just gonna listen. I'll be happy under 11, I think. All right, nothing to it, but to do it. Go! ["Miracle Day"] 949. Happy that it's sub 10. Okay, running nine minutes a day isn't necessarily like my biggest feat, but I am curious as to whether or not it's enough to drive some meaningful change, whether that be with my body composition or anything else. So let's do a body spec before I get too far into the challenge and see what my baseline is at the start of the challenge. There will be a few metrics that I wanna consistently track throughout the challenge. One, obviously my mile time. Can I get any faster in this short amount of time? I actually wanna see how long I can progressively get about five seconds faster, at least until I can't do it anymore. Two, my overall activity. Currently, my step count is pathetic. An extra mile a day will add about 2,000 steps per day, which is still under the recommended 10K steps per day. This will be my hardest challenge, yes. The most nervous I've been for anything in a very long time. Hi! Hi, baby! Best design. ["Miracle Day"] ["Miracle Day"] ["Miracle Day"] Oh my God. Okay, 9.20, best time, yeah. Levi, how'd you do? She was like holding on. And the wind was just blowing in her hair. I was so cute. Challenge two, unlocked 100% success mission. ["Miracle Day"] We have to talk about the interference effect, AKA does cardio kill your gains? The idea is basically when you combine some cardio or endurance training with strength training, it kills your gains. Is that something that I'm worried about? No? So let's talk about my program. It is high frequency, yes, but very low volume. Seven miles per week isn't really enough to really, really fatigue you overall. I'm not doing marathon training. I'm not even doing 5K training. And my strength training program, this current block that I'm on on Stronger by the Day, is not a one rep max program. I'm not peaking any one particular lift. As far as recovery goes, the only thing that I have noticed is that from the runs, my Achilles and my calves are a little tighter than usual, but I don't see that really affecting my training. Bottom line, one mile per day at a pretty moderate pace at least to start is not going to interfere with my strength gains. If anything, improving my fitness and improving my cardiovascular health could help my recovery. I don't know if I'm going to be saying the same thing when I get to faster sessions, when I need to be faster on my mile runs, but we will see how we feel when we get there. It's time to unlock our third parenting challenge. It's the treadmill run while one child washes the iPad. We try to have limited screen time, but I feel like this is a good enough excuse to use the iPad and some screen time as a tool. You ready, babe? Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. These are my running shoe. It's kind of like more of a walk shoe, I think is what these are designed for. This is the Hoka Clifton. Since a mile is considered short distance, I don't really need this much cushioning. So I ordered these instead. Ooh, so pretty. So cute. My new shoe is the Nike Zoom Fly. This is definitely built more for speed when compared to the Clifton. These do have a plate inside them, like a carbon plate that emphasizes your push. So it should technically make you a little bit faster. The warmups are getting longer. But number nine, sub nine, H55. Totally and utterly not looking forward to this run. Okay, we just finished day 13. Hey, day 14. I'm making this video for me literally tomorrow. It's not that bad. It's not that bad. Stop stressing yourself up before you get in the car. Day 15. I'm having what I think are flu-like symptoms. And so I have that going for me. What's happening? I failed. I need to hit 8.5 today. 8.49. Okay. Trying to go at least five seconds faster. Every day, every single day, five seconds faster. That's not bad. I made it over halfway. learning learning learning Yay! What's the daycare at the gym? You ready Emerald? Yeah. Oh you are? Mm-hmm. Oh okay. Good. Okay, the time has come. It is my final run of the 30 days. I'm going to go all out. Go fast. So let's see on my final run if I push it a little hard, if I can actually be my best time in the first half of the challenge. I'm not even nervous. I'm not even nervous, okay? Am I? I guess I'm fully recovered, so that's good. Alright, let's see. The good news is it'll be over soon. I did it. 8-11. 8-11. Oh, I'm so happy with that. It wasn't so bad. Okay, it wasn't so bad. Okay, it's time for my final results from my body scan. I do want to see if I have any changes from incorporating the cardio at all, but before we get into that data, I've also been tracking a few other metrics. We know that by adding a mile, I would increase my step count, but at my height, one mile should be around 2100 steps. My average increase per day was 3432 steps, meaning that the mile challenge not only added however many steps per mile, but it also added more steps on top of that. It's getting me to within striking distance of that elusive 10k steps per day, which since becoming a mom just has not been something that I've been able to do. It shows that aiming for a reasonable small change can yield even larger results. One mile per day for someone like me is probably not that big of a feat. It was a challenge that I knew I could commit to, and it ended up being better than what I could have imagined. Now for the results of the body spec. Okay, there wasn't much change at all. In fact, when I got there, the tech said, hey, your last scan was like 30 days ago. They usually recommend 90 days between scans, so really there wasn't that much of a change. So a little bit of a dud, but there's my stats. That however brings me to whether or not I will continue the challenge. Will I continue running after these 30 days are over? The physical change has been fine. Like I'm moving more. I have an opportunity to feel accomplished every day, which I really like, but I think the mental change is something I'm enjoying more than anything else. I have even resorted to completing the run with no headphones, no music, no podcasts, just me and my thoughts, which is crazy. It's crazy for me. And bear with me, I'm going to go on a little bit of a tangent right now. I've been watching The Wire. Have you guys seen The Wire? There's a character named Bubz, and Bubz is a heroin addict. He's an informant for the police, and he's lovable. Very lovable. Bubz is clean for like 24 hours, and he's sitting in a park. And there's no dialogue in this scene. It's just Bubz looking around in the park, and he's seeing things. And his eyes are open to the park and what things that happen at the park. So he sees like a dog running, and he sees kids playing, and he sees the light shining through the leaves. The park that he's in is that there are also drug dealers in this park and ways for him to get heroin. But he's seeing it in a different way. And in the past 30 days, some like terribly awful things have happened in the world, and awful things have happened like in my community that affects some of the people in my life. Sort of watching that and reflecting on my opportunity in this challenge to take 10 minutes out of my day and connect with just moving my feet in front of one another has kind of reminded me that like just like the park, the terrible awful happens right next to the amazing awesome. If I hadn't done this challenge, there's so many things that I wouldn't have noticed or seen. Like last weekend, we were on like a family staycation, and because of that I really did not want to do the run. But I did it, and I got to see like 10 deer, like deer. Which I never get to see that. And it was beautiful, and it was like the best part of my day. I think I will keep running because I've had the opportunity to touch grass and disconnect. And it is a little chance for me to remind myself that yeah, life sucks a lot of times, but it is still the same life that gets to show us some really beautiful things. Although we can't escape, or we can't protect ourselves, or the people that we love from bad things happening, hopefully we can still find little slivers of time where we can recognize that life is still beautiful. We can be in that same park and notice the good around us. So it's day 31, and I'm going to go on a run. Bye. Just kidding, obviously I'm going to put the camera away.

=== FILE: I Started Taking Creatine on the Daily ｜ Bloating？ Loading？ Time of Day？ [YfLFGAtFR1M].txt ===

! Hello, my strong, strong friends. Today, I'm going to go over creatine. Okay, this video is going to be all about creatine. Why the frick would you want it? Well, let me explain in this video. So first of all, what is creatine? Okay, we have creatine already in our muscles. Creatine helps us produce energy. So you need energy for basically any movement that you do. You're using energy to do this. During high-intensity activities, like weightlifting, like sprinting, our muscles use ATP. ATP is the form of energy that we use so that our muscles can move in that high-intensity rate. Creatine helps produce more ATP. So you're producing more energy that is used in those specific instances. So if you're lifting, maybe if you're a sprinter and doing really quick, high-impact activities, creatine supplementation might help you in those workouts. When you take creatine, you don't just with no work get bigger muscles. It's not like that. You need to pair creatine supplementation with working out, with lifting so that you're using that energy that it's producing. So over time, creatine really works because it produces more energy so that in a given session or in a given set even, you can get a couple more reps when you're using it regularly over weeks and weeks and months and months. Maybe you get dozens of extra reps each session and that over time is going to result in muscle gain and strength gain. So that's how creatine works. It's not a magic supplement. It's not a steroid, which some people who have no idea what it is when they hear that it's performance enhancing, they might hear performance enhancing drug. That's not what creatine is. Creatine is very well researched, very legal and very healthy. It's shown to be very safe for you to use. Other benefits that creatine has that have been studied are that it boosts muscle and strength gain. We already know that. It improves your anaerobic endurance. It reduces muscle damage and soreness from exercise. It increases the amount of glycogen your muscles can store and it helps preserve lean muscle mass and strength while you're restricting calories. We'll get back to that last one in a little bit when we're talking about some of the myths. But the creatine supplementation recommendation is just five grams of creatine per day. Generally, if you're a rather large individual, then you might want to look into a higher dose of creatine supplementation. You do not need to load creatine. The way creatine works is that you need to saturate your stores of creatine. So it is something that you experience the benefit over time. Some people will take double, triple, even quadruple the recommended dose in order to load or saturate their creatine more quickly. But if you're using creatine over a long period of time, it doesn't really make sense to load and get there like one week faster when you're going to be taking it months and months at a time. It's not really shown that you need to cycle off of creatine, although sometimes people do that very often. But you're going to experience the benefit when you're taking it on a daily basis over a long period of time. We sometimes see companies pushing the loading phase so that you can take a lot of creatine when you're first getting started. But since loading creatine and taking quadruple the recommended dose could result in some gastrointestinal distress, we recommend against it. And also, we don't really find that it's necessary and the research doesn't show that it's necessary and it doesn't really give you too much of a benefit. As far as taking creatine for months and months at a time, there is no evidence that suggests short or long-term use of creatine up to like 30 grams a day for five years is what's been studied has any negative effect on healthy individuals. Okay, we talked about how much creatine you should take, when should you take it? The most important factor with creatine as we've already discussed is just consistency. So it doesn't really matter what time of day you take it. You could take it at different times of the day, just stay consistent. I do find that when I'm pairing my creatine with my pre-workout, which seems to make sense for a lot of people, I sometimes forget to take my creatine on rest days. So I have recently changed my creatine supplementation routine to be early in the day when I take a morning supplement, when I take my reds and greens, the first thing I drink in the morning, it is a better way to stack my creatine habit so that I don't forget on my rest days. Let's talk about some myths about creatine. We already touched on the idea that creatine is a steroid. That's a myth. Okay, it's very safe. It's very legal. It's very shown to be effective. The shown to be effective part is where some of the benefits of creatine also overlap with the benefits of anabolic steroid use, or at least the reported effects of anabolic steroid use. So they do overlap. It is performance enhancing, but it is not an illegal thing. It's not an unsafe thing. It is shown scientifically to be really safe, and it's something that's already in the body. You're not giving yourself a foreign substance. Myth number two, and sometimes people avoid taking creatine for this reason, is that they think it's going to lead to fat gain or some weight gain. And that is not shown in the research. Many people do report some bloating when they first start creatine, but that temporary water retention, first of all, doesn't happen to everyone, and also is something that could just be temporary. It doesn't mean that you're gaining weight. It doesn't mean that you're gaining fat. Lots of people wonder if they should lose weight before they start taking creatine, to which I would recommend if you're on a fat loss or weight loss journey, and also pairing that journey with strength training and looking to still build some muscle and maybe gain some strength, regardless of what other tertiary or secondary goals you have. I would still use creatine because it's going to mean that you train a little bit harder session to session. It's going to mean that you might be able to lift a little bit heavier session to session, which could result in some fat loss, could result in some weight loss if you're doing dietary things that help you get there and also staying in a caloric deficit. Next myth is that creatine supplementation is only for men. It's not a supplement that woman should take, and this is completely false. So if you have any of the goals that I mentioned, building strength, maybe losing fat, gaining muscle, all of that stuff that we typically talk about on my channel, and if you're a woman or not a man, or you are a man, creatine supplementation is going to help you get there. Typically because supplements are usually marketed to men, it is something that is more synonymous with male lifters, and women may just not know that much about it, although lots of you watching are probably savvy to creatine, regardless of your gender or sex. Last thing on that is a lot of the studies that have been reported are studied on men, but it's not just men, and when women are involved in the studies, it does still show to be an effective and safe supplement. Since we're talking about studies, I do want to share with you guys a really great resource. It's called examine.com. If you haven't ever heard of examine.com, it is a database of supplementation information that you can just pop in any old ingredient or supplement that you can think of, and it will break down the research and give you summaries of supplements very similar to what I'm sharing with you here, and it is very easy to understand. They are not affiliated with any third party, any company. I love this website for just a quick refresher to break down the information. The science can be very dense and hard for the average person to understand, so this website is a godsend for us non-chemists, us non-scientists out there. The next myth is that creatine causes kidney problems. To address this myth, first of all, it is false, but let's talk about creatinine. This is a metabolite of creatine, and it can be used as a marker that helps show us our kidney functioning. Excessive creatine use supplementation, which is far beyond the recommended dose, can potentially show an increase in creatinine, which could signal a false potential problem with the kidneys. Aside from those creatinine levels increasing, there's no evidence that creatine supplementation, again, in those recommended doses, negatively impacts kidney health. However, if you're someone who has issues with your kidneys or has a medical condition that makes it so that you shouldn't supplement with something like creatine, then I would avoid it and also discuss something like this with your doctor. Obviously that goes without saying if you have any medical condition, then you should be discussing any supplementation and health and fitness regime with your doctor. There are several short and long-term clinical trials that assess the effects of creatine supplementation on kidney function, and they've been published showing that there are no adverse outcomes in healthy individuals without kidney problems. Now on to a couple of frequently asked questions that we get on the budget supplement side. One of the reasons I'm asking this is, can I stack creatine with other supplements? So I mentioned already that that's what I do. I like to pair it with a supplement. Creatine usually comes in an unflavored monohydrate. So if you're shopping for creatine, I would look for a monohydrate. We also, since we realize maybe if you're not stacking this, we do have flavored options of creatine. Buffcha currently has icy blue razz flavor and strawberry kiwi flavor. They are both delicious. There are a couple of our top flavors on the pre-workout and pump side. So we put them into creatine so that you can stack it with pre-pump or you can have it on its own. Some people do report some side effects with creatine use. Usually this is in the form of gastrointestinal issues. And again, unless you're loading creatine, you'll be less likely to experience those gastrointestinal issues. But sometimes people will report bloating, water retention. My biggest recommendation here is to make sure that you are drinking enough water with creatine use. Recently, I saw a TikTok where someone was just dry scooping creatine and then also saying that they didn't drink enough water to be able to continue their creatine use. And to me, that doesn't make any sense because you could just have the creatine with water right then and there. Anyway, I didn't understand it, but make sure that you're pairing creatine with water. I would recommend getting around a gallon a day if you can, especially if you're in the gym working out, which creatine supplementation should be paired with strength training. You do want to make sure that you're getting enough water and not being dehydrated. Thank you guys so much for watching our creatine Bible. I recommend if you're looking for creatine, of course, Buff Chick supplements has a couple of different options of flavored and non-flavored creatine. If you're shopping somewhere else, just look for a creatine monohydrate. That's what you want to look for. Make sure it's a creatine monohydrate. It's going to be the best option for you. And the next recommendation is to look for a brand that is third party tested, especially if you're an athlete, if you get drug tested at work or with anything else going on in your life. I don't know. I don't judge. You can take our supplements knowing that they are third party tested and there are no band substances in our creatine or any other products that Buff Chick. Thank you guys so much for watching. I will see you guys in the next video.

=== FILE: I Tried Creatine for 30 Days. Here's what happened... [yKNUZRqvjww].txt ===

 I took creatine for 30 days and I'm documenting my physique and my strength, all the way from day zero to day 30. If you've ever been on my channel, we talk about lifting weights and getting strong and getting jacked, and of course creatine is the most popular legal supplement out there that gets those things done. It's safe, it's affordable, and everyone knows it works. Don't worry, there aren't any side effects, none at all, none at all. Oh, don't listen to those, those are silly, let's keep it moving. Now why am I doing this? I haven't consistently taken creatine for about nine months and I have a nice and unique opportunity to start completely fresh and see if I actually see a difference in just 30 days. Happy August, it's August 1st, my first day of taking creatine in a very long time. Both chicks, creatine monohydrate, it's micronized creatine, it blends super well. This is the unflavored version, you want to make sure you take it every single day, even on your rest days. Time of day that you take it does not matter, it doesn't matter, just take it every day. The amount is five grams, generally speaking, everyone is good with five grams. Now you could do more if you're in a larger body or you could do less if you're in a smaller body, but that sounds like it's more complicated than what it's probably worth. I just finished training outside and it was pretty sweaty. It's August in Texas and so I'm gonna have a hydropack which is like electrolytes. This is the strawberry kiwi flavor. This tastes delicious, adding something that tastes good to your creatine will remind you to take it every single day. A lot of people just do pre-workout, which is totally fine, just make sure that you're taking it every day, so you're probably not taking pre-workout every day, but you do need the creatine every day. Let's do a little physique check-in. I used to compete in powerlifting at 63 kilos, 138, and I am 138 pounds, which is crazy. A lot of that has to do with loss of muscle during multiple pregnancies and that's fine. It's just kind of a how it goes. So I'm excited to see if we end up gaining a little bit of muscle back, maybe a little bit of weight back in this process and it's kind of cool to start at a lean weight. I am going to try to not eat completely out of line and I'm not going to intentionally bulk or anything, so let's see if I end up gaining any weight by the end of the 30 days. I'm sorry to say this, I got a little dehydrated. I'm in this spot where a lot of people find themselves whenever they experience a little bit of a creatine side effect or what they think is a creatine side effect. I don't know if it's the creatine or was I just dehydrated and I had a little bit of a headache. I think I might have been coming down with something. There's just too many different variables to point to creatine as being the culprit and I think whenever people hear a performance enhancing supplement, even though it's legal and well researched, they usually want to blame creatine for something going wrong and anything going wrong, which makes sense if it's the new thing that you added into your routine, then it could be it. But when it's studied, there are not a lot of reports of creatine having any negative side effects. Now gastrointestinal distress is the most common and I'll put on screen what you should do to avoid gastrointestinal distress, a little upset tummy. I'll keep an eye on any other symptoms and if I experience anything else other than a little bit of a headache. Happy August, I'm doing a little challenge. I'm getting back on the sauce, the nady sauce. Okay and every day I'm taking these back to the table. Checking in day 19 and I'm starting to feel the effects. Let's talk about it. I am a pretty big slacker so any excuse to slack off, I will take it. But yesterday I noticed just for no particular reason I started feeling super inspired. Kind of like that little slacker voice was a lot quieter. So the little like voice in my head that's saying, Meg, you can be a little banshee, it's okay, okay, you're a mother of two. Take it easy. Was quiet, was going harder, was going heavier and I was having fun while doing it and that makes sense because right about now around week three to week four is when I should be feeling that my creatine stores are at full load. My creatine stores should be fully saturated is what we say. This is how it works. It's not like creatine stores are saturated and boom you're strong. No, you start to feel a little bit stronger like you could go a little bit heavier session after session. So over time after months and months of use and months and months of training when it comes to muscle building and gaining strength you do need to train to put the extra creatine saturation to work. I'm going to put it to the test with a leg day so let's see if I feel that same feeling that I felt yesterday. Okay, yes, I am training harder. Yes, I am having fun while training a little bit harder. Is it a crazy difference? No, as we know, we don't expect a crazy difference just a little bit of edge session after session. Okay, let's talk some of the negative side effects that we always hear about creatine. The most concerning or scary sounding is kidneys. The connection between creatine and your kidney. When you take creatine your body produces more creatinine. It's just a waste product. You just pee it out and if you have healthy kidneys it's not really a concern. You're just peeing it out. Now if you have kidney disease that's where that can be a problem for two different reasons. First off your kidneys because you have kidney disease might have a hard time peeing out that creatinine and processing that creatinine. On the other hand creatinine levels are a marker for kidney health and so if you have any kind of health problem that you're trying to get some answers on and your doctor sees really high creatinine levels on your labs it might be confusing for them to figure out what's going on. So anyway, talk to your doctor if you're supplementing with creatine and if you have any health issues and you're taking labs regularly to figure out what the problem is then supplementing might not make sense. Generally speaking creatine has been shown time and time again to be a safe supplement to take. We have more studies on creatine than pretty much any supplement so it's generally safe. There isn't anything that points us to believe that creatine itself causes kidney problems. As far as permanent weight gain when supplementing with creatine that is something that may happen especially if you are gaining muscle. This is where I would check in with your ultimate goal. Is your goal body recomp to where you're losing fat and gaining muscle or is your goal just weight loss meaning do you only care about the number on the scale. Gaining muscle and having a more lean looking physique is more important to you than overall weight number on the scale then I would still supplement with creatine even if you are up a few pounds because you will be leaner. So yes maybe you will gain a little bit of weight because hopefully that is gained muscle mass but you're still reaching your goal of body recomp, losing body fat and gaining muscle. Can you say hi? Can you say hi Violet? Hi! Okay this is Violet she is eight months old. Obviously you guys have seen me taking creatine and I am still nursing her. You want to play? Oh she might be hungry. First of all creatine seems to be really safe when it's studied in adults and elderly people. It has obviously the strength benefits but what's more interesting in this case are the cognitive benefits. When it's studied in a lab with animals creatine seems to have some neuroprotective benefits. Whenever the mom was supplementing with creatine it seemed like the babies that she had had better outcomes when it came to birth asphyxia. So the animal studies with creatine during pregnancy are really interesting and promising. Human studies are less so and they are interesting. None of it gives us clear answers as to whether or not it's safe or unsafe. It seems to be safe, it seems to be beneficial but we don't know for sure yet. The biggest risk when it comes to supplementation during pregnancy and nursing is contamination. So that's why you always want to choose a brand that is third-party tested. When it comes to nursing we know even less. Creatine is passed on through breast milk but there's no way of telling or calculating how much. The cognitive benefits that we receive from creatine are really interesting and maybe they're beneficial for baby but we don't know that and I waited until she started on solids. It's just what I felt comfortable with especially considering that she's healthy a little bit older now and now getting more food than just my breast milk. Isn't that exciting? Isn't that exciting? It's September 1st an entire month 30 days maybe 31 days of taking creatine. Let's see if there are any changes. My kids are running around crazy right now. Okay we'll be right back. Let's put back on my rainbow tie-dye bikini. See if we have any changes. Okay do you guys see what I see? I 100% look leaner. I can see in my core look where my waist dips in and look at where my thighs meet. You can see I lost fat in my legs and in my waist. I am in disbelief honestly fully expected to put on some weight. Side view I don't see that much of a difference honestly but on my back you can see even more my waist and like my butt shake line looks like more prominent so I'm calling it. Bigger glutes were made front double by my biceps just look more lumpy. Did not expect this kind of result so let this be a testament because a lot of people ask me like oh can I take creatine when I'm cutting? Yeah yeah you definitely can. The only thing that I changed during this challenge was creatine. I was honestly just happy with the feeling of going harder in my workouts but I'm definitely happy with being leaner without really doing much different. So okay I need a hype song carry oh my god I cannot believe I was able to lift that off the floor. If I can hit this I will literally laugh out loud. I'm nervous. Oh my god I can't believe this is real it's magical honestly. If you're not into strength training then you won't understand how impressive this is. Long training age 10 years of training specifically strength training. It is hard hard especially I'm 37 years old. It is very hard to go in and get like 90 percent 95 plus without kind of getting specific with that training so it's been a month and my training is not optimized at all to hit that right now. So I am mind blown right now. Well 30 days of creatine at only five grams and I am very very happy to see those results. I'm actually shocked that it made such a big difference. I will needless to say continue my regular dose and I might even up it to 10 grams of creatine per day. I'm looking more into it and researching more about that dose recommendation and it seems like it's safe and might even be more effective. So I will report back if I happen to do that for another 30 day challenge. If you guys are looking for another creatine video then be sure to check this one out and of course if you need creatine then check out buff chick supplements. It is very rare to find a brand that is women owned and women run and buff chick is one of those brands. We're third party tested and you can get your creatine in both unflavored and in flavored versions. So I highly highly recommend that brand obviously. We'll see you guys in the next video. Bye.

=== FILE: I Tried Jake Gyllenhaal’s Roadhouse Workout [PU5UtADTRyU].txt ===

 hello, my strong, strong friends. Today, we are training, like, Jake Gyllenhaal in Road House. ["Road House"] Road House. ["Road House"] Road House. What's the point? Oh, god. Oh, god, I'm getting nervous. You guys all saw Road House. Did you see Jake Gyllenhaal's abs? I got to figure out what he's doing. He looks so good. I'm calling it. I want to look like Jake Gyllenhaal in Road House is the new I Want to Look Like Brad Pitt in Fight Club. Right? Anyway, we're going to do Jake Gyllenhaal's workout that he used in preparation for filming Road House. The movie is unbelievable. I freaking loved it. And he looks so good in it. His trainer is Jason Walsh, who I swear to god, this guy must have the best marketing team. He trains every single superhero. Years back, we did Brie Larson's video, her training for Marvel. She also is strong as heck. This guy's getting famous actresses that lift their faces off. So shout out to Jason Walsh. In the workout given, they start off with some mobility drills. They have this $70 stick. That looks pretty cool. But it's basically a PVC pipe. But on the ends, it has some flexibility capability. I don't have that. And I did think about spending the $70. But let me just show you what I do with the PVC pipe. He does a lot more exercises than just a shoulder pastor. They're using the sticks. Going all. He's like going all. Yeah, they're going all doing some stuff. Maybe I got to get the stick, OK? Maybe I just got to spend $70. In the mental health video that they posted, they've got this Proteus motion machine. It looks like the most badass thing I've ever seen. Some performance centers have them. Eric Kressy endorses it. Eric Kressy is like, oh, gee, strength, god, right? It looks like a great tool for elite athletes, where you need explosive power. So it gives you resistance on the way back and on the way forward. We don't have that. So we're going to use a landmine. I've got a couple of different ways to set up a landmine. This little implement that you can get from Rogue can just go into a stack of plates. And then you get your barbell and put it into this sleeve. And you have something that can work some rotational movement. If you wanted something to set up to work on some explosive rotational work, you could get a landmine implement and do this oblique twist, kind of like a long range of motion, rushing twist. And load this. You don't have to go really heavy, but you can get some oblique work. His abs, like I said, are popping. And he does so much rotational work in this program. Do I get to punch you in the eye? No, that wasn't in the program. OK. There's a ton of movements you can do with a landmine. You can do a simple press or get another attachment, do a Viking press. You can also do a clean to press to work on that transfer and make it more explosive. Very versatile tool. If you don't have the little sleeve that I have, some people will also get a tennis ball, cut it open, and use that as your fake landmine. They do give a little segment on nutrition. It's very short. They show chicken breasts, and they show some protein powder. So I wanted to share with you guys my protein powder, butchic supplements. If you are a lady or a guy, whoever you are, we have a women's performance supplement brand. One of our best sellers is our protein, because I am very picky when it comes to protein flavor. Top seller for our Buffway is Fudge Brownie. It's amazing. But lately, I've been working out in the morning, and I've been doing orange creamsicle, Buffway, and orange Gatorade powder. It is so good. You've got to try it. Since I haven't uploaded in a long time, you guys have not even heard of our new top product, which is Buff Coffee. We've got 18 grams of protein per scoop and 125 milligrams of caffeine. These are amazing. These are our cult favorite. People sell them out so quickly. You can use code MEGSQUATS for 10% off all things BuffChic supplements. Roadhouse! Ready for the first big strength bit of the training program, sled pushes. When Jake Gyllenhaal is shown doing a sled pushes, it looks like he's going pretty slow. But the weight stack is all the way up, so I thought this would be fun. For Grid and I, who's behind the camera, to max out our sled push. Sound good, Grid? Mm. About two years ago, Grid and I did a lot of sled pushes when we were preparing for the Army Combat Fitness Test, which has a sled portion of the test, but it is pretty lightweight. And the idea is to pull it very quickly. So we've trained with sleds before, but have we ever maxed it out? Absolutely not. Let's see if we can go as heavy as Sir Gyllenhaal. Sir, distance you're going for on this? Ah. Ha ha ha ha. Come on, mate. Hold on, you need a little more momentum. Okay. Okay. I'm going too fast. He's not going super far. He's indoors in the gym. There's no way of telling how easy his sled is to push in the gym floor, or how much harder it is to push for him. But we can't see how much weight he's loading, so we're just gonna look around and find out, I guess. It's really more so like the initial part. You do need to get momentum or something to push off of. Doing my plug. This is our first video back in almost a year. I know a lot of you guys have been asking, am I gonna be back? If you're new here, hey, subscribe. I'm back if you didn't know. And people always ask like, what happened? I'm like, oh, I did this crazy thing. I had a daughter, when she was really little, it was super easy to stay on top of things. And then she turned to a toddler and it just became impossible. But now we're managing. I think. She's a little wild one. She do be running a lot. She really be trying me. 120 is 264. Well, that's like 275, right? Cause it's 55. 275 plus like maybe 90 or something. Yeah. Drive. Roadhouse. What would Jake Gyllenhaal do? He would push your shit cause he has eight abs. Come on, man, push. Keep pushing. That might be it. I think I gotta top out and let you finish. It is a really dusty day for us. So we might be sliding everywhere, you know? Yeah, we've been a, oh, I thought you meant like weird, dusty. Oh no, it's so dusty. It's so windy today. Oh yeah, yeah, blame it on the conditions. Let me try one more time. Break it up into two sets. Come on. Push. That might be it. I do like this way of doing very heavy sleds pushes. Felt my posterior chain being lit up, whereas in my prior experience, doing it for just endurance training was very difficult, but it's kind of nice to feel your muscles moving instead of just your lungs. It was very hard. That was very hard, but we loaded it up as heavy as we could go. I can't tell how much Jake Gyllenhaal is pushing. Next we have like a conditioning circuit. So we're going to put together a lot of his more less loaded movement and see. We're going to be using force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force force range of motion. The lift gets easier because there's less weight being held up by your body. His push-ups are pretty wide grip. Usually I come in more narrow, but let's see. Okay. Oh, shit. He gets kind of stiff at the top. Yeah, it's just because we don't have a great implement for this. We're trying to make it work for our home gym, but let's see. Okay, that's easier. No, the battle ropes don't really work for this. Can you see why? Yeah. I mean, I am listening it on the way up, but I get no resistance on the way down. So anyway, we tried. All right. Finally, we've gone to the video of something I actually do know about. Jake Jillon Hall looks like he uses a lot of safety squat bar and it looks like he does a couple of modifications for a shoulder injury. So he seems pretty conscious of that with this movement in particular. If you're someone who wants to squat, but you have a hard time getting into your rack position, so if you have shoulder mobility, is there elbow pain or wrist pain, all of the above, try this. This is a safety squat bar and what this can do for you is work around those injuries, or if you're someone who gets some like upper back rounding in the squat, this can help with that weakness. A safety squat bar will be more of a quad dominant squat variation. You're really going to want to push up on these or pull down on these. And you sort of just want to use it to center your balance and make sure you are balanced and holding on to something. Try not to out of the whole push up on this and move the distribution of the load. This bar is very special. It's actually not just a safety squat bar. This is called the Kabuki transformer bar. It can transform into all different kinds of barbells. So you can see here, you can change where the load is or transform the squat to be more loaded like a goblet squat or front squat. Right now I'm on the safety squat bar and then you can even move. It's kind of like your load placement to be more similar to a back squat. So it's more behind you. And then also a low bar squat. Also, you can change how high the load is. Right now it's on the lowest setting to make the bar with the load that I have on here right now even feel even heavier. Why would you want something like this? Well, first of all, it is really expensive. So make sure you want something like this. But it is very high quality and you get a lot of versatility. I would get it if I was someone who's exclusively trained at my own garage gym and also at the same time had some sort of shoulder issue where I just didn't ever want to get into any kind of like barbell rack position where I'm wrapped either in a front rack or wrapped with a bar on my back because you have so much versatility with this. It could be worth the almost $800 that it is. Most safety squat bars are way, way under that. This one's 55 pounds. Kabuki strength system. They make awesome, very, very high quality stuff. Oh, God! I'm like crashing into my elbows. It's been a while. I mean, it's been a while since I've used this and I've always been to work on my form and get into the habit of it. But I'm okay with that way. Not my best performance on this one. We can move on. We can move on. Jake would move on. Jake Jillon Hall in his video does a lot of direct forearm training. It's kind of a lost art, but there are two ways to do the exercise that he's doing without necessarily the machine he has. This is a very simple way. It's a dowel roll. So you just get a dowel or a PVC pipe and connect it to a band and a plate for your weight. You're going to hold your arms out straight and then roll. You're first roll to start looping and then roll for some forearm training. Now this, obviously my arms are extended as well so I can feel it going up through my arms and also in my delts and my shoulders. If you wanted to take your shoulders out of the equation, you can do something more similar to what Jake's doing in that video and you get a barbell, a band, and your plate and then you won't have to isometrically contract your front delts the whole entire time, but you're still doing that same rolling forearm work. You can roll all the way up and then control the roll on the way down. I could probably stand to go a little bit heavier here. One of the things that you see in the men's health video is just a little note on this exercise that your forearm strength and grip strength does translate to longevity and they're referencing a pretty recent study or at least exposure of this study that did show that grip strength and the skill of like being able to just hang from a bar does translate to a longer life. So having some grip strength, I mean usually just picking up heavy weights with your bare hands tends to do the trick, but if you want to improve your grip, this is one way to increase the strength that does help your grip. Now we're on to his bench press variation which he is using a swiss bar or a football bar. I have a Cadillac version of the swiss bar. It seems like he's conscious of his shoulders and some of the variations that we're seeing so we can kind of assume that he has some sort of shoulder issue. So instead of having a bench press where when you're lying down your palms are facing away from you and grip like this, you get to take a more neutral pushing position. This bar has a couple of different options and widths that you can grab. Usually it means you can get a longer range of motion even more with this variation because the bar that I have is cambered. He's not using a cambered bar so it doesn't give me too much more range of motion and also he is floor pressing which would limit how far down your elbows can go. I do like the football bar but again it's just like another thing to have in your gym but it's cool that we get to see a lot of specialty bars in his training. Literally didn't I just say watch your head when you're going in and who bonked his head on the land? Oh this is a really big range of motion. Yeah see you get a little bit more triceps. I love it. Yeah watch you. Take take care coming out of that. Only cues that I have for this are to just grab the bar in the middle of your handle here because it can be really easy to like shift your weight in your wrist when you're grabbing this because it's heavy and this is pretty big big area to grab. All right that's the rest of the Roadhouse workout. Hopefully you guys enjoyed it. The only thing that really surprised me in Jake Gyllenhaal's training program obviously is just a snippet who knows what his like day-to-day training looks like but I'm surprised there's not more like direct ab hypertrophy because his abs looked so awesome in the video or in the movie so I'm surprised there weren't more like weighted crunches like hanging leg raises and stuff like that but he's probably getting so much rotational work so much like functional core work that his abs just be popping and genetics and he's always been in shape. I love you Jake Gyllenhaal. I love you Jason Malsch. Thanks for sharing your programming. We are back on YouTube you guys. Welcome back to the Make Squats channel. Our last video was posted eight months ago and it went viral and we just decided to take a little break after that and go out on a win but we are back. We're not committing to one video per week but we are going to do several videos per month. I just want to make sure we're on the same page as far as scheduling goes and we're so excited to be back. I think we will be updating some of our general strength training tutorial videos overhead press squat bench deadlift how to do all of those because my opinions have changed on some of those since I last posted them and I can't wait to update you guys and I will see you in the next video. Bye!

=== FILE: I stopped training to be hot. Here’s what happened. [Z2qubFbsyBc].txt ===

 that's me on the cover. You see, that's actually me. And Hailey, the woman who offered this book, she recently shared that she was signing autographs. A woman came up to the table and said like, well, don't you think this one took it a little too far? What's crazy is that Dana's in this book too. She's like, didn't make squats taken a little too far. It's like, wait till you open the book. I try to never forget that the reason I'm in the gym is because I love my body and I want it to be strong. I think a lot of people mistake your fitness journey in the beginning of it, meaning that you don't love what you see in the mirror or you want to change it. And yeah, we do wanna change our bodies, but that change isn't always coming from a place of self-hatred. A lot of times that change is coming from like, oh, I see what's possible and I want to get there. Here's my bio. I have one quote and I think this points out how much I've grown or maybe gotten better at communicating. I wasted so much time confused, I said. I either went into the gym and avoided weights or I didn't go to the gym at all. I always felt like it was a chore or something to check off of my list of things to do to get skinny. I was never going to the gym with the intention of being a badass and now that's what I get to do every day. Okay. Do we think she's too much? I think I could get a little bit bigger than that. Come on, lady. Ha ha. learning learning learning Okay guys, this book is incredible. She describes exactly how I felt when I first found lifting. And she's such a good writer. It puts things into words that I have never thought about in that way and it just connected so many ideas for me. If you lift weights and you have gone through a transformative experience, read this. If somehow you landed upon this video and you have not yet started strength training, read this. Read this. Here are all the sections I've had bookmarked. Themes are around body image and confidence and when you are stuck in being so wrapped up in your appearance and how you are perceived, it is very hard to understand that not everyone thinks that way. She kind of calls bullshit when she hears these stories of people who started lifting or started rock climbing or started some kind of like non-traditional method of fitness without the goal of being hot. The way she phrases it is these types of activities pick not playing over not winning. My appearances, conformity and how I felt about it, I saw now were two concepts that had nothing to do with each other. How I felt about myself had nothing to do with my weight or my shape or even how much fat or muscle I had had. It was whether I allowed my body to be the home it should be and always was. This book came out earlier this year and I'm just now getting to it. I know that I mentioned somewhere in the book so I will do a live read of that for you guys. And this chapter sounds familiar so I'm gonna read it and I'll record it and I'll let you guys know if I have any reactions to what's inside. I haven't even started really reading it but it's already so nice. I just read my name literally. It's like just reading the first couple sentences. So in the chapter prior to this one that I just mentioned, I'm not an emotional person at all. She talks about a relationship that she loved and as someone who completely understands like and she's such a good writer that if you've ever been through something like that worse or not as bad, you know exactly how she feels. You know exactly how she feels in that type of relationship where you just start to put together the pieces of like oh this person is nefarious and I'm stuck and you kind of see the path of like continuing with them. And in retrospect you can so clearly remember how insecure you were, kind of judge yourself for letting yourself get into that type of situation. So I just know exactly how she must have been feeling. And she says one of my favorite lifters was named Meg and went by Meg Squats. One of her earliest videos showed her pursuing a 300 pound squat by doing nothing but squatting for three months. As she continued to pursue lifting, she did things like holding open the camera for her Tupperware of meat and vegetable bolognese. She brought with her to work. She later opened up about the compulsive binge eating that followed her participation in a bikini bodybuilding competition describing the dieting and workouts as really interesting because it was so horrible. I hated it. I hated it so bad. After she left bodybuilding she took a powerlifting and in long videos she would explain her powerlifting training, how she ate, how she was preparing for meat. She signed up for what she put in her gym bag, what lifting shoes she wore. She explained that if it fits your macros you can eat it, a radically accepting approach that backlashed against the idea of there being good and bad and clean and unclean foods. She also used multiple videos to patiently explain a lifting program called GCCL. Cut, shout out to Cody Lafever. To her followers, it was an arcane, higher level approach that allowed the users to make a lot of customizations and if they could be taught to wield it gave them a lot of power. What a nice wrap up of what I used to do and what's so funny is that it's all just like the things I shared. Sharing things like if it fits your macros and here's how to adjust your lifting program. Here's how to make your own lifting program. They are so, I have to look up what arcane means. It's so matter of fact, it's like not opinion, it's not mushy, it's not heady. It's just hey here's what I did and here's what you can do. It's all very practical but in the conversation of getting someone into lifting it's so big for some of us. I know some people just work out and some people criticize some of the things that I say and they're just like it's just the gym, it's not that big of a deal but it's not just the gym. It's leaving a horrible relationship, it's finding time for the people who need you, it's having the mental clarity and headspace to not be so obsessed with what you're eating or what you're going to eat later that you miss out on life. It's being on the other side of that. And so just to get more acquainted with her story and be just like a paragraph in an entire book of it is really, really nice. Part of this makes me think of why I've been making YouTube videos again and I think I got really lost in like short form brain rot. I got kind of good at it and making short form videos and that's fine. They're fine, they have a place but really I do like this so much more even though it's so much more time consuming. I think the benefit is still there because there are so many other women out there who are exactly where Casey was in this book and exactly at that moment where you just feel so lost and you just feel so consumed with your body and how it looks and what you're putting into it or what you're not putting into it and not eating. That is all encompassing when you're in that spot that she was in and that spot that I definitely was in. So thanks Casey. I hope everyone watching this buys your book and supports you because you deserve it and I'm just so happy that you found lifting and I'm so happy that I found lifting. I know everyone here, everyone watching this is probably already lifting themselves. I think this is a great book for to kind of recall how you felt before you discovered the power of lifting. It just brings me back you know because I think and I have forgotten. I have forgotten that felt like the pits of hell truly the pits of hell. So just be so obsessed with your body and to where like the noise of how you appear and how you're perceived is just all encompassing. So thank you. With posting on social media so much over the past 10 years, I have had one a lot of changes with my own body over the span of 10 years. Your body is going to change with that comes a lot of opinions and whether or not people find it preferable to them. In fact, most the time when people are commenting on me and what my body looks like it is commenting on how it's changed and it's split. Half the people are in approval of the change as if I needed it and half the people liked the before. I remember specifically posting a lot on social media and people commenting on my body, applauding me, thanking me and saying that I was being brave for sharing certain photos when really I was just like existing. I was just had a body all that to say my entire career people have been applauding or critiquing how I looked and that fact makes what I want to talk about next very tricky and that's self-esteem. Authentic self-esteem has given me the power to truly not give a flying fuck what people think about my body. The part where I don't shine is my worthiness like my feeling of being worthy enough. For example, there have been so many times where I have wanted to post the video or talk about strength or give my opinion and I have felt unworthy of doing so because I'm not a PhD. I'm not the strongest person in the world. I've only been doing this for so long. The part that's missing is just the understanding that regardless of all those things and regardless of how good we are, we are still worthy. I have a friend who is really good at putting ideas like these into words and actions. This is her. Her name is Molly. Let's get into her book. She has this exercise that is basically just practice shifting your thoughts from negative to just slightly negative. So the way Molly says it is every time you catch yourself thinking or saying something negative about your body, your abilities, another woman, you can practice shifting your thoughts and stages. So step one is practice shifting your thoughts from negative to only slightly negative. So your negative would be I hate looking in the mirror because I don't like my body slightly negative. Not that we need to go to 100% positive right now is looking in the mirror is hard because I'm uncomfortable in my body. I don't have to love my body every step of the way. I don't have to think that I'm the most beautiful, shredded, strongest, smartest person in the room. I have another video on body image that features other creators. So be sure to check that one out next and I'll see you guys in the next one. Bye.

=== FILE: I tried Every Pilates class so you don’t have to： Solidcore vs Lagree vs Reformer [yfv9RZRC4pk].txt ===

 I did a Pilates class every single day for 43 days. Pilates, in my opinion, has a huge branding problem, so it makes it really hard to understand what someone's talking about. So in this video, I'm going to share with you all the different styles that I tested and give you my perspective on what I like best and what I liked the worst. PILATISFUSION, slash BAR. BAR is totally not my thing. You're doing a lot of pulsing. It's lots of tiny pulses and tiny movements. I find to just be kind of annoying more than anything. Totally see the overlap, but altogether, BAR is just not for me. Down the list. Number eight, contemporary reformer class. Probably the most popular way to do Pilates. One of my instructors did say, oh, contemporary is kind of like doing cool stuff on the reformer. Usually I'll use a reformer. The classes were packed and we almost always hit a full body workout. So footwork, lunges, a surprising amount of chestwork, and front dealt work. I had difficult times in these classes, but not truly enough resistance to really feel like I'm killing myself. The classes were moving through this flow-like state routine. So if you wanted to add more resistance for an extra set or something, it would be hard to do that and also keep up with the class. OK, let's move on down to number seven. Springboard reformer. It was very, very fun. The thing that I don't like about springboard reformer classes is that they are marketed as like a cardio class, which I didn't really feel like my heart rate got up much in this class, but it was very fun. You are on a reformer that has a large board at the end of it, kind of where your foot bar would be. The idea is that you're pushing against the board, jumping while lying down and getting some hang time. It does take you a minute to really get the hang of jumping and getting kind of like the timing of it in itself is a kind of fun challenge to do. If you are ever invited to a springboard reformer class, even if you've never tried Pilates, I highly recommend doing it, especially if it's beginner friendly or marketed as beginner friendly. It is so much fun. This next section, I think Pilates purists will say, well, that's not Pilates, and they're right. So let's get into it. Solid core. Solid core is insanely popular. The differences between solid core and traditional Pilates are instead of being done on a reformer, it's done on something called a mega-former. It is this huge piece of equipment. The solid core classes are done in a really jam-packed room. The mega-formers are very close to one another. Now, people who do solid core are absolutely obsessed with it, and I get it. You get a really tough workout. In fact, if your goal is I want to kick the shit out of myself, then I highly recommend you do solid core. This shit is very, very hard. Lunges, chest press. Bye, thanks for the class. That's a deep-lined chest press. Cable fly, lots of chest work. Oh my God, my chest is fried. It was kind of fun. It was kind of fun, and I really did feel like I was working hard at something. It will have a huge emphasis on your core starting off immediately in the class with a plank. My number one complaint about the solid core experiences that I had was it was so hard to hear what the instructor was doing. Pull your abs to spine, spine to mat, mat to tailbone, tuck to 155 degree angle, we pulled through the line. We pulled through the floor. Now, people who love solid core have told me after your fifth class, you really start to understand. Like, you start to be able to clock what she's saying every time. So there is a steep learning curve. That's not to discourage anyone from trying it out. I think you'll be fine if you're in control of your body at the end of the day. Like, you don't have to do everything that she tells you to do. Solid core doesn't program any rest. So if you need to take a break, then that's on you. It is intense. Number five is solid core's cousin. ["Solid Core"] If you guessed, legree, you would be right. Legree and solid core, like I said, are cousins. In fact, there is some pretty serious drama. The founder of solid core was once a protege to the legree people. And legree, like Pilates, did not trademark or did not make it so that someone couldn't completely copy the style and start their own franchise. And so, don't quote me on this. This is all rumor-alleged. Someone DM'd me this once. They are very close, but they do have different ways of referring to certain movements. In both, you're on a mega-former. Legree is also music up, lights down low. I much more enjoyed my experience with legree, the studio that I went to. It just, because it's not a huge franchise, it just felt more boutique. It kind of felt really calm when I was in there. Definitely more calm than solid core. But yeah, legree just had a little bit more personal of a vibe, which makes sense because solid core has a ton of locations. And each legree studio, each studio that has their own legree will have their own distinct style. I did do several legree classes. One was on the big mega-former. And then they also have some classes that can be on a mini mega-former. You will hit most of your full body, and a lot of it you are reaching kind of like muscle endurance failure, I would say. Or maybe for me, it's just like mental failure. Cause there were a lot of times where I'm like, okay, I could pulse this for a hundred more times, but I literally just don't want to. Now that is a me thing because I'm not doing Pilates to build muscle or reach muscular failure for something like a lunge. If I wanted to do a lunge, I would just go to the gym and do it very heavy. Now I know, especially Pilates teachers don't necessarily agree with that way of thinking, but for me, if I'm training a movement pattern, it is to build strength in that movement pattern so that I'm more powerful whenever I need to do it in real life. And in my opinion, pretty much all methods of Pilates don't load heavy enough for me to get that result. And in the bottom half of my list, I think the thing that separates it from the rest is really a lot of these classes would leave me doing things where I personally was just kind of like, this movement is not difficult for me. It's just uncomfortable. So just because something is hard, just because something is burning, doesn't mean that it's going to get you closer to your goals. Okay, let's go into number four. And then I think this is really where we start to see things that I really enjoyed in my Pilates experience, obviously. Some of you guys are wondering, girl, why are you doing so much Pilates? So let me explain. Usually I'm in the squat rack. If you didn't know, I'm a strength coach and I've been getting women like you stronger for the past decade. And we do it all on the Stronger By The Day app. And I'm serious about continuing my education and staying on top of coaching best practices. Not just reading the research, but testing it myself to see what actually works and why people love things like Pilates so much. Unlike our venture-backed competitors with their icky marketing tactics, we're built by coaches like me for real women. Just search our thousands of five-star reviews on the app store and start your free seven-day trial today. The Contrology Book. Let's do a history lesson. You may or may not know that Pilates comes from the one and only Joseph Pilates. During World War I, he developed controlled mat exercises to keep people strong in confined spaces. After he moved to New York City, he published his book, Return to Life Through Contrology, which is this book, and that introduced the original 34. So this is a fixed sequence of mat exercises designed to restore your posture, breathing, spinal mobility, and full body control as a daily health practice. A lot of people who did his method in his New York studio were dancers. You can trace from Joseph Pilates and his protégés and then things split off from there. A lot of his protégés have their own certification programs, but you can look at the lineage and try to get as close to what Joseph Pilates intended. A lot of the movements in here will look very familiar. The hundreds where you're pumping your arms. The teaser is in here as well. And I believe when someone says I'm doing classical Pilates, it is the 34 original Contrology exercises in the exact order. Number three, now we're getting to my favorites. If you didn't notice, I'm getting more and more talkative. A mat class. These are kind of similar. If you sign up for a Pilates mat class with someone who is kind of more classically trained, it will look very similar to Contrology. Again, you'll be on the mat, on the ground, in the same order. I guess these are kind of the same thing. Getting in a Pilates mat class is just kind of badass. It's brutally hard, but also you're kind of working closer to something that is more similar to calisthenics, which is picking up skills that you can do elsewhere. Okay, let's move on to number two. Mat and Tower. Now this is fun. There was one studio that was near me and I made friends with the instructors and I loved when we did a mat and tower class. On a mat and tower, you have the mat where you sit, a push through bar and springs on the tower portion coming from above. And I believe springs on the bottom as well. You can just get a lot of different movements and work on here. And I find the push through bar to be one of my favorite ways to train the teaser. I think it combines some of the things that you get from Contrology or a typical classical Pilates mat class, but with a little bit more umph. It's not boring, mat class is not boring, but you get a little bit relief and more fun without being just a reformer class. And my number one favorite way to do Pilates, it kind of has a catch, but it is a private lesson with a comprehensive, trained Pilates instructor. Now let me explain what this means. Most of us who know about Pilates are already familiar with the reformer, but now you know, you have the mat and tower, you also have things like the ladder barrel, the wonder chair and the spine corrector. Now, when you do a private lesson with a teacher who is comprehensively trained or comprehensively certified, you get to play with all the different apparatuses. And that's where you can really dive in and get into what your goals are with Pilates. I also really like the fact that you're with a teacher who has eyes on you and Pilates does really pride itself on form and being precise with movement or at least working towards that precision. So it was kind of fun to really focus on making movement look beautiful and have a sort of flow that I don't normally get in my regular workouts. I would say as you go down this list, you kind of get closer and closer to something more like calisthenics where you're mastering moves and you're building the strength to make movement look a certain way as a means to achieve the skill or achieve the goal of it. And with the exception of solid core and leguri, because those can be really core heavy, I would say you get more and more core focused as you go down the list. The biggest con about my number one is that it is insanely expensive. I'm talking $150 per session, at least where I took the classes. But I feel like that is somewhat on par with what personal trainers can cost. Semi-privates are definitely less expensive, but the thing that I don't like about that is in the semi-privates that I did at the same location, you tend to get more contemporary reformer because your class isn't specific to what you want. Now it makes total sense to me that in a semi-private, you have different ages and people looking for more full body workout. Whereas me, I'm just like, no, I want to train my core and I want Joseph Pilates to look down on me and say, oh yeah, she is kind of doing it. If you're able to find a semi-private class where you have more than just the reformer, I feel like that's a good place to start if you want something more classical and do a little history lesson, if you will. Well, that's all for my list. Let me know what your favorite method of Pilates is. Or if you've only tried one or two of these, let me know what you think about them. I had so much fun in my Pilates experience and I was just shocked at how many different variations of Pilates are. So next time somebody invites you to a Pilates class, make sure you ask them, well, what are we talking about here? And if you guys are new here, then please subscribe to my channel. I am on a mission to get 700,000 subscribers by the end of 2026. So I would greatly appreciate it if it could help me reach that goal. I will see you guys in my next video. Bye.

=== FILE: I'M STARTING A NEW PROGRAM - bench baddie but make it deadlifts 🤔 full lower body workout [XkqZ5DkfMwU].txt ===

 têteogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogenogen the fourth because the fourth is the newest one that we picked up but let's go see how they're going, how they're doing. Hey how you guys doing? Can we come check it out? You want to be in the YouTube video? Wow looks great! Wow so anyway you can see I'll show you the current Buff Chick warehouse where all the supplements are warehouse that is on the other side of this wall that they're gonna be tearing down so it's basically gonna be all warehouse space. I think each of these is 1600 square feet something like that. We'll have to work and he'll know exactly the score footage but super exciting to be expanding. I think by the time we get back from the wedding because I'm getting married this will all be done so hopefully in the next video that you guys see it'll all be finished. So this is the current Buff Chick warehouse I'm sure Diana and Lauren will be like don't show them just because they're preparing to move and reorganize everything. We do have a Javiko launch today the rest hard lift heavy sweats so they're working hard on that and let's train okay! In Kanto we're listening to in Kanto today. We don't talk about it. Did I say that for you? In Kanto! Kanto! Because I saw Disney on ice not too long ago and funny story so did Grid. He went to a separate show. We both had front-row tickets. Yeah! Life in Texas is rough! Okay! Alright so we're gonna train we are on week one of bench baddie which is a new macro cycle of stronger by the day. Exciting developments with the app. We now have a three-day a week option so if you've been avoiding downloading stronger by the day or trying it out there's a free seven-day trial. If you've avoided doing that because there wasn't a three day before now you can join. But anyway I know the cycle is called bench baddie but of course we still prioritize movements other than bench. There is just basically the biggest difference is a peak and taper for your bench. With that we still hit lower body lifts. So today I'm actually going to deadlift. This is my deadlift focus day. I've got a lot of lower body accessories so join me on this workout and let's warm up! Yesterday we benched with my new form from Joe and Marcella so feel a little sore today. You feel sore today? Well I benched and then I did the weighted dips too. I can't wait to see. So I initially warmed up with some sun salutations. I'm gonna do some shoulder pass-throughs to open up and try to work out some of that soreness and then I'm gonna do some around the world. Try and get my back and mid back nice and mobile to be ready to deadlift. Check. This cheap Amazon shorts don't have the best coverage if you know what I mean. And for my last little warm-up sequence I'm going to do an empty barbell complex of a bent over row and a Romanian deadlift. So I have eight of each one. I like empty barbell complexes just to get moving. This one specifically is something that I'm gonna be working on since I'm deadlifting so I'm gonna take an empty bar anyway but it keeps me moving for more reps while working different exercises so I'm warming up my body a little bit. It's a little faster pace because it's so light and I'm kind of drilling in those movement patterns that I'm gonna see in the workout. Which is fine because today's deadlifts are not super super heavy. I'm only training at 77.5% so for me that's 202 pounds which I feel confident doing that. It's 95 kilos. So since we are peaking our bench in this macro cycle the deadlift and the squat will be really base building focus so we will see some of those lower percentages throughout the next eight weeks. I'm looking forward to that. I'm definitely looking forward to increasing my bench one at max because I haven't moved my bench numbers in so long. My all-time bench I think is 178 pounds. I don't know if it's realistic to like get there but maybe. Maybe I could get to like 165. I'd be happy with that but we'll see. It'd be sick to hit a bench PR. Now that I have my new setup too I'm unstoppable. This is my last warm-up. I'm just gonna take three here. Okay update Ryan came in and it's 3,000 square feet of warehouse. I can relate with Isabella and Louisa because I'm both beautiful and strong. It's crazy. Exactly. So I'm gonna be the next Disney star. Well my story I'm a little too old. Oh Lego Lego la do it. Oh do I like deadlifting in these little blazers? This is what all the gym girlies wear. I was actually sick last week and even the week before so I sort of didn't come to the gym at all. I didn't train. I just didn't want to put my body through that. Like I know I would have a shitty workout so some of the days that I came in here I just did one or two things. I did a little bit stretching. My advice when you're feeling like crap is there's no need to like put your body through that especially if you're not going to be able to put your workout to good use. That's my tip on working out while feeling like crap. Don't do it. We almost forgot we need a little pre-workout. Let's have it before my first Amrap set. My only Amrap set. We have new flavors at Buffjake. This is peach Bellini. Our two new flavors are Mimosa and peach Bellini. A little bit of boozy brunch vibes. Boozy brunch on an afternoon workout. You know, haven't been drinking as much so it's kind of nice to like. I don't have FOMO now. Oh, it's light. It's refreshing and I love it. And it has caffeine instead of alcohol so you're gonna get the opposite effect that I get when I'm having champagne right? Bellini or champagne? Yeah I'm a fucking mess. Give me champagne. I'm gonna be asleep in one hour and light-headed and hungover the next day. I feel like champagne hangovers are like... they're the worst. It hits like during the drum. Oh yeah. Amrap set. I just did an extra credit. I was doing touch and go. In the middle of my set I was like, should I be doing touch and go? Do you have any surprises at the wedding that we're not gonna know about? Yeah. Yeah, do you want me to tell you? Do you don't spoil it? Okay, do you want it to be a secret? You want me to take the camera? Okay. We're having fireworks one night. The night of the wedding. Yeah, we got the biggest package of fireworks. They had three options. I was like, the biggest one. You know, this thing is pretty expensive. Maybe some people wouldn't say that's super expensive, but that's a lot of money. What else? There's gonna be a mariachi band during cocktail hour, like eight piece mariachi band. Then there's live music for the actual ceremony part, like cello and the violin. There's some other entertainment. Maybe there's a Cuban band, one of the like, either the welcome or the rehearsal night. So yeah, but the best part is my outfits. I'm still waiting on one dress though. I ordered it from Coca's website. It was sold out. Like I ordered it, placed the order and then called them two days later. I was like, what's going on? Never got confirmation. They're like, oh yeah, we're sold out of this. So then I had to find out a different store. Anyway, what other surprises do we have coming for the wedding, Ryan? I think that you want to add? Baby number two. Yeah, I will not be getting pregnant after now. We are going on our honeymoon, but I will not. First of all, our existing child will be there, so we will not be making another. We have to take care of number one. Okay, on to our first superset of this workout. We have leg press and leg extensions, but both of them have long negatives. So we're doing a four second negative here. I'm going to, of all the machines that we have, I feel like this is our least favorite one. Okay, so what is it? Four second negative? Yeah, four second negative. So we're going to control it and try to draw out our negatives so that it's even on the way down. Sometimes it's really easy to miss time. So you're like one, two, three, oh four and you try to catch up, but let's not do that. Okay. Yeah, that's usually where I put it. Okay, now on to our leg extension. So this one, same thing. Leg extension and then a three second negative. I find that when you have negatives on your leg extension, the hardest part is when you get to the very top, not letting that weight pull you back down. So try to focus on that contraction on the way up and stay strong at that end range of motion. You don't want to, the wrong way to do it would be to just like, grind this out and then you're starting your negative already bent. So I'm going to control it up, squeeze and then start my negative. I got to work on my timing. Up. Ryan had a note for me for my leg extension, so he's going to explain the adjustment that we just made. Now I was just saying that the original setup, her knees were kind of way behind the little pivot point. If you find that little circle. So it was just making it a little bit awkward and more challenging in a non stimulus way. So that looks better. I think we could go back one. Yeah. Okay, thanks for my adjustment, Ryan. Let's see if this is a little bit better. I adjusted the seat so to line my knee basically up with where the machine is pivoting. So let's see if I feel any difference. Okay, not so bad. I kind of like a workout like this where I'm using some negatives, especially because I mentioned that I was feeling sick. So it's challenging, but I know that I'm not just like loading the machine or the bar as heavy as I possibly can. I'm challenging myself in other ways. Our next super set are monster walks and alternating box step ups. So monster rock is pretty simple. It's just a body weight movement with a mini band. You put it just above your knees and then you're walking. Is this how a monster would really walk? Like this. So the idea is that you're maintaining tension on your glutes and kind of similar to what you would do for like a glute kickback, but it's a shorter range of motion and you're just continuing the whole time. Try to keep the tension on the band. You don't want to come in, lose tension and then get it again. You want to keep that tension even throughout the whole walk. And that's your monster walk. Boom. Next we have our alternating dumbbell box step up. For this one, my main cues are to choose a box that is going to be like shorter than what you think it needs to be. A lot of times we see people who choose a too high a box and they're kind of using their momentum to actually get up there. We want to take our momentum out of the equation altogether so that we can kind of lean in on the box, lift ourselves by pushing through the box. So see my toes coming up, but that's because I'm pushing through my foot and using my glute to get me up there. You don't want to just kind of box jump up. So, since these are alternating, I'm going to have a dumbbell in each hand and complete eight per side. Oh, those guys are smoking. Can you smell it? That's a big no-no. I'm going to go yell at them. Next I'm doing a Spanish squat. I was going to use this band, but let me get a thicker band. I'll be right back. Okay, so we recently touched on the Spanish squat and I have personally changed the way that I do these. So either way you do it, you're going to be working some terminal knee extension at the top. So make sure that that band is set up around your anchor and behind your knees so that you feel the resistance and that it's hard to kind of stand all the way straight and squeeze that VML at the top. Now, I've been enjoying doing these by getting a stronger band than that option over there and making it so that the band can somewhat support me so that I can get my hips behind and avoid forward knee travel in this movement. So what that means is that I don't have much knee travel and I'm making this more of a glute movement with that little VML squeeze at the top. So try to think about keeping those shins vertical, sit back, and then pull up to activate the quads only at the end. Not only at the end, but mostly at the end. Yeah. It is hard. You want to try it, Grace? You can play with your balance a little bit and try to focus on keeping your balance on your toes if you're not feeling confident in that band holding you. But I would actually take the band and put it a little bit higher behind your knee. Yep. Nice. Now try to get your torso upright. It's hard, right? You kind of do have to trust the band a little bit. Dude, it's burning already. You enjoyed it a lot. Yeah. On TikTok a couple months ago, there was a trend where people would have the cable machine and a straight bar and they would basically do that movement with the straight bar. Okay, so yeah, this is what they were doing on TikTok. They'd set up an anchor at about knee height and then grab the straight bar. I don't know if they would get too far away from it, but they would basically perform their squats like this. I do not like this option as much as the banded option. You do need a thick band. You can't just use like a little thin flimsy band that you would do for band pull-parts. But this, I mean, it makes no sense to like tie up the cable machine for this exercise when you can do the Spanish squat version. You're not getting anything out of the weight except for stability, but you can get that with the band. So I prefer the banded Spanish squat over this version that was popular on TikTok. Next, we have alternating reverse lunges. I love to do a reverse lunge in a rack with a barbell. It is programmed as dumbbell, but I'm going to switch it up for the sake of you, my friend. I feel it with the barbell, but I can load this. I would say today I would be able to load it up to like 95 pounds, which is a lot more than I think I would get holding dumbbells. It's also a little bit more comfortable for me. So, and also if you want to just go ham and load it up because the reps game is only seven per side, you have the safety. So you just get crazy. Remember in yesterday's video when Joe was talking about stretching the muscle for the dips specifically and like getting more hypertrophy from like getting a bigger stretch. That is what is happening in lunge variations. So a lunge variation is probably the most stretch that you can get in your glute. People still don't favorite over something like hip thrust. Maybe that's to do with load management. But my biggest thing with lunges is it is the one exercise that most people are going to be really, really sore from the next day. Keep that in mind if you ever have lunges programmed where you program them for yourself and what you're hitting the next day too. So if you're designing your own program and you want to hit lunges pretty heavy or Bulgarian split squats pretty heavy, maybe do that when you know you're not hitting legs the following day. Okay. Last exercise is a kettle ball windmill. I love windmill variations. They're an awesome core exercise that we can use to help stabilize our core and also build some rotational strength. So the kettlebell we're going to press our kettlebell up, have our feet pointing in the opposite direction at an angle from our kettlebell. Take the free hand and then push the hip out, keeping my arms and shoulders stacked over one another, touch the ground and then push back up. So when you push back up, you're going to press through the shoulders and feel a stretch in the core. So I'm stabilizing on the way down and then pushing through. That's it. Thank you guys so much for watching this video. Hopefully you learned something new. If you're interested, check out our macro cycle. It's brand new. It's called BenchBaddy. Today was a non-bench day of that program, but if you want to check it out for free on Stronger by the Day. It's my app. It's amazing. We have officially reached over a thousand reviews on the App Store. So you can check out the reviews and see what people are saying about it. It's unbelievable. You're going to love it. And you can try it for free. So check that out. The link in the description of the video. Thank you guys. I'll see you the next one. Bye.

=== FILE: It's like HYROX but for real athletes. The next big Fitness Competition [S87O0bJNSEI].txt ===

 everyone knows that Hyrox is the new it-girl of fitness competitions. And I don't know about you guys, but I can't help but feel like this is not me. I get it, there are some weights, but Hyrox is a true endurance event. I've been asked so many times on whether or not I'm going to try Hyrox, but that is the same question as asking me if I'm going to run a marathon. It's just not something for a meathead like me that is completely in line with my goals. But I will say the community, the vibes, and the competition aspect as a whole gives me major, major FOMO until I heard about this brand new fitness event held down in Austin, Texas called Apex. Apex is a seven event competition to test your speed, power, strength, and endurance. Now this is what I'm talking about. This is where the meatheads, the former college athletes, and the slightly thicker boys and girls belong. So this weekend we're packing up the kids, we're heading on down to Austin, and I'm going to figure out how athletic I truly am. Apex this weekend, listen up. There's one thing that is going to make or break your experience and your ability to perform your absolute best at the competition on Sunday. And it's this, wear cleats. You need to lower your body without slowing down. To do this, you need to plant your heel directly under your knee. If you plant too far out in front of your knee, you're going to lose momentum. That's too hard. First event is the Fast 40. Luckily you don't have to approach from blocks or start from blocks, which I think is in my favor. I made a friend yesterday, so let's just ask her like two tips. Mom, please, do you guys talk about five minutes? We're going to head over for the first one. Okay, we just got a five minute warning. I haven't really warmed up, but I think I'm going to do just fine. Okay, one warm-up tip and one tip for the 40. A-Skeps, getting off the ground as fast as possible. And then one tip for during the 40 is run past the 40 yard line. Don't shoot for the 40 yard line. So like act like you're trying to run at the 60. Because a lot of people will slow down at the end. We got this. I'm hyped. I can't get so close. It felt fast for me. It was fast. Let's see how fast it is when we get there. I need more adrenaline and that being in the official arena will help me there. It's on! Let's see you, Meg. Head down, then open. Drive, drive, drive! Come on! Okay, you guys low-key, am I semi-decent out there? Like, I don't know, but it felt good. And after this first event, my nerves were just mostly gone. And I was starting to have more fun with everyone who was out there. The competition so far feels big and important enough to feel like you're doing something cool. But small and intimate enough that like people's families are there, my kids are running around. And I'm making friends while also feeling supported and like important people are watching me. Like there are some legit coaches out here volunteering and throwing this event. I just feel special. The next events are the med ball toss, the broad jump for distance, and a vertical jump. The women's med ball is six pounds, so it's not very heavy. But the ball is big and awkward enough of a size that this is the event that I wish I would have practiced. Of all the events, this is the one that I am definitely least prepared for. I've done a similar med ball toss where I've trained this for the ACFT, but that was also one of the only categories I've ever been able to do. So I should have known better and I should have prepared. Whoopsie! You have to stick the landing so you can't shuffle off, your hand can't touch the ground. Okay? You good? Jump, you're gonna get your measurement, heel off. The broad jump was really tricky for my first heat. The rules are you have to jump with both feet and land with both feet and stick that landing. So you can't fall forward, you can't fall forward, you can't fall forward. If you do, it is a fault. In my heat, six competitors faulted on their first jump. So I was absolutely shitting myself at this point. Okay, you guys, we are finally at my time to shine. We're in the trap bar deadlift portion, the strength portion. We've got one minute to do as many reps as possible. And if you know stronger by the day, then you know that we love an AMRAP set. I went into this knowing that the winner from last Apex Games hit 44 reps out here. So my strategy was to do just one long AMRAP set for as long as I could hold onto the bar and then set it down and break up with as big of sets as I could before I moved on to just singles and short sets. I thought my hands were gonna be the limiting factor here, but my traps and my glutes were lit up. And I know that I have to run the mile next, so I am saving a little bit in the tank, but I will say I kind of regret that. Okay, let's move on to bench. We've got 115 pounds on the bar for one set. After holding on to that deadlift bar for so long and going straight into bench, I was gassed. I did have time to put my cleats on because we are benching on the turf. So I think the cleats were the move on the turf for the bench press. I'm so nervous and I'm feeling a little pukey. It's raining baby. Yeah, right, our fall family is here and there's a bunch of competitors with their just one leg. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. I'm so nervous. And learning learning learning learning learning learning learning learning So, Emerald is having a blast. I love my new baby. Aw, she's so cute. You show the baby over here? A little repuncle. Yeah, I am surprised at how tough my grip felt in the first, whenever I got to bench, I am surprised how my hands just did not feel strong at all from going straight into deadlift. There's not a lot of recovery time. There's not a lot of time to get your bearings or even warm up. Things are moving very quickly. I am happy that I'm in the second sheet of the mile. Yeah. They're corralling everybody and they are on it. It is 10 a.m. We started, I would say, probably at 8 30. So, it's a quickly moving event. We have 80 competitors here. So, it's a lot of people to make sure they're in the right places. But, so far, it's very well run and very fun. Like, I'm just having a lot of fun with all the competitors. And here's Hannah. Let's go, Hannah! Woo-hoo! Yesterday, when everyone was asking, what's your goal for the mile? I kept saying I would love to run an eight minute mile or just like sub eight. I had no idea how I was gonna feel after the deadlifts though. I feel pretty dead and mostly I feel nauseous. Like, I'm gonna vomit. Luckily, literally every girl in my heat has said the exact same thing, that they feel nauseous and like they're gonna throw up. I just felt 10 move the trash cans to the end line. So, I think that means some of us are gonna definitely throw up. Oh, we're starting on the cone. Today's the shooting game. Let me make sure I got everybody. You are in. After you. Have a warm up. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Okay, we did it, and I hit my goal of a sub eight minute mile. I am so happy that I was able to do that. I cannot believe it. One of the women in my heat, her name is Paige and she's an ultra marathoner and I knew that she was going to be fast. I kind of hung out with her for the first lap. Well, I at least saw her in my sights for the first lap and then found a little bit of a pack with some friends that I made in my heat. I ran faster than any mile that I had in my 30 day challenge. So I am happy that I did that in preparation for this one. Really the mile was the only thing that I trained for a little bit. All together, I am so impressed with how kind of athletic I am. Like I feel like I was in the middle of the pack for most events. We will see how scores shake out. I thought I was going to perform way, way worse, way, way worse. It's nice to be around so many diverse athletes. There are some guys here who I could see jumping the vert and I was across the field. I could see them popping up over the tents over here. It's crazy. Okay. I got out of your 15. Out of how many? How many? How many? How many? 40. 40. Dude, that's good. I'm in the upper half, baby. I'm in the upper half. Hold on, hold on. Let me hit a bit on that. What number were you? The competition is over and out of 38 competitors, your girl Meg Squats placed 11th. 11th! I would say that I did pretty well considering what I thought I would do. I would say that I did pretty well for a 37 year old mom. The other women who had kids there, they beat me too. Of course. My friend Hannah was there and she ran a six minute mile. 606 was her final mile time and she said that that was slow for her. And I made a new friend Paige and thank God Paige and her family were there because her daughters entertained my daughter the entire time. And it just gave me all the good vibes. Both of their families were there and our kids got to play together, which was just like the best feeling ever. Overall, the entire competition made me feel like a badass, loved and supported by my family and this community. And I had so many moments of just watching our girls there all hanging out and so proud that this is the community that we get to raise our girls in. These are the kinds of women that I want my daughters growing up around and looking up to. Mom, you have this kind of pressure to do it all like, and I don't think there is room to truly do it all, but I think there is a ton of room and an even more room for growth for just moms doing badass shit and being recognized for it, which I think, you know, not all of the women there were moms, but for me, this was a perfect representation of moms doing cool shit. I'm someone who started lifting because of CrossFit and it really pains me to say, I hope I don't get canceled for saying this, but CrossFit feels very over now. It's just over and Hirox, it's just too much running for me. It's too much running for me. So thanks to Tim Riley and all of the people who put on this awesome event. I had a great time. My conclusion is that I do think that this is going to be bigger than Hirox and I am so excited to see better and better athletes at the next one. The next one's in April. I think maybe I could adjust my training to really make it work and try to improve my apex score. What do you guys think? Let me know in the comments if I should expect to see you guys there in Austin for the next one. If you like this video, then you're definitely going to love my Army Combat Fitness Test series. Check that one out here.

=== FILE: I’m in pain but I lift heavy anyway. [KDejoHBf2LI].txt ===

! You guys, I am dealing with the same kind of trap pain, but now on the other side, I think I'm a little too sedentary. Lifting heavy and nursing a lot is not a great combo. Let's move around and see if motion is the lotion that I need. Here's my session for the day. Squats, five sets of 3 at 85%, deadlift, and then accessories. I'm going to try and go heavy on those Bulgarian split squats. 17 on squats. Last time I squatted, I was at 225. Deadlifts are also at 225, but those are ascending sets. Try to go heavier each time. We'll see how heavy I want to go. Actually, I thought that looked like too much volume because it was. I was on the regular gym program, but I personally run Express. Whoa. I'm also timing my workout to try and make sure I stay on track and I'm not here for too long. If you didn't know, I'm nursing. The reason I haven't been coming back here to the Buff Trick Gym is because I cannot pump anymore. I can't do it. I can't do it anymore. Just like every time I pump, I just can't get anything out. I just can't. I had to stop. It was also driving me a little bit insane because I would pump for not kidding you, like 30 minutes, and pumping is painful. It would be painful and uncomfortable, and I would pump it for 30 minutes, maybe even an hour while I have another kid running around and get nothing. All that to say, it's a 20 minute drive here, 20 minute drive back. It's where I need to be out of here in at least an hour, and it makes it hard to do when I'm filming everything because I want to make sure it's a helpful video too. It feels fine, but knowing that my trap is giving me issues today, I might just lower the volume just a little bit and count some of my warm-up sets as my working set. I'm gonna hit this clip. All right, 215. Just for free is all we need. Not far there. Walk out. Jesus. See, I'm already 22 minutes in, and maybe it's just the out of time of setting up the camera, but I'm only on my first exercise. This is the final set. I gotta keep my deadlifts moving, dude. We haven't had like over 100 degree days, but my knee sleeves are like melting off of me. I like to have a little bit of electrolytes. I'm noticing there's only so many supplements that I'm having, but electrolytes are usually generally in the clear. Generally for a salted kiwi, it is so good. If you like a little bit of salty, but not crazy salty like other brands, this is the way to go. It's so good. And it's not overly sweet. There's not like added sugar in it. I made a video the other day that said, this is how I know you've either been lifting in the gym for like under one year or you've been lifting for over 10 years. Do you know what I mean? Can you see what I mean? A lot of people. A lot of people had no idea what the hell I was talking about. And that's how I know they've been either lifting for over one year or under 10. I'm 30 minutes in and on the second exercise. I know that's relatable for a lot of people. Be having that be my life these days. Maybe even a couple of months when she's on more solids. I forgot I switched to sumo. This volume day on deadlifts is actually not that bad because surprisingly my deadlift has taken longer to come back than my squat postpartum. And I'm fully back. Like everything feels pretty good for the most part. Floor feels strong, which is usually my limiting factor. And now I'm just ramping back up. I still lift heavy during pregnancy, but I'm not really testing my one rep max strength. I'm not really peeking my one rep max strength, which is what I'm doing in this current macro cycle. I was working with someone on their deadlift the other day. And a common thing that I see in beginners is that they try to reverse the deadlift on the way down, meaning that they bend their knees too early on the descent. So if you ever feel like your deadlift is awkward or like you run into your knees on the way down, think about just pushing your hips back. You don't need to keep a lot of tension in that barbell. Watch how I'm just like not dropping it. I'm guiding it down, but I'm not staying tight to like slowly lower it down to the ground. That's unnecessary, especially when you're training for one rep max deadlift strength or to see how much you can really deadlift and if you have volume sets. So if you have more than one rep, this is going to be even more important. So instead of thinking about reversing the deadlift and sliding it down your legs, which is going to be very painful and awkward, just push those hips back. Kind of think of it like an RDL. Push those hips back and then you can bend the knees to guide it down. It's going to feel much better on your way down. Okay. One of six, I want a little heavier, three, 25 on my timing sets. Not bad. I'm going to call it there. Okay. Next we've got a heel elevated goblet squat. This is a great movement if you don't have a leg extension machine. Somebody asked me that question the other day. What kind of movements can I do without a leg extension machine and a goblet squat with their heels elevated is going to give you more knee flexion so that you can keep that torso much more upright and go heavy. I see so many people on their goblet squats not going heavy enough. You can carry a lot of weight. When someone asked me that, I was thinking, oh, should I do a video just like kind of old school YouTube resource videos of what to do if you don't have a leg extension machine or what to do if you don't have a hamstring curl machine? Because a lot of my stronger by the day members, they run the workouts from their garage gym. I have so many tricks up my sleeve because I started training out of garage gym when I trained powerlifting and was at the, I guess, height of my powerlifting career. If you can say that. When I was most into it, I was training with myself on a program very similar to stronger by the day just in my garage. Okay. We have our last giant set and I'm going to start off with Bulgarian split squats. Now this is an exercise that is commonly performed incorrectly based on your goal. There's two different ways to do it. You can do a quad focus or you can do it glute focus. First off, you want to get a bit longer of a stride. Now I have seen people do this trick where they just sit down on their surface, extend their leg and choose their stride there. If that works for you, then great. You just want to make sure that you're getting enough of a stretch in your glute muscle. When you're at the bottom position, I don't want to see a lot of knee angle. If I want this to be more my glute. What I want is to have more of a 90 degree angle at the bottom. And last is the torso tip. I don't want to have my torso straight up and down. I want more of a forward lean so that I can dig into this working foot and I'm not pressing off on the back foot. So think of like an escalator and not an elevator. That's all for more glute focus. Say final movement is AB stance RDL. One of my favorites and this is pretty much like a power lifters glute day. The whole workout ended up taking me 65, 60, 6 minutes. So that's with me recording. Usually I like to tell people like, oh squat deadlift days will usually take about an hour maybe a little bit longer. It really just depends on how strong you are. The stronger you are, the more warm ups you need to take. The harder those warm ups are and the harder the working sets are. So you might need more recovery in between the body. I'll be honest, you should take me a little bit less. You can run the full gym program. We'll take it a little bit longer than express program. I always run four day a week express on the Stronger by the day app. I like to have they say like, ah periods don't affect women. Like that. Today we're doing fatho. I always overthink this YouTube channel so today we're just working out. Currently wearing this shirt that Ryan got me when he went to go see Black Sabbath, Ozzy Osworn, his final show. Crazy. But I'm going to change into workout clothes obviously. So let's pick a outfit. We are so back. I got this bag from Fliu. I did notice a yellow outfit which is bold and I even brought this yellowish hat to wear. Got a more Meg-esque color. I thought you said wish me luck. Just wish me lucky freak. And here's the fit. I'm not usually a yellow girl but I think she looks pretty cute. Small update to the gym. A few boxes over here because we are finally replacing this lat pull down machine. Ryan hates this lat pull down machine and it's gotten a lot stickier over the past couple of years. Could be the heat. It is so freaking annoying. Let me show you. Brand is victory. We got this from Rep. We love Rep but this machine sucks. You don't have anything really to brace against when you use the horizontal pull. This is just stuck. Like I can hardly get this out. It's almost impossible to put it in. Okay well now it's actually going in. You're just going to have to trust me that 80% of the time it doesn't work. So a new lat pull down for here and then also a kind of cable system for our garage gym at home. Currently at the garage gym we have like $160 Amazon lat pull down machine so we'll kind of compare different price points. Let me know if you guys want to see that. Alright let's get into the workout. In our final month of bars loaded. Bars loaded is on struggle by the day. It's our program. The goal is one hour max strength. Today what we have is our heavy over. Wait hold on notes what? PB's PR's wherever you're from. I know. In town they call them PB's. I've got my heavy over and press thing. We'll start to paper down as we get closer to our one rep max test in the squat bench and deadlift. The bench press is my volume day. I'm doing one second pause. Work on those pause. My bench has been slackened so we'll see how we do today. I've got a crick in my neck. Like right here. I feel it right here. You can see it right here. I just wish I could pull off my skin and massage it out. That's not a possibility. But I figured this day would be better for my current situation than my volume squat and deadlift day. So that's why we're pressing today. You're going to feel a little bit better after some movement here too. Yeah I think so. Warm up. Let me show you my little mobility routine I have whenever I've got it. Could you show them the whole day? Oh yeah. That's what it's got. We'll get there. We'll get there. Who cares about these when you've got this and this. A long time ago I met with a physio. It's actually way back when. I had a physio with Kevin Oak and the physio. I can't remember his name right now at this moment. But he taught me these exercises whenever you have like a pain in your neck. He basically told me, oh you hold your head way out here. You've got that tech's neck or laptop neck. You have the instinct to want to stretch it out but stretching it out isn't always the answer. So here's what I find helps me. I'm ready for war. I'm coming for throws to turn into a ghost. I need to know everything. Now you'd be surprised at the info you get is by letting them talk. So I'm letting them talk. Gotta keep quiet, maneuver and stance to let them talk. If they body another one body that's just how it go. I got some secrets I'm shaking the game so they stay on their toes. Staying or laying out or stay on their goal. I can't play with the pros. Not like the rookies or they overlooking. They not the beloved. Get none of them nose. None of them cold. They just got lucky but never adapted. So I'm to the one that's coming to blows. My enemies cutting it close. I let them think that they got me but what do you know? I had them beat before we ever spoke. I'm ready for smoke. I need to know everything. Who in the what and where I need everything. Trust me I hear what you're saying but I like as new what you're telling me. I'm curious George. I hop in the Porsche. Five and a horse. I'm ready for war. I'm coming for throws to turn into a ghost. I need to know everything. Now they ain't go harder than me. They need a blade and a sheath. They're shanking the piece of crave for the heat. The army of flea. The tank and the jeep. The navy and sea. Where they some marine. And ace up they sleeve. A team of Marines. The freak on a leash. A beast with an appetite. Raising for teeth. And still they were laid. Feels good. Your barb out looks good. My crick in my neck. Well it's not in my neck. But they didn't hold me back. You persevered. You know what they say. If it doesn't kill you. Makes you stronger. Is that it? No. What were you gonna say? You know what they say. Like ah periods don't affect women. It's like that. Is that what they say? That's what they, yes that is what they say. Okay let's get into my accessories. I had banded face pulls programmed as my first exercise. And I did some of this to add that external rotation. So since I'm dealing with this little pain in my lower trap my goal was to shorten these muscles even more and get a little bit more activation. You can see in this view comparing my back. Look how much more activated my back actually is. In the stronger by the day app this is a super super simple swap. You just easily choose to substitute an exercise. That way you don't feel like you're going way off program when like in my case you need to make a little change. I attempted the 70s a second for my dumbbell row and I completely failed. Sorry about that.

=== FILE: Lift heavy every trimester… [L8ld4WA-L9M].txt ===

! It's time! Hello, my shonk-tongue friends! In today's video, we're going to talk about what it's like to be pregnant and lift really heavy at the same time. All things that I know you want to do, regardless of whether or not you can. Shots fired! Shots fired! Anyway, in a couple of videos ago, I showed you guys the construction that was going on in our newest addition to the warehouse. So let's check in and see how they're doing! We also added a new team member. So you might see her every once in a while, although I think she's going to be working on weekends. That's her choice, not ours. Her name's Jade. She's awesome. We love her so far. Here she is! Yep! She's on the construction site. She's being worked on, but it is cool to see the other side of all the pallets, and I think they're going to completely change the way that we store all of the supplements. Haviko, as you can see, is a little less organized. Don't tell Diane I told you that. That's why Jade has joined the team, you know what I'm saying? But it's cool! Look how much space we have! Hello! When we first moved into this building, we only had this much space. We started with basically the same room that you're seeing right now. We've doubled it. You're just kidding! You need hard hats! You need hard hats! We do need hard hats! Okay, let's get into the video. I asked you guys on Instagram to ask me some questions. Did they ask? They asked. They came through with some really, really good questions. If you didn't know, I have a couple of certifications to train prenatal and postpartum women, and I love it. It's my favorite certification that I've ever took, certifications that I've ever taken, and I love talking about it. So in this video, we're going to do it. We're going to answer every question that you've ever sent me in this video. Okay! This is becoming our official studio space. Fudge Brownie is back. By the time you guys see this video, so check it out, okay? We have like 18,000 brownies in here right now, so I'm trying not to stare at them. Although all of them have been like fingered up by grids, so. You know the most annoying pregnancy advice is? Out of all the annoying pregnancy advice? People mean well, but they tell you to listen to your body. What the frick does that mean? There's another human growing inside of me. So someone asked what are the main considerations that I need to take? I'm tired of hearing I need to listen to my body. I totally understand where you're coming from, and I have a couple of different categories. Let's see if I remember them. So the first is consider your intensity, then consider movement selection, then pressure management, then core and pelvis. Okay? If you can remember those five things, and I'm going to go into depth into all those categories, you will be in the clear. So those are the big things that you need to consider when you're thinking about switching things up during pregnancy and postpartum periods. Okay. Oh, hey. Intensity-wise, the recommendation is to leave a few in the tank, okay? There are a couple of different reasons why you don't want to just start hitting one rep max, start taking one rep max attempts when you're in the gym, when you're pregnant. Lots of those have to do with pain, pressure management, over-exerting yourself. All of those are things that we might want to avoid. So generally, and even the American College of Sports Medicine recommends for pregnant people to leave one to two, maybe even more reps in the tank when they're training, and also choose higher rep ranges when they're lifting. So you won't see in my pregnancy program, you won't see any one rep maxes, you won't see anything under like five reps. So that consideration is kind of to force a lower intensity so that you're not going 95% of your one rep max. You are dialing things back a little bit while still getting a stimulus. As far as what I did for my training and how much I took percentage-wise of my one rep max, I didn't even really think about my one rep maxes. I totally shifted my mindset during pregnancy to just be, okay, I'm going to lift, to be healthy, I'm going to lift to stay strong and avoid pain, which getting strong and being strong will help you avoid pain and pregnancy. I'll touch on that in the pelvis section of this video. And I just wanted to have fun and enjoy movement when I could. So my biggest recommendation there, mentality-wise, is to try to shift your mindset. You're not going to hit a one rep max. You're not going to hit like crazy new PRs during pregnancy. It's really just not the time to do it. So if you can make that shift, you will have a better time training during pregnancy. Let's talk about movement selection. So the question that I got is, is there anything specific to avoid when strength training during the second and third trimester, when did you start changing workouts during pregnancy and when did you start watching for coning? I'm going to touch on coning, but to first answer your question, I started changing my workouts during pregnancy pretty early because I went into my pregnancy knowing what my program would look like. So the biggest thing as far as movement selection goes is there are some movements that, as pregnancy progresses, so in the second, third trimester, as your belly gets bigger, it might be hard for you to complete certain movements. Something with a super narrow stance, like a conventional deadlift, my thighs might just run into my belly and that might be hard to do when I'm super, super pregnant. Same thing with more narrow stance squats and some of those more narrow stance movements. On the other hand, we're going to also say that sometimes really wide stances might cause some pain. So keep that in mind. Not everyone experiences pelvic girdle pain or pubis symphysis dysfunction, that's SPD, but many people do. I had early in pregnancy something called lightning crotch and it is what it sounds like. And it's this pelvic girdle pain that can make it really, really difficult to do wide stance movements or do unilateral movements. So late in pregnancy, I did cut out things like lunges, Bulgarian split squats for certain times when that was being aggravated. Okay, I'm going to take my shirt off just in case the mic is messing up. If you do find that you have pelvic girdle pain, something that might help is before lifting to activate your adductors. So you can take a deflated Pilates ball and you can do this just standing and before you're about to squat or before you're about to do a unilateral movement that has aggravated you in the past. Try to activate those adductors by squeezing the ball in between your legs and see if that helps with any SPD pain that you have. To go with that pelvic girdle pain, you will find that increasing strength and being strong just in general throughout your pregnancy will help avoid pain like that and SI joint pain too, which all these things are really common during pregnancy as your body is changing to give birth, things become different and joints sometimes as far as like SPD pain goes, your small little ligaments and like small little joints and tendons and muscles will kind of start floating. They'll just start floating there and it can cause some pain and that lightning crotch. It sucks. Other things that you might want to do is during squats instead of getting super, super low in the bottom of a squat, which again for obvious reasons, you might want to incorporate a box. So the way we program it is we're not doing a box squat where we're sitting all the way back. We are using a box as a cue to cut our depth. So we're still getting some good depth. My thigh is parallel, but we're allowing ourselves to not bounce out of the hole, which might make your squat a little bit more comfortable in those later stages of pregnancy. Oh God, you see that? I thought I was jumping. Maybe avoid those high impact exercises, things that are known to more commonly cause incontinence, maybe avoid those. You don't have to. And as with anything that I'm saying in this video, if you find that you really want to do something that I'm suggesting you don't, it is your body. You get to choose what you do. So that's a good example of like there are so many people who continue running, they continue high impact exercise all throughout pregnancy and they're fine. My suggestion is if you're an elite athlete and you're going to continue really intense exercise, I would maybe work with your triad, your trainer, your doctor and your public floor physical health therapist to make sure that you're just staying safe. If you don't have all of those things, I'm assuming you're a professional athlete, if you're connecting all those dots yourself, then maybe consider some of the things that I'm saying. If you have no signs of incontinence and you're doing all those things, then you might be fine. If you have no signs of prolapse and you're doing all those things, then you might be fine. I'm not examining you in the public floor physical therapy office. And I would never do that because I'm not a medical professional. And I continue lying flat on my back while bench pressing. This is an awesome question and often a misconception. So the recommendation that ACOG gives, which is the American College of Obstetrics, I never know how to say that in gynecology, they say to avoid lying in supine position for prolonged periods of time while you're pregnant. So let's imagine that I'm bench pressing. Okay, I get down. Okay, I unwrap. How many reps do I want to do, Grid? One, two, three, four, five. I'm going to do more because remember I just recommended. Yeah. Hey, okay. Unwrecked. How long do you think that was? Maybe like 25 seconds and I had a conversation in the middle of it. Is that a prolonged period of time? No. Probably not. The thing that I think they're recommending during prolonged periods of time is sleeping. If you've ever found yourself on your back while you were super pregnant, your legs start to tingle, you start to get a little bit dizzy. If you've ever fallen asleep on your back or one time I was in the dentist and I was like, yeah, I think I should get up. I was sitting in the dentist chair. Can you incline me? I'm dying here. That is what they're recommending to avoid. So that 20 to 30 seconds of a bench press set is probably not considered a prolonged period of time. But while you're exercising, keep in mind those symptoms of feeling dizzy, feeling light-headed or feeling your legs tingle or your extremities tingle. Keep those in mind and if you start to feel any of those during any time during exercise, obviously get up, stand up or sit up and consider avoiding those in future sessions. You can always adjust your bench press to an incline bench super easily. How do you get off from the bench when you're pregnant? Great! You remembered? Okay. We are going to talk about coning a little bit later in this video. But when you're getting off the bench press, I want you to do something called a ninja roll. Sorry, there's a plane. Shoo, shoo. Bye-bye! So how I would get up just regular is like this. I would straight up ninja flip out of the bench. But when you're pregnant, this movement where you're doing like a crunch, so that movement is more likely to cause something called coning. To avoid coning, you might want to roll to your side and sort a ninja roll out. Don't ninja flip, ninja roll. Since we're talking about core movements, there are certain core movements that aren't usually programmed in regular lifting protocols that you probably want to get familiar with and start doing when you're preggy-daggy. What the reason being is, did you know that your belly is going to get really big during pregnancy? Well, it is. Fortunately, because you're growing a human, our core is going to just change so much when we're growing a baby. It's going to expand the rectus abdominis muscles, my six pack muscles are going to stretch and separate and the muscle tissue between them is going to get super, super long. So that is called the linear alba. And coning is when you see pressure pushing through the linear alba, so that separation in between the six pack muscles. Sometimes when people have a pressure management issue, especially when they're separating during pregnancy, you'll see it poking through. That's pressure pushing through those rectus abdominis muscles, pushing in between them and pressing against the linear alba. The linear alba is going to keep growing and growing and growing until birth and we might want to avoid pushing against it and possibly making it so that you lose more tension than you need to during the progression of pregnancy and you might make it longer than it needs to be. So if you're, let's say you're, sometimes I can still see some coning. So do you see that line in between my abs? Let's do a leg raise and see if we notice any coning. I'm going to just not do any strategies that I use to avoid coning and see it what we see. Sorry, it's so hard to like mess up my breath. See anything? I don't know. Right here? Yeah, cause it would have been right here. Yeah, it would have been in the middle. Oh, okay. Well, I have videos of me demonstrating coning. So this might be better than my healed abs. Now I'm super strong and I've been doing all these things to avoid it. After we give birth and in the postpartum period, we want things to come back together. We want our laniya album to return to its regular size and coning session over session for nine months or for months at a time where you have, let's say you're doing a set of 10. So you're doing hanging leg raises and you're coning every time. You're doing 10 reps for four sets and you're doing that over the span of months and months at a time. You're just pushing against it 40 times a day for however many training sessions you want. It is not that huge of a deal, right? You're not going to like hurt your baby, but it's a pressure management issue that you probably want to avoid so that healing in the postpartum period might be a little bit easier. So that's my recommendation to avoid coning. The reason I'm bringing up all this coning is based on grades question to avoid it. And also it relates to what ab workouts can we do to strengthen the core and pelvic floor. And that was something that one of you asked. And my suggestion would be to, instead of doing movements like hanging leg raises or crunches, my suggestion would be to understand how to utilize the deep core and use your transverse abdominis. So those are things that are less intuitive for my people who have been shrink training for a while. Those are things that you might not usually work on. Part of the reason why I suggest finding a pregnancy specific program whenever you're looking into it. But things that you do want to do are learn diaphragmatic breathing, understand breathing exercises to make you feel your best during pregnancy, understand how to connect the pelvic floor with that breath, and also work on some like things like deep core holes or ab wraps that utilize that TVA and those deep inner core muscles. Those are things that you don't usually see outside of ab rehab programs or pregnancy or postpartum specific programs. Sometimes you do, but not all the time. As far as other core movement patterns, find a program that utilizes functional movement. So things like rotation, anti rotation, anti flexion, anti lateral flexion, find things that train the core in all the different ways that it can move. And you might still want to avoid those things like crunches, like hanging leg raises and instead do things like pall off presses, dead bugs, bird dogs, heavy carries, unilateral heavy carries so that you're training the functional core. Someone specifically asked for any alternatives to pull ups and I want to touch on why you might want to avoid pull ups. It's for that same reason. When you're hanging and doing a pull up, it is an exercise that is a high pressure exercise. Your core is stretched out so it has less space to expand laterally. So it might go through that linear album and you might see that coning more clearly or might see that coning more on exercises where you're hanging or have something overhead. With your question, what would I sub for a pull up? Well, the natural answer would be, oh, maybe a lat pull down. But if you're seeing coning in pull ups, you might also see them with lat pull downs. So the regression would be to lower your volume, lower your intensity, maybe do an assisted pull up if that helps, lengthen your rest, lower your range of motion and then consider substituting the exercise for something else. And it's not just with pull ups, but you can do that with all the other exercises if you're starting to see coning. Make those changes first and then consider ditching that one until you're healed postpartum. Okay, we've already talked a little bit about pressure management, but the next question is specifically about the Volsava maneuver. So the question is, is it ever safe to return to Volsava maneuver or breath holding postpartum for heavyweight? My answer is yes, but it depends. First of all, the Volsava maneuver is when I hold my breath to increase intra-abdominal pressure so that I have a more rigid torso and I can lift more weight. 100% I can lift more weight when I hold my breath and do the Volsava maneuver. Because of the progression of pregnancy and the risk that we have during pregnancy and postpartum of pelvic floor issues, of pelvic organ prolapse, of incontinence, the suggestion is usually to avoid increasing pressure here so that you don't exacerbate any of those issues or you don't cause any of those issues by like bearing down on the pelvic floor, holding the breath, doing all these things that we would normally do outside of pregnancy to lift our heaviest weight possible. I don't know if any of you have ever had like a grandma or an old auntie who has been like, you better stop lifting weights. You won't be able to have kids. Have you ever heard that? It's like outside of pregnancy. It's just they're like, if you start lifting weights and you can't have kids. That myth comes from the absolute possibility of pelvic organ prolapse. You're lifting something super heavy, similar to when we see incontinence, most commonly we see incontinence. You're lifting something super heavy, Volsava, all this pressure is here and for women it's going down. All this pressure is here and if you don't have a strong pelvic floor, you may see incontinence. You might even in drastic cases see pelvic organ prolapse. Not super common for especially for people who have never been pregnant or never had a baby, but it is a possibility. So that myth does come from somewhere even though it is very over exaggerated obviously. Now, we open ourselves to that risk when we get pregnant and when we have a baby. Much more likely to experience those things when we're in those stages of our lives than we would be outside of it. So anything that we can do to lower the chance of those things happening is probably something that we want to do. We got another question and someone asked, should I incorporate the Volsava maneuver if I'm in postpartum, in the postpartum period? And then they say, my pelvic floor physical therapist advises against it. So first of all, if your medical professional is advising against doing the Volsava, then I would listen to them. I don't know anything about your situation. I don't know if you have any symptoms or signs of pelvic floor dysfunction, of pelvic organ prolapse. So I would definitely listen to them. However, if you don't have any signs of those and you feel like maybe your pelvic floor PT isn't someone who's really familiar with lifting weights and some of the strategies that we use, then maybe get a second opinion. But that is up to you to decide. I would get a second opinion from someone who is more understanding of pelvic floor, but also pelvic floor in combination with lifting weights. Someone says that they're 31 weeks and have been coning since 22-ish weeks. Do you have recommendations on how to continue training in the next 10 weeks and not worsen the issue? So I think I'm going to kind of repeat some of the things that I've already said in this video. My recommendation is for you to focus more on those deep core holds and that transverse abdominis activation to strengthen the inner core muscles first. More of those functional core movements and doing some lower loads, lower your volume with the exercise that you're seeing, the coning. I recommend that and work on when you're doing those lifts to work on those deep core holds. Do the diaphragmatic breathing and tie all of those things together. I have a series on understanding the diaphragmatic breath and understanding the pelvic floor connection. Check that out if what I'm saying seems foreign to you. If you want to lift heavy, if your goal is like I want to lift heavy during pregnancy, I recommend to find a prenatal program that is going to educate you on some of these things that I'm referencing, especially if they sound unfamiliar to you, so that you can lift heavy, not notice any of these signs of coning or mismanage pressure or pelvic floor dysfunction. Do it in a way that you feel confident so that you're able to listen to your body, what we kind of referenced in the beginning of the video. You can't really listen to your body if it's foreign to you and during pregnancy you might have moments where you do truly feel foreign. You feel like this body does not only belong to you now. Those are my recommendations and I touched on coning already. The only thing that I haven't talked about is another sign that the core isn't firing altogether and that's called doming. There's coning where the pressure is coming out of the linea alba and then there's doming and what that looks like is described as like a bread loaf. It's when your rectus abdominis kind of protrudes during exercise. You can see your six pack muscles protruding out and that's a sign that your TVA, which your TVA is like this sheath of muscle that connects from your spine and goes around, connects to the linea alba. When those rectus abdominis are just popping out, that's a sign that your TVA is not contracting and firing with the rest of your core muscles. When it's not firing together, that's a lack of imbalance and it means that you might need to work on the transverse abdominis and working those together. Last section for my five things that you need to know, so to remind you the five things that you need to know are intensity, exercise selection, core, pelvis, and pressure management. I did those out of order, but you know. So the last one that we haven't discussed is the pelvis. The question associated with this section is someone asks, is it okay to follow my normal routine with weight modifications towards the end? You get to choose what you do at the end of the day. You get to choose what you want to do with your own body and if there's a program that you love, then I would recommend just doing some research and understanding those five things that I discuss and making it so that you can make adjustments and that you feel comfortable with those adjustments. A pregnancy specific program will choose exercises that are appropriate based on your trimester. It will help you understand pressure management and incorporate those deep core exercises and that training that is not so typical in regular programs. It will help you avoid things and teach you about things like SBD pain for your pelvis when things are floating around there as pregnancy progresses. It will help you understand what to avoid and how to also strengthen prior to experiencing that pain or hopefully so that you avoid that pain. So yes, you can get to choose what you want, but prenatal programs hopefully are written with all of these considerations in mind so that you don't have to worry and your questions are sort of addressed and answered even before you have them. Hopefully before you even get to that next stage where you might experience a negative symptom of pregnancy or a negative symptom of postpartum. That's basically the questions. Thank you guys so much for watching. I hope that you learned something new. I hope that you feel a little bit more confident in your prenatal or postpartum journey. Big announcement for us. Hold on, let me get my phone and show you. Hold on. Are you ready? Great. Are you ready? You haven't even seen this. I haven't even seen this. This is not showing around a day young. This is plus one. Look, Shupregi in here. Hold on. It's still in staging. We've had the plus one prenatal and postpartum program for a while now, but this is the first time it's in an app. So it used to be like PDFs and lots of videos because there was a huge education component. So that is now all in your pocket, in your phone. And it is so much better of an experience, which means a lot to me because I know firsthand what it's like to have a baby and be early postpartum and want training, but also not have the time to train. So this is the most convenient solution that I couldn't be more proud of. Okay. Let's see if the little load thing comes up. Ready? Did you see it? Yes. Did you see the little thing? I just looked. Yeah, it was like a little baby bottle, a little baby in Nino. So anyway, it looks a lot like stronger by the day. There are a couple of huge differences. Right now I'm in trying to conceive. I'm not trying to conceive. We've already decided I'm going to try to conceive at the beginning of 2023. Okay. So don't ask any questions. But anyway, the biggest change is the resources section. So all of the education that we have is here at your disposal. So commonly asked topics and like the most important topics. So I talked a lot about the connection breath, about diastasis recti, and then you can view the exercise library. And then all of the modules that I created a lot of them in regards to the strength training component, but I also collaborated with an OBGYN and a pelvic floor physical therapist team. So you get to hear not only from me, a video similar to this that addresses a lot of the common questions, but also you get to hear from other medical professionals. It is super hard to do what I described to where you can connect all the dots yourself. You're going to the OB a lot. If you're training with a personal trainer, that's amazing. Most people aren't. And then hopefully you're seeing a pelvic floor physical therapist, but that is super hard to do all of those things during a busy time during pregnancy and postpartum. It's also expensive. So anyway, this is launching on Mother's Day. I believe this video will come out around that time. So I hope that you can check it out and learn more about it. And you're going to love it. If you're seeing this when you're pregnant for the first time, welcome. Being a mom is the best way to do it.  the coolest experience of my life, outside of working with Grit every day. He's like my first child in the emeralds of my... Okay, anyway, that's the end of the video. Sorry for the long plug, but you're welcome for the long plug. It's... If I'm gonna plug anything, like this is probably the best product that we've ever created. And in an industry that doesn't have that many resources for moms and people who are pregnant, who want to get super strong and stay super strong and doing it with their health and their happiness in mind. Okay, we'll see you guys in the next video. Bye!

=== FILE: Mobility for meatheads. Bigger arch. Bigger gains [TLSG7xtAdhs].txt ===

 and l-carnitine. Welcome to the video. Hello, my strong, strong friends. I'm here with a special guest. Hello. Thank you for having me on your channel, man. Of course. It's good to see you again. Literally any time you want to be on that channel, let me know. Okay. Because everyone loves you. This is Jujimoo Foo if you didn't know them. Yeah, we've been friends for a while. So here I am. We have a couple of collabs already existing on YouTube, and they are awesome. Actually, you know how people have like a channel trailer? You're like the first clip in my channel trailer. Like the horse head. Oh, yeah. I like that. I still like it. I think I need one of those. You know, it's really hard to breathe in. Yeah, I didn't enjoy when I was in it, but the shots looked really exciting. It's worth it. Worth it. Anyway, today we're talking all about arching in the bench press, and John is super flexible. However, he doesn't really... Do you have any actually mobility feats of strength that you can show us quickly? Feats of mobility? Well, I just did this a second ago, right? I don't know. It's pretty good for a 260 pound dude, you know? I can't do that. Whoa. Front split. Is that all right? Yes. You still got it? That's amazing. Okay. Guys, don't worry, I can do the same thing. Ready? Oh, yes. Yes, you can. Don't worry, I can do the same thing. Oh, shoot. That's some strength. No, we did... The first video we did together was you doing the side splits between chairs. Yes, we did the chair splits. Did I hold a barbell or I held something? You did. You legit did it, though. Yeah. You actually did it. Go check that out. It's pretty difficult. Yeah. Postpartum pelvis, if you know what I mean, to attempt it again. But you guys can always watch that video from years and years ago. I don't trust my postpartum pelvis sometimes either. Postpartum pelvis does really do be giving you some issues. Takes time. Okay. Today, we are going to talk all about the arch in the bench press. Super controversial topic because I feel like people will often see a picture or a video of an arch in an exaggerated situation, perhaps a powerlifting video. What? You're going to go first in seven, eight. Yeah. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. That means I'm ready? Yes. That was a good one. Oh, God. You're way off. It means I ate the quarter. Eight. Eight. That's what you get for sure. That range is half a centimeter. That's what you get for sure. Sometimes people make assumptions about what it means and what it is, so let's give you a little overview. Yeah, it's easy to make fun of something when you don't understand it. Exactly. Just like a postpartum pelvis. This is the new sign that we got, decorations in the gym. Am I allowed in my bench, Betty? Oh, 100%. Okay, good. Yes, that's why I made this sign for you. Oh, thank you. Because I knew that you were going to be here. Great, I'll take that, thanks. Just put it in my check bag somewhere. Didn't you pick them up from the airport with that? Yeah, I had the sign. Oh, right. Okay, first point of this video is sometimes people often say, oh, why do girls or women only have arches? And sometimes you don't see men have that. So we're going to do an experiment. Let me show you my arch, my new bench setup. This is me exaggerating a little bit. Oh my God. I'm going to watch that. It is a, well, you can go further than that. Oh no, I'm just, this is normally what I do. Five and a half. Five and a half? Yeah. All right. Now we're going to see what John can do. Mighty Morphin Arch Adventures. Let's go. Oh my God. This one, keep your butt down. Okay. Keep my butt down? Yes, please. Okay. Oh, God. Whoa. Oh man, pathetic four inches. So that experiment just showed us that I have a bigger arch than John. And in this one, we were exaggerating a little bit, but not, you know, we're keeping our butt still on the bench. And obviously one of us has a lot more mass than the other. Unfortunately it's him over here. So sometimes when people make the assumption that women only arch, sometimes when you have a lot more meat on your bones, you still have an arch. Everyone has natural curvature to their spine. And people often get into this position so that they can have a stronger or are able to maximize how much weight they can do on the bench. But when you got more meat, it's a smaller arch. Bigger isn't always better. Well, we were just talking about natural body differences and where you carry mass and weight. And the argument or the idea was that because Meg has a little bit more of this Coke bottle positioning. Yeah, go ahead. And you put a Coke bottle mermaid muscle princess. There you go. When she sits on a bench with no active arch or position, there's already a visible arch just because of the proportions of her body of three inches. So if your arch was, what do you say for her? That's a question. I think it was five. It was five. So you're only actually creating two inches of incremental arch through retraction and depression. Measure him. He's got negative. He's got a. All right. Oh, he's got a little some there. I mean, you're kind of protracting a little bit. Yeah, probably in that area, but that's probably closer to about two and a quarter, two and a half at your deepest part. So you're naturally in less of an arch just based on the shape of your body. Kind of off topic, but is there like a magic waist to hip ratio that's like supposed to be like ideal or something? Have you ever seen Kim Kardashian? Yes. But what is the ratio? Do you know what the number is? I don't know, but whatever she's got, that's it. This is about bench batting, but who's the booty batting? You know what I'm saying? If you can see like my glutes just stick out farther. Also I'm a woman. So. Oh, that looks. My butt bigger than yours. Perhaps. But even if John's butt was bigger than mine, which is is he has more. I have more. His erectors are all the way out here. Just be nice. I have a bigger gut. So look at his erector line to glutes. Whereas my glutes to my erectors don't touch. Okay. That were a straight line. So that's typical too for women who are leaner. Sometimes they're, especially if they're power lifters, they probably have some mass in their glutes and it compared to male counterparts who might be similar or similar body weights. The light bulb moment just went off. It all makes sense now. You see what I mean? Just think about the typical type of person you see that has a really large arch. Just that image in your head. No, it makes sense now. So let me show you how to get into a baby arch or start using an arch in your training. I recently have made some changes to how I'm setting up in the bench press and I like it because I no longer focus on retraction. So if I were to retract my scapula that always already creates more of an arch. So you have my butt and then my shoulders where I'm touching. And those are the two points that you need to make contact with in a powerlifting federation. So boom, already increased my arch a little bit. But now I'm focused more on depression. I'm going to set up in my bench press. I'm going to use my legs to walk back, lift my butt off and you can see look at that arch. Now I still have to put my butt down, but I'm going to reach my chest towards the bar and then put my butt down. So that is the form or the arch that I use when I'm regularly powerlifting. If you're watching this and interested in creating an arch or experimenting to see if it gives you a bigger one rep max bench, I think that's cool. But realize when you see that super exaggerated arch of a lifter doing it in a powerlifting me, it's likely that they don't train all of their bench that way. And that exaggeration isn't always for the purpose of like training to get stronger or training to build muscle. I don't think it's any reason to do that to train to get stronger muscle. In a powerlifting me, it's all about how much weight you move. Exactly. So if you, you know, there's super popular videos that have like millions of views on YouTube of there's a 16 year old girl who has like this sick, super crazy arch and her range of motion is like, so I think that video is so popular because so many people see it and they think it's a joke, which sucks in some ways, but that is an anomaly. When you go to a powerlifting meet, you won't always see everyone with that form. It really just depends on what people find works best for them. I personally do not get in a huge arch. I don't arch to my max, like what I could possibly do. I have a little bit of an arch what's comfortable to where my scapulas get depressed, but I don't overemphasize it as much as I could. I love how much force I got. I Actually, that's one point that I'll make it is not comfortable to get into an arch even the one that I use on my Top sets or my working sets of like Working to get a bench PR it takes a lot of practice it is Very technique heavy of all the lifts. I think the bench is the most technical Because it involves the arch your point of contact and your stability is on a surface that Can be smaller than the floor. It's different So It's not the most comfortable thing I would do if you're looking to just gain some muscle I would do feet up close grip bench press or I would do Honestly anything other than the bench press. Okay, John's gonna show us some stretches some things that we can consider when we're thinking about Shoulder flexibility and mobility to help your bench press also. Maybe you can give us some tips on how to When we're benching it's a lot of this motion So maybe some things to counteract that so our shoulders feel nice and oh Yeah, yeah, well first I just kind of want to mention something about flexibility a lot of people think that stretching Is going to make you weaker or inhibit strength? Hopefully I'm living proof that you can be strong and flexible But I'm not gonna lie and say that like I don't think stretching and flexibility training hasn't actually interfered with my top-end strength Potential over the years because I feel like all the stretching I do has probably reduced my strength output my total You know strength potential by a couple percentage points, but For real like the quality of life I get from being super flexible and being Having on stretching training it carries over into so many aspects of life that matter to me more than just an extra 10 or 15 pounds on a lift, you know, I mean, it's just like It's just so much and it's probably helped me evade so many injuries over the years just the stretching and it just feels good So I think it's worth it. So if you're worried about flexibility training or stretching inhibiting your strength, just don't Honestly don't and as far as over flexibility goes like the contortionist like oh, they're weak That's like saying you don't want to look like Ronnie Coleman. So you're not gonna eat whey protein You know, it's like, you know, how hard does contortionist train to be able to bend their body that way? That is Realistic levels of pain tolerance that a lot of people don't even understand like what they have to do So you're not gonna accidentally get too flexible. Let me put it that way. Okay, so For for warming up for the bench honestly like I spend a lot of time stretching if I want to do this lift in my training and You know, one of the first things they're gonna do is just something simple and that that would probably just be sitting down the bench and And Just kind of wedging my feet back and just kind of wiggling around And Some people like Jen Thompson. She's one of the greatest powerlifters who've ever lived who's still active powerlifting She'll put a football here and she'll use that to kind of push herself up to get a little bit of a lower back stretch And you also want to stretch the hip flexors and quads here. They're not really prime movers in my opinion Unlike floor drive. I don't think stretching them is gonna affect your four drive so much. It's worth to go ahead and Just get that extra little range of motion by stretching these components out as well So Maggie want to do some this stretch. Oh, yeah, I like that one. Yeah, because look it's right here. Look Where's my foot on the bench? Same thing just create recreate the shape that you're trying to get on the bench with some auxiliary movements Just in between warm-up sets, you know of the actual weight as you're working up to your top end working sets So this is good very simple. I mean you can do so many different things with the stretch The distraction band you can put a band on it So now it'll have to contract the glute to push the hip flexor forward the band is doing that work for me So I'll have to kind of do is lean back and it's Really helping me get a better stretch. Just kind of move back and forth like this little 3d motion It's kind of like seesaw Do both legs like that so just attach it to an anchor point and just step back And this can be the same band that you do a little bit of shoulder warm-up with as Meg was alluding to just like this This is probably one of the best ones you can do honestly Those are my favorite such a simple thing to do just get a band and it's better with a band because that little extra stretch there I think it's harder with that if you can do with that. Yeah But the band you just work your way out And it's easier that way and then you can work your way in and then actually the band gives you a little bit of resistance There so you have to kind of pull a little active pulling which is actually good for your bench as well Mm-hmm a lot of guys will put a Band between the wrists so this pulling motion It's a good bench warm-up a lot of old head power lifters use that one but this stretch here the hip stretch And then finally just a quad stretch just a simple quad stretch you can do This is a good one. You just kind of lean back push your hips forward and then Spend some time there and then the Pilates ball Mech Meg you do Pilates. Well remember we were talking about postpartum pelvis. Yeah The Pilates ball comes in handy for the postpartum pelvis Not not in a weird way, I'll show you those later But there you go. This does the work of the football Mm-hmm. Just any sort of stiff ball or something and that'll you can actually warm up the bench With the with the ball underneath you football place ball soccer ball, and I think what Jen does is she'll Deflate this whenever she was working up to like get the Yes, she was actually modulating the amount of air tension in the ball and then progressing Yeah, I thought that was brilliant. You could deflate it This this is pretty inflated But you could deflate it a little bit and then keep blowing it up and just work on your arch mobility and your arch technique Over time, but I think there's so many different stretches so many different things I'm just exploring and playing with it It's the best thing and just find a few that you like and just do them But yeah, just pick some stretches and do the ones that you feel that make you feel good and just do some of them and You'll know immediately if it helps You know if it helps your bench warm up then you're doing you're on the right track. Well, thank you for being part of our video Thank you guys so much for watching. Be sure to check out jujimufu on youtube and instagram and anything to plug jujimufu.com just go there buy my short shorts Hey, they're unisex it works for uh men and women I'm gonna go buy myself a pair right now. See you guys at jujimufu.com. Bye

=== FILE: WHEN TO USE A LIFTING BELT ｜ Bracing & Breathing Tutorial [FpaR8XE0tQU].txt ===

 hlo, my strong-tongue friends, this video is all about breathing, bracing, and wearing belts. One of the most common questions that I get is, Meg, when can I start wearing a belt? And in this video, I'm not only going to tell you when you can start using a belt, but also I'm going to give you the secrets to know before you start using it, okay? Because there is a little bit of a barrier to entry before you slap a belt on. Let's first talk about the different kinds of belts that you can choose. First up is my preferred favorite kind of belt. This is a nylon and velcro belt. Very good ASMR. So this is a lightweight belt. Usually it's pretty affordable. This one's from my brand, Haviko, and I love using this belt. It's great for dynamic movements. If you're a weightlifter, it's great for squats, deadlifts, all of it. I love it. Now, if you're a power lifter, you might be more accustomed to something that's heavier duty. These are power lifting style heavy leather suede belts. So they're super thick one compared to the other. Usually you'll see this in a prong enclosure or even a lever enclosure. And last, we have a tapered bodybuilding style belt. This is kind of old school, more kind of like an in-between those two options. So those are the belt options. All are available. I'll link them down below. Before you just slap on a belt, regardless of which one you choose, you do need to understand how to breathe and brace in order to create some intra-abdominal pressure. So there's space between your ribs and your torso. That's where your guts are. And you hold pressure. When you breathe in, pressure increases and it expands. When you breathe out, the pressure decreases. That's always moving. And so you might have noticed people who are lifting really heavy, light weights, they hold their breath. They squat and then they let it out. There are a couple different ways that people do this, but usually they do that. They hold the breath during the lift and then breathe out. So what they're doing there is increasing intra-abdominal pressure. They use the Valsalva maneuver and it closes off so that no air escapes out of their mouth. And then they brace their abdominal muscles. So imagine if you wanted to brace, imagine I was about to punch you right in the gut. You kind of contract isometrically all of those muscles in your abs and then you squat. So it's a lot to remember, but you can easily practice it before you invest in a belt and you can get really good at it. It's going to make you stronger. It's going to mean you can lift more weight more comfortably and over time, lifting more sets, more reps at higher weights is going to mean you're going to get muscle gain and strength gain. Ooh, I have an experiment. Okay, let's see. I don't know if this experiment is going to work, but let's show you. Okay, so we have a non-branded can right here. Okay, and we're going to take this weight. So we have this can here just so we're clear. You are not a can. Okay. Oh, do we have any full cans of anything in the fridge? Okay, okay, I'll go get one. Hold on, I'll be back. Okay, got my full can. The full can signifies pressure. So it's filled up. Imagine if you took a breath in and you increase the pressure in your core, it's filled up and there's lots of pressure. I can place load on top of this can and it stays up perfectly. Now this can is empty. Ryan, drink it. How many, I don't know how many we can do. I'm sure it's going to hold something. Oh God, hold on, I can do more. We have three kilos on. Will it withstand 25 more pounds? Okay, it did it. It did it. Okay, okay, my control, my control. Will it hold it? Oh, I sure hope it does. They're better examples of this experiment, but you can see the can represents pressure and so when that pressure is full, when there's space is filled and the pressure is pushing against the sides of the can, it can hold this weight easily. The empty can doesn't have any pressure pushing against the sides, it's just empty air. So that example kind of illustrates why we take in the breath, we have pressure pushing outside in the front and in the back and we press against our bell so that our core is rigid like the full can. Let's see if it, let's see. You think it will? That's 44 pounds. That's amazing. All right, remember our can, of course you remembered, I literally just showed you the can and how I said that there's pressure pushing against the edge of the can in all directions and that's what we want to recreate with our torso. So you may have heard of people talk about belly breathing where they're just breathing in, their belly is the only thing expanding or you might have heard of something called the chest breather where you're breathing into the chest, you're kind of shrugging up a little bit. What we want is a little bit of chest expansion, a little bit of belly expansion, but we want 360 breath. So watch my ribs when I belly breathe and then when I do 360 expansion. So I'm expanding out into the ribs. When I have my belts left on, I'm going to be pushing in all directions against the belt so that it helps create a better pressure container. So when I have a lot of weight on my back, I'm able to squat the world. Volsalva maneuver. I never even met her. No. Okay, the Volsalva maneuver is a strategy that we use to kind of close the space, close off the space by our vocal cords. I think it's called our larynx or glottis. And you basically take your air in and you got to put a lid on the pressure. So to put a lid on the pressure, you kind of close that space between your vocal cords and to practice doing that, I like to have people say the word hut, hut and do that. Stop. Hard T. Do the word hut and you can even do it staccato. So you kind of get practice like closing that off. So it will sound like this. And so that part where I close off the air from escaping out of my mouth, that is the Volsalva maneuver. So when you're squatting, it kind of looks like this. Take the air in. So see how I kind of close it off kind of forcefully. And then I even naturally brace just because I'm so used to doing it. That's the Volsalva maneuver. Okay, where do you wear the belt? Now some of us are vertically challenged. I'm five, three. I know everybody says I look taller, but I only have so much space between the top of my pelvis and the bottom of my ribs. So I, this belt is not fit me. I put my belt on. Okay, it does just barely. Last prong. I put my belt just right in the space in between. This is pretty large compared to on my body, but some larger people, some taller people might be able to experiment. I know lots of taller people like to put their belt closer up higher on their ribs when they're deadlifting. And then alternatively have it a little bit lower kind of on the belly button line when they're squatting. It really is personal preference. It'll be somewhere between your ribs and your pelvis. Experiment and see what works best for you. When you're choosing where to put your belt, you also want to think about how tight you crank down on your belt. Now think about it, you're trying to expand. So you need a little bit of room in the belt to do that. I like to just make sure I have like finger widths distance away. Like when I tighten my belt, I could still kind of squeeze my fingers through in between my skin and the belt. So keep that in mind. It doesn't make any sense to have it so tight and so cranked down. It's not going to help you lift any heavier than it being comfortably placed and able to expand. Okay. So don't go cranking down. Don't go too tight to start when you're first putting your belt on. Okay. Next, let's talk about posture. The belt is going to help you cue ribs over pelvis. I don't want to squat an extension like this. That doesn't seem very strong, even though I see you on Instagram doing this one. I see you and it looks cute for the most part, unless someone who knows knows. You want the ribs over the pelvis. Another cue that you can think of is think about decreasing the space between the bottom of your ribs and the top of your pelvis. Sometimes you are able to activate the glutes by tucking them in just slightly. And what this does, what this does is when combined with inter abdominal pressure exercise, the breath, the vulcelva maneuver, the good posture, it means that you can keep this torso rigid because my torso can move in all these different ways. I don't want to be moving like this when I'm pulling a heavy deadlift or when I'm squatting. I don't want that. I want this to stay neutral as they say or in the neutral range. I don't want a lot of movement when I'm under the load. One, it's not going to be very comfortable. Two, it might actually hurt. And three, it's going to mean that I can lift more efficiently, which means that it takes less time to get a heavy deadlift up or less time to get a heavy squat up. Oh, I didn't notice you over there. I like to wear a belt when I overhead press. So this is a good segue to let you know that typically we see people wearing a belt when they squat, deadlift, do anything overhead. So sometimes cleaning jerk, sometimes snatch, not all the time, but sometimes snatch. And some people, well, I like to use a belt when I overhead press too, but some people will even use a belt when they bench. Not really my style, but I don't judge. Okay. A couple of things with when you're choosing to wear your belt is you do want to have some warm-ups that are beltless and then transition into your belt training. So I'm not going to take the bar, even though you just saw me literally taking the bar with a belt, I'm usually not going to take the bar with a belt. I'm not going to take my earlier warm-ups with a belt. Usually I'll slap on my belt for my working sets, my heaviest sets, or even my last, maybe second to last warm-up depends on the lift. Have you ever seen someone pee-pee pants city while they're lifting? Well, that has a lot to do with interabdominal pressure. Has a lot to do with just being stronger than what your pelvic floor can accommodate for. And it doesn't always mean that you need to be concerned. So what's happening there is it's a pressure management. I don't even want to call it dysfunction. It's just a stress incontinence. So sometimes when the weight is so heavy, sort of like when your grip fails you first, when the weight is so heavy, and you've done the vol-solven maneuver to increase pressure, the pressure, hopefully it's going out against the belt. Hopefully you're managing it properly, but sometimes when you're lifting and it's like 98%, 101%, the pressure escapes out the pelvic floor. So you pee a little bit. Men sometimes experience fecal incontinence and I know everybody watching it has farted when they've lifted. Grip, you have it? Never. Liar, liar. If you're someone who's experiencing incontinence in earlier sets, in working sets, in warm-up sets, I like to say if you're peeing when you're at like 70, even 80% of your max lifts, definitely go see a pelvic floor physical therapist. It is a fascinating visit. I mean, for someone like me, I don't know if everyone's going to think it's fascinating, but I learned so much from my pelvic floor PT and I found it to be really helpful. They can also teach you pressure management strategies. Maybe you do ditch the vol-solven maneuver, you ditch a belt and you could even hiss out and pull up on the pelvic floor, but all of that is in a different video. We can cover it another time. Let me know if you have more questions around that or anything else that I covered in this one. Hope you guys enjoyed this video. This was a commenter requested video. We do have a brand new company. It's called Haviko. So check out our belts that we have at Haviko. It is my favorite belts. I will be using it in all the clips that you guys see in this video that are overlaid and I love it. It is $40. Yeah, that's the price. $40 or is it 44? Anyway, I'm going to put it on the screen. Thank you guys so much for watching and I will see you in the next video. Bye.

=== FILE: Welcome Baby Violet! [8A5MFOEY1bs].txt ===

 hello, my strong, strong friends. My goal with this video is to go into labor and have a child, okay? I am a million weeks pregnant, and I'm about done with this bullshit. I'm being induced on, I'm being induced in less than 72 hours, less than 48 hours. I'm being induced in less than 48 hours. I would love to go into spontaneous labor. Will that happen? I don't know, but let's try everything we possibly can to put me into spontaneous labor. Starting with spicy food. This is not gonna be very scientific, but let's try to douse my meal with this Cadejo. I love this hot sauce. It's from Hot Ones last season. It's so good. I'm having chicken rice and green beans. Let's see if a little bit of spice will put me into labor. It will definitely give me heartburn, but let's see if it works. Okay, I can't handle that much, but do what I can. Here it is. It's been an hour since I've ate. I felt one cramp, but I think I just needed to go to the bathroom. Let's bring out the big guns. This is my breast pump. I use the LV Hands-Free Pump. So nipple stimulation can... What is it? So nipple stimulation can increase your oxytocin, so it's a hormone that could induce labor. So I have a nursing bra on. I am going to put this in and do some work and continue my day. I'm just going to do 15 minutes and then 15 minutes and see if I start cramping at all. In my last pregnancy, when I got to 39 weeks, I started doing this every single night, and this is what I believe put me into labor. So let's see if I start to get some cramps. I would just get cramps every night, and then the night I went into labor, I did this and the cramps never stopped. They were contractions. Okay, just toss her in there. Oh God, it is not a comfortable feeling. Oh, my life is over as I know it. Once I start this, once I start pressing play on this button, my boobs are never going to be the same. This one doesn't feel good either. Can you hear it? All right, let's see. It doesn't feel super strong right now. Let's see what happens. Obviously talk to your doctor if you decide to do any of these things that I'm doing. I am getting induced very soon, but usually things like the nipple stimulation, they don't recommend until your past 39 weeks of pregnancy. But talk to your doctor before you do any of these things that I'm doing, okay? While that's going to work, I'm hungry. I'm hungry again. Let's try the pineapple method. So pineapple has bromelion, is that what it is? And the science is not very strong on this one, but bromelion can help soften the cervix. Now I think the amount of pineapple that you would have to eat is so much. They do recommend fresh pineapple, so I have some fresh pineapple. Let's just do it. I mean, I like the way it's pineapple taste. Anyway, and I need a little snack. Okay, 15 minutes later. Can you guys hear it working? Okay, so I did 15 minutes on one side, took a little break, and then 15 minutes on this side. That is enough. They don't want you to exceed like one hour total of pumping time. So I'm there. Do I feel any cramps? Did I get something out of here? Oh, look, we got a little bit of, ugh. Okay, I'm gonna clean this. I'll be right back. But I do like the elbipump because I was just sitting here. I was like pumping and working right here the whole time. It was great. Hey everyone, we have arrived at the park. Follow me, follow me mom. Next thing, I did this a lot in my last pregnancy. I don't think it works much for me, but it's supposed to get the baby in the right pelvis position. Thank you, mom. So get the baby to a different station. Put your jacket on, girl. Ready? That's it. All curb walking. Did you do it, Emra? No. Maybe I'll do it for like 10 minutes. I don't know. Pretty annoying, that's how much. Put on the curb. Get on down there, girl. Okay. Hahaha. The next day has arrived. We have not made any progress. I haven't had any contraction, so let's continue. We are about four hours out from showing up to the hospital to check in and let's see if I can just get this ball rolling and I'll continue basically old wives' tales. I've got my elbipump. This is the thing that I know works, so I'm gonna pump again. I only did like one session yesterday and I also have dates. There is apparently some scientific research that says dates do help soften the cervix. The problem is dates to me are absolutely disgusting. Like eating the whole dates, they just look gross. Oh, I just looked at the bag of dates that I bought and they are so slimy. They look like little kookeraches, but LaRBar has dates in them. Maybe it's like one eighth of a date, but I will eat these because I do like LaRBar's and then I also got these coconut date rolls. So I'll have one of those, which I can actually stomach them, but they're still not good, but at least they're kind of cute little candies. So let's try these for a little snack. I do need to protein up and carb up and calorie up because once I start to be induced and they start medication, I won't necessarily be able or advised to eat while I'm in the hospital. Just clear liquids from 6 p.m. on. So I'll try to keep lots of snacks and lots of food. All right, let's go. We are at Bigfoot reflexology to see if I can implement some ancient Chinese Thai, some kind of massage medicine and see if they'll put me into labor. I came here two days ago with my mom and it didn't do anything, but it felt really good. So really the risk of me not enjoying my time is very low. Whereas most of the other things that I'm doing are kind of like annoying at the least. So I'm gonna go in there this time though and say, hey, I'm very pregnant. I'm going to the hospital today to be induced, but can you? Put me over the edge. Put me into labor? Let's see what they say. Cause I think when I was here two days ago, he was kind of just playing it cool, like not going super ham where my mom was like, whoa, that pressure was, I had to ask him to improve the pressure for like increase the pressure. And so I think he was just like, not trying to put me into labor, you know what I mean? So today I'm going to ask him if he will. See big foot spots. Let's see which one will give me a baby. This one. Great. I was looking at it. Oh, this one. Let's ask them. Are you good? I'm good. Nothing. Perfect. Effederal's working. Yeah. Ready to. Feel calm. You're somewhat rusted. Much more than last time. See it a bit. It'S4.50. We're ready to meet her. They said we're going to labor down to the next 30 minutes. I think they said you're soft, you're complete, and you're plus one. Complete, I think is 10 minutes or so. And I've been sleeping. You've been resting. We got here 6 p.m. yesterday. So I've been here almost the day. Gonna rest up. Yeah. See you guys on the other side. Awesome. Tell him. She's almost here. She's almost here. Thank you so well. So fatty. Thank God for that, Daryl. You do really awesome, Meg. There we go. You can go ahead and pull back on your knees. I'm gonna go back. There you go. Do your leg. Yeah, that's it. Yeah, I know. You're right there. Good job. That's it. Okay, relax. Relax, relax. All right. Baby violence here. Violence here. I know. That's what I told you. I'll have my gun. Baby violence here. Okay. I'm gonna push. Good job, Meg. There we go. Oh my gosh. Baby violence. Oh my gosh. She knows she's here. She's here. Hi, sweet girl. Oh my gosh. Thank you. Bye. You are so pretty. You are so pretty. She's gonna be right there with her. She's gonna be right there with her. She's gonna be right there with her. She's gonna be right there with her. You're right there with her. What are you? Let's see how big you are. You're such a pretty girl. You're such a pretty girl. You're so cute. Seven seven. I'm shocked. She does not feel like seven seven. Do you want a picture of that? Aww. It's my daughter. Who's this? This is Baby Violet. Hi Baby Violet. Your eyes are open a little bit. I know. How old are you? She's almost 24 hours old. She'S-23 hours and 15 minutes. Yes, she's almost one day old. So she's been sleeping a lot for the first day and that's normal. So you kind of get a false perception of what it's going to be like. Maybe you cried once or twice. Yeah, she cried once or twice. She's good. We've been trying to feed, but I forgot how to feed a newborn. You got some good tips. Well, you did some good and now... I just expressed, like hand expressing. I think that was the key that I was missing. Whereas like my last, last time I nursed someone, it was one and a half year old Emerald who would just like be super easy. And knows what she's doing a little bit more. Exactly. Yeah, you got to train the baby. Next strength. You got to train the newborn. I think that right. But she's an angel. Still tired. I know. So we'll see where we're going to get discharged. The nurse was like, I get a little nervous with 24 hour discharges, but we have her pediatrician appointment tomorrow with her pediatrician. So she said, oh, well then that's fine. So she... She's doing a more comfortable recovery for you. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. And she's been chill. So we'll see if she stays up and awake. And then we're really excited to go home and see Emerald. Because I think this morning before she went to school, she had a hard time. Because we've been, this is like the longest we've ever not seen her. Yeah. Which is crazy. But yeah, her hospital stay is coming to an end. Oh, hello. It's been a minute. I think the last time you guys saw me, I was literally giving birth or had just was about to go home. And this little one is 19 days old. So I'm 19 days postpartum. I feel really, really good so far at this point in recovery. That first week, I was pretty nervous with how things were going. And you kind of just were like, oh, I forgot what this feels like. But I feel so much better now. And let's do a little workout. Yes, I'm going to work out 19 days postpartum, which is like two and a half weeks postpartum. Let me show you what I'm going to do. First, let's take this little one out. Violet has been on a weight gain journey and she's been doing so well eating a lot. Last night, she's left eight hours. Eight hours. Oh my goodness. So this is her. This is my baby. Is she awake? She's been doing so well. Let me set her down safely. I know I pulled her out of that baby carrier a little haphazardly. This is like my first day baby wearing and I forgot how to do it. She's fine. Okay, she's fine. But yeah, she's been doing so well. She gave me a good stretch of sleep last night. Okay, on to my workout outfit check. Actually, is this a good outfit for me to wear during this workout? Let me change. Okay, new outfit on so that you can actually kind of see what I'm doing. I'll do a little postpartum physique check into you after this, but let me show you on my plus one app. This is my pregnancy and postpartum program. Let me show you what my workout looks like. So it's pretty self explanatory. I have a connection breath exercise. I'll explain what that is and a walk. I would like to go on a walk today. I'm going grocery shopping today so that will count as my workout. So at this stage and I call it like stage one in postpartum healing. It really is the healing. You're not getting back to the fitness. Your goal is to take care of baby, take some time off from the gym and exercise should not look any more strenuous than taking care of the little one. Okay, so hence walk. I walk around the house all day, a five to 10 minute walk isn't more strenuous than that. And then the connection breath. Let me get into what the connection breath is. If you followed any of my doming videos, that was like one of my more recent videos that went mega mega viral and I talk about my connection breath and that if you haven't yet and you are postpartum, you have to watch that doming video. Don't be a domer. It's so good. It's gold and it is nothing that you ever learn in any class and any fitness anything. And this is really the first step of that the connection breath. So what we're doing, you want to listen to mama teach what we're doing with the connection breath is connecting our breathing with our pelvic floor. Your breathing muscles are as follows, your diaphragm, your transverse abs and your pelvic floor. Okay, those are the main things that we want to be thinking about. And what we're doing is connecting inhale exhale with our pelvic floor contraction and relaxation. So what the connection breath should look like is when I exhale my pelvic floor should contract. And when the pelvic floor contracts, it comes up. When you inhale your diaphragm descends and so does the pelvic floor. So that's on the inhale, exhale everything come back up. Inhale, exhale, inhale, exhale, that is the connection breath. I got you girl. You can kind of start that connection breath as early as like one day postpartum. If you are feeling it is just breathing. I like to do them whenever I'm sitting in a car or sometimes when I'm nursing. Okay, speaking of nursing, I do need to feed her. All right, she's sleeping for now. How to connection breath. Let me teach you in three easy steps. One, breathe normally. Step two, add a pelvic floor contraction. So lift the pelvic floor. Another cue is think about squeezing all sides of the pelvic floor together and then lifting up. So squeezing together and then lifting up on the exhale. One normal breath to add the pelvic floor contraction on the exhale and then on the inhale, you go back to normal. So if you're bringing that pelvic floor up to level five on your exhale, it comes back to level zero or level one, level zero, the ground level on your inhale. Okay. And you saw in my program, I'm doing two sets of 10 connection breaths. Super simple, something that you can do while you're nursing baby. If you have signs of prolapse, if you have some serious issues that you need to work out with your doctor, ask them, hey, can I start pelvic floor contractions? And when can I start doing that to help my pelvic floor? If you're someone who struggled with something like hemorrhoids during the act of giving birth or any symptoms of prolapse, this could be something that your doctor might actually recommend or prescribe to you. So that and the walking is the entirety of my workout at this point. And that is 18 days post-hardham, about two and a half weeks post-hardham coming up on that three week mark. Really, we're all given a blanket recommendation to begin exercise at that six week mark, but that guidance isn't really helpful and it doesn't prepare you for when you get to that six week mark starting upright exercise. Usually when we think go back to exercise, it means go back to doing what we were doing before. That six week mark, I am not going to be ready to be squatting as much as I was even on my due date. And before that six week mark, I can do things to prepare me to be ready for upright exercise. Now let's look at a little physique check in and see where I'm at body wise. I'll try to get as detailed as possible and I'll just show you what my body looks like. But here's where I'm at. I do feel like my uterus has gone back to about normal size. So when your full term pregnancy, your uterus grows to about the size of a watermelon and it is normally pre pregnancy size of about a pair. So in that six week timeframe, you're not doing so much fitness to get your pre pregnancy body back. It is just the natural progression of healing and your uterus going back to normal size from watermelon to pair size. Seeing it from this angle, I do feel like I look very much the same as I did in my first postpartum journey. So yeah, I can only, I only have good things to compare it to. I can feel like where my abs are and what layer of fat is on top of it. I don't feel like I have a ton of loose skin, but this is where I'm at. And I feel like I'm in a good spot compared to my first pregnancy. I think I may have gained a little bit more fat then, but it is still hard to tell right now. We'll see if I can find some pictures and compare. Of course, if you want to follow along with me and run the same postpartum program that I'm doing or start with the pregnancy portion or even the trying to conceive portion, that will be linked down below. You can get a free seven day trial. I will see you guys in the next one. I'm excited to continue updating on YouTube on my postpartum journey. So I'll be sure to make another video for you. Have I been the worst at it? Yes, but I'm on maternity leave, so I have no excuse except for the baby who kind of interrupted me a couple of times. Anyway, I'll see you guys in the next video. Bye.

=== FILE: What happens when you STOP taking creatine？ [IHsOpJUAj0Q].txt ===

 you take your first dose of 5 grams of creatine. A small amount of this 5 grams is absorbed into your muscles almost immediately, like 1% to 2%. No visible change, you can't really feel anything. Your muscle tank is just starting to fill. If you continue on taking 5 grams per day for an entire week, your muscles and your muscle cells begin to slowly saturate with creatine and with water. You might notice a 1 to 2 pound jump on the scale, that's just water, and slightly fuller muscle appearance, especially when you get a pump. Your muscles' creatine stores are like 50 to 70% saturated now. Remember, you already have some creatine stored in your cells without supplementation at all, but when you supplement, you can take those creatine stores from pretty much empty to a full tank. By now, your phospho creatine levels have risen enough to make a little bit of a difference in short bursts. Faster recovery, pumps that last longer post-workout, and a little bit more stamina. Maybe you can get in one extra rep during your set. Now don't stop there, you wanna keep going, because between weeks three and four, your muscles are almost near full saturation. This is where your performance benefits start to actually peak. Now you might be able to even add a little bit more weight to your compound lifts, and recovery between training sessions feels even better. As you continue supplementing, and get to weeks five through eight, you're not really getting an extra gain. You've kind of peaked your creatine levels, but what you've done is leveled up your baseline performance. Your strength continues to improve, but now it's from those extra reps. You might notice muscle definition improved from higher volume over time. Basically every session, now that your baseline is up there, you get better and better. You've got a little extra push, and those gains will compound. That's your creatine timeline. Now, what happens when you stop? In this video, I'm gonna answer a lot of the questions that I didn't get to in my creatine challenge. Let's get into it. This is the second video where I'm pretty much telling you to ingest a white powdery substance. Let's go into what creatine is doing, and why you actually might want it. So your little muscles are using fuel to lift, run, or jump. When you're doing those things in short bursts, with more explosive movement, more explosive power, it uses a specific type of fuel called ATP. ATP is like a little spark that makes your body feel like it's going to explode. So you're gonna have to use that. ATP is like a little spark that makes your muscles go. In fact, it's not even like a spark, it is a spark, because that ATP is used up in just a few seconds. So your body needs time to rebuild up that ATP. That's why when you sprint, you can only sprint really explosively for only so long. When you use it, that ATP needs a little bit of time to replenish. So what rebuilds that ATP faster? Creatine. So every session, you've got more energy, and that's more energy for specifically movement and workouts where you're running fast, lifting heavy, you're doing more explosive stuff. That's why people who love building muscle and love getting stronger recommend creatine so often. It really does help specifically those of us who are in the gym, training really hard, pushing ourselves, pushing our max, and looking for PRs. Okay, next let's talk about the brain benefits. So many of you guys asked me whether or not I will increase my dosage from the last video. I currently only take five grams of creatine per day, but very recently, we can now say with a high degree of confidence that creatine can add some pretty amazing cognitive benefits with higher doses, especially when you're sleep deprived. So here's what we learned from a small study. Researchers kept people awake for 21 hours. They took the same people and did two different tests. One night, the subjects took a placebo, and then another night, they took creatine monohydrate doses at 6 p.m., midnight, 2 a.m., and 4 a.m. Throughout the night, they gave the individuals cognitive tests. So they were testing their reaction speed, their language, their reasoning, memory tasks, and they also took brain scans. What's crazy is that when they dose with creatine, the subjects had 25 to 30% better recall, they had sharper reactions, and when scores declined as fatigue increased, that makes sense. The creatine group maintained on logical reasoning and working memory. That, to me, is unbelievable. That is awesome. So what this tells us is if we are sleep deprived and we can take a high dose of creatine, it seems like you can protect yourself from the inevitable acute cognitive decline, just not being really sharp and not being in your best mindset when you take creatine. So you guys know I'm a mom of two young kids, and I have plenty of nights where I'm not getting enough sleep. Like most nights, I'm not getting enough sleep. However, although this sounds awesome to me, I will personally be skipping these higher doses until I'm finished nursing. I feel really comfortable with the five grams per day while I'm still nursing. It's not a ton of creatine to be passing along to my baby. However, when you introduce these intermittent high doses of creatine, we just don't know anything, and it just seems like too much creatine for some benefit that I'm just gonna have to live with. I've been living with it for the past four years. So I'll be okay for the next couple of months until I'm finished nursing. This study is so promising. I guess the biggest thing that we need to worry about is one of the most common complaints about creatine, which is GI upset. It's part of the reason why I recommend to not ever cycle on or cycle off creatine or do a creatine loading phase, is because a lot of people do experience a tummy ache whenever they have high amounts of creatine, but it seems like in the study, they are separating their doses. They're not just taking like 20 grams at one time. They're splitting it up intermittently. So I would recommend doing that if you are taking higher doses, but super interesting research and very cool to see how this develops and in studies to come, what else we learn about creatine and how it affects our brains. While we're on the topic of GI distress, I do want to talk about bloating and holding onto water and what that means when you're on creatine. A common question that people ask is like, oh, are you holding onto more water when you're using creatine? So let's get into it. Creatine is pulling water into your muscle cells. It's stored in those muscle cells along with some water. So when you increase your creatine stores, your muscle cell holds more creatine phosphate and attracts water to balance that. The water storage in your muscle cells is not the same thing as bloating or feeling bloated. I have four tips to avoid bloating when you're starting to take creatine or getting used to it. One, skip that loading phase. You don't need to do it. Start with five grams per day or even start with three grams per day and ramp up to that five gram dosage. Two, stay hydrated throughout the day and take your creatine with some water. Three, take the creatine with a meal. This isn't something that most people need to do, but if you're having struggles or if you're prone to tummy upset, then take your creatine with food as well. And four, you can split up your dose, kind of like they do in that study that I mentioned earlier. Split up your dose in a morning or take it with all your meals so that you're having a little bit, a gram or two grams at multiple points in the day. Okay, next let's get into all the different ways that you can take creatine. A lot of people, a lot of people ask me all the time about creatine gummies and whether or not those are effective. My preferred source is a creatine monohydrate. This is the gold standard. This is what is used in 95% of the creatine research that we have. An added bonus, this is also the most affordable form. The most common alternative to monohydrate is HCL. It's creatine bonded to a hydrochloride molecule. That makes it dissolve a little bit better in water and the thought there is, oh, if it can dissolve better in water, then it'll be better on my tummy and make it easier for some people to digest. If you look at the Reddit group R slash creatine, there are a ton of people who say they prefer HCL over monohydrate. Currently, there isn't anything in the research that shows a difference between monohydrate and HCL and price is a huge con. HCL costs like between two to four times the amount of a regular monohydrate. So those are the two forms of creatine. You can take those two forms and ingest them in a bunch of different ways. Let's talk about that. You have powders that dissolve in water and you can get powders in an unflavored version or a flavored version. You can take them in capsule form, pre-mixed RTDs, ready to drink, are creatine gummies that we'll talk about. And in the candy theme, you can also get tablets. The issue with most of these forms is that they run the risk of being underdosed. You're here on YouTube, so you probably watched James Smith's scandal video where he investigates the underdosing of creatine gummies and it's a huge scandal. And in my opinion, taking creatine in a powder form in water just isn't hard. Creatine dissolves really well in water so you can mix it with any liquid that you're having throughout the day and it doesn't really affect your life that much. In my opinion, the different kind of forms like gummies or even the capsules, which isn't really a problem, it's just kind of annoying to take like five grams worth of creatine capsules. They're kind of like solving for problems that aren't really there and making creatine a little bit more sexy, which I like, but you get some cons with that. It just kind of gives you a new form of taking it just for the sake of it, rather than solving any problem. This is a great segue in talking about third-party testing. The issue with underdosing brings in a really important point. Supplements are not regulated by the government, so it's gonna be up to the brand to make sure that what's inside the jar is what's on the label. There are some brands that go out of their way for a third-party testing. This is what separates a legit brand from a sketchy one, so keep your eyes open as you're shopping. Third-party testing looks for things like purity, potency, and contaminants like heavy metals, microbes, and banned substances. You can protect yourself against underdosing and completely wasting your money, and you can better protect yourself against more serious risks, like contamination in supplements or false-label claims. In this conversation, people often ignore that underdosing happens all the time. Contamination happens, and sometimes brands are legit sketchy. Sometimes brands are putting in banned substances into their products and selling them to specific consumers, so people unknowingly are buying banned substances. It is a Google search away to look at popular brands now that their owner used to own another brand, and some sketchy shit went down. Like, it does happen. Biggest thing here is get a brand that conducts multiple tests, and it's also really transparent about what the kind of tests that they're doing. So you've been taking your creatine for months and months, and something happens. Maybe you go on vacation, maybe you ran out, and there's a creatine shortage. That actually did happen during COVID. For whatever reason, you stop taking it. What is going to happen to you and your body and your muscles and your strength when you stop taking creatine? Happily, you'd still have the gains that you created. Remember, the creatine itself is not what is helping you lift heavier, or the creatine itself did not build the muscles. You worked hard, and you were using creatine. It did give you that little bit of extra ATP that meant you could add a few pounds, you could add an extra rep here and there. That extra energy session in and session out over a longer period of time, it stays with you. That's the good news. It's just that you won't have that extra ATP in subsequent sessions after you're off. There was one cool study that found that there was no lean tissue loss when people cycled off, but there's also no good reason to start again and stop again and start again. Good reasons for stopping are kind of common sense. Like it doesn't fit with your lifestyle. You're not currently lifting, or you can't afford it anymore. Which if you can't afford it anymore, then use code makesquats and you can save. Of course, this is assuming that you're healthy and your doctor isn't advising against it. So anyway, I hope that this video helped answer some of the more in-depth creatine questions. If you have any more, please leave them in the comments below, and I will answer anything that you want. Of course, the creatine that I use is from Bufftick supplements. We are third-party tested, and I do own the brand. We exist really to support women in strength training and women who are serious about lifting heavy weights and getting stronger. And of course, some supplements can help you do that. Like creatine. And if you haven't already seen my creatine transformation video, then check that out next. Bye.

=== FILE: my ＂protein obsessed＂ diet (What I Eat in a Day 2025) [c5LTaT5hdOY].txt ===

! Good morning. Crazy morning today. Emeril, do you want to share what you had for breakfast? Yeah. What'd you have? I'm having... Here, talk to the microphone. Egg and syrup. Very good. Eggs are the one constant. All the girls in the house usually have eggs in the morning to get our day started. This morning I made a sweet potato waffle, so you shred sweet potato, and then basically just put it in the waffle maker. I add egg whites to help it bind. You can also add coconut, which I wish I would have added. I think it would have made it stick together a little bit better today, because mine completely fell apart. The girls just do regular eggs, and for me, I do the Momofuku chili crunch eggs. So good. It makes it spicy. On top of my sweet potato waffle, I'm adding frozen blueberries, just cooking them in the same pan for a little while, putting them on top instead of a syrup. Mornings are definitely a little crazy at the house. We try to get emerald off out of the door at a specific time. I like to try and just keep everything to one pan, if I can, and limit the amount of things that I need to wash after. Okay, chaotic morning, but everyone is gone. I'm sitting down for my first meeting of the day. Now, if you follow me anywhere else, then you know that I usually say you should hydrate before you caffeinate. Why? Because it rhymes. And you just slept like seven to nine hours without drinking any water, so maybe you should stack your habit with your crippling caffeine addiction. Today, I didn't have enough time to hydrate before I caffeinated, so I'm having my buff greens and my creatine before I log into my first meeting of the day. If you saw my, I took creatine for 30 days video, then there's a compilation of me just saying, is that I keep forgetting. So that's why I do prefer to hydrate before I caffeinate and get my creatine in when I'm doing all of those things. So you get your hydration, your creatine, and your greens. All before your morning coffee. It's second coffee time. Look, he's stealing it already. Okay. Oh, that's nice. I have one rule when it comes to that. If I'm going to bring the cutting board out, I've got to make it worth it. Okay. I'm going to wash that knife and you have to do the wash those by hand, which is annoying. Okay. If I'm going that far and then I need to get more out of it. For example, if I'm ever prepping vegetables, I will make sure that I get more out of that instance of prepping something. So if I'm prepping cutting cucumbers for a snack for someone, I'll make sure I put some of these together so that I don't always feel like I'm prepping everything from scratch every single day. We'll get through all of this this week ends up being a lot of cutting an annoying amount of cutting and chopping. So anyway, this is our coffee break in the middle of our work day. Cheers. So I'm just going to have an apple. I hear violet fussing. So I'm going to feed her and then we'll go. Train. I've got to feed the baby before I can leave the house. I probably feed her five times a day. She's taken in some solids too. That also adds to my chopping and smushing and mushing food. Yes, I have a new personality trait and it's that I run. I've been running a mile every day. Progressively trying to get a little faster. Today I have to run a nine, 10. I know it doesn't sound hard, but when you're slow like me, it's a little bit of a challenge to get a little faster. I know it doesn't sound hard, but when you're slow like me, it is hard. Okay. No, I actually have to stretch because like I am running faster than what I physically can. It's time for a. I'm wearing these fast as boy sports bra is from Nike and run with this lemon shorts, lemon socks, and I've got these chunky hocus. I think I'm actually going to upgrade my shoes. I need like faster shoes. If I'm only doing a mile at a time, like, you know, those carbon fiber plate shoes, I think that's what I'm going to get. They're like $250. It's something that's like illegal with the carbon fiber. I got to look that up since I'm trying to run faster is I've been listening to high BPM music. So I choose the playlist. That's 180 BPM. I am not quite fast enough to keep up with the beats per minute, but I'm trying. Ready, steady. What do you got for me? Sub eight. I mean sub sub nine. Sorry. I was dreaming. I was daydreaming. 851. You were shooting for 910. Yeah. How was it? It was good. Yeah. I just signed up for this contest. You guys, why did I do it? You know, it's because they gave me an invite, a special invite. So I felt special. So my ego said, wow, you're special. You should do it. It's October 25th. So I'm training the mile. Obviously I just have to train the other eight events. Anyway, we'll see more to come on that. Time to go running. To Jimmy. Oh hell yeah. You know, John, I was thinking a lot of things. I'm about to hit my third set, AKA my M rep set for my squats. Let's see if I can hit nine. Ryan's pushing me to hit nine. I don't want to hit nine. I was going to sandbag it, but let's see if I can do it. Vote in the comments. You think I'm going to hit nine? Probably six, seven. What does that mean? Six, seven. What does that mean? What does that mean? Let me go. I can see us getting close. You can have a little faith. It never killed nobody what you waiting for. Getting closer by the step feels like it's just getting started. I can see us getting closer by the step feels like it's just getting started. I can see us getting closer by the step feels like it's just getting started. One, one, one more. One, one, one more. Is that 10? I blocked out. I blocked out when I got to six, seven. All right, so that was an M rep set on the stronger by the day app. Let me show you guys what happens when you get to a little test inside the app, inside your program. And our details, if you were to ever go looking for them as, hey, if you hit more than eight reps, you got to increase your training max means the weight's too light, you're getting too strong. So you're getting too strong. You didn't do nine. Oh, I did 10. Yeah, let me see it. Holla. So 10. And then I hit next to continue on with my workout. And it says PR alert, alert, alert. Pew, pew, pew. My current training max is 255. I'm only going up to 260. So we can raise that a little bit. All right. And look, it says you've added 110 pounds to your squats. I'm just joining you. I'm talking about that. Not more than that. Next time I see a squat, I'll be working off of a stronger training max. So the idea is every couple of workouts, every couple of weeks, you're bumping that training max up. It used to be something that you'd have to calculate and record every single little thing with an Excel sheet. Calculate percentages every time you get in the gym. No, you don't have to do that. The Apple tell you exactly how much to add to the bar. And it will remember, oh, she bumped up her training max last week. So let's make sure we add a little bit more weight on the bar prescribed. Time to head home and have our post-workout meal. Okay. I'm going to be coming home from Jiu Jitsu any minute. And we, she always wants a snack when she comes home, but she comes home and then it's like basically dinner time. So what I always do is I take one of these jars that I usually have prepped of veggies and I just lay it out. I don't say anything. I don't say, hey, it's snack time. Hey, you need to eat some of these. I don't pressure. It's just out and it's the only food that's out. So I find that it works for four year olds like her and it also works for 37 year olds like me. Tonight I'm making like a burger salad. Ryan's not feeling his best. So he's just chilling. The girls are enjoying some screen time right now and eating snacks. I am going to crack open a cold one. It's so funny when I think back to before I had kids, I would drink casually all the time. Like now at the time when I would open up a bottle of wine and just have a few glasses of wine just regularly every night for really no reason other than to fill the time. This is just so much better. I want to make a little sauce for my burger. So I'm going to make like a avocado mayo, a creamy avocado dressing, light mayo and an avocado. Let's see how it turns out. Salt, pepper, a little garlic powder and I'm going to put a tiny bit of lime just to give it some acid. It's going to be great. Okay, bone appetit. We're having a burger salad. Lettuce, tomato, onion, pickle. I've got my burger avocado mayo on top, a little bit of olive oil dressing the salad. That's it. That's dinner. Nice and easy, super simple. In my experience, kids don't eat lettuce, so Emerald is having a deconstructed burger and I'll give her some ketchup. It's fine. She ate all those vegetables, so I'm super happy about that. I'm actually going to add mustard to it. That's what it needs. Mustard. Bedtime, almost bedtime for you in this house. One child is upstairs on her way to bed and I get to take an everything shower. So I'm going to take that and I'll be back for my final meal after I put her down. So it'll literally probably be in like two hours. My final meal of the night is a chocolate peanut butter banana shake. I have this all the time and actually I just did a half a scoop of protein because I've already met my protein goal. I don't need any extra, but the buff chick fudge brownie, it just makes it taste better. Even if it was just chocolate milk and like a regular smoothie. The fudge brownie protein powder, I don't know what it is. It literally makes it taste better than regular chocolate milk. I've been using these creamy glasses or cups rather for my shakes and then just using the immersion blender. It's less clean up than using a regular blender and it works just as well. Then I can just throw the immersion blender thing into the dishwasher and I can throw this into the dishwasher as well. This is so good and that's my final meal for the night. As far as nutrition goes, I have one video that went semi-viral. It's on body composition. So if you guys want to watch that one next, it's right here. See you guys next one. Bye.

=== FILE: stop wasting time in the gym [QVoU3ldQXdw].txt ===

 this is my exact system for getting in and out of the gym in under an hour. Now, if you're just someone who works out, then that might not sound that impressive. But if you're someone who is training specifically for the purpose of getting stronger or getting bigger muscles, then you know that it takes time. Now, when I was younger, I used to spend all my time in the gym, but now at 37 with two children, I just can't do that anymore. So I've learned how to squeeze in similar results into this one singular hour or less. If there's one thing I know about you, it's that you don't have any time, so let's get into the video. Rule number one, no sitting. Sitting is killing all of your urgency. You can stand, you can pace, or you can do some dynamic stretching while you're resting. But my point is you are fit enough to stand during a one hour workout or a 45 minute workout. Now, if you're a competitive powerlifter, this might be a little bit of a different story. I'll allow you to sit. I will only allow you to sit if you follow these next two. No podcasts. You're listening to Michael Babarro in your ears, and I can tell from New York Times, I'm Michael Babarro. This is a daily. If you're anything like me, you feel like, oh, listening to a podcast helps me feel like I'm learning something while I'm getting my workout and I'm multitasking, I'm so productive, right? No, no. It just doesn't match the intensity and the vibe that I wanna bring to my workouts. Turn on some music or at least be present in the arousal that your gym is providing. This one goes along with it and it's no phone. You're not allowed to look at your phone anymore, okay? I recently got a brick for my phone. The brick is like a magnet that I put on my fridge, and when I tap the brick, when I brick my phone, I lock my phone out from all apps. Scrolling is the biggest waste of time, and I can tell that so many people are doing that same thing. They're like multitasking, and they're getting worked on or whatever, and that's fine if that's what you need to do, but you're watching this video because you're trying to save time in the gym, and I'm telling you that being on your phone is just killing your time and it's killing your workout. An app that you might wanna use is your clock app. Set 15-minute timers to help you keep track of where your time is going. I set a 15-minute timer, and I follow a workout structure that looks very similar to this. I'll go over this in a second. The 15-minute timer kind of lets me know, whoop, it's 15 minutes time to move on or wrap up what you're doing. The alarm goes off every 15 minutes, and I just tap repeat. Number five, do a morning warming session. Most of you guys are millennials watching my channel. We're waking up crunchy. We're waking up crunchy, and when we get to the gym, actually, it feels like, oh, I just need to shake off my day of being hunched over at my desk like this. You can save a little bit of time in the gym by proactively getting those crunchies out. At the Olympic Training Center in Colorado, the weightlifting team meets for morning warming every day before breakfast. So they're kind of getting ahead of some mobility work in a routine fashion. They do this every single day. That way, when they finally get to the gym, they're in a little bit better condition. Number six, know what the hell you're doing. That means getting on a program, even if you're advanced. My biggest waste of time days are when I'm questioning, should I hit bench or should I hit legs today? Or should I do day one or day four of the program and I'm just wasting time trying to decide because I'm not clear on what it is that I'm doing. You do want to consider your fatigue and how much time that you have, but honestly, fuck your feelings and just follow the plan. Number seven, prioritize compound movements. A compound movement is one that uses multiple muscle groups and multiple joints to get done. Easy way to remember these are how I structure it, the big five. You've got squat, bench, deadlift, hip thrusts, and overhead press. Those big five are what I base all of my programs off of. You choose one of the big five as your main movement for the day and you are pushing it. I want to show you guys this programming period and get into how you can kind of understand what exercises go where when you're planning your workouts. At the very tippy top of the pyramid, you have one exercise. That is your primary compound for the day. It's one exercise, but it's going to take you the most amount of time to complete. Why? Because you're lifting heavy. Let's move down to your secondary compound. If your primary compound is squat in your program, then a secondary compound could be a front squat or a zircher squat, something that still uses multiple muscle groups, but you might not be going as heavy as you are in your primary compound. And at the base of the pyramid, we have isolation exercises. So your primary compound should take 15 minutes to 20 minutes. If you are really strong, it will take you longer. Number eight, program a primer movement before your primary compound. This could be an isolation movement. This could be a necessary. This could be a super set. You might be thinking, oh, but I thought I was supposed to hit my squats where I'm less fatigued. Yeah, yeah, you should not be super fatigued when you're going into your primary compound. But you're fit. You've been training for a while. Now you're at the point where you need to save some time. Even if you're a powerlifter and eventually you wanna hit a one rep max, let's say you wanna hit a one rep max in three months, do this, you'll be fine. You will be fine. Number nine, warm up while you warm up. I mean that you don't need to be fully stretched and fully warmed up before you get on an empty bar. Okay, we get into the gym. I want you to do five minutes of raising your heart rate. You're going into activating and mobilizing while you're getting this primer done. What you're doing is you're super setting some potentiation with dynamic stretching and warm up exercises. All right, for everything except for your primary compound movement, hit two warm ups sets. Just keep it easy, hit two warm ups sets then get into your working sets. If you're on a leg extension machine, you've got two warm up opportunities and then get into your first working set. Number 11, program some strategic super sets. I super set a feet up close grip bench press with a tricep extension. I need to think those two things are going to affect one another. However, if I super set a feet up close grip bench press with calf raises, they're not going to impact each other except for I might be a little bit more out of breath if I were fully resting. Pairing super sets that don't interact much with each other is a great way to just get a ton done while still being able to ramp up the intensity. Next section is supplements. We got to talk supplements because they do something. A lot of them give you a physical benefit that will help you stay on your shit. Pre-workout has an effect. beta-alanine specifically is that ingredient that gives you the tingles, okay? I don't know about you guys, but for me, when my face is melting, I am hype. I have a physical reaction keeping me on track. Most pre-workouts have ingredients that will help promote your blood flow. Next is creatine. One of the symptoms of creatine is that it increases your pumps. You get a bigger pump when you are fully saturated with creatine. Having that bigger pump might not mean long-term benefits, okay? It might just be a pump. That's it. But for me, when I look in the mirror and I'm training and I see, oh shit, I look jacked, that increases the arousal for me during my workout and it keeps me moving. Let's not even talk about a glute pump. When I look in the mirror and I hate doing hip thrusts, but after I finish hip thrusts and I see a solid pump staring back at me, it really does motivate me to continue training and to continue get the job done. Number 14 is finding the right environment. Now this can go either way. If you train harder and you're more on your shit when there are other people with that same mindset, training really hard and motivating you to continue on, that is the environment for you. On the other hand, that type of environment with other people really like me, I start chatting. I start getting really chatty and it is hard. Sometimes I need to go to a gym that I is like maybe meant for families or older folks or I go at a time where the gym baddies aren't there, where I don't want to chat with everyone. It kind of can go either way, so you have to know yourself whether or not you're a chatty person or do you get more motivation just by being around other people. A lot of these tips are like productivity, being motivated and having things that inspire you to train harder are time saving because you're not lollygagging in the gym. You're just being more effective with your time. Pre-log your weights before you go into the gym. If you're hitting a one-right max test, you should know that weeks prior. Okay, it's not random. It's not something that like it just springs up on you. You should have some idea of where your program is going in the span of your macro cycle. Number 16, be really clear about your goals. When you're hitting an exercise, you know what muscle group you're working, you know what it should feel like and where the pump is going so that you can move on to the next thing. You also might want to take a look at demos of those movements, especially if you're a beginner lifter, if you need to look at a demo and understand how, what is this exercise, what is it doing? Do that before you get into the gym so that you're not stuck on your phone studying while you need to be getting a workout done. Number 17, understand upper body days are gonna take a lot less time than lower body days and plan accordingly. Time windows will drive your intensity up. Instead of having the mindset of, I'll leave when I'm done, you ask, I have 45 minutes, what can I get done during this time? Make plans after your gym session. When I was 25 and first getting into the gym, that was my third place. They would literally be mopping the floor and I would still be lifting. I wasted a lot of time, mind you, but my friends were there and I was very talkative. If you're watch, if you're still at this part of the video, then that was probably you way back in the day and it's not anymore. You have different responsibilities. Planning a hard out where I need to pick up my kids at this time or I need to make this meeting, this call at this time, really does help me in constraining my time window. Let's talk minimum effective dose. So what's the bare minimum that we can do to move us somewhat forward or get some movement in? Literally if you've got 15 minutes or 20 minutes to get into the gym, go in and just warm up. Go in and just do the warm up. If you have a little bit more time, go and warm up, do one exercise. Maybe it's not even the primary compound. If we're talking daily minimums, go in and do four exercises. Four exercises is a good rule of thumb. Whenever I'm desperate, four exercises, I get it done and I get out of there. And number 21, don't go to the gym, do exercise snacks instead. An exercise snack is a short burst of activity that you can hopefully do anywhere that makes it so that you don't need to dedicate one solid hour at a different place to getting your workout in. You can break them up throughout the day and do them whenever you can. So for example, you could get a heavy kettlebell and that's in your office. And whenever you have some time, you're able to do a bunch of different exercises with a heavy kettlebell. Another idea could be a pull up bar on the door frame option to where you're just hitting a few reps whenever you can. Those are all my tips for making the most of your time that you have in the gym and time saving hacks. I hope that you guys found this interesting. I do love talking about programming, but it's one of those things where it might not be the sexiest thing to put on a YouTube title or a YouTube thumbnail. I don't know how to package it to make beginners interested, which is really my goal or getting more people just talking about strength in general. So if you guys wanna see more programming videos, that's something that I used to make when I first started on YouTube. Let me know. And if you have specific programming questions, leave them in the comments below. Of course, if you guys wanna train with me and you like my programming philosophy, check out Stronger by the Day. I've got over 25,000 members on the Stronger by the Day app. We are all training with the goal of getting stronger and getting more jacked. So if that sounds like something you're into, must be if you're still watching this video, then you can download the Stronger by the Day app in the link down below. And we would love to see you on the Stronger by the Day squad. We'll see you guys in the next video. Thank you so much for watching. Be sure to like and subscribe. If you haven't already, bye.

=== FILE: workout with me： it's deload week so we're just chillin (deadlifts, ohp) [4sZkCPO5jTk].txt ===

 Okay, um, hello! Everyone, look at my hair. Like, the flowers kind of take away from the braid, but it's fine, you know? You live in the Alarm. Today we're gonna work out, we're gonna deadlift. We're also shooting some videos, just one video really. That's why my hair is like this, for a new Buff Chick product release. So it's super exciting. The theme is... Any hints? Give it away, give it away. So we're gonna do that, and we're gonna lift today, and it's gonna be really fun. I'll give you tips along the way during the workout, of course, I'm here to be of service to you, my friend. My hip feels like absolute trash, so let's see what we can do to warm it up. My favorite kind of hip opener is something that works any kind of internal rotation. So on this side, I sort of just feel some hip impingement, like if I wanted to get down in the squat, it wouldn't feel really great. I've been sitting for most of the day, and that's probably why. Usually, sitting, if your body hurts, and you sit a lot, that is most likely the culprit of your pain. You're sitting down all day, staring at a screen on your phone like this. Just truly technology is trash. I mean, for our bodies. There's so many good things about it, but yeah. Anyway, this is a 90-90 hip opener, so it works both external rotation and internal rotation. And so what you wanna do is you can kind of get into this 90-90 degree and try to keep your torso upright and get that butt cheek to touch the ground. When you sit into that butt cheek of your internally rotated leg, when you sit that down, you'll start to feel more of that kind of crunchiness. You kind of want to get comfy in that and play around with your weight so that you can work that internal rotation a little bit more. If you need to, start with your legs a little bit farther away from you and just windshield wiper your knees. And you don't have to go all the way down to the ground. Just windshield wiper. You could even do one at a time. Sorry for the crotch shot. But yeah, this is a way to work that in. You'll see some people are really, really good at this and they'll do a full 90-90 kind of hip opener series. And you see how I use my hands to kind of balance. They won't even need their hands. They'll be really great at it. So there are all kinds of different flows that you can do, but I really just like to do the 90-90 and work into my rotation. Yeah. Doodledid, doodledid, doodledid, doodledid, doodledid. All right, simple butterfly stretch to continue. And for more hip openers, I also like the Cossack squat. Kind of stretch my groin a little bit, opening up my hip. We're one month out from the wedding grid. Are you feeling ready? Are you feeling redefined? Oh yeah, you guys haven't seen Grid's hair. Hold on. He took redefined to a whole another level. Hold on, let me get the light on you. I wanted to be redefined, right? You definitely redefined something. You redefined style for all of us. We don't know yet, but keeping it for the wedding. I love it, I love it. It kind of like matches my sweater. All right, next, let's do some leg swings. You wanna face your upright, and then you're gonna swing your leg in front of your body. You'll see my range of motion is what feels good and what gets a stretch for me. You might be here, or you might have a longer range of motion than me, hopefully. I'm sure all of you watching have more flexibility than I do, right? Hey, you were having a mobile. I am. I'm just trying to make our people feel good, okay? Let them know. There's no shame. Bodies are built differently. An alternative to the leg swing in front of you is to then turn so that your upright is on your side, and then you can swing your leg in front and behind you. Okay. Starting to feel like myself. All right, let's check out the stronger brother day warmup because it is always there. I don't always do it because I need to address my own personal issues before I jump into the workout. Okay, I'm already doing some of the stuff that's on here. All right, let's do some sun citations, terminal knee extensions. Salute the sun. Eh. Eh. Eh. Eh. Next, we're going to do some terminal knee extensions as part of our warmup. Grab a thick band attached to an upright and then step in the outside loop. And what you're going to do, what terminal knee extension means is the end of your knees range of motion extension wise. So what you're going to do, set up so that you're far enough away from your anchor so that you have some tension already before you start and your range of motion is going to be super short. You start with your leg slightly bent and then you get into terminal knee extension. You're going to squeeze your quad and you'll feel a little bit of a burn in your VMO, which if your quad is here, here's your VMO. So that little meaty part right there. If you have knee pain, it might make sense to work some of these terminal knee extensions into your workout. You could also include a like lunge into terminal knee extension. There are different variations that you can use the same kind of exercise with. We're shooting multiple things right now. I'm having buff pump in the strawberry kiwi flavor right now. This is my favorite flavor. This is my number one. People always ask if they should pair creatine with their pre-workout or a pump. And I personally don't because creatine is something that everyone should take every single day, right? So I pair it with a supplement that I have every day instead of pairing it with a pre-workout that I don't train every day. So I'm not having pre every single time. So that's why I put this in the morning with like my brands or whatever. Just need to slip with us and I'll be ready to go. Exciting news for us. We had our second highest day of sales was yesterday because we resopped creatine. So we resopped creatine and we have unflavored and also two new flavors of creatine. So if you didn't have a daily supplement that you take, you can always do the flavor that way you don't have to take just plain creatine. Anyway, check it out. It's one of our best selling products. Best day of sales. We grown, y'all. Yeah. Okay. I guess that means I have to train. What are we doing today? Well, I am not benching because I am not about to mess up this hair. So we're doing deadlifts, overhead press. Let's come on over to the app. Okay. So I'm going to turn off the warm-up since I don't do all the warm-up. So we start with a little superset of cable rows and banded face pulls. Then we have overhead press and deadlifts and then a nice little spicy. Actually, that doesn't look too bad. The giant set at the bottom is only two sets. So this is going to be a breeze of a workout. If the accessories are low volume, then I'm good. Is this a D-load? That's what I was wondering. Hold on. Let me see. Coach's notes. All you need to do is read. It is D-load. Ah! I feel like I don't need to D-load. Although I was literally sick last week, I think. Exhausted. I do need to warm up my shoulders just a little bit. Put the crunches on. Yeah. Get all the cranks and cranks and cracks out. My hip is still feeling a little funky. In gym class, when I was in middle school, we used to do this exercise. I was really like, why are we doing this? We were like, one, two, three, one, one, two, three, two. And I would ask the gym teacher, why are we doing this? And they'd say, well, what do you think it's for? It's like, what are you a teacher for? What are you here for? What are you teaching me? I think about high school so often how disrespectful teachers were. I'm sure I was disrespectful as well. But they just stuff like that. Like, well, what do you think it works? Why do you think I'm asking you? Oh, no, no. Why are they working? Oh, made my hips. I don't know. I could go on. I could go on. Today, first exercise, we're doing a face pull. Am I not doing these every single video that we've had? You guys know the drill. We're doing face pulls. One second pause. Let me not forget that. We're doing one second pause. I like to use this strap because it lets me get nice and wide. The typical rope attachment won't let you get into this kind of like goal post form at the end and that's what I like to feel. I start to activate my rear delts a little bit and also all the muscles of my shoulder blade. So this is my preferred way to do face pulls. Okay, seated wide grip cable row. Cool. I like how much direction we have because I was about to use this grip. But I guess we'll go wide. It's not about the wideness of the pull. It's about the motion of the ocean. I don't know. Okay, do I have any tips for this exercise? Absolutely not. Oh, okay. I like that one. What if I didn't lead with my elbows? What would that be like? What you doing? Care drop. Oh, cool. Have you guys ever wondered what's strong about the day programs? A super set, sometimes before the main lift? Well, let me explain. That is sometimes uncommon because when you have your day of training, you might want to program your most strenuous and your most technique heavy lift at the beginning of the session. Typically, that's a guidance, especially for weightlifting where the snatch and cleaning jerk are so technique heavy and so technically complicated, whereas overhead press and dead lift still difficult, but not that crazy. So a face pull and a row should not fatigue you so much that you're not able to perform well in overhead press and dead lift. So it's not really going to be holding you back that much, but also it is going to pre-fatigue you so that whenever we're at different times in our training cycle where those lifts are programmed first, you might feel a little fresher, you might be able to lift a little bit heavier. So it's a way to program so that you're pre-fatiguing before those hardest lifts. And that's the thesis. Honestly, I like it because I know now members, I love you, but I'm going to be roasting you and myself because I do this too. I know sometimes we get into the gym, we either forget to warm up or we don't take our warm up that seriously. And that superset is a nice way to ensure that you're getting moving and doing something so that your core temperature is raised a little bit more. And especially if I'm going to dead lift, I'm doing a row so I'm activating my lats, getting my back warm. I'm not taxing my back as much as I would in the dead lift, but I'm getting ready to. Lifts, heavy weights, high, high, high. If you've done a superset, then you've done your main lift. If you've done a superset, then you've done your main lift. Volume. The workouts are done. That is so true. Hey, yeah. I'm pausing. These inspired me to pause on my rows because I'm really feeling my rear delts. I'm really feeling this one. And sometimes my rows, when I'm on the cable row machine, I just don't be feeling it. So I add a little pause so I can get some extra beat on my bones. Are you guys familiar with Jasper the doll? What's the one that? It's like, can I have a snack? She's like, no. Bitch. Can I have a snack? So it'd be like you have to use grid for a scoop of creatine or something. Ooh, I like that one. However I can make fun of grid, I'm all for it. Bitch, give me a snack. Okay, it's time to overhead press, okay? There's one thing I like about my overhead press, and it's not really how strong I am at it. It's just that my training max is 100 pounds. So it's 75% of a training max today, so I know, easy math. 80 pounds today. I mean 75 pounds. I tricked you out. Also, since my training max is so low, it takes me like no time to warm up. It's truly like bar, and then, alright, you're ready. Here's what I like to focus on for my overhead press. For my setup, I just take my thumbs, the knuckle of my thumbs to the knurling. It depends on your barbell, really. If you want to guide according to your body, I just take thumbs to my delts, and then that's about where my grip is. When I unrack the bar, I make sure that my hips are like directly under the bar so that I can stand with it. You don't want to kind of unrack and be holding all of the weight in your front rack. You want to get your whole body under it so that you can just stand up and not waste any energy. So stand up. I do do like a suicide grip. It's not really a suicide grip in overhead press, because if the weight falls, it's just going to fall in front of you. Okay, we're athletes, right? Don't use that as medical advice. So yeah, I don't wrap my thumb. I find that I can get a better stack over my wrist when I don't wrap my thumb. That's just the way I like to do it. And then, I make sure that my elbows are away from me and not directly under the bar at the front rack. I rest up top. This is a heavily debated topic. I rest up top because I'm fully stacked. It's kind of like resting at the top of a squat. Instead of resting down here when all the weight is being supported by your muscles instead of your joints being stacked on top of each other. I like to rest up here, take my breath, brace and breathe, and then do my next wrap. Let's get it. It's time to warm up 65 pounds on home, baby. We're heading on in to first set territory. Oh man, I got a medalist after this. Why don't you tell me? It's an amrap too. I like 87% No rest for the wicked, you know what I'm saying? How do you feel closer to your wedding? A month out. Okay, I feel just a slightly stressed about some things. I feel good. I'm a little nervous about some of the wardrobe choices that I had because some of them don't fit me that well anymore. Who's your leader? I don't know. Maybe, yeah. Like, but I'm trying not to think too much about it because I don't want it to stress me out. Yeah. Great closer years. My boobs just are not the same anymore. So I think I'm going to need to like do some tape situation to make sure that I like have a shape. Yeah, it's pretty devastating. So that's why I'm just been trained a lot of pecs. You know what I'm saying? Just trying to make up for lost volume. Yeah, I don't want to talk about it. Okay, 75 pounds. We're just doing sets of five. Five-five, then an amrap. Yes. First set's always hardest. Oh, 10? Are we ready? Hold on, let me record this for myself. Yes, I'm going to give him 10. Okay. Mwah! A demon came out on that 13th. Good news. On D-load week, we don't raise our training max, so. Ooh, let me show you a Jefferson curl. Oh, God, my hips still. It's really just not feeling great today. I think I need a standing desk. What can I buy to help my life? Is there something that I can buy to help this? Consumerism, man. It's really just getting the best of all of us these days. Okay. What was that? That was like my valley girl. It was like a valley girl accent. Don't embarrass me. Let me show y'all the Jefferson curl. Okay, it's going to look like I'm going to break my back off. But this is a nice stretch and you can start with a really, really light weight. I've worked up to being able to use the bar and it's just a deadlift with the roundest cat back that you can manage. So think about getting into full spinal flexion while you're holding something to weigh down or you could just do it, body weight, and you curl all the way down keeping that nice round back. Always with deadlifting people are so afraid of this position, which under a heavy load or over a heavy load you definitely want to avoid, but it is good to move in spinal flexion. Your spine is meant to do that. Okay. So I take the bar to help me into spinal flexion, tuck my chin and then vertebrae by vertebrae just roll on up. It feels really nice. And that's the Jefferson curl. Okay, let's deadlift. Warm up one. Okay. Grid finally discovered Whitney Simmons and obviously she's a queen, especially for watching YouTube video, then you know who she is already, but she's been doing a lot more ticktocks. Pop that on Grid's For You page. And he's like, Hey, have you ever seen her videos? I'm like, bruh. Of course. Why haven't you person who works on a YouTube channel? Okay. This is 220. Okay. This is 220. Just three, three reps here. Okay. Yeah. Okay, we're going up to 252. I did have a second set, but we shot it for Instagram. Like a cute little Instagram clip. I guess this means I must do my final set. This is an AMRAP. Okay. The weight on the bar is 267 pounds. Hold on. Chocks coming up my nose. I'm going to sneeze. I lost it. Don't you hate that? Have you ever done that where you're like, are about to sneeze and then you lose it? Yeah. My sister does it to me all the time. Sneezing is so satisfying. So satisfying. It's the best. You know, this session isn't set out to raise my training max. This session is to get me stronger. This is a silent gym session, I guess. No music, no nothing. Just the wind. Okay. Ah! Just kidding. Hi. Nice. Ready, go. Yep. No. Ugh. That's it. I think that's it. Starting to feel a little like that Jefferson curl, if you know what I mean. I'm happy with that. Are we happy with that? All right. Last we have our giant set. This is going to be a breeze. So we've got dumbbell and climb bench press. Then into dumbbell lateral raise with a two second pause. And last we have a front plate raise. I'm going to walk you through all of them. Don't worry, babes. Oh no. How am I going to do it? Dumbbell. How am I going to lie my head on this when my hair looks like this? Here we go. The God's day. Here we go. Okay. I'm just going to start with the 30s because I'm feeling crazy. Lateral raises? I freaking wish. Oh, there's this girl on TikTok. She does 25s for lateral raises. Nuts. When I'm doing these, I like to think about bringing my elbows down at an angle. So I don't want my elbows to go straight out to my sides. I want to bring them down sort of like 45 degrees. Okay. Only six reps. Moving on. I'll keep the 30s and do my nursing. Okay. Moving on to a dumbbell lateral raise. This one has a two second pause. And I really like incorporating a pause whenever you feel like you're not feeling the movement where you're supposed to. So for a lateral raise, we're training our delt and we want to train the side delt. We'll do a front plate raise, which will train more of the front delt. But for this one, I want to be feeling it here in this muscle right here. Mine's not that big. I need to do more of these. But if you ever feel like you're not feeling it where you're supposed to, play around with your tempo, play around with a pause and see if you start to feel a little bit more. Even doing that with lighter weights could be better than really pushing your heavy weights when you're just getting started with this movement or when you feel like you really can't feel it. Okay. Let's see if I can do the 15s for this one. It's eight reps. Oh God. Oh! I don't like that one at all. Okay. And our last exercise is a front plate raise. This one is great, especially if you train in a garage or if you don't have access to a ton of different dumbbells, you grab a plate. It could be any size and make some space in between your legs for the plate at the bottom and you're bringing it up, keeping your arms or the plate far away from you and then finish with it overhead. Okay. That's 10. Thanks, only 10 reps. It's only 10 reps. It's a D-load, Ryan. Thank you very much. Anyway, thank you guys so much for watching. That's the end of this workout. Hopefully you enjoyed it. Hopefully you learned something new. Be sure to subscribe to my channel. And I love ya. I'll see you in the next video. Bye.

=== FILE: you don't need machines to get stronger [DjTe2pa6b0U].txt ===

! Ryan's trying to convince me of this next result. A movement that will be harder and a lot more out of the ass is... Someone just asked me on Instagram, what kind of substitutions can I use for a leg extension machine? So if you don't have a leg extension machine, I want to show you guys a bunch of different options and also I'll show you how to do them. A lot of people on Stronger by the Day run the program in their garage gym. A lot of people run our body weight option. We do get very creative with our many, many substitutions. I say creative, but it's creative within the sphere of what actually works. So let me show you our favorite substitutions in this video right now. First up, and Ryan's favorite, is the heel elevated goblet squat. So I just have a 25 kilo plate, use whatever plate or whatever surface you have to just keep your heels elevated and toes on the ground. What this is going to do is make sure that you have a really upright torso and you're going to allow your knee to travel forward, making it less hip dominant and more knee dominant, meaning more quad. Go as heavy as you can and it's a little bit awkward as you get heavier to kind of get it into that goblet position. Woo! Are you good? Feels fine. The next one and probably one of the most popular suggestions for a substitution for leg extension is the body weight leg extension makes sense. It's called that. It's something that's going to train deep knee flexion. People like it because it's super easy to do at home. You're still strengthening the quad, yes, but it's not my favorite exercise. I'll get to one that I like a little bit more that I would suggest you try, but this is a pretty simple exercise. You are just sitting on your shins, extending your hips and allowing your knee to hinge your entire body back. So try to keep your shoulders over your hips as much as you can. You can see how much deeper I can go when I add a band. The band just allows me to keep my balance, gives me a little bit of resistance so that I can go deeper without falling and like losing all of my stability to be able to come back to the start of the movement. A movement that will be harder and a lot more badass is the sissy squat, which is what I would suggest over the body weight squat, especially if you already have some strength training, you're already pretty strong. This is notoriously hard and there's many ways to do it as far as ways to overload it, but the body weight version is going to be extremely hard if you've never done it before. So the tips here are to stay on your toes and same to you as before, you're going to try to keep your knees, your hips and your shoulders all stacked while new thing driving your knees towards the ground. From the knees up, you're going to kind of be in a diagonal as you're driving your knees out and in front of you. You will need an upright or something to stabilize even when you're very proficient at these. You can use a squat rack, an upright, a door frame. I saw multiple influencers suggest this exercise for the same substitute. I don't love it. The only thing that you're really getting in that one, which isn't bad, is terminal knee extension. So here's a better exercise that I like that incorporates some terminal knee extension, but also a little bit more quad. It's called the Spanish squat. You're going to just find a band and step into each loop. Allow the band to keep your shin vertical. Squat down. It's going to be hard on the quads. And then when you come up, you'll get that terminal knee extension. So it's kind of like a combo. You're going to be able to load the quads while still keeping your shins perpendicular to the floor. Then you get that extra VMO squeeze at the top with your terminal knee extension, which is what that other exercise was basically. The only thing it was really working with the resistance profile. We're on day five stronger by the day. I don't normally run day five, but I wanted to because today's fun workout. They're kind of primer set before our hip thrust and we have a cluster set. So you see this four plus three plus three plus your set is basically when you rack the bar or rack our machine, like I'll show you, give yourself a little bit of a rest, like a full reset. Usually it's programmed like five to 10 seconds of rest. That way you can go heavier, kind of want to load something that let's say you can't do for four plus three plus three, which is 10 and you break it up in this cluster. So you do end up accumulating 10 reps in almost the same set, but that little 10 second rest will give you a little bit of a boost to really get you there. Just had a little, little sweetie. Feeling it, the burn. Nice all the way, nice. Oh, okay. Oh, I'm starting to feel it. Yeah, good. Woo! That's better. Alright, yeah, that actually, okay. Put it there. Alright, let's move on. Ryan's trying to manslame me this exercise, but I invented this exercise. Okay, this is ITYW. I know you guys see me talking about every video. My trap situation is out of control. I've done everything to remedy it, but I think it's just a... I'm too lazy and I'm too lifting too heavy and I'm nursing too many children. That's one. If you're breastfeeding, that's one too many. All you do is put your arms in the direction of the letter. So we go I, T, thumbs up, Y, thumbs up, down into your W. Eight reps and the range of motion is really small. If you find that the ITYWs are too easy for you, body weight, then grab some chips and you can just hold those. Just make sure your thumb's pointing the right direction, like thumbs up on the T and the Y. Small plates, okay, small plates. You don't need to go super heavy or you can play with your tempo. Slow W down or you could pause at the end of the range of motion. Then let it loose. Can you tell me what's in the boxes? Yes, I told him already in the last video. I got multiple videos in the queue, guys. That just means multiple videos. I want to get four videos shot, four videos ready. Plug them in and then record my next batch. That's what I'm thinking. So this first video we might not see until August, mid-autumn. Myself a little bit of a leeway because I'm always... By the time we film the next four, that'll be built probably. Hopefully. Well, we'll film the process of it. We'll have other things to chat about. Let me do 40s. We're on set of 45s and then if you feel good, go to 50s. You feel me? I'm looking kind of juicy though. Juicy or full force? But you know what? I talk about nursing in every video. You get more vascular in your chest area. Or it might not even be a vein. It might be the ducts. Do you see TS? You know. This guy knows what I'm talking about. Come on, that's not... Okay. Man, these ducts are working. We'll go 45s. Don't look at my ducts, man. Not the ducts. Protect the ducts. Save the ducts. What did I do? 45 last time? No, you did 40s. No way, really? That's what I said. It was easy. Sad, dude. Bye, yeah. Okay, guys. If you're ever spotting someone on a dumbbell bench, all the time I see people spot at the elbow. I hate the elbow. Don't spot at the elbow. Don't spot at the dumbbell because if they really misgroup likelihood of this happening is very low. But the heavier it is, you don't want to be spotting the elbow. What could happen if they really shit the bed? This. And their arm can't go back. They hurt their elbow. So spot at the dumbbell. Guide the wrist. Guide the wrist or the dumbbell on the way up. That's kind of giving them a lift off for the dumbbell bench press. Wouldn't spot. Everyone naturally spots right at the elbow. I don't love it. A little super set here. We've got an easy bar and we're doing easy bar curls for 15 reps straight into skull crushers for 15 reps. My tips are things that I'm working on are trying to fully extend at the bottom. Make sure I'm not cheating, having a little micro bend at the elbow at the bottom of my bicep curl. And then for my skull crushers, I'm just thinking about elbows pointed to the sky or the ceiling and trying to keep this part, which is called my humorous perpendicular to the floor. Unfortunately, a lot of people are going to be upset with me when I say this, but watching more videos on YouTube is not going to make you lift any better. It's not going to fix your technique. Lifting more is what will fix your technique. Being in the gym and doing the reps is going to fix your technique. Not watching this video. That's actually part of the reason why I've come back on YouTube. I've made so many technique videos in short form and I do just feel like it's kind of like mental kind of feel like you're doing something for your health and your fitness. You're not. You're saving the video. You'll never watch it again. You probably won't remember my cue. I sort of feel like I've been creating a lot of brain rot for lifting weights and I think this longer form, hopefully you're watching this while you're doing cardio or it's up in the gym while you're lifting yourself. One of the biggest things that I see are people who are majoring in the minors. They're worried about the smallest minutiae of detail and a lot of coaches in my position. They make it harder for people to lift heavier and get better at lifting. It's like good form is not a prerequisite for you to lift heavy. Sure, you should have some good form. It shouldn't look atrocious, but not going heavier because your lifts don't look perfect is what is holding you back. You need reps and you need practice under the bar, even if your form is not perfect. Even if your form kind of feels like it sucks a little bit right now, like it's going to be okay. A lot of times when you add weight to the bar, your form will self correct. In these sessions, I really do want to train with you so that you can see one how fun training is and also see that I screw up too. Sometimes my lifts don't look perfect either. Stop worrying so much about not having perfect form right now. Go into the gym and do the reps and do the sets. Try to improve that form from session to session. Don't let it stop you from starting the session in the first place.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.685724Z ===
