 and l-carnitine. Welcome to the video. Hello, my strong, strong friends. I'm here with a special guest. Hello. Thank you for having me on your channel, man. Of course. It's good to see you again. Literally any time you want to be on that channel, let me know. Okay. Because everyone loves you. This is Jujimoo Foo if you didn't know them. Yeah, we've been friends for a while. So here I am. We have a couple of collabs already existing on YouTube, and they are awesome. Actually, you know how people have like a channel trailer? You're like the first clip in my channel trailer. Like the horse head. Oh, yeah. I like that. I still like it. I think I need one of those. You know, it's really hard to breathe in. Yeah, I didn't enjoy when I was in it, but the shots looked really exciting. It's worth it. Worth it. Anyway, today we're talking all about arching in the bench press, and John is super flexible. However, he doesn't really... Do you have any actually mobility feats of strength that you can show us quickly? Feats of mobility? Well, I just did this a second ago, right? I don't know. It's pretty good for a 260 pound dude, you know? I can't do that. Whoa. Front split. Is that all right? Yes. You still got it? That's amazing. Okay. Guys, don't worry, I can do the same thing. Ready? Oh, yes. Yes, you can. Don't worry, I can do the same thing. Oh, shoot. That's some strength. No, we did... The first video we did together was you doing the side splits between chairs. Yes, we did the chair splits. Did I hold a barbell or I held something? You did. You legit did it, though. Yeah. You actually did it. Go check that out. It's pretty difficult. Yeah. Postpartum pelvis, if you know what I mean, to attempt it again. But you guys can always watch that video from years and years ago. I don't trust my postpartum pelvis sometimes either. Postpartum pelvis does really do be giving you some issues. Takes time. Okay. Today, we are going to talk all about the arch in the bench press. Super controversial topic because I feel like people will often see a picture or a video of an arch in an exaggerated situation, perhaps a powerlifting video. What? You're going to go first in seven, eight. Yeah. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. Eight. That means I'm ready? Yes. That was a good one. Oh, God. You're way off. It means I ate the quarter. Eight. Eight. That's what you get for sure. That range is half a centimeter. That's what you get for sure. Sometimes people make assumptions about what it means and what it is, so let's give you a little overview. Yeah, it's easy to make fun of something when you don't understand it. Exactly. Just like a postpartum pelvis. This is the new sign that we got, decorations in the gym. Am I allowed in my bench, Betty? Oh, 100%. Okay, good. Yes, that's why I made this sign for you. Oh, thank you. Because I knew that you were going to be here. Great, I'll take that, thanks. Just put it in my check bag somewhere. Didn't you pick them up from the airport with that? Yeah, I had the sign. Oh, right. Okay, first point of this video is sometimes people often say, oh, why do girls or women only have arches? And sometimes you don't see men have that. So we're going to do an experiment. Let me show you my arch, my new bench setup. This is me exaggerating a little bit. Oh my God. I'm going to watch that. It is a, well, you can go further than that. Oh no, I'm just, this is normally what I do. Five and a half. Five and a half? Yeah. All right. Now we're going to see what John can do. Mighty Morphin Arch Adventures. Let's go. Oh my God. This one, keep your butt down. Okay. Keep my butt down? Yes, please. Okay. Oh, God. Whoa. Oh man, pathetic four inches. So that experiment just showed us that I have a bigger arch than John. And in this one, we were exaggerating a little bit, but not, you know, we're keeping our butt still on the bench. And obviously one of us has a lot more mass than the other. Unfortunately it's him over here. So sometimes when people make the assumption that women only arch, sometimes when you have a lot more meat on your bones, you still have an arch. Everyone has natural curvature to their spine. And people often get into this position so that they can have a stronger or are able to maximize how much weight they can do on the bench. But when you got more meat, it's a smaller arch. Bigger isn't always better. Well, we were just talking about natural body differences and where you carry mass and weight. And the argument or the idea was that because Meg has a little bit more of this Coke bottle positioning. Yeah, go ahead. And you put a Coke bottle mermaid muscle princess. There you go. When she sits on a bench with no active arch or position, there's already a visible arch just because of the proportions of her body of three inches. So if your arch was, what do you say for her? That's a question. I think it was five. It was five. So you're only actually creating two inches of incremental arch through retraction and depression. Measure him. He's got negative. He's got a. All right. Oh, he's got a little some there. I mean, you're kind of protracting a little bit. Yeah, probably in that area, but that's probably closer to about two and a quarter, two and a half at your deepest part. So you're naturally in less of an arch just based on the shape of your body. Kind of off topic, but is there like a magic waist to hip ratio that's like supposed to be like ideal or something? Have you ever seen Kim Kardashian? Yes. But what is the ratio? Do you know what the number is? I don't know, but whatever she's got, that's it. This is about bench batting, but who's the booty batting? You know what I'm saying? If you can see like my glutes just stick out farther. Also I'm a woman. So. Oh, that looks. My butt bigger than yours. Perhaps. But even if John's butt was bigger than mine, which is is he has more. I have more. His erectors are all the way out here. Just be nice. I have a bigger gut. So look at his erector line to glutes. Whereas my glutes to my erectors don't touch. Okay. That were a straight line. So that's typical too for women who are leaner. Sometimes they're, especially if they're power lifters, they probably have some mass in their glutes and it compared to male counterparts who might be similar or similar body weights. The light bulb moment just went off. It all makes sense now. You see what I mean? Just think about the typical type of person you see that has a really large arch. Just that image in your head. No, it makes sense now. So let me show you how to get into a baby arch or start using an arch in your training. I recently have made some changes to how I'm setting up in the bench press and I like it because I no longer focus on retraction. So if I were to retract my scapula that always already creates more of an arch. So you have my butt and then my shoulders where I'm touching. And those are the two points that you need to make contact with in a powerlifting federation. So boom, already increased my arch a little bit. But now I'm focused more on depression. I'm going to set up in my bench press. I'm going to use my legs to walk back, lift my butt off and you can see look at that arch. Now I still have to put my butt down, but I'm going to reach my chest towards the bar and then put my butt down. So that is the form or the arch that I use when I'm regularly powerlifting. If you're watching this and interested in creating an arch or experimenting to see if it gives you a bigger one rep max bench, I think that's cool. But realize when you see that super exaggerated arch of a lifter doing it in a powerlifting me, it's likely that they don't train all of their bench that way. And that exaggeration isn't always for the purpose of like training to get stronger or training to build muscle. I don't think it's any reason to do that to train to get stronger muscle. In a powerlifting me, it's all about how much weight you move. Exactly. So if you, you know, there's super popular videos that have like millions of views on YouTube of there's a 16 year old girl who has like this sick, super crazy arch and her range of motion is like, so I think that video is so popular because so many people see it and they think it's a joke, which sucks in some ways, but that is an anomaly. When you go to a powerlifting meet, you won't always see everyone with that form. It really just depends on what people find works best for them. I personally do not get in a huge arch. I don't arch to my max, like what I could possibly do. I have a little bit of an arch what's comfortable to where my scapulas get depressed, but I don't overemphasize it as much as I could. I love how much force I got. I Actually, that's one point that I'll make it is not comfortable to get into an arch even the one that I use on my Top sets or my working sets of like Working to get a bench PR it takes a lot of practice it is Very technique heavy of all the lifts. I think the bench is the most technical Because it involves the arch your point of contact and your stability is on a surface that Can be smaller than the floor. It's different So It's not the most comfortable thing I would do if you're looking to just gain some muscle I would do feet up close grip bench press or I would do Honestly anything other than the bench press. Okay, John's gonna show us some stretches some things that we can consider when we're thinking about Shoulder flexibility and mobility to help your bench press also. Maybe you can give us some tips on how to When we're benching it's a lot of this motion So maybe some things to counteract that so our shoulders feel nice and oh Yeah, yeah, well first I just kind of want to mention something about flexibility a lot of people think that stretching Is going to make you weaker or inhibit strength? Hopefully I'm living proof that you can be strong and flexible But I'm not gonna lie and say that like I don't think stretching and flexibility training hasn't actually interfered with my top-end strength Potential over the years because I feel like all the stretching I do has probably reduced my strength output my total You know strength potential by a couple percentage points, but For real like the quality of life I get from being super flexible and being Having on stretching training it carries over into so many aspects of life that matter to me more than just an extra 10 or 15 pounds on a lift, you know, I mean, it's just like It's just so much and it's probably helped me evade so many injuries over the years just the stretching and it just feels good So I think it's worth it. So if you're worried about flexibility training or stretching inhibiting your strength, just don't Honestly don't and as far as over flexibility goes like the contortionist like oh, they're weak That's like saying you don't want to look like Ronnie Coleman. So you're not gonna eat whey protein You know, it's like, you know, how hard does contortionist train to be able to bend their body that way? That is Realistic levels of pain tolerance that a lot of people don't even understand like what they have to do So you're not gonna accidentally get too flexible. Let me put it that way. Okay, so For for warming up for the bench honestly like I spend a lot of time stretching if I want to do this lift in my training and You know, one of the first things they're gonna do is just something simple and that that would probably just be sitting down the bench and And Just kind of wedging my feet back and just kind of wiggling around And Some people like Jen Thompson. She's one of the greatest powerlifters who've ever lived who's still active powerlifting She'll put a football here and she'll use that to kind of push herself up to get a little bit of a lower back stretch And you also want to stretch the hip flexors and quads here. They're not really prime movers in my opinion Unlike floor drive. I don't think stretching them is gonna affect your four drive so much. It's worth to go ahead and Just get that extra little range of motion by stretching these components out as well So Maggie want to do some this stretch. Oh, yeah, I like that one. Yeah, because look it's right here. Look Where's my foot on the bench? Same thing just create recreate the shape that you're trying to get on the bench with some auxiliary movements Just in between warm-up sets, you know of the actual weight as you're working up to your top end working sets So this is good very simple. I mean you can do so many different things with the stretch The distraction band you can put a band on it So now it'll have to contract the glute to push the hip flexor forward the band is doing that work for me So I'll have to kind of do is lean back and it's Really helping me get a better stretch. Just kind of move back and forth like this little 3d motion It's kind of like seesaw Do both legs like that so just attach it to an anchor point and just step back And this can be the same band that you do a little bit of shoulder warm-up with as Meg was alluding to just like this This is probably one of the best ones you can do honestly Those are my favorite such a simple thing to do just get a band and it's better with a band because that little extra stretch there I think it's harder with that if you can do with that. Yeah But the band you just work your way out And it's easier that way and then you can work your way in and then actually the band gives you a little bit of resistance There so you have to kind of pull a little active pulling which is actually good for your bench as well Mm-hmm a lot of guys will put a Band between the wrists so this pulling motion It's a good bench warm-up a lot of old head power lifters use that one but this stretch here the hip stretch And then finally just a quad stretch just a simple quad stretch you can do This is a good one. You just kind of lean back push your hips forward and then Spend some time there and then the Pilates ball Mech Meg you do Pilates. Well remember we were talking about postpartum pelvis. Yeah The Pilates ball comes in handy for the postpartum pelvis Not not in a weird way, I'll show you those later But there you go. This does the work of the football Mm-hmm. Just any sort of stiff ball or something and that'll you can actually warm up the bench With the with the ball underneath you football place ball soccer ball, and I think what Jen does is she'll Deflate this whenever she was working up to like get the Yes, she was actually modulating the amount of air tension in the ball and then progressing Yeah, I thought that was brilliant. You could deflate it This this is pretty inflated But you could deflate it a little bit and then keep blowing it up and just work on your arch mobility and your arch technique Over time, but I think there's so many different stretches so many different things I'm just exploring and playing with it It's the best thing and just find a few that you like and just do them But yeah, just pick some stretches and do the ones that you feel that make you feel good and just do some of them and You'll know immediately if it helps You know if it helps your bench warm up then you're doing you're on the right track. Well, thank you for being part of our video Thank you guys so much for watching. Be sure to check out jujimufu on youtube and instagram and anything to plug jujimufu.com just go there buy my short shorts Hey, they're unisex it works for uh men and women I'm gonna go buy myself a pair right now. See you guys at jujimufu.com. Bye