! Good morning. Crazy morning today. Emeril, do you want to share what you had for breakfast? Yeah. What'd you have? I'm having... Here, talk to the microphone. Egg and syrup. Very good. Eggs are the one constant. All the girls in the house usually have eggs in the morning to get our day started. This morning I made a sweet potato waffle, so you shred sweet potato, and then basically just put it in the waffle maker. I add egg whites to help it bind. You can also add coconut, which I wish I would have added. I think it would have made it stick together a little bit better today, because mine completely fell apart. The girls just do regular eggs, and for me, I do the Momofuku chili crunch eggs. So good. It makes it spicy. On top of my sweet potato waffle, I'm adding frozen blueberries, just cooking them in the same pan for a little while, putting them on top instead of a syrup. Mornings are definitely a little crazy at the house. We try to get emerald off out of the door at a specific time. I like to try and just keep everything to one pan, if I can, and limit the amount of things that I need to wash after. Okay, chaotic morning, but everyone is gone. I'm sitting down for my first meeting of the day. Now, if you follow me anywhere else, then you know that I usually say you should hydrate before you caffeinate. Why? Because it rhymes. And you just slept like seven to nine hours without drinking any water, so maybe you should stack your habit with your crippling caffeine addiction. Today, I didn't have enough time to hydrate before I caffeinated, so I'm having my buff greens and my creatine before I log into my first meeting of the day. If you saw my, I took creatine for 30 days video, then there's a compilation of me just saying, is that I keep forgetting. So that's why I do prefer to hydrate before I caffeinate and get my creatine in when I'm doing all of those things. So you get your hydration, your creatine, and your greens. All before your morning coffee. It's second coffee time. Look, he's stealing it already. Okay. Oh, that's nice. I have one rule when it comes to that. If I'm going to bring the cutting board out, I've got to make it worth it. Okay. I'm going to wash that knife and you have to do the wash those by hand, which is annoying. Okay. If I'm going that far and then I need to get more out of it. For example, if I'm ever prepping vegetables, I will make sure that I get more out of that instance of prepping something. So if I'm prepping cutting cucumbers for a snack for someone, I'll make sure I put some of these together so that I don't always feel like I'm prepping everything from scratch every single day. We'll get through all of this this week ends up being a lot of cutting an annoying amount of cutting and chopping. So anyway, this is our coffee break in the middle of our work day. Cheers. So I'm just going to have an apple. I hear violet fussing. So I'm going to feed her and then we'll go. Train. I've got to feed the baby before I can leave the house. I probably feed her five times a day. She's taken in some solids too. That also adds to my chopping and smushing and mushing food. Yes, I have a new personality trait and it's that I run. I've been running a mile every day. Progressively trying to get a little faster. Today I have to run a nine, 10. I know it doesn't sound hard, but when you're slow like me, it's a little bit of a challenge to get a little faster. I know it doesn't sound hard, but when you're slow like me, it is hard. Okay. No, I actually have to stretch because like I am running faster than what I physically can. It's time for a. I'm wearing these fast as boy sports bra is from Nike and run with this lemon shorts, lemon socks, and I've got these chunky hocus. I think I'm actually going to upgrade my shoes. I need like faster shoes. If I'm only doing a mile at a time, like, you know, those carbon fiber plate shoes, I think that's what I'm going to get. They're like $250. It's something that's like illegal with the carbon fiber. I got to look that up since I'm trying to run faster is I've been listening to high BPM music. So I choose the playlist. That's 180 BPM. I am not quite fast enough to keep up with the beats per minute, but I'm trying. Ready, steady. What do you got for me? Sub eight. I mean sub sub nine. Sorry. I was dreaming. I was daydreaming. 851. You were shooting for 910. Yeah. How was it? It was good. Yeah. I just signed up for this contest. You guys, why did I do it? You know, it's because they gave me an invite, a special invite. So I felt special. So my ego said, wow, you're special. You should do it. It's October 25th. So I'm training the mile. Obviously I just have to train the other eight events. Anyway, we'll see more to come on that. Time to go running. To Jimmy. Oh hell yeah. You know, John, I was thinking a lot of things. I'm about to hit my third set, AKA my M rep set for my squats. Let's see if I can hit nine. Ryan's pushing me to hit nine. I don't want to hit nine. I was going to sandbag it, but let's see if I can do it. Vote in the comments. You think I'm going to hit nine? Probably six, seven. What does that mean? Six, seven. What does that mean? What does that mean? Let me go. I can see us getting close. You can have a little faith. It never killed nobody what you waiting for. Getting closer by the step feels like it's just getting started. I can see us getting closer by the step feels like it's just getting started. I can see us getting closer by the step feels like it's just getting started. One, one, one more. One, one, one more. Is that 10? I blocked out. I blocked out when I got to six, seven. All right, so that was an M rep set on the stronger by the day app. Let me show you guys what happens when you get to a little test inside the app, inside your program. And our details, if you were to ever go looking for them as, hey, if you hit more than eight reps, you got to increase your training max means the weight's too light, you're getting too strong. So you're getting too strong. You didn't do nine. Oh, I did 10. Yeah, let me see it. Holla. So 10. And then I hit next to continue on with my workout. And it says PR alert, alert, alert. Pew, pew, pew. My current training max is 255. I'm only going up to 260. So we can raise that a little bit. All right. And look, it says you've added 110 pounds to your squats. I'm just joining you. I'm talking about that. Not more than that. Next time I see a squat, I'll be working off of a stronger training max. So the idea is every couple of workouts, every couple of weeks, you're bumping that training max up. It used to be something that you'd have to calculate and record every single little thing with an Excel sheet. Calculate percentages every time you get in the gym. No, you don't have to do that. The Apple tell you exactly how much to add to the bar. And it will remember, oh, she bumped up her training max last week. So let's make sure we add a little bit more weight on the bar prescribed. Time to head home and have our post-workout meal. Okay. I'm going to be coming home from Jiu Jitsu any minute. And we, she always wants a snack when she comes home, but she comes home and then it's like basically dinner time. So what I always do is I take one of these jars that I usually have prepped of veggies and I just lay it out. I don't say anything. I don't say, hey, it's snack time. Hey, you need to eat some of these. I don't pressure. It's just out and it's the only food that's out. So I find that it works for four year olds like her and it also works for 37 year olds like me. Tonight I'm making like a burger salad. Ryan's not feeling his best. So he's just chilling. The girls are enjoying some screen time right now and eating snacks. I am going to crack open a cold one. It's so funny when I think back to before I had kids, I would drink casually all the time. Like now at the time when I would open up a bottle of wine and just have a few glasses of wine just regularly every night for really no reason other than to fill the time. This is just so much better. I want to make a little sauce for my burger. So I'm going to make like a avocado mayo, a creamy avocado dressing, light mayo and an avocado. Let's see how it turns out. Salt, pepper, a little garlic powder and I'm going to put a tiny bit of lime just to give it some acid. It's going to be great. Okay, bone appetit. We're having a burger salad. Lettuce, tomato, onion, pickle. I've got my burger avocado mayo on top, a little bit of olive oil dressing the salad. That's it. That's dinner. Nice and easy, super simple. In my experience, kids don't eat lettuce, so Emerald is having a deconstructed burger and I'll give her some ketchup. It's fine. She ate all those vegetables, so I'm super happy about that. I'm actually going to add mustard to it. That's what it needs. Mustard. Bedtime, almost bedtime for you in this house. One child is upstairs on her way to bed and I get to take an everything shower. So I'm going to take that and I'll be back for my final meal after I put her down. So it'll literally probably be in like two hours. My final meal of the night is a chocolate peanut butter banana shake. I have this all the time and actually I just did a half a scoop of protein because I've already met my protein goal. I don't need any extra, but the buff chick fudge brownie, it just makes it taste better. Even if it was just chocolate milk and like a regular smoothie. The fudge brownie protein powder, I don't know what it is. It literally makes it taste better than regular chocolate milk. I've been using these creamy glasses or cups rather for my shakes and then just using the immersion blender. It's less clean up than using a regular blender and it works just as well. Then I can just throw the immersion blender thing into the dishwasher and I can throw this into the dishwasher as well. This is so good and that's my final meal for the night. As far as nutrition goes, I have one video that went semi-viral. It's on body composition. So if you guys want to watch that one next, it's right here. See you guys next one. Bye.