 this is my exact system for getting in and out of the gym in under an hour. Now, if you're just someone who works out, then that might not sound that impressive. But if you're someone who is training specifically for the purpose of getting stronger or getting bigger muscles, then you know that it takes time. Now, when I was younger, I used to spend all my time in the gym, but now at 37 with two children, I just can't do that anymore. So I've learned how to squeeze in similar results into this one singular hour or less. If there's one thing I know about you, it's that you don't have any time, so let's get into the video. Rule number one, no sitting. Sitting is killing all of your urgency. You can stand, you can pace, or you can do some dynamic stretching while you're resting. But my point is you are fit enough to stand during a one hour workout or a 45 minute workout. Now, if you're a competitive powerlifter, this might be a little bit of a different story. I'll allow you to sit. I will only allow you to sit if you follow these next two. No podcasts. You're listening to Michael Babarro in your ears, and I can tell from New York Times, I'm Michael Babarro. This is a daily. If you're anything like me, you feel like, oh, listening to a podcast helps me feel like I'm learning something while I'm getting my workout and I'm multitasking, I'm so productive, right? No, no. It just doesn't match the intensity and the vibe that I wanna bring to my workouts. Turn on some music or at least be present in the arousal that your gym is providing. This one goes along with it and it's no phone. You're not allowed to look at your phone anymore, okay? I recently got a brick for my phone. The brick is like a magnet that I put on my fridge, and when I tap the brick, when I brick my phone, I lock my phone out from all apps. Scrolling is the biggest waste of time, and I can tell that so many people are doing that same thing. They're like multitasking, and they're getting worked on or whatever, and that's fine if that's what you need to do, but you're watching this video because you're trying to save time in the gym, and I'm telling you that being on your phone is just killing your time and it's killing your workout. An app that you might wanna use is your clock app. Set 15-minute timers to help you keep track of where your time is going. I set a 15-minute timer, and I follow a workout structure that looks very similar to this. I'll go over this in a second. The 15-minute timer kind of lets me know, whoop, it's 15 minutes time to move on or wrap up what you're doing. The alarm goes off every 15 minutes, and I just tap repeat. Number five, do a morning warming session. Most of you guys are millennials watching my channel. We're waking up crunchy. We're waking up crunchy, and when we get to the gym, actually, it feels like, oh, I just need to shake off my day of being hunched over at my desk like this. You can save a little bit of time in the gym by proactively getting those crunchies out. At the Olympic Training Center in Colorado, the weightlifting team meets for morning warming every day before breakfast. So they're kind of getting ahead of some mobility work in a routine fashion. They do this every single day. That way, when they finally get to the gym, they're in a little bit better condition. Number six, know what the hell you're doing. That means getting on a program, even if you're advanced. My biggest waste of time days are when I'm questioning, should I hit bench or should I hit legs today? Or should I do day one or day four of the program and I'm just wasting time trying to decide because I'm not clear on what it is that I'm doing. You do want to consider your fatigue and how much time that you have, but honestly, fuck your feelings and just follow the plan. Number seven, prioritize compound movements. A compound movement is one that uses multiple muscle groups and multiple joints to get done. Easy way to remember these are how I structure it, the big five. You've got squat, bench, deadlift, hip thrusts, and overhead press. Those big five are what I base all of my programs off of. You choose one of the big five as your main movement for the day and you are pushing it. I want to show you guys this programming period and get into how you can kind of understand what exercises go where when you're planning your workouts. At the very tippy top of the pyramid, you have one exercise. That is your primary compound for the day. It's one exercise, but it's going to take you the most amount of time to complete. Why? Because you're lifting heavy. Let's move down to your secondary compound. If your primary compound is squat in your program, then a secondary compound could be a front squat or a zircher squat, something that still uses multiple muscle groups, but you might not be going as heavy as you are in your primary compound. And at the base of the pyramid, we have isolation exercises. So your primary compound should take 15 minutes to 20 minutes. If you are really strong, it will take you longer. Number eight, program a primer movement before your primary compound. This could be an isolation movement. This could be a necessary. This could be a super set. You might be thinking, oh, but I thought I was supposed to hit my squats where I'm less fatigued. Yeah, yeah, you should not be super fatigued when you're going into your primary compound. But you're fit. You've been training for a while. Now you're at the point where you need to save some time. Even if you're a powerlifter and eventually you wanna hit a one rep max, let's say you wanna hit a one rep max in three months, do this, you'll be fine. You will be fine. Number nine, warm up while you warm up. I mean that you don't need to be fully stretched and fully warmed up before you get on an empty bar. Okay, we get into the gym. I want you to do five minutes of raising your heart rate. You're going into activating and mobilizing while you're getting this primer done. What you're doing is you're super setting some potentiation with dynamic stretching and warm up exercises. All right, for everything except for your primary compound movement, hit two warm ups sets. Just keep it easy, hit two warm ups sets then get into your working sets. If you're on a leg extension machine, you've got two warm up opportunities and then get into your first working set. Number 11, program some strategic super sets. I super set a feet up close grip bench press with a tricep extension. I need to think those two things are going to affect one another. However, if I super set a feet up close grip bench press with calf raises, they're not going to impact each other except for I might be a little bit more out of breath if I were fully resting. Pairing super sets that don't interact much with each other is a great way to just get a ton done while still being able to ramp up the intensity. Next section is supplements. We got to talk supplements because they do something. A lot of them give you a physical benefit that will help you stay on your shit. Pre-workout has an effect. beta-alanine specifically is that ingredient that gives you the tingles, okay? I don't know about you guys, but for me, when my face is melting, I am hype. I have a physical reaction keeping me on track. Most pre-workouts have ingredients that will help promote your blood flow. Next is creatine. One of the symptoms of creatine is that it increases your pumps. You get a bigger pump when you are fully saturated with creatine. Having that bigger pump might not mean long-term benefits, okay? It might just be a pump. That's it. But for me, when I look in the mirror and I'm training and I see, oh shit, I look jacked, that increases the arousal for me during my workout and it keeps me moving. Let's not even talk about a glute pump. When I look in the mirror and I hate doing hip thrusts, but after I finish hip thrusts and I see a solid pump staring back at me, it really does motivate me to continue training and to continue get the job done. Number 14 is finding the right environment. Now this can go either way. If you train harder and you're more on your shit when there are other people with that same mindset, training really hard and motivating you to continue on, that is the environment for you. On the other hand, that type of environment with other people really like me, I start chatting. I start getting really chatty and it is hard. Sometimes I need to go to a gym that I is like maybe meant for families or older folks or I go at a time where the gym baddies aren't there, where I don't want to chat with everyone. It kind of can go either way, so you have to know yourself whether or not you're a chatty person or do you get more motivation just by being around other people. A lot of these tips are like productivity, being motivated and having things that inspire you to train harder are time saving because you're not lollygagging in the gym. You're just being more effective with your time. Pre-log your weights before you go into the gym. If you're hitting a one-right max test, you should know that weeks prior. Okay, it's not random. It's not something that like it just springs up on you. You should have some idea of where your program is going in the span of your macro cycle. Number 16, be really clear about your goals. When you're hitting an exercise, you know what muscle group you're working, you know what it should feel like and where the pump is going so that you can move on to the next thing. You also might want to take a look at demos of those movements, especially if you're a beginner lifter, if you need to look at a demo and understand how, what is this exercise, what is it doing? Do that before you get into the gym so that you're not stuck on your phone studying while you need to be getting a workout done. Number 17, understand upper body days are gonna take a lot less time than lower body days and plan accordingly. Time windows will drive your intensity up. Instead of having the mindset of, I'll leave when I'm done, you ask, I have 45 minutes, what can I get done during this time? Make plans after your gym session. When I was 25 and first getting into the gym, that was my third place. They would literally be mopping the floor and I would still be lifting. I wasted a lot of time, mind you, but my friends were there and I was very talkative. If you're watch, if you're still at this part of the video, then that was probably you way back in the day and it's not anymore. You have different responsibilities. Planning a hard out where I need to pick up my kids at this time or I need to make this meeting, this call at this time, really does help me in constraining my time window. Let's talk minimum effective dose. So what's the bare minimum that we can do to move us somewhat forward or get some movement in? Literally if you've got 15 minutes or 20 minutes to get into the gym, go in and just warm up. Go in and just do the warm up. If you have a little bit more time, go and warm up, do one exercise. Maybe it's not even the primary compound. If we're talking daily minimums, go in and do four exercises. Four exercises is a good rule of thumb. Whenever I'm desperate, four exercises, I get it done and I get out of there. And number 21, don't go to the gym, do exercise snacks instead. An exercise snack is a short burst of activity that you can hopefully do anywhere that makes it so that you don't need to dedicate one solid hour at a different place to getting your workout in. You can break them up throughout the day and do them whenever you can. So for example, you could get a heavy kettlebell and that's in your office. And whenever you have some time, you're able to do a bunch of different exercises with a heavy kettlebell. Another idea could be a pull up bar on the door frame option to where you're just hitting a few reps whenever you can. Those are all my tips for making the most of your time that you have in the gym and time saving hacks. I hope that you guys found this interesting. I do love talking about programming, but it's one of those things where it might not be the sexiest thing to put on a YouTube title or a YouTube thumbnail. I don't know how to package it to make beginners interested, which is really my goal or getting more people just talking about strength in general. So if you guys wanna see more programming videos, that's something that I used to make when I first started on YouTube. Let me know. And if you have specific programming questions, leave them in the comments below. Of course, if you guys wanna train with me and you like my programming philosophy, check out Stronger by the Day. I've got over 25,000 members on the Stronger by the Day app. We are all training with the goal of getting stronger and getting more jacked. So if that sounds like something you're into, must be if you're still watching this video, then you can download the Stronger by the Day app in the link down below. And we would love to see you on the Stronger by the Day squad. We'll see you guys in the next video. Thank you so much for watching. Be sure to like and subscribe. If you haven't already, bye.