 hello, my strong, strong friends. My goal with this video is to go into labor and have a child, okay? I am a million weeks pregnant, and I'm about done with this bullshit. I'm being induced on, I'm being induced in less than 72 hours, less than 48 hours. I'm being induced in less than 48 hours. I would love to go into spontaneous labor. Will that happen? I don't know, but let's try everything we possibly can to put me into spontaneous labor. Starting with spicy food. This is not gonna be very scientific, but let's try to douse my meal with this Cadejo. I love this hot sauce. It's from Hot Ones last season. It's so good. I'm having chicken rice and green beans. Let's see if a little bit of spice will put me into labor. It will definitely give me heartburn, but let's see if it works. Okay, I can't handle that much, but do what I can. Here it is. It's been an hour since I've ate. I felt one cramp, but I think I just needed to go to the bathroom. Let's bring out the big guns. This is my breast pump. I use the LV Hands-Free Pump. So nipple stimulation can... What is it? So nipple stimulation can increase your oxytocin, so it's a hormone that could induce labor. So I have a nursing bra on. I am going to put this in and do some work and continue my day. I'm just going to do 15 minutes and then 15 minutes and see if I start cramping at all. In my last pregnancy, when I got to 39 weeks, I started doing this every single night, and this is what I believe put me into labor. So let's see if I start to get some cramps. I would just get cramps every night, and then the night I went into labor, I did this and the cramps never stopped. They were contractions. Okay, just toss her in there. Oh God, it is not a comfortable feeling. Oh, my life is over as I know it. Once I start this, once I start pressing play on this button, my boobs are never going to be the same. This one doesn't feel good either. Can you hear it? All right, let's see. It doesn't feel super strong right now. Let's see what happens. Obviously talk to your doctor if you decide to do any of these things that I'm doing. I am getting induced very soon, but usually things like the nipple stimulation, they don't recommend until your past 39 weeks of pregnancy. But talk to your doctor before you do any of these things that I'm doing, okay? While that's going to work, I'm hungry. I'm hungry again. Let's try the pineapple method. So pineapple has bromelion, is that what it is? And the science is not very strong on this one, but bromelion can help soften the cervix. Now I think the amount of pineapple that you would have to eat is so much. They do recommend fresh pineapple, so I have some fresh pineapple. Let's just do it. I mean, I like the way it's pineapple taste. Anyway, and I need a little snack. Okay, 15 minutes later. Can you guys hear it working? Okay, so I did 15 minutes on one side, took a little break, and then 15 minutes on this side. That is enough. They don't want you to exceed like one hour total of pumping time. So I'm there. Do I feel any cramps? Did I get something out of here? Oh, look, we got a little bit of, ugh. Okay, I'm gonna clean this. I'll be right back. But I do like the elbipump because I was just sitting here. I was like pumping and working right here the whole time. It was great. Hey everyone, we have arrived at the park. Follow me, follow me mom. Next thing, I did this a lot in my last pregnancy. I don't think it works much for me, but it's supposed to get the baby in the right pelvis position. Thank you, mom. So get the baby to a different station. Put your jacket on, girl. Ready? That's it. All curb walking. Did you do it, Emra? No. Maybe I'll do it for like 10 minutes. I don't know. Pretty annoying, that's how much. Put on the curb. Get on down there, girl. Okay. Hahaha. The next day has arrived. We have not made any progress. I haven't had any contraction, so let's continue. We are about four hours out from showing up to the hospital to check in and let's see if I can just get this ball rolling and I'll continue basically old wives' tales. I've got my elbipump. This is the thing that I know works, so I'm gonna pump again. I only did like one session yesterday and I also have dates. There is apparently some scientific research that says dates do help soften the cervix. The problem is dates to me are absolutely disgusting. Like eating the whole dates, they just look gross. Oh, I just looked at the bag of dates that I bought and they are so slimy. They look like little kookeraches, but LaRBar has dates in them. Maybe it's like one eighth of a date, but I will eat these because I do like LaRBar's and then I also got these coconut date rolls. So I'll have one of those, which I can actually stomach them, but they're still not good, but at least they're kind of cute little candies. So let's try these for a little snack. I do need to protein up and carb up and calorie up because once I start to be induced and they start medication, I won't necessarily be able or advised to eat while I'm in the hospital. Just clear liquids from 6 p.m. on. So I'll try to keep lots of snacks and lots of food. All right, let's go. We are at Bigfoot reflexology to see if I can implement some ancient Chinese Thai, some kind of massage medicine and see if they'll put me into labor. I came here two days ago with my mom and it didn't do anything, but it felt really good. So really the risk of me not enjoying my time is very low. Whereas most of the other things that I'm doing are kind of like annoying at the least. So I'm gonna go in there this time though and say, hey, I'm very pregnant. I'm going to the hospital today to be induced, but can you? Put me over the edge. Put me into labor? Let's see what they say. Cause I think when I was here two days ago, he was kind of just playing it cool, like not going super ham where my mom was like, whoa, that pressure was, I had to ask him to improve the pressure for like increase the pressure. And so I think he was just like, not trying to put me into labor, you know what I mean? So today I'm going to ask him if he will. See big foot spots. Let's see which one will give me a baby. This one. Great. I was looking at it. Oh, this one. Let's ask them. Are you good? I'm good. Nothing. Perfect. Effederal's working. Yeah. Ready to. Feel calm. You're somewhat rusted. Much more than last time. See it a bit. It'S4.50. We're ready to meet her. They said we're going to labor down to the next 30 minutes. I think they said you're soft, you're complete, and you're plus one. Complete, I think is 10 minutes or so. And I've been sleeping. You've been resting. We got here 6 p.m. yesterday. So I've been here almost the day. Gonna rest up. Yeah. See you guys on the other side. Awesome. Tell him. She's almost here. She's almost here. Thank you so well. So fatty. Thank God for that, Daryl. You do really awesome, Meg. There we go. You can go ahead and pull back on your knees. I'm gonna go back. There you go. Do your leg. Yeah, that's it. Yeah, I know. You're right there. Good job. That's it. Okay, relax. Relax, relax. All right. Baby violence here. Violence here. I know. That's what I told you. I'll have my gun. Baby violence here. Okay. I'm gonna push. Good job, Meg. There we go. Oh my gosh. Baby violence. Oh my gosh. She knows she's here. She's here. Hi, sweet girl. Oh my gosh. Thank you. Bye. You are so pretty. You are so pretty. She's gonna be right there with her. She's gonna be right there with her. She's gonna be right there with her. She's gonna be right there with her. You're right there with her. What are you? Let's see how big you are. You're such a pretty girl. You're such a pretty girl. You're so cute. Seven seven. I'm shocked. She does not feel like seven seven. Do you want a picture of that? Aww. It's my daughter. Who's this? This is Baby Violet. Hi Baby Violet. Your eyes are open a little bit. I know. How old are you? She's almost 24 hours old. She'S-23 hours and 15 minutes. Yes, she's almost one day old. So she's been sleeping a lot for the first day and that's normal. So you kind of get a false perception of what it's going to be like. Maybe you cried once or twice. Yeah, she cried once or twice. She's good. We've been trying to feed, but I forgot how to feed a newborn. You got some good tips. Well, you did some good and now... I just expressed, like hand expressing. I think that was the key that I was missing. Whereas like my last, last time I nursed someone, it was one and a half year old Emerald who would just like be super easy. And knows what she's doing a little bit more. Exactly. Yeah, you got to train the baby. Next strength. You got to train the newborn. I think that right. But she's an angel. Still tired. I know. So we'll see where we're going to get discharged. The nurse was like, I get a little nervous with 24 hour discharges, but we have her pediatrician appointment tomorrow with her pediatrician. So she said, oh, well then that's fine. So she... She's doing a more comfortable recovery for you. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. And she's been chill. So we'll see if she stays up and awake. And then we're really excited to go home and see Emerald. Because I think this morning before she went to school, she had a hard time. Because we've been, this is like the longest we've ever not seen her. Yeah. Which is crazy. But yeah, her hospital stay is coming to an end. Oh, hello. It's been a minute. I think the last time you guys saw me, I was literally giving birth or had just was about to go home. And this little one is 19 days old. So I'm 19 days postpartum. I feel really, really good so far at this point in recovery. That first week, I was pretty nervous with how things were going. And you kind of just were like, oh, I forgot what this feels like. But I feel so much better now. And let's do a little workout. Yes, I'm going to work out 19 days postpartum, which is like two and a half weeks postpartum. Let me show you what I'm going to do. First, let's take this little one out. Violet has been on a weight gain journey and she's been doing so well eating a lot. Last night, she's left eight hours. Eight hours. Oh my goodness. So this is her. This is my baby. Is she awake? She's been doing so well. Let me set her down safely. I know I pulled her out of that baby carrier a little haphazardly. This is like my first day baby wearing and I forgot how to do it. She's fine. Okay, she's fine. But yeah, she's been doing so well. She gave me a good stretch of sleep last night. Okay, on to my workout outfit check. Actually, is this a good outfit for me to wear during this workout? Let me change. Okay, new outfit on so that you can actually kind of see what I'm doing. I'll do a little postpartum physique check into you after this, but let me show you on my plus one app. This is my pregnancy and postpartum program. Let me show you what my workout looks like. So it's pretty self explanatory. I have a connection breath exercise. I'll explain what that is and a walk. I would like to go on a walk today. I'm going grocery shopping today so that will count as my workout. So at this stage and I call it like stage one in postpartum healing. It really is the healing. You're not getting back to the fitness. Your goal is to take care of baby, take some time off from the gym and exercise should not look any more strenuous than taking care of the little one. Okay, so hence walk. I walk around the house all day, a five to 10 minute walk isn't more strenuous than that. And then the connection breath. Let me get into what the connection breath is. If you followed any of my doming videos, that was like one of my more recent videos that went mega mega viral and I talk about my connection breath and that if you haven't yet and you are postpartum, you have to watch that doming video. Don't be a domer. It's so good. It's gold and it is nothing that you ever learn in any class and any fitness anything. And this is really the first step of that the connection breath. So what we're doing, you want to listen to mama teach what we're doing with the connection breath is connecting our breathing with our pelvic floor. Your breathing muscles are as follows, your diaphragm, your transverse abs and your pelvic floor. Okay, those are the main things that we want to be thinking about. And what we're doing is connecting inhale exhale with our pelvic floor contraction and relaxation. So what the connection breath should look like is when I exhale my pelvic floor should contract. And when the pelvic floor contracts, it comes up. When you inhale your diaphragm descends and so does the pelvic floor. So that's on the inhale, exhale everything come back up. Inhale, exhale, inhale, exhale, that is the connection breath. I got you girl. You can kind of start that connection breath as early as like one day postpartum. If you are feeling it is just breathing. I like to do them whenever I'm sitting in a car or sometimes when I'm nursing. Okay, speaking of nursing, I do need to feed her. All right, she's sleeping for now. How to connection breath. Let me teach you in three easy steps. One, breathe normally. Step two, add a pelvic floor contraction. So lift the pelvic floor. Another cue is think about squeezing all sides of the pelvic floor together and then lifting up. So squeezing together and then lifting up on the exhale. One normal breath to add the pelvic floor contraction on the exhale and then on the inhale, you go back to normal. So if you're bringing that pelvic floor up to level five on your exhale, it comes back to level zero or level one, level zero, the ground level on your inhale. Okay. And you saw in my program, I'm doing two sets of 10 connection breaths. Super simple, something that you can do while you're nursing baby. If you have signs of prolapse, if you have some serious issues that you need to work out with your doctor, ask them, hey, can I start pelvic floor contractions? And when can I start doing that to help my pelvic floor? If you're someone who struggled with something like hemorrhoids during the act of giving birth or any symptoms of prolapse, this could be something that your doctor might actually recommend or prescribe to you. So that and the walking is the entirety of my workout at this point. And that is 18 days post-hardham, about two and a half weeks post-hardham coming up on that three week mark. Really, we're all given a blanket recommendation to begin exercise at that six week mark, but that guidance isn't really helpful and it doesn't prepare you for when you get to that six week mark starting upright exercise. Usually when we think go back to exercise, it means go back to doing what we were doing before. That six week mark, I am not going to be ready to be squatting as much as I was even on my due date. And before that six week mark, I can do things to prepare me to be ready for upright exercise. Now let's look at a little physique check in and see where I'm at body wise. I'll try to get as detailed as possible and I'll just show you what my body looks like. But here's where I'm at. I do feel like my uterus has gone back to about normal size. So when your full term pregnancy, your uterus grows to about the size of a watermelon and it is normally pre pregnancy size of about a pair. So in that six week timeframe, you're not doing so much fitness to get your pre pregnancy body back. It is just the natural progression of healing and your uterus going back to normal size from watermelon to pair size. Seeing it from this angle, I do feel like I look very much the same as I did in my first postpartum journey. So yeah, I can only, I only have good things to compare it to. I can feel like where my abs are and what layer of fat is on top of it. I don't feel like I have a ton of loose skin, but this is where I'm at. And I feel like I'm in a good spot compared to my first pregnancy. I think I may have gained a little bit more fat then, but it is still hard to tell right now. We'll see if I can find some pictures and compare. Of course, if you want to follow along with me and run the same postpartum program that I'm doing or start with the pregnancy portion or even the trying to conceive portion, that will be linked down below. You can get a free seven day trial. I will see you guys in the next one. I'm excited to continue updating on YouTube on my postpartum journey. So I'll be sure to make another video for you. Have I been the worst at it? Yes, but I'm on maternity leave, so I have no excuse except for the baby who kind of interrupted me a couple of times. Anyway, I'll see you guys in the next video. Bye.