 Okay, um, hello! Everyone, look at my hair. Like, the flowers kind of take away from the braid, but it's fine, you know? You live in the Alarm. Today we're gonna work out, we're gonna deadlift. We're also shooting some videos, just one video really. That's why my hair is like this, for a new Buff Chick product release. So it's super exciting. The theme is... Any hints? Give it away, give it away. So we're gonna do that, and we're gonna lift today, and it's gonna be really fun. I'll give you tips along the way during the workout, of course, I'm here to be of service to you, my friend. My hip feels like absolute trash, so let's see what we can do to warm it up. My favorite kind of hip opener is something that works any kind of internal rotation. So on this side, I sort of just feel some hip impingement, like if I wanted to get down in the squat, it wouldn't feel really great. I've been sitting for most of the day, and that's probably why. Usually, sitting, if your body hurts, and you sit a lot, that is most likely the culprit of your pain. You're sitting down all day, staring at a screen on your phone like this. Just truly technology is trash. I mean, for our bodies. There's so many good things about it, but yeah. Anyway, this is a 90-90 hip opener, so it works both external rotation and internal rotation. And so what you wanna do is you can kind of get into this 90-90 degree and try to keep your torso upright and get that butt cheek to touch the ground. When you sit into that butt cheek of your internally rotated leg, when you sit that down, you'll start to feel more of that kind of crunchiness. You kind of want to get comfy in that and play around with your weight so that you can work that internal rotation a little bit more. If you need to, start with your legs a little bit farther away from you and just windshield wiper your knees. And you don't have to go all the way down to the ground. Just windshield wiper. You could even do one at a time. Sorry for the crotch shot. But yeah, this is a way to work that in. You'll see some people are really, really good at this and they'll do a full 90-90 kind of hip opener series. And you see how I use my hands to kind of balance. They won't even need their hands. They'll be really great at it. So there are all kinds of different flows that you can do, but I really just like to do the 90-90 and work into my rotation. Yeah. Doodledid, doodledid, doodledid, doodledid, doodledid. All right, simple butterfly stretch to continue. And for more hip openers, I also like the Cossack squat. Kind of stretch my groin a little bit, opening up my hip. We're one month out from the wedding grid. Are you feeling ready? Are you feeling redefined? Oh yeah, you guys haven't seen Grid's hair. Hold on. He took redefined to a whole another level. Hold on, let me get the light on you. I wanted to be redefined, right? You definitely redefined something. You redefined style for all of us. We don't know yet, but keeping it for the wedding. I love it, I love it. It kind of like matches my sweater. All right, next, let's do some leg swings. You wanna face your upright, and then you're gonna swing your leg in front of your body. You'll see my range of motion is what feels good and what gets a stretch for me. You might be here, or you might have a longer range of motion than me, hopefully. I'm sure all of you watching have more flexibility than I do, right? Hey, you were having a mobile. I am. I'm just trying to make our people feel good, okay? Let them know. There's no shame. Bodies are built differently. An alternative to the leg swing in front of you is to then turn so that your upright is on your side, and then you can swing your leg in front and behind you. Okay. Starting to feel like myself. All right, let's check out the stronger brother day warmup because it is always there. I don't always do it because I need to address my own personal issues before I jump into the workout. Okay, I'm already doing some of the stuff that's on here. All right, let's do some sun citations, terminal knee extensions. Salute the sun. Eh. Eh. Eh. Eh. Next, we're going to do some terminal knee extensions as part of our warmup. Grab a thick band attached to an upright and then step in the outside loop. And what you're going to do, what terminal knee extension means is the end of your knees range of motion extension wise. So what you're going to do, set up so that you're far enough away from your anchor so that you have some tension already before you start and your range of motion is going to be super short. You start with your leg slightly bent and then you get into terminal knee extension. You're going to squeeze your quad and you'll feel a little bit of a burn in your VMO, which if your quad is here, here's your VMO. So that little meaty part right there. If you have knee pain, it might make sense to work some of these terminal knee extensions into your workout. You could also include a like lunge into terminal knee extension. There are different variations that you can use the same kind of exercise with. We're shooting multiple things right now. I'm having buff pump in the strawberry kiwi flavor right now. This is my favorite flavor. This is my number one. People always ask if they should pair creatine with their pre-workout or a pump. And I personally don't because creatine is something that everyone should take every single day, right? So I pair it with a supplement that I have every day instead of pairing it with a pre-workout that I don't train every day. So I'm not having pre every single time. So that's why I put this in the morning with like my brands or whatever. Just need to slip with us and I'll be ready to go. Exciting news for us. We had our second highest day of sales was yesterday because we resopped creatine. So we resopped creatine and we have unflavored and also two new flavors of creatine. So if you didn't have a daily supplement that you take, you can always do the flavor that way you don't have to take just plain creatine. Anyway, check it out. It's one of our best selling products. Best day of sales. We grown, y'all. Yeah. Okay. I guess that means I have to train. What are we doing today? Well, I am not benching because I am not about to mess up this hair. So we're doing deadlifts, overhead press. Let's come on over to the app. Okay. So I'm going to turn off the warm-up since I don't do all the warm-up. So we start with a little superset of cable rows and banded face pulls. Then we have overhead press and deadlifts and then a nice little spicy. Actually, that doesn't look too bad. The giant set at the bottom is only two sets. So this is going to be a breeze of a workout. If the accessories are low volume, then I'm good. Is this a D-load? That's what I was wondering. Hold on. Let me see. Coach's notes. All you need to do is read. It is D-load. Ah! I feel like I don't need to D-load. Although I was literally sick last week, I think. Exhausted. I do need to warm up my shoulders just a little bit. Put the crunches on. Yeah. Get all the cranks and cranks and cracks out. My hip is still feeling a little funky. In gym class, when I was in middle school, we used to do this exercise. I was really like, why are we doing this? We were like, one, two, three, one, one, two, three, two. And I would ask the gym teacher, why are we doing this? And they'd say, well, what do you think it's for? It's like, what are you a teacher for? What are you here for? What are you teaching me? I think about high school so often how disrespectful teachers were. I'm sure I was disrespectful as well. But they just stuff like that. Like, well, what do you think it works? Why do you think I'm asking you? Oh, no, no. Why are they working? Oh, made my hips. I don't know. I could go on. I could go on. Today, first exercise, we're doing a face pull. Am I not doing these every single video that we've had? You guys know the drill. We're doing face pulls. One second pause. Let me not forget that. We're doing one second pause. I like to use this strap because it lets me get nice and wide. The typical rope attachment won't let you get into this kind of like goal post form at the end and that's what I like to feel. I start to activate my rear delts a little bit and also all the muscles of my shoulder blade. So this is my preferred way to do face pulls. Okay, seated wide grip cable row. Cool. I like how much direction we have because I was about to use this grip. But I guess we'll go wide. It's not about the wideness of the pull. It's about the motion of the ocean. I don't know. Okay, do I have any tips for this exercise? Absolutely not. Oh, okay. I like that one. What if I didn't lead with my elbows? What would that be like? What you doing? Care drop. Oh, cool. Have you guys ever wondered what's strong about the day programs? A super set, sometimes before the main lift? Well, let me explain. That is sometimes uncommon because when you have your day of training, you might want to program your most strenuous and your most technique heavy lift at the beginning of the session. Typically, that's a guidance, especially for weightlifting where the snatch and cleaning jerk are so technique heavy and so technically complicated, whereas overhead press and dead lift still difficult, but not that crazy. So a face pull and a row should not fatigue you so much that you're not able to perform well in overhead press and dead lift. So it's not really going to be holding you back that much, but also it is going to pre-fatigue you so that whenever we're at different times in our training cycle where those lifts are programmed first, you might feel a little fresher, you might be able to lift a little bit heavier. So it's a way to program so that you're pre-fatiguing before those hardest lifts. And that's the thesis. Honestly, I like it because I know now members, I love you, but I'm going to be roasting you and myself because I do this too. I know sometimes we get into the gym, we either forget to warm up or we don't take our warm up that seriously. And that superset is a nice way to ensure that you're getting moving and doing something so that your core temperature is raised a little bit more. And especially if I'm going to dead lift, I'm doing a row so I'm activating my lats, getting my back warm. I'm not taxing my back as much as I would in the dead lift, but I'm getting ready to. Lifts, heavy weights, high, high, high. If you've done a superset, then you've done your main lift. If you've done a superset, then you've done your main lift. Volume. The workouts are done. That is so true. Hey, yeah. I'm pausing. These inspired me to pause on my rows because I'm really feeling my rear delts. I'm really feeling this one. And sometimes my rows, when I'm on the cable row machine, I just don't be feeling it. So I add a little pause so I can get some extra beat on my bones. Are you guys familiar with Jasper the doll? What's the one that? It's like, can I have a snack? She's like, no. Bitch. Can I have a snack? So it'd be like you have to use grid for a scoop of creatine or something. Ooh, I like that one. However I can make fun of grid, I'm all for it. Bitch, give me a snack. Okay, it's time to overhead press, okay? There's one thing I like about my overhead press, and it's not really how strong I am at it. It's just that my training max is 100 pounds. So it's 75% of a training max today, so I know, easy math. 80 pounds today. I mean 75 pounds. I tricked you out. Also, since my training max is so low, it takes me like no time to warm up. It's truly like bar, and then, alright, you're ready. Here's what I like to focus on for my overhead press. For my setup, I just take my thumbs, the knuckle of my thumbs to the knurling. It depends on your barbell, really. If you want to guide according to your body, I just take thumbs to my delts, and then that's about where my grip is. When I unrack the bar, I make sure that my hips are like directly under the bar so that I can stand with it. You don't want to kind of unrack and be holding all of the weight in your front rack. You want to get your whole body under it so that you can just stand up and not waste any energy. So stand up. I do do like a suicide grip. It's not really a suicide grip in overhead press, because if the weight falls, it's just going to fall in front of you. Okay, we're athletes, right? Don't use that as medical advice. So yeah, I don't wrap my thumb. I find that I can get a better stack over my wrist when I don't wrap my thumb. That's just the way I like to do it. And then, I make sure that my elbows are away from me and not directly under the bar at the front rack. I rest up top. This is a heavily debated topic. I rest up top because I'm fully stacked. It's kind of like resting at the top of a squat. Instead of resting down here when all the weight is being supported by your muscles instead of your joints being stacked on top of each other. I like to rest up here, take my breath, brace and breathe, and then do my next wrap. Let's get it. It's time to warm up 65 pounds on home, baby. We're heading on in to first set territory. Oh man, I got a medalist after this. Why don't you tell me? It's an amrap too. I like 87% No rest for the wicked, you know what I'm saying? How do you feel closer to your wedding? A month out. Okay, I feel just a slightly stressed about some things. I feel good. I'm a little nervous about some of the wardrobe choices that I had because some of them don't fit me that well anymore. Who's your leader? I don't know. Maybe, yeah. Like, but I'm trying not to think too much about it because I don't want it to stress me out. Yeah. Great closer years. My boobs just are not the same anymore. So I think I'm going to need to like do some tape situation to make sure that I like have a shape. Yeah, it's pretty devastating. So that's why I'm just been trained a lot of pecs. You know what I'm saying? Just trying to make up for lost volume. Yeah, I don't want to talk about it. Okay, 75 pounds. We're just doing sets of five. Five-five, then an amrap. Yes. First set's always hardest. Oh, 10? Are we ready? Hold on, let me record this for myself. Yes, I'm going to give him 10. Okay. Mwah! A demon came out on that 13th. Good news. On D-load week, we don't raise our training max, so. Ooh, let me show you a Jefferson curl. Oh, God, my hips still. It's really just not feeling great today. I think I need a standing desk. What can I buy to help my life? Is there something that I can buy to help this? Consumerism, man. It's really just getting the best of all of us these days. Okay. What was that? That was like my valley girl. It was like a valley girl accent. Don't embarrass me. Let me show y'all the Jefferson curl. Okay, it's going to look like I'm going to break my back off. But this is a nice stretch and you can start with a really, really light weight. I've worked up to being able to use the bar and it's just a deadlift with the roundest cat back that you can manage. So think about getting into full spinal flexion while you're holding something to weigh down or you could just do it, body weight, and you curl all the way down keeping that nice round back. Always with deadlifting people are so afraid of this position, which under a heavy load or over a heavy load you definitely want to avoid, but it is good to move in spinal flexion. Your spine is meant to do that. Okay. So I take the bar to help me into spinal flexion, tuck my chin and then vertebrae by vertebrae just roll on up. It feels really nice. And that's the Jefferson curl. Okay, let's deadlift. Warm up one. Okay. Grid finally discovered Whitney Simmons and obviously she's a queen, especially for watching YouTube video, then you know who she is already, but she's been doing a lot more ticktocks. Pop that on Grid's For You page. And he's like, Hey, have you ever seen her videos? I'm like, bruh. Of course. Why haven't you person who works on a YouTube channel? Okay. This is 220. Okay. This is 220. Just three, three reps here. Okay. Yeah. Okay, we're going up to 252. I did have a second set, but we shot it for Instagram. Like a cute little Instagram clip. I guess this means I must do my final set. This is an AMRAP. Okay. The weight on the bar is 267 pounds. Hold on. Chocks coming up my nose. I'm going to sneeze. I lost it. Don't you hate that? Have you ever done that where you're like, are about to sneeze and then you lose it? Yeah. My sister does it to me all the time. Sneezing is so satisfying. So satisfying. It's the best. You know, this session isn't set out to raise my training max. This session is to get me stronger. This is a silent gym session, I guess. No music, no nothing. Just the wind. Okay. Ah! Just kidding. Hi. Nice. Ready, go. Yep. No. Ugh. That's it. I think that's it. Starting to feel a little like that Jefferson curl, if you know what I mean. I'm happy with that. Are we happy with that? All right. Last we have our giant set. This is going to be a breeze. So we've got dumbbell and climb bench press. Then into dumbbell lateral raise with a two second pause. And last we have a front plate raise. I'm going to walk you through all of them. Don't worry, babes. Oh no. How am I going to do it? Dumbbell. How am I going to lie my head on this when my hair looks like this? Here we go. The God's day. Here we go. Okay. I'm just going to start with the 30s because I'm feeling crazy. Lateral raises? I freaking wish. Oh, there's this girl on TikTok. She does 25s for lateral raises. Nuts. When I'm doing these, I like to think about bringing my elbows down at an angle. So I don't want my elbows to go straight out to my sides. I want to bring them down sort of like 45 degrees. Okay. Only six reps. Moving on. I'll keep the 30s and do my nursing. Okay. Moving on to a dumbbell lateral raise. This one has a two second pause. And I really like incorporating a pause whenever you feel like you're not feeling the movement where you're supposed to. So for a lateral raise, we're training our delt and we want to train the side delt. We'll do a front plate raise, which will train more of the front delt. But for this one, I want to be feeling it here in this muscle right here. Mine's not that big. I need to do more of these. But if you ever feel like you're not feeling it where you're supposed to, play around with your tempo, play around with a pause and see if you start to feel a little bit more. Even doing that with lighter weights could be better than really pushing your heavy weights when you're just getting started with this movement or when you feel like you really can't feel it. Okay. Let's see if I can do the 15s for this one. It's eight reps. Oh God. Oh! I don't like that one at all. Okay. And our last exercise is a front plate raise. This one is great, especially if you train in a garage or if you don't have access to a ton of different dumbbells, you grab a plate. It could be any size and make some space in between your legs for the plate at the bottom and you're bringing it up, keeping your arms or the plate far away from you and then finish with it overhead. Okay. That's 10. Thanks, only 10 reps. It's only 10 reps. It's a D-load, Ryan. Thank you very much. Anyway, thank you guys so much for watching. That's the end of this workout. Hopefully you enjoyed it. Hopefully you learned something new. Be sure to subscribe to my channel. And I love ya. I'll see you in the next video. Bye.