! Ryan's trying to convince me of this next result. A movement that will be harder and a lot more out of the ass is... Someone just asked me on Instagram, what kind of substitutions can I use for a leg extension machine? So if you don't have a leg extension machine, I want to show you guys a bunch of different options and also I'll show you how to do them. A lot of people on Stronger by the Day run the program in their garage gym. A lot of people run our body weight option. We do get very creative with our many, many substitutions. I say creative, but it's creative within the sphere of what actually works. So let me show you our favorite substitutions in this video right now. First up, and Ryan's favorite, is the heel elevated goblet squat. So I just have a 25 kilo plate, use whatever plate or whatever surface you have to just keep your heels elevated and toes on the ground. What this is going to do is make sure that you have a really upright torso and you're going to allow your knee to travel forward, making it less hip dominant and more knee dominant, meaning more quad. Go as heavy as you can and it's a little bit awkward as you get heavier to kind of get it into that goblet position. Woo! Are you good? Feels fine. The next one and probably one of the most popular suggestions for a substitution for leg extension is the body weight leg extension makes sense. It's called that. It's something that's going to train deep knee flexion. People like it because it's super easy to do at home. You're still strengthening the quad, yes, but it's not my favorite exercise. I'll get to one that I like a little bit more that I would suggest you try, but this is a pretty simple exercise. You are just sitting on your shins, extending your hips and allowing your knee to hinge your entire body back. So try to keep your shoulders over your hips as much as you can. You can see how much deeper I can go when I add a band. The band just allows me to keep my balance, gives me a little bit of resistance so that I can go deeper without falling and like losing all of my stability to be able to come back to the start of the movement. A movement that will be harder and a lot more badass is the sissy squat, which is what I would suggest over the body weight squat, especially if you already have some strength training, you're already pretty strong. This is notoriously hard and there's many ways to do it as far as ways to overload it, but the body weight version is going to be extremely hard if you've never done it before. So the tips here are to stay on your toes and same to you as before, you're going to try to keep your knees, your hips and your shoulders all stacked while new thing driving your knees towards the ground. From the knees up, you're going to kind of be in a diagonal as you're driving your knees out and in front of you. You will need an upright or something to stabilize even when you're very proficient at these. You can use a squat rack, an upright, a door frame. I saw multiple influencers suggest this exercise for the same substitute. I don't love it. The only thing that you're really getting in that one, which isn't bad, is terminal knee extension. So here's a better exercise that I like that incorporates some terminal knee extension, but also a little bit more quad. It's called the Spanish squat. You're going to just find a band and step into each loop. Allow the band to keep your shin vertical. Squat down. It's going to be hard on the quads. And then when you come up, you'll get that terminal knee extension. So it's kind of like a combo. You're going to be able to load the quads while still keeping your shins perpendicular to the floor. Then you get that extra VMO squeeze at the top with your terminal knee extension, which is what that other exercise was basically. The only thing it was really working with the resistance profile. We're on day five stronger by the day. I don't normally run day five, but I wanted to because today's fun workout. They're kind of primer set before our hip thrust and we have a cluster set. So you see this four plus three plus three plus your set is basically when you rack the bar or rack our machine, like I'll show you, give yourself a little bit of a rest, like a full reset. Usually it's programmed like five to 10 seconds of rest. That way you can go heavier, kind of want to load something that let's say you can't do for four plus three plus three, which is 10 and you break it up in this cluster. So you do end up accumulating 10 reps in almost the same set, but that little 10 second rest will give you a little bit of a boost to really get you there. Just had a little, little sweetie. Feeling it, the burn. Nice all the way, nice. Oh, okay. Oh, I'm starting to feel it. Yeah, good. Woo! That's better. Alright, yeah, that actually, okay. Put it there. Alright, let's move on. Ryan's trying to manslame me this exercise, but I invented this exercise. Okay, this is ITYW. I know you guys see me talking about every video. My trap situation is out of control. I've done everything to remedy it, but I think it's just a... I'm too lazy and I'm too lifting too heavy and I'm nursing too many children. That's one. If you're breastfeeding, that's one too many. All you do is put your arms in the direction of the letter. So we go I, T, thumbs up, Y, thumbs up, down into your W. Eight reps and the range of motion is really small. If you find that the ITYWs are too easy for you, body weight, then grab some chips and you can just hold those. Just make sure your thumb's pointing the right direction, like thumbs up on the T and the Y. Small plates, okay, small plates. You don't need to go super heavy or you can play with your tempo. Slow W down or you could pause at the end of the range of motion. Then let it loose. Can you tell me what's in the boxes? Yes, I told him already in the last video. I got multiple videos in the queue, guys. That just means multiple videos. I want to get four videos shot, four videos ready. Plug them in and then record my next batch. That's what I'm thinking. So this first video we might not see until August, mid-autumn. Myself a little bit of a leeway because I'm always... By the time we film the next four, that'll be built probably. Hopefully. Well, we'll film the process of it. We'll have other things to chat about. Let me do 40s. We're on set of 45s and then if you feel good, go to 50s. You feel me? I'm looking kind of juicy though. Juicy or full force? But you know what? I talk about nursing in every video. You get more vascular in your chest area. Or it might not even be a vein. It might be the ducts. Do you see TS? You know. This guy knows what I'm talking about. Come on, that's not... Okay. Man, these ducts are working. We'll go 45s. Don't look at my ducts, man. Not the ducts. Protect the ducts. Save the ducts. What did I do? 45 last time? No, you did 40s. No way, really? That's what I said. It was easy. Sad, dude. Bye, yeah. Okay, guys. If you're ever spotting someone on a dumbbell bench, all the time I see people spot at the elbow. I hate the elbow. Don't spot at the elbow. Don't spot at the dumbbell because if they really misgroup likelihood of this happening is very low. But the heavier it is, you don't want to be spotting the elbow. What could happen if they really shit the bed? This. And their arm can't go back. They hurt their elbow. So spot at the dumbbell. Guide the wrist. Guide the wrist or the dumbbell on the way up. That's kind of giving them a lift off for the dumbbell bench press. Wouldn't spot. Everyone naturally spots right at the elbow. I don't love it. A little super set here. We've got an easy bar and we're doing easy bar curls for 15 reps straight into skull crushers for 15 reps. My tips are things that I'm working on are trying to fully extend at the bottom. Make sure I'm not cheating, having a little micro bend at the elbow at the bottom of my bicep curl. And then for my skull crushers, I'm just thinking about elbows pointed to the sky or the ceiling and trying to keep this part, which is called my humorous perpendicular to the floor. Unfortunately, a lot of people are going to be upset with me when I say this, but watching more videos on YouTube is not going to make you lift any better. It's not going to fix your technique. Lifting more is what will fix your technique. Being in the gym and doing the reps is going to fix your technique. Not watching this video. That's actually part of the reason why I've come back on YouTube. I've made so many technique videos in short form and I do just feel like it's kind of like mental kind of feel like you're doing something for your health and your fitness. You're not. You're saving the video. You'll never watch it again. You probably won't remember my cue. I sort of feel like I've been creating a lot of brain rot for lifting weights and I think this longer form, hopefully you're watching this while you're doing cardio or it's up in the gym while you're lifting yourself. One of the biggest things that I see are people who are majoring in the minors. They're worried about the smallest minutiae of detail and a lot of coaches in my position. They make it harder for people to lift heavier and get better at lifting. It's like good form is not a prerequisite for you to lift heavy. Sure, you should have some good form. It shouldn't look atrocious, but not going heavier because your lifts don't look perfect is what is holding you back. You need reps and you need practice under the bar, even if your form is not perfect. Even if your form kind of feels like it sucks a little bit right now, like it's going to be okay. A lot of times when you add weight to the bar, your form will self correct. In these sessions, I really do want to train with you so that you can see one how fun training is and also see that I screw up too. Sometimes my lifts don't look perfect either. Stop worrying so much about not having perfect form right now. Go into the gym and do the reps and do the sets. Try to improve that form from session to session. Don't let it stop you from starting the session in the first place.