Today we are making threeinut microwave Red Lobster Cheddar Bay Biscuits. We just perfected this recipe today. This is a test batch. We're going to make this right now. Is it better than our best keto bread? And how long does it take to make? 3 minutes. Hey guys, I've never been more excited for a recipe filming since we started KC because I know all of you are going to love this recipe. It's immaculate and it takes 5 minutes total to make. Uh first off, I want to give a shout out to Sahil at Headbangers Kitchen cuz he makes a recipe like this using almond flour, but Mega's allergic to almond flour, so we switched it up. We used coconut flour and we added some flavor. At first, I was kind of upset. Mega can't eat almond flour anymore. What am I going to do? It's like a blessing in disguise because when you make baked goods with coconut flour, they come out to be so much lower calorie than almond flour baked goods. You need so much less flour because it's so much more absorbent. So, if you guys don't have coconut flour, pick some up. It's actually way cheaper. Also, like this bag, 4 lb is 15 bucks maybe, maybe even less, maybe like 10 bucks. This size bag of almond flour is close to 30 bucks. We're microwaving this bread. All you need is a coffee mug. That's the cooking vessel for this. And we're going to start by melting about a tablespoon of butter. I like to go a little bit more. This is about a tablespoon and a half. We are going to melt it for 20 seconds in the microwave. You know, you can do the dry ingredients separately and then mix them in, but when you're doing microwave mug cakes, you want to just throw it all in in whatever order you feel like. So, this is 2 tablebspoon of coconut flour. Just going to pop it into the butter. We also have a/4 teaspoon of baking powder. essential to get this bread to rise up. Now, let's talk seasonings. We are going to make a Red Lobster style cheddar bay biscuit, which so many people love. I I used to love them, too. It's such a scam, though. They try filling you up on delicious biscuits, so you can't eat all the expensive seafood. So, I don't really measure when I season this, but probably about an eighth teaspoon of onion powder, garlic powder, little pepper, and some parsley. I'm going to be here for a while cuz the holes on this parsley bottle are extremely small. Okay, there it is. Uh, and also some salt. Now, I like to mix the seasonings and stuff all together before I add anything else. And coconut flour is extremely absorbent if you guys haven't worked with it before. Now, we're going to add an egg. And we're going to add two tablespoons of water and one tablespoon of heavy whipping cream. Now, you can play with those numbers. You want three tablespoons of liquid total. You can do all heavy whipping cream if you want. I found it comes out slightly moistister, more moist when you use a little bit of water. Philadelphia tap water. Nothing quite like it. You get your heavy minerals, particularly lead, which is great. And then we got some heavy whipping cream. Tablespoon. and some cheddar cheese. Shredded cheddar cheese. A/4 cup. Seems like a lot, but you want a lot of cheese. Then you just mix this all together into a delicious batter. We're going to microwave this for 3 minutes. So, a couple things on the microwave times. 3 minutes that will get you a completely solid loaf of bread that you can cut with a bread knife. Two minutes will get you like a really nice almost lava cakeish, like gooey in the middle. And if you're just trying to eat some bread out of a mug with a spoon, you might want like that better. I would say go with that. But we're going to do 3 minutes. So then we can slice it and we can like make sandwiches and stuff. 3 minutes. Miley, she's a wiggleworm. You might want to keep an eye on it starting at about 2 minutes. It's a little hot. 3 minutes. And there it is. Nice and fluffy. You guys are going to love this recipe. I'm so excited for you to try it. I think we should do like a hashtag for this bread recipe. Like three minute bread club. # threeinut bread club if you make this on Instagram. It's best to take it out right when it's uh out of the microwave or else it'll like kind of harden to the side. So, I just take a a knife. You don't need to grease the the cup that much because there's a lot of fat in here already. It doesn't really stick. But you can spray it a little bit if you want to just be extra safe. Do this. Boom. That is a threeinut Red Lobster biscuit. It's so soft and moist, guys. We're going to let it cool for about 2 minutes. Then we're going to slice it lengthwise into four rounds. Let's go over to the window and cut this. So, let's go. Four slices. So those are your four pieces. So guys, when we make recipes, we're just kind of given the groundwork for what's possible. Like you guys can do different flavors on this if you want. One thing is when we were doing the test batches, we used not as finely shredded cheddar. And you could really pick out like there's melted cheese all throughout. With this, we used finely shredded cheddar and you can't really distinguish the cheese. It shouldn't affect the taste, but it just affects the visual how you want it to look. Hey, you want a cheddar bay biscuit? Okay, guys. I'm going to try this. And I'm going to try the top piece because that tends to be the moistest and tastiest piece. Holds together really nicely. Also, if you just throw this in a pan with some spray or some butter, crisp it up nice. That's what's up, guys. This bread's incredible. Okay, guys. So, without the spices, this comes out to three net carbs. What are you doing? So, I was thinking this would be nice if you guys have a dinner like some meat and vegetables, just throw the throw a microwave bread together real quick. Add that to your meal. You know, that'll be a nice more well-rounded traditional meal. Let us know if you make them. #3minutbreadclub Instagram. All right, guys. See you. Heat. Heat. N.