What's up, guys? We're coming at you today with the What is we coming at him with? Five rules. One bonus. If you guys have video ideas, comment below, too. We just come up with stuff like this randomly. Five rules that make your life easier on a keto diet. There's also a cookbook now that makes your life easier on a keto diet. We just got it today. And Oh, that it's Keto Made Easy, too. That makes total sense. Yeah. Okay. This is our cookbook. Just got it today. Linked below is the pre-order link. You haven't grabbed yourself a copy. You slappy. A few of our faves. You like the hand rolls. The sagg paneer. All these also these. So we got spicy tuna hand rolls. Super good. Sag paneer. That's one of my faves. Oh, chocolate chip zucchini bread. So moist. It is really good. Okay, so these English muffins are really good. They are. Hopefully you guys aren't like screenshotting it and stealing the recipes without purchase, but I guess that's how the internet works. That work. Yeah, music's the same. Oh, the granola. Yeah, this is the one I'm excited about. We're probably going to do a recipe video for this, but it's really good keto granola. Not that I've tried it because I'm allergic to tree nuts, but Matt says glorious things. Glorious. So, yeah, you guys can pick that up, pre-order. It comes out May 15th in the description below. Five rules that'll make your life easier on a keto diet. Rule one, make sure your fat grams meet or exceed your protein grams at every single meal. This is one that we've just instituted lately and we've found it to be valuable. Yes. And not just meals for me. Like I'm talking every single time food enters my mouth. Higher higher fat than protein. So that means like Quest bars. I don't just eat Quest bars as a meal replacement anymore. Unless you dip them in butter. Yeah. Exactly. So yeah, not just meals, just any occasion that you're eating. Get the fat high and the protein. That serves a couple purposes. The protein isn't going to hit you as quickly. The insulin response will be less blunted by the fat, which means you will not be as hungry as soon after. It won't mess with your head as much. You won't be like as scattered. uh mentally it's just like sluggish. You're you're basically in a better state of ketosis for a better portion of the day. So for example, my snack basically every day I do egg salad. Three eggs, three tablespoons of mayo and then I'll do like bacon bits or I'll do scallions. That's significantly higher fat than protein in that snack meal itself. Well, I guess some examples of things I don't do anymore is like just having smoked salmon as a snack or like just having beef jerky. I'll always do that and then I'll have certain other foods to balance it out. Usually I find that having fat bombs is like a good way to just add fat. So like I could do a serving of beef jerky and a fat bomb, something like that or some macadamia nuts. Yeah. So like a meal I just had for lunch was two hard-boiled eggs and a big cup. It's still right here actually of bulletproof bone broth. So, this has two tablespoons of butter in it. So, then you know the fat is significantly higher than the protein overall for that meal. Tip number two, get at least 50% of your daily carb intake from leafy green veggies. Probably more. Probably like 75 plus is a good range to shoot for. Yeah. The only days I don't do that is when I really like hit the nuts hard pause. I'm snacking on nuts all day. you know, I start doing more of the packaged foods that have a lot of added fiber to them and like arythritol and just are generally higher carb. A majority of my carb intake is like mushrooms, green veggies, maybe some cruciferous veggies. If you're doing that, if veggies are the predominant source of carbs in your diet, you're going to be doing okay. Yeah. And then some other examples of where carbs might come from if they're not prepackaged foods are eggs, heavy cream, cream, other dairies, cheese, just like trace carbs and all of those. And so all of that veggies plus all the other things I just listed, that's whole foods right there. You're having a good healthy whole foods keto diet. I know some people get like 16 grams of carbs a day from heavy cream, though. So try not to do that. Don't do that. Tip three, nix the lean meats, guys. I just had a chicken breast. What do I do now? It's like, well, don't have the chicken breast. Buy chicken thighs. Buy uh red meats. So fatty steaks like ribe eyes. 8020 ground beef. There's even 7327 ground beef. The uh fatty meats are way cheaper on a per pound basis, but when you actually count them as a on a calorie basis, they're so much cheaper and it just makes it way easier to hit your fat macros on the day. If you are doing a lot of lean meats, then you have to do a lot of added fats to counterbalance that and then you just start getting into weird Well, that's where the cream comes in. Yeah, that's where the cream comes in. Yeah. So, just doing like no lean meats at all is a pretty good approach in my opinion. like the leanest meats I'll do. Sometimes I'll do white fish of some kind just because I want to like change it up. Salmon is relatively lean. Tuna is relatively lean. I'll do like fish that is lean, but I'll never buy chicken breast cuz there's always chicken thighs right next to it, right? And even when you go out to eat, there's always chicken thighs as option or like a fattier cut of meat, which you can do. Rule number four, develop an arsenal of quick meals you can whip up in under 10 minutes that you always have the ingredients for in your house. I think this might take a little bit of time. Maybe over the course of a month or two, you'll figure out what you like. So, like for us, we always have eggs in the fridge. Generally, always have bacon in the fridge, spinach, and mostly have some kind of greens. So, like spinach or collarded greens or something like that. Cook the bacon down, throw in the greens, add in the eggs at the end, and you have a nice complete meal right there. And that's under 10 minutes. What else? You What do you do? You just do egg salad. Only egg salad examples for everything. That's what that's like the best me meal for me. We also have just like foods that I can make like a quick highfat snack plate out of. So when I'm working, I make snacks into a meal. That's probably my personal favorite. Snack meal. Snack snal for example. We have highfat cheeses usually. So like brie double cream brie is always a good option. Then cut up some hard-boiled eggs, sprinkle some salt on that on top, get your electrolytes. And then a third thing could be like some zucchini with cream cheese for dipping. Tip number five, Mega came up with this one. It's only consume egg salad. I made that up. But that is a good rule. I That's in my arsenal. Uh tip number five is don't do things you hate within reason. I would say though, like you know, you're supposed to do hard things. You're supposed to take on challenges. Get out of your comfort zone. All that. But like if you're continually forcing like your first meal being at 4 p.m. Intermittent fasting is a big one. Most people force that. It should feel forced at first until your body adjusts to it. But then if you're doing it for like 2 months and you just hate it every single day, I would say don't do it. For me, like highintensity cardio, I know it's great. I don't do it though. I hate it. For me, knowing that I have to do squats, that prevents me from going to the gym altogether. So, if I'm either going to not go to the gym because I don't want to do squats or go to the gym and do leg press instead of squats, I'm going to go to the gym and do leg press because I enjoy that. But take care of your kids. Take a shower. Do those kinds of things for sure. Bonus tip. This is one that I swear by. I think you do too. Yeah, it's natural. Now, make half of your day be a consistent routine at least food-wise. And not even food-wise, I think just half of your day in general. I think this rule is not even just for a keto lifestyle, but bettering your overall life. Up until dinner, our food routine is very consistent. It's basically like two bulletproof coffees, pretty similar lunch, which is salad, similar lunch, which is like a small 400 calorie highfat meal. Just like kind of something to snack on, but not really a meal. And then dinner is the only variable in that whole food equation for us. And we also have like a pretty strong format of what we do for dinner. protein, side of vegetables, and then some added fats to that, right? But it's different things like we change it up. I've never been the type of person who liked routine or habits because I like doing something different every day. But ever since I've implemented this keto diet related routine to my day, I look forward to it. I look forward to knowing that I get two bulletproof coffees that fuels me through my work in the morning and then I have a really delicious fatty snack. Ex Okay, that was good. And so here's the thing about that. Like it sounds lame that I'm talking about exiled so much in this video, but that is genuinely my favorite meal. It's better than the coffees and it's better than dinner. I love it. So find a meal that you really, really enjoy and look forward to and that'll help keep the routine for you. That's it, guys. Those are the five plus one tips. We like to underpromise, overd deliver always. We did the same thing. Oh, rules with our cookbook. We're going to be cooking up some recipes from this soon. Oh, I forgot to mention there's We'll go over this a little bit more soon. Whoa, there's a allergen index. Allergen index and meal preps. I made meal No, meal plans. Meal plans. I made meal plans. 7-day meal plans. There's six of them. Sally sweet tooth. Someone who likes having dessert every night. Are you a two meal Tony? I forgot about that one. That one's really, really good. Vanilla egg custard. That's it, guys. Those are the six rules. Let us know. Comment below if you have any rules to add that really help you stick with the diet and make some egg salad.