! Since we made a vlog. How are you? How are you? Theo's new thing. He says that I'm his best friend now. Am I your best friend? So we're doing our usual morning routine on the weekends. We're gonna go get Starbucks egg bites for Theo and oh a new thing I'm doing I'm gonna try doing this for just 30 days. I don't know I'm not expecting a ton, but I have this apple cider vinegar So it's two tablespoons of apple cider vinegar a little bit of lemon juice and some cinnamon and then water There's like day five. Maybe you got anything to say. What's your favorite TV show now? Mmm Blippi Blippi still? Daddy, I got a lot for you Thank you You're welcome Eddie Okay Theo got his egg bites. He got some new pajamas What? One One egg bite Two egg bites He also got some popcorn and I have a coffee with just some heavy cream I want milk here Can you help me? He's playing with his train track And Felix Is almost crawling now He gets up on his knees Can you help me? Can you help me build it? Good morning. I had a big glass of milk already That's what I usually start my day with these days She's still on her bladder diet Call I ruined my call I'm gonna check I'm gonna check What are you doing? What are you checking? Film mama, see if you can film some Hello, wow, we got a videographer now We don't even need to do anything Good job What do you have to say to people Thank you Thank you Thank you I guess I'll give you an update I'm still recovering I guess from a lot of different things now I was in the hospital for a little bit I have this very cool It's called a midline Basically a big IV That's like this long And it's in my arm And I give myself antibiotics Three times a day That help with like My kidney infections So that's where I'm at Overall my mood And my energy is really high Which is good I'm still on a bladder friendly diet But still like pretty keto, right? We still keep it Except for all the ice cream Yeah, except for all the vanilla ice cream I'm eating And then like if anything I'm just eating gluten free I'm reading this book Red Notice Hey Turn them this way I can go I can turn them like this way Theo got a bubble gun And also another type of gun A water gun But the lady Didn't give it to us at checkout Partially my fault I guess Take responsibility I just assume they give me everything I pay for And not keep some of it I'm gonna make breakfast The classic These sausages Applegate brand Some eggs And then I'm gonna make Some of these gluten free chicken nuggets For Mega And maybe Theo will have some too These are not Are they They're kind of No, they're not really low carb They're gluten free Why you did that? Here's Felix with you Here's Theo's breakfast An apple An egg And two sausages Probably won't eat at all Fifi getting big Felix just drank six ounces of milk So he's eating a lot too Didn't you? Here is my breakfast Just the rest of the sausages And three eggs And then here's Mega's Here's breakfast for my five year old daughter Oh just I thought you were gonna do eggs for me too Oh you want eggs too? No this is fine I'll just finish Theo's eggs I'm sure he won't eat at all It's a beautiful day And I'm sitting here reading And this is what Theo's doing He's got a Lamborghini His grandpa got him He's playing with the sand And he gets all his toys out And he lines them up here 325 3 3 Now press this button 20 20 2 Wait Good job Now we gotta leave it We're just gotta preheat Theo can you show everyone what we're making? Get the package Get the pack What are we making? The one The one The one The one The one The one The one The one The one The one The one The Let's do it. I can do it. You're going to do it? Yeah. Okay. Good job. What? Good job. One, two, three, four, five. Okay. Is it ready, Theo? Yeah, ready. It's got one. Okay, we're going to put the cookies in. Yeah, you messed that one up, it looks like. It smells. You want to try one? No, not this. Just try it and grab one. Bring one to Mama, you eat one. Tell me if it's good or bad. He looked at this one and then gave it to me. Is it good? Oh, yeah. Is it good? It's crispy on the bottom and chewy on the top. Oh, yeah. I didn't know they would flatten so much. You like it, Theo? Is it good, yes or no? It's good. You're fantastic. You're fantastic. And I guess we're making pizza for dinner. Where's your cauliflower thins? So Mega says she has cauliflower thins. Okay, yeah. So we got these cauliflower thins for Mega. And then I'm going to use this one. It's like a fathead pizza. It's called, I guess, So Keto-licious brand. I don't know. We've had these once before and they're pretty good. Here's our little angel. So much different from Theo as a baby. Happy. Laughs a lot. Okay, throw that in the trash now. Okay. And then I'm also doing Felix's dinner, which is just an egg yolk. And I'm cooking it in a little bit of duck fat. So he's only really eaten like two foods so far. Steak and egg yolks. Making pizza. We got two cauliflower crusties in the oven already. Ooh. And then this one's going to be for me and Theo to share. Oh, yum, yum. One's with pesto for Mega because she can't have tomatoes. Very bladder aggravating food, right? It's acidic. So I'm just going to do cheese and pepperoni, I guess we have. Looking good. So we just finished watching the show Love is Blind. Yep. Do you think Love is Blind? No. Can it be? What about arranged marriages? I mean, you need to be in like a range of similar attractiveness or like the guy has to have a bunch of money and the woman's really hot. Like, I mean, an attractive guy with a ton of money isn't going to be with like a swamp creature. So like Love has some parameters around it, I would say. I think that's fair. But what if I turn into a swamp creature? Are you still in love with me? Depends the situation. I mean, if you just throw in the towel on things, then I don't know. Well, that could eventually happen. I might not turn into a swamp creature, but I might start eating Snickers for breakfast. Then I don't know. Yeah, I would feel differently. That's sad. I don't think anything you can do right now could change the way I feel about you. If I just stopped working and played video games and ate Snickers bars? Well, are we still making money? So I have to make money? That's part... And we have a sponsor for this video. It is Element. They make delicious electrolyte mixes individually packaged like this. And each one of these you add to your water and it contains a thousand milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, and 60 milligrams of magnesium. And great flavors. Basically, there's two categories. This is how I think of it. Your chocolates, which go in coffee and stuff. There's chocolate and now there's chocolate mint, which I think is a new flavor, which is pretty delicious. And then there's like all the other ones, which are citrusy fruit flavors. Those I just put in water. And the flavoring is super powerful. So I usually put one packet in like a pretty big, even bigger than this. You can get like a liter and a half water bottle and it flavors like all of it. And there is a special deal. All you have to do is pay $5 for shipping and you get sent one of these in the mail. It is a sampler pack of eight flavors of different electrolyte mixes. So you can try all the different flavors, see which ones you like before you make a big order. So go to drinklmnt.com slash ketoconnect. I'll also link that down below for the special offer. Order these up. They're great. And we got dinner right here. And Fifi is eating his eggs. It's actually in his cleavage here. Daddy cooked him up some egg yolk in butter? What did you say? Or duck fat? Duck fat. Basically, I just put it on low and I cook it very briefly. The best way to do it, I think, is to soft boil it. But this is easier. And we just give him chunks so he can like play with it, take his time. Yeah, we give him a lot of time. Even after we're done eating, we'll hang out and just let him go as long as he wants to. Look at him go. Okay, dinner time. I know I don't want to eat pizza for me. Can I have water? Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung Hung I got something after all of it. Okay, that's a wrap. It's pretty early, but I'm so full. That was a really great dinner, and that was a good full day of eating. And maybe next time we'll show you more of the insides of how 2 1⁄2-year-olds work. Bye. Say bye, Fifi. Bye.