What do we have here? We've got a butcher box, guys. So, it doesn't originally come in an Amazon package. In an Amazon package. It comes in a cooler box. Cooler pack, but there was some leakage, so we tossed it. Yeah. So, we got it a couple days late, actually, which is a good point to bring up. If that does happen, it still came fresh and like partially frozen, but there was some leakage. So, you know, you'll still get your package. The food will still be good. Butcher Box, it's a subscription meat service. That sounds funny to say that. Yeah. So, yeah. Is it monthly? It So, it can be monthly, bimonthly. You get to choose. This is $130 worth of meats. Or that's how much it costs. It costs $130 a month for 8 to 11 lbs of grass-fed, grass-finished quality meats. Grass-fed, grass finished. Guys, if you go to the grocery store, you're probably getting grass-fed grain finished, which I didn't know was even a thing. Normally, they'll like have the cows grass-fed for most of their lives, but then they feed them grain the last, I think, 90 days or something to fatten them up. It's the two stages of a cow's life, fed and finished. It's sad, but it's really cool. There's that difference. And they never like meant they don't they're not going to say grass-fed grain finished on the package. Um, but yeah, so you know, guys, do the best you can. You don't have to get grass-fed, grass-finished everything, right? You can get conventional meat. It's better than Twinkies. Uh so, we're going to unbox this and we also have cool stuff for y'all. So, stick around. Well, let's tell them about the one thing first. Okay. We're really excited about this cuz we've we haven't done any like subscription meat boxes yet. We've never even ordered one. We've been looking into one. So, this is exciting. I think it's our first one and we're a huge like advocate for what ButcherBox stands for. We have a promotion for you starting today. Goes till the 30th midnight. The promotion is $10 off your first Butcher Box plus two 10 oz New York strips. So, you're basically paying $120 for all of this plus two premium cuts. What the cuts are like probably like 30 bucks. 30 bucks total, I would say. So, you're gettingund at least 160 bucks worth for 120. Um, but we're going to unbox this so you can see if you like it, see if this is your thing. The link to the deal page for Keto Connect viewers is in the description. We also have a giveaway though, so stick around to the end and then we can talk about that giveaway. I don't want you guys to leave for the giveaway for a free butcher box. Yeah. Okay. So much meat. Okay. Here we have a one pound pork tenderloin. Yeah. So, I'm not a huge fan of pork tenderloin. Matt loves it though. So, that's perfect cuz it's small. We usually the ones we get are like huge. Yeah. Nice one pounder. A lot of people like doing bacon wrapped pork tenderloins. We've done that a few times. We've done that. It was pretty good. Yeah. Except Mega said this thing one time and it makes a lot of sense to me now. It's like in if you like instead of wrapping meats or other things in bacon, just make bacon if you want to eat bacon. Like now I'm kind of that same thinking. I'm not into like wrapping things in bacon. Yeah, if you want something to taste like bacon, just eat bacon. Yeah, there's no point in wrapping a nice thing like this in bacon is my new philosophy. Good. Next, we have Gosh dang it. Or the other one strip loin. Oh, grass-fed strip loin steak. Two of them. And these look good. Yeah, they have a nice fat cap right on the side, which I love. You can sear that up. H good marbling, too. I love just eating fat. The fat. When I get this eggs like this, I like to put the fat side just down on the pan for a little while to render it a little. And usually Matt doesn't eat all of his fat and I get to eat it. No, I eat all my fat. Not always. Yeah, you're She's a savage though. If I leave like a little meat left on the bone, she just grabs it. I mean, we're partners, so partners do. So, next we have three Big Boy chicken breasts. Gluconioenesis. This whole thing is 3 lbs total of Yeah. chicken breast. It would have been nice to get thighs. You can't have everything you want though. Yeah. And Oh, so each box you get has different cuts, different meats. So, different pork cuts, wings, whatever. Which is also awesome cuz I love the variety cuz you you're always trying new cuts, right? You don't have to stick to the same old I'm only eating steak like loin for the rest of my life. And honestly, we haven't cooked chicken breast in a long time. I used to cook it all the time. Yeah. I'm I'm looking forward to cooking some chicken breast. Yeah. So, just up the fat on this bad boy. Um with a nice butter sauce. Butter sauce or Alfredo. Chicken Alfredo. Yum. Two 10 oz ribeye steaks. Ribey is my favorite, guys. So, these I'm excited about. Oh, these look incredible. So beautiful. Perfectly marbled. Check those out. So, it's like 9:00 a.m. right now, but I would eat that. We should make steak and eggs for breakfast. I've never really done that. Me neither. I've never even gotten it. Me neither. We now have a nice pack of unccured bacon. No nitrates, no sugar added. The brand is Peterson's, and I've heard really good things oddly about. So, totally unccured, no nitrates or anything. Um, it doesn't even have like the celery derived nitrates, which is I wonder what this is going to taste like. I don't think I've ever had bacon like this. Yum. These two. Yeah. Sirloin. What are these? Top grass-fed top sirloin steak. Ooh. So, this top sirloin is a good meat for jerky. But it looks like these are just like nice single cuts we would just cook up. I want to try cooking these like a steak. Maybe. It doesn't seem to have a lot of fat in there, so it might be kind of tough when you cook this up. It would be good for like fajitas or something maybe or like a um a stir fry. And then finally, we have two one lb packages of this grass-fed, grass-finish ground beef, which we also always love having. Ground beef is just perfect for everything. Chili mostly. Yeah, we've mostly just been making chili with ground beef lately. We have a ton of good chili recipes on our website, guys. Try one of them. Julius is making a ruckus back there. So, that is everything, guys. So, you can get all this stuff plus two additional What is it? Sir, New York strips. New York strips. And those are pricey and $10 off for the promotion. Yeah, in the link below. New York strips are what, like $20 a pound usually, maybe a little more. Are they that pricey? I think so. If you get like a grass-fed grass-fed, you get a good quality one. Yeah. So, now let's talk free box giveaway. Let's talk. It's a two-day giveaway. We are hosting on our Instagram. So, if you want to enter to win a free butcher box, plus two ribe eyes. I thought you said New York strips. New York strips for the promotion. Ribe eyes for the giveaway. Make it hard. Ribe eyes are my favorite. So, I would want to win that giveaway. Continue. Go to our Instagram, like the picture. we post today. Tag a dog or a friend you would share a ribeye with. I would share my rivi with you. Follow us and follow Butcher Box. It's as easy as that. Enter to win. The winner is announced in a couple days on the 26th. So, 2 days from now. Full transparency on these things. A lot of companies contact us cuz we have a relatively big YouTube channel now and they're like, "Host a giveaway on your channel for our product." Cuz they want the free advertisement. Obviously, they get a lot more advertisement than they do the cost of their product. So, it's a big win for them, right? So, we like to limit it to companies that we actually support support and we feel are good to recommend to you guys. And it's easy to recommend just like grass-fed meats. Yeah. So, two things about this. One, we reached out to them because we think Butcher did. Yeah. Okay. We think ButcherBox is um has great products and it's a great service. So, if it's something we would actually use, like we would subscribe to this, then we think it's something we would definitely recommend to you and we would say you guys should subscribe or you should try it out or we're going to get a giveaway to happen so you guys could potentially test it out. Yep. And so that was our whole thing with this. And whenever we do any like sponsored posts, it's always products we would buy or support and that's why we put them on our channel. We like getting free stuff for you guys like giveaways and things like that. We also don't like dedicating a ton of valuable time cuz we like just delivering value in our videos like meal preps, grocery hauls, things that you can learn from and like put into practice rather than just like reviews of products. We still do some of those though. any purchase made through the link below, which is the case for most videos we do, like if there's a link in the description, we get a percentage of the purchase, right? It's usually like 5 to 10%. Yeah. And so that's a cool way to support us. Yeah. Also, and also guys, just as a general like disclaimer, if you're seeing a review for something on YouTube, the person reviewing it has an incentive to get you to buy it because they're profiting off of it. Even in this case, Butcher Box, we're profiting if you purchase from the link below. But we support it. It seems like a good thing. Grass-fed meats, can't complain. Yeah. If it was like grain-fed, grain finished, we probably wouldn't doing it. Is that a thing? Grainfed, grain. Yeah, that's most meats. So, yeah, we just wanted to share that with you guys. But also, the promotion, it's a great promotion. If this is something you've been thinking about trying, it's a lot of meat. So, if you try it once, it'll last you a good bit. Um, but definitely just enter to win. Enter to win, guys. And we'll also send you our puppy. We don't like him that much, but he's good at swimming. We're kidding. We like him. We know you're going to comment below and get mad at us. Look at him. How could you not? He's growing so quickly. They grow up so fast.