What's up, guys? Today we are making one of the best recipes we've come up with in a long time, I think. We're making breakfast enchiladas. This is a pretty difficult one, high level of difficulty, but if you follow these steps, it's not going to be that hard. We have a nonstick, kind of like a mini pan here. I think it's about 6-in diameter heating over low heat, relatively low heat. And we are going to start by making the tortillas. And there's just eggs and heavy cream. We're going to crack six eggs into this bowl and add a 1/4 cup of heavy cream. Also, to the egg mixture, we're going to add some seasoning just to make it more flavorful. We're going to go with salt, garlic powder, chili powder, and some black pepper. And just whisk that together. The heat has to be consistently low when you're making this, or else it kind of ruins it. We're going to switch to the stove. This thing is too inconsistent for this recipe. Okay, we're going to spray the pan. Coconut oil spray. You can also just use like a little bit of coconut oil, a little bit of butter, whatever you like. And we're going to add in a 1/4 cup of the egg mixture. You just want it to cover the bottom of the pan. You're going to want to put a lid on so that it cooks the tortilla all the way through without needing to flip it. So, this will use a little bit of steam action, so it steams the top, it cooks the bottom, and it'll be done, it'll be solid, and it'll be easy to fold into an enchilada. Each one takes about 2 to 3 minutes. So, this one has been cooking for about 2 or 3 minutes. And you'll see you can kind of like tilt the pan, there's no like uncooked egg left over. So, this one is done. I don't even flip them. You can flip them if you want. Just set that aside. And we'll put in another 1/4 cup of the egg mixture. And I'm going to make the rest of these tortillas, and when we're done, we'll make the filling, and then we'll get this thing in the oven. Okay, guys, last tortilla is just coming out. See, they cook up pretty nice, and these will fold really easily. So, we have a big stack of them going there, then we're going to turn the heat up. Yeah, we have a big stack of tortillas here. We're going to turn the heat up a few notches, more to like medium-high, and we're going to throw in some mild Italian sausages, what I'm using. We're making this like a breakfast enchilada. I know a lot of people just do enchiladas with cheese in the middle. You can do that, too. You can do like some cream cheese, something cool like that. I just I just like getting some meat. I just like having Joyce, no. No. I just like Ju- What is wrong with you? He's doing it when I'm talking on purpose. We are going to top these with a lot of cheese, and I personally like having a little bit of meat in most of the meals I'm having. So, we're going to do mild Italian sausage. Chorizo would also be amazing. If you can't find some good sausage that's low carb, you can buy ground beef and use some taco seasoning in it. That's probably the best option. And I'm not going to add any seasonings to this. We're just going to cook this down. That's all there is to it. Mild Italian sausage. And that is 8 oz. Just break it up a little. We're going to cook this down all the way until it's completely cooked, nice and brown, and then we will come back and assemble the enchiladas. Okay, the sausage is done cooking, so we got the sausage, we got the tortillas, and then we got a few other ingredients here to touch on. So, these are really your two options as far as the sauce goes for these enchiladas. Green chilies, just a can of mild green chilies. These are really good. They're not like as saucy, but they're more flavorful, in my opinion. I like going with these, personally, but if you're really into like the sloppy, saucy style enchiladas, then you would go with this enchilada sauce, which is what we're going to use today. Just so you guys know the carb count, basically all of the carbs in the final recipe come from whichever sauce you use. For this one, this is a much thinner sauce, a 1/4 cup is three carbs, one fiber, so you're looking at two net carbs for a 1/4 cup. That's pretty good. This one is two carbs, zero fiber per 2 Tbsp. This entire can here is 8 carbs. And then the cheese is the other thing you got to decide. I like using like cheddar or Monterey Jack or a mixture of the two. So, this is a mixture of cheddar, Monterey Jack, queso quesadilla, have never tried either of those last two, but we're going to go with it today. Oven is preheating to 400°. We're going to load these up and put them in this casserole dish right here. Don't overfill them too much. Pop those in. Hit it with the cheese. Look how big these shreds are. Oh my gosh, the farmhouse farmhouse cut farm style cut. Then you just simply wrap them. And this one actually got a little bit browner than usual. Yeah, so add tomato, add onion, add whatever you like. I'm going to do a few more of these. Okay, last one coming in. Jam it in there. Okay, so there that is. Now, we're going to top it with about a 1/2 cup, 3/4 of a cup worth of enchilada sauce. Wow, 1/2 a cup is actually quite a bit. I'm going to do more, though. I'm going to do another 1/4 cup. So, 3/4 of a cup total. And now we're just going to top it with cheese. The fun part, throw a ton of cheese on here. So, in total for this recipe, we're using about a cup and a half of cheese. And that's all there is to it. We're going to pop this in the oven, 400° for 10 to 15 minutes, or basically just until the cheese is melted as much as you're looking for. There it is, guys. Check these out. Breakfast enchiladas. So, I'm going to scoop a couple of these out. Okay, let's get right in here. I'm going to go right to the middle, I think. Just grab like two. Look at that. Oh my god. Wow. Got to get a little bit extra sauce. Put that on top. Let's give this a try, guys. See what's going on in there. Wow, you honestly would not know that these aren't enchiladas. 100% tastes exactly like enchiladas. Delicious. Actually, so yesterday I made them with the green chili sauce. Today, we made them with the enchilada sauce. The enchilada sauce is way better. It has like the signature enchilada taste. You can also combine the two. I know a lot of people do that. But it's just so flavorful, so delicious. This doesn't have to be breakfast enchiladas. The original reason we thought we would make them breakfast enchiladas is because of the eggs. So, that would just kind of go with breakfast flavors, but tasting them now again, they don't really taste like eggs. It tastes like tortillas. It tastes like an enchilada. So, feel free to just go like traditional enchilada flavors, for sure. These are amazing, guys. Give this a try. One of the best recipes we've ever made. Link to the instructions, the recipe, and the nutrition information is all in the blog post, link in the description of this video. So, check that out, guys. Check out all the other recipes we have on our website, and make these enchiladas. Skip taco night, it's enchilada Tuesday.