Hey guys, I haven't been this excited for a recipe in a long time. This is a little bit of a different one outside of what we normally do. We are making cured egg yolks today. Now, you're probably thinking, what do I need cured egg yolks for? That's kind of what I was thinking at the start, too. Then, I made them and tasted them, and they're life-changing. This is a recipe that we've made like four or five times since the first time we made them. We just keep on remaking them cuz we love them so much. What you're going to need, I'm going to make four today. You want to get like some decent eggs in my opinion. These are pastured pastures because it really concentrates the flavor of the egg yolk. So, you want to get some good stuff. So, all you need is salt and eggs. So, I'm just going to do four of them. So, I'm going to use this plate. And we are going to start by pouring some salt out on this plate. Just get a little base coat down. It's about good. Make some indents where you want your eggs to go. Now I'm going to separate some egg yolks. Then just place it on the salt there. That's for boom. Now you can add some spices or herbs in with the salt. I've done that a few times. I don't really notice it translating that much to the eggs. I like to just go with salt. Then we're going to coat with salt completely. We're running out. I got a bunch of these because I've been making these nonstop since the first time. You want to make sure you get them fully coated. Okay, perfect. So, we are going to stick these in the fridge for 48 hours, two days. And since we plan ahead around here, we have a batch that I put in 48 hours ago that's ready to come out right now. So, there was eight in here. I already took one out. So, let's unveil these. So, these have been in here for 48 hours. Okay, so that is 48 hours now. All the moisture pretty much is gone from them. They're still like, you know, you can you can squeeze them a little bit. They're not they're not as hard as you need. And you want them to be hard enough to where you can grate them with like a cheese grater or thinly slice them. I'm just going to dust off the remaining salt. You don't need to get it all off. I like it to be nice and a little salty. And this is just really like condensed egg flavor. To get it as dried out as we need, we're going to bake it at 170° for about 2 hours. If your oven can go lower, go 150. The lowest ours will go is 170. It's kind of just like dehydrating. Like if you guys have a dehydrator, you can probably use that, too. You really just want to get all the moisture out of here. So, it's just pure egg goodness that you can grate on your salads and stuff. And that's the main way that we use this is grate it on salads. Mega says there's a bunch of other ways we should try though. But I'm pretty committed to the salad topping. Okay guys, we're going to place these in the oven for 2 hours and come back and they're going to be even more dried out and densely flavored. We'll be back. The cured eggs are out of the oven. They've were in there for an hour and 40 minutes at 170. If your oven goes down to 150, I would do 150 for like two hours. That's probably the best timing. But basically, you can just see now they're pretty much hard. They have like a little tad bit of give to them, but you can easily grate this on a microplane. That's the common use of this. I have been trying different ways over the past like couple weeks cuz I'm addicted to these now. I love these. And I like just slicing them thin with a knife and then putting them on my salad. And I use about one of these eggs per big salad. The flavor they give is like I would say it almost can replace like cheese on a salad. It's very salty, just very savory taste. Really good. Brings out the flavors of the salad. You can use it on other things, too. I just haven't yet. I have to think of like what else I want to use it on. So, I cut it when I'm doing my salad. I usually cut it like super thin like that. I mean, this is just Does it get better? Here we go. That's it. It's just such a burst of flavor. Just really good. I would encourage you guys to try this. It's also a fun thing to make. Like if you have your friends over for It's also a fun thing to make. Like if you have your friends over for Oh my gosh, I can't say that. You're so excited. It's It's also a fun thing to make. Like if you have your friends over for dinner, you can pull out this tray of cured egg yolks and be like, "Guys, I cured egg yolks the past few days. You want to try these on a salad?" And it'll just be like a nice talking point. I'm getting like into experimental mode lately with trying weird stuff like this. So, let me know if you guys like videos of this, like different cooking techniques. I'll try doing more if Mega lets me. Uh, that's it for now. Subscribe to our channel, thumbs up, all that good stuff. See you guys. Heat. Heat. N.