Hey guys, today we are making bacon wrapped asparagus. Perfect appetizer for a keto dinner party. And this is what the final product is going to look like. And look at that. Now, you can see we're doing a couple things different here, which in my opinion improves these. You got to go to the grocery store and you got to see what kind of asparagus they got. They either got the thick ones that the stocks are huge. then you might want to just go single asparagus or two in a bundle. But the ones we got today were like super skinny. So, we went four four asparaguses tied into one bacon. But I also like having every single bite involving bacon. I don't like leaving a lot of room at the top for the the asparagus to just be hanging out. I'm going to show you how to make it. We're going to slice the bacon lengthwise and then wrap it in two parts around the asparagus. We're using thick cut bacon here. So, if you're using a more small thin cut bacon, just reduce the cooking time a little bit. Some notes on the cooking time. At the end, you're going to want to broil it if you want it to be nice and crispy like that. Okay, so we broiled this for about 3 minutes at the end. And another thing to note is you don't want it zoom in here. You don't want the bacon to overlap very much. You want it to be pretty much every new layer starts at the end of the last layer. Okay? Or else it'll be a little chewy in those spots if they overlap. Let's get to making this delicious bacon wrapped asparagus. Hey, hey, hey. hey, hey. And we're done. Nice and easy. These are great if you don't know how to cook that well and you want to impress your friends. Asparagus is fancy, so just, you know, it's perfect for dinner parties. Um, we're using this baking rack, as you can see here. It allows the bacon to cook more like evenly all around at once. So, if you don't have one of those, it works totally fine if you just put it on the uh the baking sheet. You're going to want to flip it more, though. We flipped these once. You might want to flip it a few times. And then another thing to be cautious of if you're doing it with no baking rack is when you put it on broil, if you have a lot of bacon drippings down there, that can be like a little dangerous. Don't do that. Um, you might want to drain some of the drippings off before you do broil. That's pretty much all there is to it. Bacon wrapped asparagus. Subscribe to our channel. Everyone make some suggestions below of what video you'd like to see next. The highest upvoted one gets made. And as always, guys, nutrition in the blog post. Ingredient list blog post. How long do I bake it for? Blog post. Okay, just check out the blog post. That's a wrap.