Hey guys, we're going back to the motherland today, Italia, Italy. And what we got is something I'm calling fat bomb pasta. You guys are probably familiar with fat bombs. They're these little treats that people make where it's just like a lot of fat and not a lot of other things, protein or carbs. So, I was thinking like, what if I want a fat bomb that's not a little dessert treat thing? What if I want a meal fat bomb? So then I got to thinking and we came up with fat bomb pasta. So in this recipe we're using these shirataki noodles and they're like basically just air. They're no calories. Um there's 1 gram of carbs, 10 calories per half of this package. They really reduce down a lot though. So like I can eat this entire package no problem. It's it reduces a lot. Preparing these so that they're edible and not gross worm consistency is kind of tricky and we'll show you how to do that. We have a good method down for how to make these tasty. And then we're going to make a little bit of an Alfredo sauce with this Italian sausage ground up in there. You can also just omit the sausage if you want to go pure fat bomb, no protein. Yeah. So, it's pretty basic, but the the tricky part is handling these noodles properly. If you've tried these noodles before and didn't like them, try them with this method because it's totally life-changing. These steps we're about to show you will make tofu shirataki noodles back on the menu, boys. I think that's from Lord of the Rings. All right, here we go. Hey, hey, hey. Heat. Hey, Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. N. down. This is a Tricky Beat production. There it is. finished up the fat bomb pasta. So, this serving size right here has 760 calories, 7 net carbs, 24 g of protein, and 68 gram of fat. So, not like your traditional fat bomb, all fat, but it's close. As good as you can get for a meal for the most part. And look how spectacular this looks. This is like you went to Olive Garden. I'm kidding. Not not Olive Garden, a fancy Italian restaurant. You can omit the sausage if you want to get it even higher fat, lower protein. We're using this cast iron skillet because it's the only thing that works on the cook top that we have to film videos with. So, you don't have to use that. I recommend using a non-stick pan. We also used Romano cheese. You can use Parmesan, aiago. Either of those substitute pretty well. Uh let me let's give this a try. Mega's going to get mad cuz she wants to eat some of this after. Oh, it's so good. The sausage we got is almost like broughtwurst. It's sweet Italian, but there is no added sugar. And the I really like this with the Romano cheese. We made it a couple times before with Parmesan, and I think we made it once with aiago, too. But this is where it's at. It gives it like a nice salty and more sharp flavor. I'd recommend getting Romano cheese for this if you can. We've experimented with all types of these low calorie, zerocalorie noodles. These are by far our favorites. It's the Shirataki Alfredo style ones, the shaped ones. Um, they also have miracle noodles, which we don't like as much. They are made out of like a fiber root of some kind, like a fibrous root. So, they're just like pure insoluble fiber. These are soybeans and also fiber. These just taste a lot better in my opinion. The real takeaway is just the method of preparation for the shiritaki noodles. That's like key. And you can make so much stuff with that once you know how to prepare them right. We love these. We make them all the time now that we got the method down. The first few times, like when you they're all slimy. The sauce doesn't stick to them and everything. So, definitely prepare them this way. It's much better. You can use any sauce you want. We've used a cream cheese Alfredo sauce before, which is pretty good. I like this one better, though. That's a shot at Mega. She made the cream cheese one. And uh yeah, just really some chicken Alfredo. You can also throw this whole thing in the oven and then bake it and that'll be really good. Like a baked chicken alfredo type of thing. But yeah, just good stuff. Check out our other cooking videos if you want more ideas. And below, comment with things you want to see in the future, other dishes you want us to make.