 k Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data Data keep dragging him back to his play area it's a weekend and what do we do on the weekend where are we going we're gonna get egg bites or a wake-up wrap you want wake-up wrap or egg bites egg bites so from Starbucks wake-up wraps are from Dunkin Donuts he likes those too here we go there's Theo with his egg bites and then I have a coffee here and lately I've been doing bulletproof coffee which I'm gonna do today and this is what I put a ghee about a tablespoon and a half tablespoon and a half of coconut oil and this collagen powder it's flavored and then I also put some sweetener okay there it is and here's Felix he crawls everywhere you want a gumball are you eating your egg bites yeah see he gets up on all fours he doesn't crawl on all fours but he does army crawl and then I've been reading this series which I told you guys about I'm on book three now and it's really great it's the expanse it's a show on Amazon Prime which I'm gonna watch after I finish the series but there's eight books and I'm on book three it's kind of like I think what Star Trek is like but I've never watched Star Trek but good is Felix ever gonna grow hair hopefully it turns out like that for breakfast we're making pancakes and some breakfast sausage I'm just doing in the air fryer it's these pancakes we have a bunch of different flavors or I guess we don't have too many flavors but we also there's chocolate chip I think there is a few other flavors I'm not sure though the sausage is this chicken and maple Applegate brand Megan's awake hi good morning how are you feeling um I'm okay I'm happy I'm with my boys in the on the weekends Theo comes up and he watches a little TV with me so that's how we get our day started and we just cuddle and they're playing together now which is really exciting Theo be gentle be gentle yo hi Baba hi okay come on come on up here we go do they look alike no he's he looks like me he looks like you we just got our own and that's what the teams are gonna be when we play basketball and we know it's gonna be me and Felix no way it's gonna be me why would I have Theo when we're both gonna be better than I'll be better than you and they will be better than Felix no Felix is gonna be better than Theo we already talked about this well it'll take him some years to catch up feel feels your best friend already Felix is my bestie here is mega's pancakes look at Theo Felix just grabbed Theo's pancakes oh yummy oh look no no no no okay we'll trade we'll trade here Felix has eaten like five or six different foods now yes sweet potato bone broth but you can't have this stuff chicken steak get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get get You can't do it. Where? Um, there. Yeah. Mecca's requested some bladder friendly popcorn. Air popped air fresh, right? Air popped. Air popped fresh. And Matt really butters it up and Theo loves doing it. He gets so excited. You have to see. I'm gonna do anything. No, let's make pop pop. Come on. Okay. Oh, oh, oh, it's time to make that. Daddy, I don't want to put the bar. Got a big cup. This part, where'd it go? Do you know? Yeah. Where'd you put it? Did you put it somewhere? No, they put it somewhere. Mecca put it somewhere. Mecca. Mecca! Mecca! Where do you put the popcorn in there? Push the button. Good. Look at the door in here. You got it. Look! There's some rest. There's some rest in there. Where'd the butter go? It's on there. So I realized that DoorDash is significantly, like, tenfold times better than Uber Eats, just in case you're interested. I also realized that, but the price for them is just so much. Depends. I checked both. We'll help you in a second. And guys, I didn't get my eyebrows done in the past five months, so don't judge me. Alright guys, and we have a sponsor for this video. So HiLo Life has a plethora of snacks. My personal favorites are their chips. So they have their new Ultimate Taco Chip, so Matt's actually gonna have this as a snack while he hangs out with Theo outside. But they have their puffs, which are super good, and just like a childhood favorite, right? Like, who didn't love cheese puffs growing up? So I love snacking on these or taking them on the go in the car, and even Theo has some with me when we're out and about. They have their snack mixes, which is nuts and cheese, and then they have a couple flavors. Our two favorites are the crispy pepper jack and almonds. Matt loves a good spice. And then I love the crispy cheddar cheese and almonds. You guys should definitely try HiLo Life snacks. You can get them on Amazon, or you can get them on their site. Check out the link below, and should I open these for you? Sure. Are they like the grill marks? They're just... So their chips are the best. My favorite is just like the plain cheese ones, but check them out. Someone's trying avocado for the first time. Oh, hi, Bubba. He's really into the camera. Yeah, I think he's done here. Go ahead. Take a bite. Take a bite for the people. Mmm, yummy. How does he compare to your first son? Pretty different. More different than I would have thought two kids could be. Seems more calm, happy. Maybe it's just a second child. I think we're just more calm and confident. Maybe. Alright, midday snack. So I found these in the back of our fridge, and I guess they're technically expired. 11-28-21. I don't really pay too close of attention to the expiration dates on stuff, unless it's like... They've done them for a while, though. Yeah, unless I can look at it and I can tell that it is bad. But these are called the Good Lovin' Bar, and they're pretty tasty. 10 carbs, 3 fiber, 3 sugar alcohol, so I guess 4 net carbs. And the ingredients are good, except it is vegan, so it has like pea protein and stuff. But I like them. Been having them like once a day. Dinner's here. Their salsa is bomb. It is? It's super, super good. Super, super good. It's like fresh and they make it. It's a Mexican rotisserie chicken place. And they always give tortillas, flour, corn, you can choose. And then this is the goods. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. These are really spicy. Not for me. It's for Daddy Nemo. It's not really spicy. It's not spicy at all. It's chicken. You want to have some? No. I can't. Is it hot? Oh yum. You want more skin? Uh huh. Alright, let's eat. Let's eat. It's getting big. Comment down below, did you guys do a lot of hand-me-downs? I feel like we're going to do a lot of hand-me-downs. Hopefully we won't be buying any more new toys. We'll go a few for him. He needs a few of his own. Maybe. We'll see. Thanks again to HiLo Life Snacks. For sponsoring this video. They have some deals running on Amazon right now. You definitely want to check out. We're going to stock up for the summer. Matt's been talking about camping. I'm not an outdoorsy person, but if we have snacks and maybe like a heater, we're going to need something, right? We're going to get a tent, I'm going to get a heater. And a board and a board and a board and a board and a board and a board and a board and and a bed and like, you know. Yeah, an air mattress. Some wine, some good stuff. Then I'll definitely make it out to the woods. So thanks again, Hilo Life. All right guys, that'll do it for this day of eating. It is seven, nearing 7.30. That's Theo's bedtime. It's about time for bed. He's drinking his bottle of milk and he just took his bath. It's hard to film videos with kids. It's hard to do anything with kids. But they make life so much better. Oh, it's very rewarding. It's so rewarding. It really is though. And I'd like to think we're adding some sort of value to society, right? Because we're going to raise our kids right. That's the hope. That's the plan. Doesn't everyone think that though? No, I don't think that. Oh, here's one thing. Everyone does not think that. Here's one thing guys. There are certain things that like I'll see in movies or like in reality shows and it won't really like register with me. Previous to having kids, I never really realized. But like there'd be like a reality show and the guy has like a 12 year old, like two, a 10 and a 12 year old kid that he never sees and he just has like a new life. And now I'm just like, oh my gosh, this guy's a terrible person probably. Yeah. But before I was like, oh yeah, that's kind of normal. Like divorce. You don't see your kids that much. Even like the Santa Claus. Go on. Like the Santa Claus movie. What? He's Santa Claus. Yeah. I guess he's kind of a good dad. He's everyone's father. Yeah. He's everyone's father. It ends up like he's kind of a good dad. He's a great dad. He fights for custody. He goes to court. Yeah. I guess I don't remember the full movie. You do not know the movie. When you're a parent, you definitely see the world through different eyes. Okay, Theo, do you have anything to say? Happy Halloween. He said that this morning too. For some reason, Halloween really stuck with him. It's like his favorite. Happy Halloween. Yeah, I know. He does love it. Happy Halloween. What were you for Halloween this year? Huh? What costume were you for Halloween? Oh, I want to be a punk. Pumpkin? Pumpkin? Oh, very, very original. No, no. Don't say punk. I want to be a witch. Oh, that's a good one. I was a witch when I was like 12. Time for bed. Bye. Ah, ah, ah. So viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to viel to