Yo guys. Hi. What's up? This is a good one. Yeah, Matt was really excited. So was I. We just ordered these. You guys got the layout of our apartment down yet? You're probably like, "How do they do so much and have so much crap? It's small." Next one's in the bedroom, we're thinking. Yeah. Set it right on the nightstand. That homie with this. Yeah. But what we have today is a selection of salts. Sea salts. Yes. And these are really cool and different. Yeah. Extremely different. Um, we got some fun facts, but most importantly, we got little pieces of chocolate. Dark. Very important. And we're eating Choco perfection. Shout out. Shout out to Choco. Let's run through what we got. Okay, cool. Plain old sea salt table. Trader Joe's. Yeah. So, the thing that colors each of these salts is a different trace mineral um component. Yeah. Which is cool. And then next we have black. Black. So, it's Hawaiian black. M the color comes from activated charcoal and activated charcoal has detoxifying properties and helps with aiding in digestion. So um you know if you have digestive issues um definitely use the black sea salt. So I think I'm probably going to start using that one more that one and the red one but we'll get to why. Then we got gray. Gray. Is it is it Celtic gray or what is this? It's like French. So I believe this is also called flirtel, right? It is. Okay. Yes, you're right. And the thing about this one, which is very different than all the rest, it's very like it's almost like wet sand, right? And so that's because it's from the sea. Yeah. So, um it's very water content heavy and that's why Yeah. It gets it's very like grainy. It's it's basically like sand. Yeah. It's cool. So, you can like set some on some chocolate and it just stays on the chocolate. Like it's good for finishing. I guess all of these are good for finishing dishes. Yeah. Especially the black one. The black is mostly only used for finishing. If you put it in cooking from what I read, you're a dummy. It'll just leave like black residue and you'll kind of lose the purpose of it. It's very hard to like we were looking up info on this for an hour and it's very hard to find factual info. So, from what we can tell, this is about 20% trace minerals. Yeah. And so, the gray salt is similar to pink salt. has magnesium, iron, zinc, um, potassium, and in terms of food, it's best to top like boulder dishes. So like cheeses and lambs and other meats. Yeah. Oh, I see this on top of chocolate a lot, too, though. Yeah. So, it's also a gourmet, so it's good for Yeah. chocolates, but also like if you're going to use it for dishes, topping like beefs and um cheeses. Just the consistency is crazy to me. I know. It's It's literal. It's literally like wet sand. Yeah, that's where they get it. Here we Let's talk about the pink, right? Okay. Cuz we just So gray. So pink um it's big crystal. So we didn't put it in one of these dishes cuz we're we don't have a grinder, so we're going to have to hammer some out. Has uh trace minerals from magnesium, potassium. Yeah, this is one we've had before. We use all the time. This is also Hawaiian red sea salt. The black and the red. So the red is volcano stuff, right? Yeah. So it volcanic clay, that's where it gets its color and it's uh trace minerals from. Yeah, there's a lot of good minerals in like volcanic ash and stuff apparently. I know Dr. Berg is always talking about like some lemon from volcanic ash that he always is like Yeah. Yeah. So the red contains minerals and electrolytes. So like magnesium, potassium, all the same ones. Um but the difference is it gets its color from volcanic clay. So, now taste test. Oh, also one thing about the red, which is why I said I was going to use it. Sorry, I'm just looking at my notes, guys. It's lower in sodium chloride than it's uh than actual salt. So, it's good for people who are watching their sodium intake or are sodium conscious like me because of kidney issues. So, learning that I'm going to be using Red like probably all the time. Um, and we got this Where'd you get this from? I ordered off Amazon. Amazon. And it was like 12 bucks you said. Yeah, we'll link it below. Um, it's sea salt shack. Should I double check though? We just gave them maybe a very low price. It up to 20 is what we would say like maybe the top. Yeah, cuz you can buy these bags in like 10 oz or like two. Like they have varied ounces, but I got the 2 ounces cuz I didn't know I would love red salt all of a sudden. So, taste test. Woo! Pink. Just a little lick and dip. Yeah, that's what I was going to do. Now what? So before I did all my research and I found out pink is super similar to table salt. I was like, "Wow, pink is so different. It tastes so good." And now I'm just like, "Oh, it just tastes like salt. It's just salt and tasted salty." Tasted salty. Let's do gray next. Right. Yeah. Don't do any sexual licks for the women out there. It's slightly different. It is. What is that? Wa. It's going to be hard to describe the differences. We did not think this would be the difference. No, maybe like a little It's more intense, right? It amplifies. It's less intensely just salty, but there's more flavor with it. That was good. I did like that one. I can't describe it, though. I know. Yeah. I think it's best probably on desserts. What about the creamy tiscano cheese? That'd be great. Should we pull it out? They might not have seen creamy Tuscano yet. And we always talk about it. Let's talk about it. Creamy Tuscano. Purple brine. This whole big guy was 450. It's a nice chunk. Mhm. M. How good it was. That's good. That's what's up. Uh uh uh. It really like brought out the sweetness of it more, I feel like. Oh, it's so much better with the gray salt. Yeah, gray salt, guys. Gray salt. Let's go red. Here we go. It looks so beautiful. So, it's super sharp and then just nothing. Right. Milder overall. Oh, I like this one a lot. Me, too. This is my favorite one. This is so good. And the best for your kidneys. I don't know why though. What is it? I'm trying out cheese. Oh man, it has a really crazy flavor, but it's hard to describe. Maybe it might just be best for desserts. The gray salt was better with the cheese. Yeah, gray salt is like made for cheese. I think red's probably not, but it's red's really good. It's crazy how much these change the taste of the food you're eating it with. Black. Black charcoal. Activated. This is pretty, too. It's subtler than the normal table salt, but it's like stronger than red. I think this is the most subtle of them all. Really? Yeah. It like coated my whole mouth and like right now my whole mouth is just it's intensified. I don't I don't taste much from this one compared to the others. That's interesting. Not much flavor to the black. That's so different for me. You like it? I like the red the best. Then red is by far the best. Then I like the black. Then I like the gray. Then the pink. Then table. We're close. I'm going to go red, gray, black, just cuz these two are really overly salty now that I'm tasting what's possible. Yeah, these are just like pure one note. These have so much complexity and they add to it a lot more. Yeah, these are good. We've been making fat bombs and we top them with pink salt is what we've been doing. We're going to start using these a little bit more. Absolutely. It's going to be so good. The gray. Oh, man. Plus, you just look like you're awesome when you have this in your house. When someone's like, "Hey, do you have salts for the cauliflower?" You're like, "Oh, what color?" Do you guys have any other knowledge on these salts? Let us know. Comment below. Anyone with salt knowledge, let us know what's up. Cuz you should write a blog post on it and become a millionaire cuz there's zero posts on on sea salt. And I did I dug deep for all four and then there was like one post with a little bit about each which helped. So yeah, do that. I guess most commonly ketoers probably got the the white and the pink. I love just tasting things and picking out the differences. We used to love beer tastings, right? Wine tastings, fun keto crates all day. Anything we can just eat and chalk it up to no calories really. All right, guys. Let us know which sea salts you've tried and what you recommend and if you know anything about them at all. Please. All right, guys. See you. It's a wrap. Heat. Heat.