 sisaindeler, He's drinking from a straw! He's drinking! He's drinking! He's drinking! Good morning. Good morning. It's been a long time since we made a video. We are back though. It's been a couple weeks. A lot of action going on here. Meg is still dealing with her health issues. The kids constantly get us sick from daycare. Well, Theo goes to daycare. Felix doesn't, but he always gets us sick. He was sick a lot last week. And I have completed a really awesome project that I'm going to show you guys after I drop Theo off at daycare. I think you'll be impressed. Right now we're going to Dunkin Donuts. What are you going to get? A wake-up wrap. He's going to get a wake-up wrap, which is like a breakfast tortilla. I'm going to get an iced coffee. Another day! Let's do this! Why are you stopped? Because I'm talking to the camera. So this one's for Theo. Show them what's in it. A wake-up wrap. A wake-up wrap. And then I got this iced coffee. And I bring my creamer with me and I just add this in. There's like some mushrooms and stuff in it. But I mainly just get it for the flavor. So that's my morning drink. Here's Felix. Hi. He's a lot taller and more athletic than Theo was. And he's going to walk way sooner. Heelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelerelereler of research and kind of figuring out the easiest way to do a cold plunge every day and this is what i came up with so basically you have the tub there's a filter which maybe is kind of optional i'm not really sure there's the water pump right there and then there's the chilling unit which is really like the expensive part of it so all together this costs about i gotta crunch the numbers but i think about seven or eight hundred dollars that might sound like crazy expensive for just like a cold plunge but when you actually try doing a cold plunge you'll realize it's not that easy like if you do it with ice every day you need a lot of ice and it costs a lot of money to buy the ice i looked into like getting an ice maker like a home uh uh industrial ice maker for your home those are pretty expensive this one i think is the best because also you can reuse the water for like two weeks or so and i'm really happy with how it turned out i was expecting it to be a lot more of a headache there's still a slight leak in one of the pipes which i gotta fix and getting the whole system waterproof was a little hard there was like five different leaks that we continually had to fix i'm gonna have a blog post on ketoconnect.net and maybe i'll make a follow-up video just on exactly how to make one of these with all the parts lists and everything it's been great i've been doing it for a week so far i think i'm gonna do a video after i do it for a month every day so i will do my morning ice bath now so i stay in it for about five to ten minutes i think most of the benefit is really just from the first like one to two minutes of like the shock and then after the first two minutes it's really easy actually you'd be surprised to stay in the cold water and i also have this um like a timer outlet so that it goes on every morning at 3 a.m and then it turns off at 8 a.m and that is about i'm still figuring out but it seems like that's about the amount of time it takes to cool the water hello hi good morning guys so i am starting my day off with some electrolytes so i just pop this guy open and i put this pack of element orange salt electrolytes in it and i'm just going to drink this throughout the day probably finish it by midday and then just do normal water for the rest of the day but orange salt is absolutely my favorite flavor then i will show you what i eat hopefully i'll just have some eggies for breakfast uh right now just hanging out with the baby and here comes miley miley here's mega's breakfast three scrambled eggs yummy what is it scrambled in butter mmm perfect and i'm probably going to share some of this with felix he's over there in the drawer and i'm going to enjoy this while i read hello standing up look at him and then here's my breakfast i have four eggs i like to do them like over medium and some bacon and some cheese this is raw provolone cheese i get it from whole foods i usually just look for raw milk cheeses or unpasteurized it says here so but this one is my new favorite so i've been getting it a lot we have a sponsor for today's video it is element electrolytes the best electrolytes you're likely to find i have one of these every single day i put in my water it helps me drink more water stay better hydrated i especially use it on days when i work out or i go for hikes or i use the sauna they have a bunch of great flavors my personal favorite is this raspberry salt this is the one i like to put in my water but they also have a chocolate salt flavor which i put in my coffee when i make like bulletproof coffee or sometimes i'll just put it in with some cream and it really like adds a good sweetness and good flavor to your coffee check out the link down below and you can pick up a sampler pack of elements electrolytes they send you one of each flavor and you just have to pay for shipping and handling which is five dollars pick that up try them out i think you'll love them and i think that's why they give you a sample pack because they know you'll love them and then you'll buy them so uh yeah definitely check these out really good stuff the ingredients are great it just has the electrolytes a little bit of flavoring and then stevia is the sweetener each packet which this is what a packet looks like just a powder packet it has a thousand milligrams of sodium 200 milligrams of potassium and 60 milligrams of magnesium two carbs each no sugar just a really great addition to water makes it taste good helps you drink more water stay hydrated check out the link down below to get your sampler pack it is 3 p.m now i actually just got back home a little bit ago i did my first my first solo trip out i went to wall grants and starbucks um solo as in i drove myself and i haven't driven myself in about a month maybe a little over a month so that was really nice we are also well actually it might just be me now me and matt were feeling really sick yesterday because theo brought something home from daycare and he was throwing up and having diarrhea and then he passed it to felix and then they passed it to my mom and now it's on to both of us and i am still amidst just like dangerous bathroom sessions it's 3 p.m and i have been buying this gluten-free toast that's really good from sprouts i forgot the brand but i'm having a piece right now with lots of butter on it so this is my slice i'm gonna enjoy my slice of toast i'm gonna drink some more water stay hydrated and that's that and then i guess we'll be having dinner in a little bit and felix is just watching me film i don't usually have an audience felix just drank from a straw for the first time he's drinking he's drinking he's drinking drink from your straw drink from your straw show everyone he's drinking it's funny theo's gonna steal this cup instantly yep no way felix gets to enjoy it again theo steals everything felix gets that's what shapes him as a second child though but it also ruins theo as a first child that's the whole dynamic you don't seem like a first child why because you don't come off like spoiled in any way or entitled or thank you you're welcome introducing theo to youtube early on was like the biggest mistake and so i put on um a netflix like cartoon i was spit a netflix cartoon or animated movie and theo's felix has been loving it he already watched 58 minutes on and off maybe last week i posted this just like four clip story on like the kardashians and how they came out on hulu versus them on e i saw the video of the one girl trying to cut a cucumber kendall oh my god if you guys haven't seen it look it up uh her mom was like oh we can just get the chef to do it she's like no it's just a cucumber i can cut it up and it was just embarrassing um and everyone's been using it to like make funny videos but anyway someone messaged us and they said i love you guys i've been doing keto but i'm uh i'm nervous about like referring you guys to my friends because now you talk about the kardashians and other things that aren't keto it would be nice if you just went back to keto stuff and like i just i wasn't offended at all i just laughed and i was like it just makes no sense that you would send a message like that to me well it could just be some authentic feedback like she came to us to watch keto videos yeah and then i was thinking i was like our name is keto connect and then i was like but where do i post anything personal then right so like i have a personal tick tock but like i don't have a personal instagram with a lot of followers that i can share these things with it would be zero followers right but yeah i guess let us know down below if you are okay with instagram profiles that are like mainly food talking about other stuff okay i'm going to pick up theo from daycare and i'm bringing him some snacks he loves eating in the car he likes apples a lot lately and one of these power crunch kids protein bars he kind of likes them sometimes he'll eat them sometimes he won't so we'll see what did you get from the store i got watermelon watermelon watermelon is big and it drops down there i can try this feel like that one for you is it good let's save the rest for later save the rest for later huh so our traeger grill has been fixed by my dad it was a little malfunction with the control panel but it is back up and running and tonight we are having shish kebabs and a bratwurst for theo steak onions and looks like yellow bell peppers and i got these from whole foods like pre-made and everything all right here's the completed shish kebabs here's mine i might have two probably have two and i didn't show you guys but on the way home from picking up theo i had some of this coconuts just like cut up in chunks i get this pretty much every time i go to the grocery store i like to have it as a snack and i didn't really snack as much as i usually do today but i might have something after dinner i don't know i'm still getting over my sickness so maybe that's why how's your sausage that you grilled what he likes the sauces you dip it and felix is over there with grandma eating some meat he's screaming for more and you showed them the kebabs right yeah kebabs are so underrated that is a wrap on our full day of eating as you saw i didn't eat much at all um bad stomach calls for keeping it light so it was very different than our usual because a lot of our old comments were like why do you guys snack so much because we'd have our cascade of snacks post-dinner maybe you don't remember that but if you've been around you might remember that um fun times but you know maybe we'll get back to there one day but thanks for tuning in we'll see you next time goodbye