 elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo elo coffee from Starbucks which is my usual just a large black coffee. I want egg bites. Theo wants egg bites even though he already ate a ton but I do bring my own heavy cream and sweetener and Felix is awake and he is growing fast. He started clapping as his new big thing. Hi. He's almost a year old. He likes to sit on his trampoline. He's clapping. He's clapping. There's Mega. Here I am. I don't normally do this in the morning but I'm trying to increase my protein and we put these little chocolate drinks in Theo's milk because he likes chocolate milk. There's probably like this much in here and I'm just gonna drink it up. Do we have extras for Theo? Yeah, there's another one in the fridge. Okay. Yesterday we got slime for the first time ever and we put it on Felix's leg and his natural reaction was like a gag reflex. He like touched it with his fingers. He went like literally what he did. It was really cute. It was the cutest thing we'd ever seen. Okay guys, little update on the plunge pool. I've had it for I guess about a month now. I just turned it on this morning so it's 57 degrees. I set it for 50. Usually by the time I get in it it's about 51 degrees. I'm gonna gradually go lower. I think I want to try getting down to like 45 degrees or so. I've been doing it pretty much every day for a month and it's hard to say the exact benefits but I think when you have just like a routine of doing something hard like you know, conquering your your inner voice of like you don't want to get in. It just helps you throughout the day of like doing harder things. I've tried doing it first thing in the morning. I know like Tony Robbins. He does a plunge pool. I think he has one like next to his bed. I think I saw an interview. He says like he wakes up and he immediately just gets into one. I tried that for a while. I tried doing it. I've been running a lot. I realized I'm very easily influenced by like videos, movies, documentaries, books. So like I read this book which is a really great book. The creator of Nike, how he created Nike. And he ran a lot so I was like okay sounds fun maybe I'll try running some more. So that's the phase I'm in now. So I tried doing the cold plunge after my run which my knees do hurt after the run. Just I guess I'm getting old and like the cement and stuff. I like that but I think my preferred method is after Theo goes to bed I do the cold plunge and it really like lowers. I don't know it doesn't lower your body temperature but it makes you maybe it does. I don't even know. It makes you feel really cold for like a few hours. So by the time I get into bed I'm just like kind of cold instead of it's really warm right now. It's like 90 degrees every day. I think you sleep better. So that's I think my favorite timing of doing the cold plunge right before bed or like a couple hours before bed. So it just like cools you down. Overall out of all the stuff I've tried like you can see I have the sauna here. Infrared sauna. I have these red lights which I read with at night and I have the cold plunge. Maybe it's because it's the newest thing I have but I would have to say it's probably my favorite. It's also significantly cheaper than the other thing. So this all together was like seven or eight hundred bucks. I'm still working on the blog post for how to do it. So I'll have that in a couple weeks. I'd give it a strong recommendation so far. We're at first watch for a quick brunch with just me my mom and Felix. Let's see what they have. Hello. So for brunch I got a piece of gluten free toast. They have really good toast here. And then I got a Cobb salad. Felix is eating some turkey. And then my mom got an Elwood. I'm going to eat some cream. I'm going to eat some cream. And I'm also having a coffee with some cream. Alright guys it's noonish and Megger brought me an omelet from brunch. It's called the works because baby you are the work. The works. A lot of onions in it. I thought you'd know what I liked. I didn't know there was any in that one. Sorry I would have said no onions. It was a lot. Alright this is my breakfast. And it's a fun atmosphere. I saw some people drinking mimosa. It got me in the mood. On a Monday. Oh that's true. There was a lot of there was like three men probably your age that just get back from a baseball game. Like they were wearing baseball uniforms. They just had a morning game on a Monday? I swear they did. Yeah. And we have an amazing sponsor for today's video. It is Element. Element electrolytes. As you can see here. A thousand milligrams of sodium. 200 milligrams potassium. 60 milligrams magnesium. Got a bunch of different flavors. Chocolate is my personal favorite. It's great in coffee. Bulletproof coffee. That's what I like to use it in. Without question. The best ingredients. And the best tasting electrolytes you're going to find. I've tried most of them. If not all of them. And these are definitely the best tasting. And a lot of times I'll even just use like half a pout. Because the flavoring is really strong. So the primary use of electrolyte supplements is for just like replenishing when you sweat. So you know like Gatorade, Powerade, stuff like that is what most people use. But they're filled with a lot of sugar. Which is you know not great. So there's alternatives like this which I use every single day. Usually I'll just drink it while I'm exercising. Or what I've been doing. I've been doing this thing where you like go in the sauna. Then you go in the cold plunge. And you go back and forth like three times. And you sweat a lot. So while I'm doing that. I'll just drink a big water bottle with some of these electrolytes in it. So if you are interested in giving these a try. We do have a special offer for you right now. You go to drink element.com slash keto connect. You have to go there. And you get a free sampler pack of eight different flavor individual pouches with your order. Drink element.com slash keto connect. I'm going to link that in the description of this video. Check it out for the special offer. And thanks to element for sponsoring this video. 4 p.m. Matt went to go pick up Theo from daycare. And he's getting dinner from Whole Foods. And I'm just having a snack. Some deli meat. And some sliced American cheese. This is my favorite. American cheese is just a classic. And Felix is having some deli meat. And so is Miley. Miley's been eating my food a lot lately. Which is unlike her. So I wonder what's going on. But yeah. That's it. So we're going to have dinner soon. No. Oh and I'm also having a Gatorade Zero. Hi. Cheddar broccoli soup from Whole Foods. It's very hot. No. You can do it. Yeah. You got it. You got it. Bring it. Pull it over. So I got Whole Foods Hot Bar for dinner. It's three of our dinners in these two boxes. So. This chicken's for Mega. Theo said he wanted this corn. He was insisting on getting it. And this for Mega's mom. And then for me I got this chicken. And broccoli. I'm going to give one of these to Theo and see if he eats it. Give me corn. In a way. Do you know? The economy's collapsing. Okay. We can see. Mike and Mama. We can see a white kiddo. Daddy and a big kiddo. Two brothers. Here's mine. That's a movie. Chicken and two brothers is a movie? It's four brothers. Oh it's just brothers. And four brothers. And step brothers which is a great movie. It's so overrated. It's not overrated at all. One of the funniest lines in the history of movies is. I remember my first beer. Just the comedic timing of it all is great. Yeah. I don't like the Whole Foods Hot Bar as much as I used to. Yeah. It has like some novelty to it initially. Mama. And we've been getting it a lot. Mama. Daddy Nick he's superhero like. It's not as good. Mom. Yeah. So. Actually. That's me. Right here. Hi. Hi guys. You gotta film people. You can't. Mama. What's daddy eating? Chicken. Daddy look. The American dream. This is our lives now. Yeah. They're great. It really happened fast. I'm gonna finish it. Do all kids say huh as much as Arja does? Because he says huh constantly. I had a mini Quest Bar as an after dinner snack. Where'd you get these from? I got them off their site because they were having a big sale. Um. But I didn't know those existed. I think they're new. And then I have gotten back on these puppies. If you have not tried these. They're not like super low carb by any means. But if you have kids in the house. They're a great option to a cookie because they're super good. They also sell like a big bag in Costco. I'm pretty sure I've seen. But they're paleo right? I guess you'd say paleo. And we got a new Roomba. He's the updated version. And then it's almost bedtime. This is Theo in a trans with his baby bottle. Yeah. The only thing that relaxes him. And he really likes that bottle. But he looks like these. Because it's most shaped like a breast. I think it's because he breastfed for like. Three years. Four years. He's a breast man. I guess that's weird to say. Are you gonna have anything else? No. I'm just waiting for the kids to go to bed. What happened to Fifi? It looks like you got like destroyed. It looks like he just got out of numb. What's he eating? Got out of numb and then signed his Roomba contract. Are you so happy? Are you so happy? Okay. That's a wrap. Let us know down below if he looks like a girl in this outfit. Salmon. Okay. Okay. Okay.