 Good morning, it is a day after the Eagles, heartbreaking Superbowl loss, Megga's from Philadelphia, so, hi, hi, hi, hi, what do you want for breakfast? I want Poopy and Peopy. Hey, do you want Eggies? Um, yeah, Eggie and Poopy and Peopy. So, I'm cooking the boys breakfast, which I do every morning, pretty much, and I usually make the same thing, eggs, breakfast, sausage, sometimes toast with butter, like some sourdough bread with butter, Felix likes that. After a long weekend. So, these are the sausages I do. Been doing these since they were little. And then I just do butter and eggs. Three eggs, they split. Here's the queen of the house. Queen Bee. How's the bees flock to me? Come here, my little bees. My little bumbo bees. What do you call again? Raspberries. Can you give me more raspberries? How do you feel about the Eagles? Obviously, it's sad news. Matt said we were cheated. That sounds pretty accurate. There was a somewhat controversial call. Yeah, I want to see Rihanna, too. I woke up to text from friends saying she's obviously pregnant. But, we don't know, maybe she's pregnant again. Do you know who she has a baby with? No. Travis Scott. Mama. Mama. Mama. Mama. Is that exciting for you? Matt just hates anything about celebrities at all. Here's their breakfast. That's Theo's. That's Felix's. Here. Here, Felix. Yeah. Time for Theo to go to daycare. And I have my orange juice that I drink every morning. Maybe like about 16 ounces, I think. A lot of vitamin C, baby. The boys ate all of their breakfast this morning. And I ate like two bites of eggs that I could, that Felix chucked on the ground. Eggs are so expensive. The sausage is so expensive. So, I've been making it a point to just eat their leftovers. And then, that's my breakfast. You can have a donut in your class. Yeah. Not in his class. Only in your class, I think. Okay, bye-bye. On both of our class? Yeah. Tomorrow, yeah. Mom, I can have both of our class. No. Both of their class? No. You're both having parties tomorrow for Valentine's Day. Dad's donuts is just you, Theo. Oh, this is a dad party too? Okay, bye-bye, Fifi. Sorry. Are you eating popcorn? Fifi's eating some Pop Pop. I'm going to sit on my legs. Okay. And I got a snack, some carrots and tomatoes and some hummus. It's 10.30 and Fifi's having a bottle. Hi, baby. We switched him over to coconut milk the past, like, three days. And he's been doing really well on it, but he was having tummy issues. So, we just wanted to play it safe and not give him anything that had any dairy at all. So, yeah, he's been enjoying that. Hi. Aw. Mom and Theo, or Felix. My mom always confused our names growing up, and now I realize it's impossible not to. Yeah. Mom and Felix are relaxing. Mom is not feeling great physically, so. I just brought a bunch of snacks over here, so Felix is set up. If he wants something. Okay, guys, having an early lunch. I have some Parmesan cheese, two ounces or so. A epic bar. And some smoked oysters in olive oil. These are delicious. So, I've been doing more frequent meals. I say that, but I actually haven't been eating that much, I feel like, lately. Yeah. I haven't been as hungry, so I usually will do my coffee, which I had this morning, with milk and honey in it. Orange juice, a couple hours after that. Then I'm having this meal, which is usually just like a snack. And then sometimes one other small meal, and then dinner, which is usually the biggest meal. The weekend with the kids is just like a lot of action. Entertaining them for, and it was raining all weekend. Yeah. So, we just like played games. We like built a bridge in here and stuff. Matt just kindly whipped me up a salad, egg, chickpeas, tomato, carrots, and a bunch of lettuce underneath there. And then olive oil, pepper, and baby. And Felix's lunch is in the oven. It's still only 1045. I'm just eating early, and Matt was up here to help. So, I figured I'd have him make my lunch right now. We do have a sponsor for today's video. It is Element Electrolytes. And they are easily the best electrolytes on the market. I have one nearly every single day. It has 1,000 milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, and 60 milligrams of magnesium. Great for a keto diet. Great for any kind of active lifestyle. Way better than the name brand sports drinks out there that have very small amounts of electrolytes and lots of sugar. These will actually keep you hydrated. The main thing you want to be replenishing, obviously, if you're sweating a lot, is sodium. Most electrolyte supplements you'll find will have like a few hundred milligrams of sodium. This has one gram, which is a good amount. It's only sweetened with stevia. Two grams of carbs per pouch. And the flavor is really tasty and strong. So, you can drink like a large water bottle with one of these packets, and it doesn't really dilute the flavor very much. They have fruity flavors like orange, raspberry, watermelon, citrus that are really good. My personal favorite, and the kids also really like this. I don't use a full packet for them, though. I use like a quarter or a half, is to make hot chocolate for them, this chocolate salt flavored one. So, if you use the link in the description of this video, drinkelement.com slash ketoconnect, you will get a free sample pack with your purchase, which is a variety pack of all the different flavors. So, you can try them, see which ones you like best, and order those ones next time. So, definitely check out the link below, and thanks to Element for sponsoring this video. And some apple chips. He only napped for like 45 minutes, so he's a little crabby. So, a good recipe for crabby baby, and wanting to have a good afternoon, is bubbles! Bubbles! Yay! Yay! And yes, these are fashion glasses. I've had them for a while, I just found them, so I was like, oh, I'll pop them on. We had a coyote, um, sighting, like, three houses down. Three houses, yeah. In the yard. Like, overnight. Um, so. That's cool, right? We got coyotes! Did Daddy say you're getting a little big? Big? Big belly? Is that your pot belly? He knows how to adjust the volume now. Daddy's down. Okay, going to pick up Theo a little early, because I have to get something for Mega for Valentine's Day tomorrow. You mean Galentine's Day, because we're best gals? Yeah, and I have to take Theo to help me pick it out. What is it? What is it? Just something little. Don't get too excited. Like a little piece of lingerie? But I'm bringing Theo some snackies, some cashews, some corn, sweet corn crackers, and a power crunch bar, which he really likes after school. I have one of these electrolyte packets. Element raspberry to drink while I go about town. And I have plantain chips. These ones. And some chocolate. And I was a little lukewarm on this book when I started it, but I'm about three quarters of the way done. Getting good. Exceptional, I might even say. Do you guys feel like as you're getting older, everything sucks? Like, you know, like everything's going terribly. And I've been wondering if it's just normal human nature. Like, because I know my dad, when he was like in his 40s, he thought all the things I was doing was, you know, really dumb. And like everything. Did he? The music sucks. You know, like they don't make the TV shows like they used to. The kids are using swear words and stuff. Stuff like that. And it seems maybe this is just the cycle of being a human and like the kids doing crazy stuff and me not liking it. Or is it actually getting kind of bad? I don't know. What do you guys think? Comment down below. I think we're just aging. And yeah, probably. Yeah, because we think or I think we grew up in the best time as far as like advancement of technology, medicine, like, you know, that. And then also we still have like we played outside with the doors unlocked and stuff, you know. Look who's home. What's tomorrow? On Valentine's Day. What do we get for Mama? Um, we don't take a look. Don't tell. I already asked him. I thought you were going to. I thought you were going to. You didn't tell? I was like, are you wondering? He was like, no, it's a surprise. Hey, hey. Usually he tells right away. How's dinner going? Good. It's done. Whoa. I just got to toss. Do you want any ones that are just making? Or do you want them all tossed? Okay. That one. He's pointing at me poking this. Yeah. He looks like he's been in Crab City. Why are you being in Crab City, boy? Dinner going down. Looks delicious. Thank you. Sweet potatoes. I don't really, I don't like sweet potatoes. But I wanted to. They can be kind of hit or miss. Yeah. And then we got some chicken. And there's two on the end right there. The dry ones. Yeah. One is. I like them extra dry. You know, one is from the oven and one's in the air fry. And I wanted to know which one you like better. They seem pretty similar. Yeah. So that's why you have to try it and tell us. They're too hot to try right now. Okay. I'll tell you after. Come outside, play time. Is mine in the backyard? No. Eating dinner outside. I feel like an old person. We can feel good. Now apparently you picked the oven one, but I don't think. Which one did you say you picked? The oven one. And you like that one better? Yeah. See if he's having a can come back there. He didn't sleep much, I guess, today. Oh my God. You don't crash into the garage. Mega says Rihanna's halftime performance was exceptional. I think it's exceptional. Can't beat this weather. And we're thinking about moving to Michigan. Leaving all of this behind. I don't know if people would live in cold climates. It's not great. It's not great for your mind or your body. Are people closer to the equator and they're happier, do you think? I think happiness is hard to measure. How do we measure it, though? By asking people how happy they are. That's how we do it? Yeah. So if you ask people in North Korea, they think they're very happy. But they're probably scared to say they're unhappy, too. Yeah. Maybe. I mean, you can't even ask people in North Korea. Yeah, exactly. Okay, guys. That's going to do it for today. Nights are... It gets tough at night time. It's hard sometimes. It was a good day of eating, wasn't it? Okay, go find me. Bye. We're having a meltdown over the PJs being in the wash that he wants. Fifi, come here. Bye. Okay, bye. Bye.