What's up, guys? Hi. Today, we are going to show you how to make homemade Quest bars. Yes. So, they're usually like three bucks each. Yeah. 289. 289. Unless you have the GNC card, it's like 279. Then it's like buy 15, get the 16th free. So, and you got to buy 15. Yeah. So, uh yeah, it's pretty simple. Megan is going to walk you through the steps right now. Hey guys. So, today we're going to make a strawberry quest bar. So, first you want to take two tablespoons of the Vitaf Fiber. Your um heat on your pan should not be on just yet. You want to start your heat to medium and wait until it bubbles. You'll It's very noticeable. You'll see immediat immediately starts to bubble. So, as we're waiting for that in here, I just mix it all. This is one scoop of we use the strawberries and cream protein isop pure powder and then two teaspoon of almond flour and that's just mixed in in here. So once this starts to bubble we'll just add this right into it. You can see it start to whiten. That means it's getting close. So once that happens, get it a little all the way through. I'm going to turn the heat off and I'm going to add all of the protein powder. And you're just going to mix it around. And it's not going to come together really well, but that's okay cuz you're going to put it in a Ziploc bag the next step and pound it together. But get it as incorporated as you can. We are going to put it in our Ziploc Ziploc bag. Um, this is a really heavy duty kind. It's usually a twoman process, but I think I can handle it on my own. Oh, you can smell it. So, it's going to be hot, but you want to mush it together as much as possible. You can see it's forming. And then once you get it pretty incorporated, you're going to add in whatever additions you want. So, here we're going to do almonds. Get a nice handful in there. I get every little harvest going. And then just keep kneading it so it all mixes together. And then here we have these silicone molds that we're going to put this into and then just mold to the square Quest Bar size. Get that out. get it as square as possible. And then what we like to do is we like to once it's pretty together, you get to flip it over and you can see all of it on the back. And then it makes it very uniform and square shaped like the Quest bars. And then we can put this in the fridge or the freezer depending on how quick you want it done and how quick you want to eat it. And then there you have it. That's it. So we'll show you the result. All right, guys. We're back. We just made six varieties of Quest bars. It's quick. I know. It took us like what, 2.2 seconds just now? Pretty much. We're going to do a taste test. We'll walk you through what's in each one. Yeah. And do a taste test to see which one we like best. This is the one we've made before. This is the first one we've made and we So, we've tried and it's incredible. It is incredible. So, we've just cut off a little piece of each here. You want to walk through them all first? Go ahead. Sure. The base, as you saw, was the Vitaf fiber. The liquid you put in the beginning, almond flour, protein powder, and then all the other stuff is just additions. Yeah. For one of them, we subbed out almond flour for coconut flour just to get experimental. And we also put shredded coconuts in it. That is this one. Yeah. So, let's start with him. Okay. So, yeah. So, it's unsweetened shredded coconut and almonds. Coconut flour instead of two teaspoons of almond flour. Not noticeably different in consistency. When we were making it, it's had a little bit of trouble staying together, but it's still salvageable. Like, this is informed into a bar nicely. So, then the second one, as we've showed you before and told you just quickly, it is showcases our chocolate brownie skillet cookie, which is incredible. So, it's recipe on our website. Perfect addition. Yeah. So, we mix that into this with cookies and cream protein. Yeah. So, it's a great com. It's just two cookies just making love in your mouth. Then the third one is Matt's personal hippie favorite, so you can talk about it. We have flax seeds, chia seeds, hemp seeds. So, not sure how it's going to be. That's the one I'm most worried about. Don't let the hat fool you. He is such a hippie. A little bit. Third one, strawberries and cream and almonds. It's 1, two, three, counting. Four. Fourth one. Strawberries and cream. Protein powder and almonds. So, the fourth one. Fifth one. Fifth. The fifth one, the fifth one I'm most excited about. Um, we didn't put a lot of maple syrup in it, but it's maple walnut. So, we put a teas teaspoon teaspoon teaspoon of maple syrup in it. We put that in with the fiber in the pan just as it right right at the end. Yeah, right at the end. So, it didn't burn the syrup at all. And then the sixth one, the one I'm the one I'm probably the most excited about is double dark chocolate. It's cocoa powder and Lily's chocolate chips. Chocolate chips which are sweetened with stevia, I think, or Splenda or something. So, we um lessened the protein powder because we used quite a bit of unsweetened cocoa powder. So, like 2/3 a scoop and then a tablespoon of uh unsweetened cocoa powder. Let's taste them. Start with Let's not start with that guy cuz he's different. Two chains. Uh let's start with this one that we've tried before. Okay. I was gonna say, let's do a fun way, like fingers behind the back. How would that work, though? I know. Oh, I'm just I'll just put two numbers behind my back. One through six. And you just pick which hand. So, you have It's going to be one of two things. So, you're narrowing it down to two. Okay. That side. Five. My personal favorite. So, this one? Yeah. This is the one I'm excited about, too. Maple walnut. Ooh, I can smell the maple syrup. I was like, you want me to smell yours? Okay. Great texture. I can taste the maple syrup a little. A little bit. We could have used more. You can really taste the walnut. Yeah, the walnut piece of walnut at all. But the flavor is dispersed. That's a good one. A little maple extract would make it better. We should do that when we get that. That's fantastic. It is. They should make that flavor. Next. Let's do the hippie bar. Okay. Cuz I'm least favorite. Is this Is this unflavored protein, too? Yeah. This one might be not good. No, it's it smells like um the flax, right? Yeah, flax seeds. What do you think? I like it. You get the flax seeds. Flax is really good. Really strong. I'd like to put more in. I think it would almost be kind of like sesame. Yeah. Indians use a lot of flax seeds. So, it's giving me like an Indian flavor. This one surprised me. I like this a lot. Next one. Let's go. Strawberry. Strawberry ice pure protein. You don't like it? I don't like the protein powder. It's really assertive. I don't mind it that much, but I don't think we should make this one again. On three, say which one you want to eat. Okay. One, two, three. Chocolate. Oh, what kind of pattern was that? I thought we were going to point. Okay, chocolate. Let's do chocolate. No, we look like jackasses. So loud. Stop it. Hi, boo. She just wants some quest bars, guys. Can you choose me? Yeah. This is the one I'm most excited about. I wanted to reiterate that. Oh. Oh, yeah. The unsweetened cocoa powder made the consistency very good. I like it. It's very um like softer. That's my favorite one. We should put a little sea salt on top of that one. Just tastes like a chocolate bar. It tastes like very dark chocolate. I guess it is a lot. Just like chocolate bar. I like it though. Yeah. No, I love it. Chocolate bar. Chocolate bar. Oh, your coconut one fell apart. That's cuz the coconut flour. It didn't mess with the consistency then. There you go. I think consistency wise, this is the best one. I think tastewise it's the best, too. But this one, we mix in our cookie and it definitely makes it more like a brownie type of thing. The coconut flour one, it is falling apart a lot more. And it's harder. Oh, is it? Yeah. Very coconuty. This one's pretty good. It's just really like dense. The consistency is not good. Yeah. It tastes like a macaroon cookie though. Kind of. It does. Wow. That's great though. Mhm. So, is your favorite? My favorite chocolate bar. Any of these three. I'd probably go with this one though. Okay. Mine are with these two. Oh, yeah. I forgot about that one, too. It's right there. Forget about it. Those four are all good. Okay, guys. Yeah, I'm officially picking this one, I think, as my favorite. Another copycat. So, there you have it. Six incredible homemade Quester Bars. So, get some prebiotic fiber syrup and make your own and let us know what additions you have. And I feel like one night this week, I'm just going to be laying in bed and like the greatest Quest Bar flavor is going to come to my mind. So, we'll probably be back showing you that. I guess like a bacon one would that be better. Ooh, maple bacon. Subscribe, make and enjoy good instructions.