Hey y'all. Today we're going to make bulletproof coffee, otherwise known as just butter coffee or keto coffee, whatever you want to call it. It involves three major components. You got your coffee. I recommend doing a drip coffee. Then you got your butter. Go for the grass-fed if you can swing it. It's really not too much more expensive than normal butter these days. And we always get Kerry Gold brand, which is pretty much the cheapest grass-fed butter you can find, and it's carried almost everywhere in the US now. And then MCT oil. We get it on Amazon. I'll link it below. Uh just go for the cheap stuff. I I haven't noticed too much of a difference. I've tried a bunch of different varieties of it. You're going to want to use butter and MCT oil in a 2:1 ratio. Two parts butter, one part MCT oil. A word of caution, though. With this stuff, you're going to want to ease into it. Now, I'll use like one to two tablespoons per bulletproof coffee. Reasons being is just like some digestive issues like laxative effects kind of for first-time users of this. So yeah, just definitely be cautious. Um even now nowadays if I use a lot of it, I'll notice like some digestive discomfort, but the benefit of it is that you feel totally energized right away in conjunction with the caffeine and the coffee and the butter to make you full. This is really like a good way to start your day on a keto diet. So really all you have to do is add them all together and blend. So let's do that now. Hey, hey, hey. Hey. There you have it, a delicious bulletproof coffee. And on the side here, we got Mega's special um delicious mug cake. Check out our other video. We made a delicious mug cake and a nutritious mug cake. So, they're both really good though. Great to pair with your bulletproof coffee. So, this is this is the finished product here. It tastes great. It tastes kind of almost like coffee with a lot of cream in it, but it's a little more buttery, a little bit like you definitely know you're getting a lot of fat in. And the reasons I love starting my day with bulletproof coffee is because you get your fat in. You get a good head start on your keto macros for the day. Um, it fills you up. You're not hungry. You can go to like 2 or 3 p.m. without eating after drinking this. And you have a ton of energy and just sharpen focus, which is a reason I love drinking this in the morning. Some variations you can do on this is you can add heavy whipping cream. Makes it taste a lot better. I like to add cinnamon. Some people will tell you adding cocoa powder is good, but it's not good at all. It makes it super bitter and taste terrible. So, I would recommend cinnamon. You can go pumpkin pie spice. This is a keto staple of ours definitely. Along with we have videos for keto bread and keto Cobb salad. Both of those are like things we make all the time. So, if you're just getting started, maybe take a look at those videos. I will link them above. That's pretty much it. That's how you make bulletproof coffee. Uh, thanks for watching.