 good morning, good morning, everyone's sleeping in today, it's almost seven, here's their breakfast, eggy, and toast with butter, this is the toast that we get for them, and I already had a black coffee this morning, and we have two new kittens, Arlo and Gwen, and their sisters, well if you're new here, we are keto connect, we have run a keto food blog, which we have keto connect.net, and this is our youtube channel, we're not fully keto now, I would say, after having kids, you go in and out of paleo, and just like wanting to eat more healthy, so we definitely don't do any seed oils at all, we like to be active, have fun, we're a family, family friendly channel, except I say the F word sometimes, and Theos is poop all the time, there's gonna be a full day of eating video, started the channel before we had kids, he was still asleep at seven, sweet angel, he had a long day yesterday, and he wakes up to a video camera, here's mama's espresso, thank you, I'm going to turn into my plants got any big news? um no, how many kids left over breakfast, so me and Theo, what did we build out here, we got a little worm farm, for composting, yeah we need more worms, well a lot of them are like gathering on the outsides, it looks like, I don't know why, not a hundred percent sure what I'm doing, all I know is that they did go through a lot of their initial bedding and stuff, and I keep a damp towel on top, did they all have babies yet, some of them had babies, yeah, where are they? just finished a three mile run, it's the longest I've run in months, since I took like three months off, and I used to be able to just go like a mile, and I would start feeling my foot, and now I can go about three miles with minimal pain, so what I think I'm going to start doing, I haven't been doing this lately, or at all, because my diet hasn't been great lately, so what I want to do is more of a carb cycling diet, which will be on exercise days, so like four to five days per week, between like a hundred and two hundred grams of carbs, which is pretty high, higher than I've done in a long time, and on the rest days do lower carbs, not strictly keto, but like 50 to 75 grams of carbs, probably I'm going to make a burrito with this, mega did like a smoked pork thing, so we have pulled pork really delicious, one of mega's best cooked jobs yet, and then some eggs, and one of these green-free tortillas, here it is, doesn't look great, but it tastes great, just the pork, three eggs, and some like jalapeno salsa stuff that I mixed in, and this tortilla, and we have a sponsor for today's video, it is Element Electrolites, without question, the best electrolyte supplement on the market, especially if you don't want a bunch of carbs along with your electrolytes, now that I'm finally back to running, it is very important, especially once you start getting up there in miles, or like if you do like an hour exercise per day, you probably need to replenish at least 500 to a thousand milligrams worth of sodium, each packet here has a thousand milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, and 60 milligrams of magnesium, the flavor is really good, and it's between like one and two grams of carbs per packet, I usually have one of these packets every single day, especially I make sure to get it in when I'm doing heavy exercising, they have a lot of great flavors, I like the raspberry watermelon, and then also if you like to put flavoring in your coffee, this chocolate flavor is really great, and we do have a special offer for viewers of the channel, if you go to drinkelement.com slash keto connect, I'll link that down below in the description, you will get a free sample pack with your first order, if you're making your first order, definitely try the chocolate, and I would say either raspberry or watermelon, or if you like citrusy stuff, they have a citrus flavor that's really good, like lemon lime type of flavor, definitely check out Element, without a doubt the best electrolytes you're gonna find. It is 1030, I just got back from the grocery store, and I'll show you a couple things I got, but what you see in front of you right here is what I've been doing every single week, I've been making just like a really hearty vegetable soup, and then throughout the week, whatever meats we have leftovers, I'll add in to the soup itself for lunch, so I got onions, and garlic is always how I start, lots of both, and then I'm gonna do carrots, green beans, I'll put all of this kale in there, maybe save a little for Matt for like a scramble, I've been using this broth, which I really like, sometimes I do the veggie broth, I'll do the chicken this time, but the no salt added, and you can look at a lot of broths, and it'll say no salt added or low sodium, but it's not really that low, but this one is actually really low, it's 55 milligrams per cup, and in here there's four cups, I believe, yeah, and then I often do garbanzo beans, but I'm gonna try cannellini beans this time, and then maybe some tomatoes, I'm not sure to like just thicken it maybe, add some flavor, but that's gonna be the soup, this is all, it's gonna be in there, there's the green beans, the beans, the onions, garlic, and carrots, and then I'm gonna just add all the broth in, some water, and then the kale probably towards the end, because that really doesn't need to like cook too long, but I'll probably just let the whole soup cook and simmer for like an hour, just because that builds flavor, but it really doesn't need to, once like the green beans and carrots are cooked through, which will probably be pretty quickly, they'll be done. Got some minor updates, the first thing is for a while I was really into running, and then I got plantar fasciitis, it's actually de-abilitating, and you can't do anything with it, it really sucks, and so I took some time off, and I started again, and then I immediately got re-injured, not re-injured, it was just like a never-one-away, I'm going with a different approach where you're just like constantly active, and you're strengthening as opposed to resting, I got this book, a stretching book, and I'm just gonna be like really strict about doing my stretches every day, doing my strengthening exercises, kind of like almost like sports rehab type of stuff, and then my reading, I've kicked it back into high gear, I think I'm probably having my best reading year ever, 30 plus so far, maybe close to 40, I do have some new favorites that I'll share with you guys, and when I started doing this reading challenge, I think I did it, the first year was 2019, the goal was to read 52 books, and I was doing like mostly non-fiction, I was very into just like self-improvement, like you know, like the self-help type of books, I've completely evolved in my reading to thinking that self-help books actually suck, a lot of people kind of think this, but I do think they're dumb, they're repackaging, and saying in different ways like the same five or ten basic truths to improvement, and actually, I think fiction books are better for self-improvement than non-fiction books, yeah I'm really into fiction now. Anything by Jonathan Fransen, this guy is incredible, he's my favorite author, I will say though his books are very American, so if you're not American, you may not really appreciate Infinite Jest, the longest book I've ever read, one of my favorites. This is a pretty highly regarded and hyped up book, it's a six-part series, but I didn't love it, I'll probably continue reading it, but I might not go through all of it. This book, Cloud Atlas by David Mitchell, great. Maybe I'll share some books I really hated also, because I think like 95% of books I read are at least worth reading, there's only like 5% of books that I hate, and I wish I had never read. Here's a couple, On the Road by Jack Kerouac, is considered a classic? I don't get it at all. Repeatedly does the same thing, like travels on trains across the U.S., drinks a lot of alcohol, it's just like, not my thing at all. Anything really by Kurt Vonnegut? The first book I read of his, I was like, whoa this is awesome and he's really a genius, but it's kind of like gimmicky, I've realized now, he does the same thing all the time in every book, and it's just not really my thing. Cormac McCarthy, he's considered by many the greatest living author. Yeah, I don't really like his writing style. So this bag is just full of frozen berries and vegetables for Matt's smoothies, then this is just a bunch of fresh vegetables, some limes, some of these oysters that Matt really likes. We get them at Trader Joe's, I went to Trader Joe's and Whole Foods today. When he's running, he likes figs, we like pistachios in this house, maybe I'll roast and salt these. Every week, we have been choosing a different country to prepare dishes from. Well, Nugget does all the dishes. Matt chooses the country. We've done Greece, Mexico, Mexico was the worst so far, but was that the first one we did? Mm-hmm. She's getting better. Japan. And Japan. I would say Greece so far has been the best. Gonna do Italy soon, I'm saving that up though. We're doing Brazil this week. Oh, you picked Brazil? I gave her Brazil. I select two and then she picks which one she wants to do. This week it was Brazil or Philippines. When you actually go through the list of countries that have like a lot of cuisines that you're familiar with, there's not really that many. Like basically all of Northern and Eastern Europe is just kind of like no for me, like pretty much like Norway, Sweden. I don't want that food really, Germany. I don't really want that much. Anything like Russia, Ukraine, like Slovenia. It's not really my thing either. It's like a lot of fish and like cold fish is just the first thing I think of when I think of those countries. So here is the soup and as I mentioned, this is my meal prep for lunch every single week. And I love doing it. It's so quick to throw together. You can make it taste in any way you want with seasonings and then just add whatever meat you had from Dinger that's left over into it for lunch the next day. And I also added some zucchini. I forgot to show you and then the kale went in as you can see. It's about 1 p.m. and for lunch I'm having the smoothie which I make usually on days where I run berries, banana, spinach, kale, peanut butter, some greens powder, a little protein powder, like half a scoop. All right guys, this is my bowl of soup that I'm about to eat. Yum. It's one o'clock and we had a little bit of chicken left over from yesterday's dinner so I just put that in there as you can see right here. Then I'm going to enjoy it, sit down, fold some laundry. Hi girls, are you cuddling? Yeah, come hang out with me. I'm going to fold some laundry. They're like, should we do it? Oh, stop. I'm going to fold some laundry while I watch a show. The crowded room on Apple TV, it got really bad reviews but I'm liking it. It's like a suspense drama slash thriller and I really like it. And I'm also going to have one of these. It's called Poppy. So instead of Zivia, I've been getting, we have Zivia, but I really like these. They have really good flavors. I like it. So give, definitely give Poppy a try. I'm not like some too. You are the nutrition person on our team. Am I? And I saw a yummy snack at Trader Joe's today and I was just, you know, we always look at the oils and it has rice bran oil and I just like don't know where that falls, what I should think about it, what it does to me, should I get the snack? I honestly don't know the exact breakdown of rice bran oil but you can just kind of do some like deductive reasoning. Rice is very little fat. Rice bran, I don't, I assume that's like a byproduct of rice. It could be wrong. But generally you just want to have fats that are very easy to extract from whatever they're from. So like, tallow, if you kill a cow, there's like huge areas just of fat that you can render simply to make tallow. There's no like mechanical extraction, heating process. You have to render it so there is some heating but it's not like canola oil. You need to like, you know, heat, deodorize all these different processes that make it toxic to humans essentially. So like avocados, olives, butter, just, you know, all the basic ones that are easy to know how you get from the produce or the meat to the fat. What's grape seed and what's palm? Because palm's not that bad. It's just palm's not that bad. It's unethical. Yeah, the harvesting of it is not great. I think they're like tearing down the rainforest and stuff. Palm is similar to coconut oil. When you're heating stuff, you want to think of the polyunsaturated fats because that's what oxidizes at high heats. So if you have like tallow, it's almost entirely saturated fat, which is really resistant to heating. So you can like cook stuff at really high temperatures and tallow and coconut oil and it doesn't really do much harm to it. Things that are not as stable to heat like flaxseed oil is the worst. It will like start oxidizing just at room temperature in a lighted room. But then what about olive oil? Olive oil isn't great to heat really high. It has like a few grams of polyunsaturated fat per tablespoon, I think. Because they do olive oil in restaurants, right? I would think. Mostly they do canola oil. Sometimes they'll do clarified butter, which is best. But usually they're just looking for the cheapest stuff, which is canola oil. This would be an oil. Yeah, I would just assume anytime you get takeout stuff, it's always going to be vegetable oil. Unless there's like a few exceptions. Buffalo Wild Wings, Five Guys uses peanut oil, which isn't great, but it's better than canola oil. Yeah, I don't know why they use peanut oil because so many people have allergies. Yeah, that's funny. So I'm packing the kid's snacks for a pickup. And I'm going to give them some of these pork rinds I just got. And string cheese, and that'll be the perfect snack. And then I remember that this is an incredible snack I used to eat and I love. So just pork rinds dipped in cream cheese. And if you get the whipped kind, it's just so much better. Hi. I need some basil. Can you pick me some? I have a question for any of you gardeners. Check this out. These are tomato plants. Ignore these two. This is a different type. But these seven right here, and these three, all were the same germination date. They all started in little one by one trays. I transplanted them, four of them to these square trays here, and then three of them to these large circular trays. Obviously these hold more soil. Look at the difference in size. All these three have done so much better than these four. And I can't figure out why. Is it just the size? I don't feel like they're fully like filling up the size of the tray to begin with. So I feel like the size shouldn't be a factor, but that's really the soil. The soil is the same. Everything is the same. Can't figure it out. Must be, I mean, the only difference is the size. So that must be, and these are clear. And this is black. Maybe like the roots are heating up more in the black. I don't know. There's more light exposure. Hard to say. Okay, give me some basil. Oh, I'm picking some basil, I guess. Basil's doing well. That's probably our best plant we got going. So I was doing some of the seed starting right out here. I dropped a bean right here. And look at it. It's growing up the rose bush all the way up to here. Wait, it's actually, it's up to, it's up to here. You dropped the seed, right? Yeah, dropped a seed right there. It's all the way up to here. I want to be hilarious if that's our best growing bean we have. Here's my basil. I'm prepping over here. There's just onion and bell pepper in them cooking down. And then I'm doing shrimp in like a coconut cream sauce. Here's the coconut. And then this is just all of the salt, pepper and three garlics minced up. If you guys do not have a garlic press, 100% get one. Right there is how you say it in Portuguese. It might just translate to creamy coconut shrimp. But I'm excited to make it and show you how it turns out. So the vegetable mixture's in there along with coconut milk, chicken broth, some ground ginger, some paprika, and an extra little bit of salt and pepper. And now I'm going to blend it and let's see how it turns out. We're going to have to bring it to a boil. So I'm just adding it back to the skillet. And there's my cooked shrimp. Here I have dinner going for the boys. So I found these little mini hot dogs that I got and I heated three for each. And then some carrots, hummus, and then this is some pita that I warmed up with some butter spread on it. So hopefully they will eat all of it. That's always the goal. So small portions I found for Theo and Felix at least works best, less intimidating. I think that's like a general rule for toddlers, picky eaters, just like give them a little bit and then, you know, it allows them to decide without feeling overwhelmed by the food on their plate, which is very different from adulthood. I feel like if I don't have a lot of food on my plate, then I'm overwhelmed. So like that would be like, well, where's the rest? I would be like upset. I think one of the coolest things I find and enjoy about children in general is that they are so well regulated, like it comes so easy and natural for them. Like we're born with hormones that tell us when we're hungry and when we're full and when to stop and like we listen to them. And so I think it also depends on the food. So like Felix with candy could probably just go on and on, but Theo couldn't. Like he would eat half a popsicle or like take one bite of a cupcake and then he's good, which is very cool. And I tried to mirror that. I tried to like just note that, you know, they eat when they're hungry and they stop when they're full and we all start off like that and then somewhere along the line it gets a little messed up, but that's okay because we can always find our footing again. It'S4.45, Matt should be home any minute with the boys and then we'll eat and we'll chill out and probably go outside and check on the garden and just play with the cats. So we'll see you soon. I'll show you what Matt and I are having for dinner too. You're welcome, sweet boy. Oh my god, they're so cute. I love them. Oh, we should hang this one up. We should hang both up. So I looked up rice bran oil. It's the whole yummy yummy yummy. You have to acknowledge them. It's the whole grain of rice like the brown. So obviously here we like white rice like in America basically everyone likes white rice so they decided to like figure out a way to sell the brown. Oh, that's terrible. That's what they do. They come up with ways to like repackage the byproducts that people don't want and put it in stuff. We're watching Moana. Yeah, we watch a lot of Pixar and Disney movies. They're all like pretty decent. The one that I don't get that was such a big sensation is frozen. Yeah, it's really boring. I haven't seen Luca. She was Luca. It's really good. Here's my dinner. Got this bread here and this. Good spice, good flavor. Good. Nice and fresh. Nice fresh taste. Yeah, that's what I was surprised about. It looks like a curry, but it's not at all. Fresh. Yeah. And I'm also going to have a lot of this cream sauce. One second. But I'm putting it over a salad. I'm excited. So I just have a lot more volume and crunch. What? Daddy's wondering when's bedtime? Theo wouldn't like try climbing out of this crib and stuff, right? Yeah, we moved it down. Yeah, so Theo, hey, no. So, Fifi is way older than Theo was when Theo moved out of the crib. Fifi just doesn't acknowledge that like he can get out of the crib at all. He just sits there and wait. I feel like that's kind of a bad sign for like his... No, he has a big brother who comes and gets him. His drive is an individual. And I think these things you learn about them as little babies like perpetuates throughout their life. Doesn't like the marshmallows have... Which I heard recently was fake. Yeah. What do you mean? Why would it be fake? I think it never happened or like the results weren't what we were told or something about it is maybe fake. We should try it with our kids. No, we're not going to make fun. Right there. Here's the rule. These are marshmallows. Yummy, right? I'm going to put one marshmallow right here. Now, don't eat it. If you don't eat it and I come back in two minutes, you'll get two marshmallows. Okay? So, leave it right here. Don't touch. Do two marshmallows? Yeah. Okay. I'll be back in two minutes. You can get two more. No, don't eat it yet. Only because if you eat it yet, no two marshmallows. Big, or do you tap on it? No, don't eat it. No, no, no. Daddy, so, we're going to get it here. We're going to eat one more, so I put it away. Is it good? Okay, eat it. I'm going to eat it twice a day. You're going to get an extra treat too. Good job. Is it yummy? Yeah. See if he's getting ready to go to bed. He's had this band-aid on for two days now. Oh, that was a new one. Oh, he loves his band-aids. Time to go to bed for the night? We are ready. Wait, wait, wait. Be gentle. Bye. Bye-bye.