Hey guys. Hi. What's up? Got some big news for you. What is it? A lot of people have been asking for something like this and we've delivered like always. Don't get too cocky. On April 1st, we are launching our keto meal prep course. Yay. We put so much work into it. It's such a comprehensive like literally hundreds of thousands. Would you say thousands? I might even say thousands of hours of work. You know, it sure freaking feels like it. probably not a thousand, but a lot of work. I mean, we're also recording this video pre-April 1st, so we're like we're kind of in the midst of it, and it's just So, this this course is everything you need to be successful on keto. It's a foolproof plan, basically. Every meal planned for you, how to cook it, me it incorporates meal prep, so you cook your meals at the start of the week. We have all the plans laid out for you, calorie adjustments, shopping lists, everything. Print cooking instructions. Yeah. Um, so there's no guesswork. No. And to kick that off, we are having a challenge. Um, meal prep challenge. Very fitting. And you can win prizes. Yes. So, you definitely want to be We probably should have said that first. Yeah. To make Hopefully you're still here. Lead with the prizes. So, let's lead with the prizes. So, prize first place. What do you get? First prize, you get our course for free and two cases of real good pizza. You guys RGP. Okay, you're doing that now. I like that. You remember our You guys remember real good pizza? I'm pointing cuz I'm going to link it above probably. Okay. I was like, yeah. Um chicken crust. Those guys. Yeah, those guys. I guess we're the chicken crust guys now. We're all the chicken crust. We're all making it. So yeah, we've seen so many good chicken crusts you guys have made. Props to you guys. Some of you use like canned ham, canned tuna, like just like straight up cooked chicken. Yep. You guys are killing it. First prize gets our course and two cases of real good pizza. I think that's like 12 12 pizzas. Yeah. Second prize gets our course as well as a goodies like cookie or brownie mix. We're not sure which one, but I The brownies are my favorite brownies ever. The brownies are okay. The cookies though with the sunflower seed flour. Not a huge fan. Snicker doodle. That's what's up. Matt loves them. Yeah. So either way, you're getting it good. And then prize three. Third place gets our course, which is which is the real prize, guys. Real damn prize. The challenge is we have I'm going to link it below. I'll probably point it above also. Um a shredded chicken meal prep. It's kind of like what our course is going to be like. So, this gives you a little peek into like if you like this, get the course cuz it's this times a million. Yes. Um, we'll also link the blog post where you'll be signing up to get all the supplemental materials, the grocery list, cooking instructions, macro adjustments, and we have a day of eating as well as a how-to instructional video. Yes. So, there's no like no possible way but to succeed with this meal prep. So, what we want you to do is do the actual meal prep and then email us uh using the subject line meal prep giveaway. ketoconnect@gmail.com. We will put that right there. Um, and send us some pictures of you. So, we want to see you guys with the food cooking it so we know you actually did it. And then just write a little testimonial. So, an honest review of what you liked, what you didn't like. We want to hear it all. It's possible that we will use it on our site. We'll check with you first. Okay. We'll run it by you. Yes, we will. I wasn't planning to, but we will. Um Yeah. So, that's how you're entered to win. And it ends on the 27th. So, it starts on March 15th, Thursday, and ends Yes. on 27th, Monday. So, that gives you two weekends, two opportunities, two weekends to try doing the prep. Yeah. Unless you do it on the weekdays, because that's totally doable. This will take you less than 2 hours. Yeah. An hour and a half tops. So, why are we doing this meal prep challenge? To encourage you to realize the actual benefits of meal prepping. Exactly. Once you do it, you'll realize you're like, "Oh, this is what's possible." It's this easy. I just cook for 2 hours on the weekend and then I have keto meals for the rest of the week. Definitely give this a try, guys. I think you'll find it really helps you. And also, if you're kind of just like a little unsure about what to do exactly, we have the meal plan for you. So, just do this and you'll see like, oh, this is what a keto meal plan looks like. This is what keto eating for a week looks like. Yeah. And no matter your size or shape, the meal plan work will work for you given the adjustment. So, like it works for me as well as it works for Matthew and we he eats like three elephants eat and I eat like a little bird, baby elephants. Another thing about the course, guys, is it's only going to be open for two weeks and then we're closing it for six weeks. Um, that's to get some feedback and just kind of improve it, modify if we need to. As you're seeing this video, the course is available for pre-order starting right now. Yes. Why would like I pre-order? What's the benefit of that? The reason you would pre-order, um, the material is released April 1st. So, if you buy it now, you won't get the material till April 1st. Only a 100 spots are available right now. So, the sooner the better if you want to be locked in for sure. And if you're not in the first hundred, then you have to wait approximately two months to get it. So, that's the downside. But, we just want to make sure it's super solid. We already had one like test batch that went through it and got a lot of good feedback. We made some changes based on that. A lot of great changes in fact. So, you guys are getting already an an awesome version, possibly the best version. All you first subscriber uh Pre-orderers. Pre-orderers. Fourth prize, Miley. Just kidding. Yeah, giving her away. So, a link to the course page is in the description of this video. And if you're watching this video the day it came out, the challenge prep video is not out yet. That will come out tomorrow. But if you're watching this video any day other than the day it's released, the meal prep video is already out. And I will have that linked below also. Yes. In the blog post. Yes. Make sure you go to the blog post so you can get all the supplemental materials. We are so excited to see all the pictures. Yes, we're we really This was like one of the best ones, right? The preps we did. It was originally supposed to be in the course, but we decided it'd be really fun to give you guys a taste and a challenge. Um but the shredded chicken, guys, it's so good. So, make the shredded chicken. Even if you don't do the Make the Even if you don't do the prep, you can just like put some um boxes that look like meal prep containers in the background and fool us. Just show us the shredded chicken, but make the chicken. Yeah. Um that's a good tip. You shouldn't have said that. This meal prep is a lot like the keto on a budget $5 a day type of meal prep. So, if you like that, you'll like this. Also, you'll like this better. Yeah. This is just better. We're better at doing this now. It's very, very guided. So, we're giving you everything. Yeah. Way more guided. We will see you guys soon. Bye bye.