Yo, keto fam. What's up? What's up? So, this is not our first meal prep because we are not new to the rodeo, but it is our first meal prep video. What we're doing is just like a general meal prep. We're not prepping each meal individually. Like, this is exactly what we're going to eat. We're just preparing some items for the for the week. For the week. Yeah. Lazy meal prep is what I would call it. Lazy keto. So, we got a chicken we're going to roast in the oven. This is an uncooked chicken, not cooked. the the uncooked chicken is going to look beautiful and brown and crispy in the end. It's 5.2 lb. It'll take a couple hours. And I made chicken wings the other day and we got this new method we're doing which is where you coat it in baking powder and it makes the skin super crispy. Yeah, it dries out. It draws out the moisture. Then we got eggs. 12 extra large. A dozen. We are going to hard boil these. Yes. For the week. I usually take a couple to uh to work for lunch every day. Mhm. Usually two. And I've been um since I've started going to work, I've been eating one or two in the morning. They go quickly. We usually actually do like 18, right? Yeah, usually we do 18 on the weekend. We have a few in the fridge already, so this will just add to it to make it about 18. Let me grab something that I want to show. So, this is what I got. Um a lunch box, which I take to work every day. I'm not sure if you guys have seen this before, but it's you just throw this whole thing in the freezer and it freezes. It has like freezer packs in here. And uh I'll link it in the description of the video. It's really good. I think it was about 20 bucks. I take it every day and it stays cold throughout the day. So that's how I can bring like hardboiled eggs to work or chicken or stuff like that. And lastly we're going to make is an empty bread pan. Just kidding. We're going to make a loaf of keto bread. Matt made a recipe yesterday and it's the best bread recipe we've made. We used it for crackers on our cheese board. You can see that on our Instagram page. It's a beautiful cheese board. So, we're going to make it on the loaf, right? Yeah. I've been messing with this recipe for a while, and I think we finally have it down. So, we'll um put this on our blog, too. This is a really good bread recipe. It comes out like actual bread. You can slice it thin, you can slice it thick, you can toast it up, you can do whatever you want with it. So, it's like actual bread. So, we'll make that for the week. And also, I've been taking that to work with me. So, this is our big items in terms of our prep. We obviously eat a lot more vegetables. We eat a lot of salads, so we just have the greens in the fridge, make those on the spot. What we'll probably do is we'll cut up the chicken once it's done, and we'll put that on our salads at night. A lot of the time we do that. We will report back when we're done. We're back, guys. Meal prep. So, the chicken's done, the bread's done, and the eggs are done. That's our our lazy keto meal prep for this week. Let's give him a closeup on this bird. It's beautiful. Yeah. I think in total it was probably in the oven like somewhere between 100 to 115 minutes. This is a good recipe. Now I've duplicated it a few times. So I'm confident that we have it down. It's really dense. Yeah. Like this is a loaf of bread. You can cut it. You can make sandwiches with it. It's not going to like disintegrate in the pan. It's not holy at all. It's no solid bread and it crisps up great. We put our we we made pieces of toast out of it. Put it for cheese. I want to cut a slice. Show them. Show them what's up. I want to get into this chicken. Man, if you guys have had keto bread before, you're familiar with the um the types that you'll get. You'll either make a brick that's impenetrable with your teeth, or a cloud cloud bread, which just disintegrates and turns into like melts. Melts. Yeah, it's not good. So, this I'm going to go ahead and cut. Look at that. Perfect. This is bread. And it doesn't taste too eggy at all cuz a lot of them have a lot of egg in it. So, some can come out like that. Yeah. You can throw this in the toaster. I like to put it in the pan face down with some butter. Yeah. And that's that's great. I actually made breakfast sandwiches today with this bread. And we're talking about making uh like barbecue chicken sandwiches later on the week. That'll be good. Yeah. And then we got our hard boiled eggs. We bring these to work. Really easy. Yeah. That's that's a thing we do pretty much every Sunday. Yeah. So, those are all the things we prepared, but we also have just some stuff that's not prepared that we'll put together real quick during the week. Like, we'll do salads a lot. We have a couple bags in the fridge. Yeah. We just cut up some lettuce, throw some chicken on it, maybe an avocado. Definitely avocado sometimes. Yeah. Sometimes we'll even do hard-boiled eggs on it. Make a cob salad. Bacon bits. Yeah. And then broccoli. Broccoli's cheap. It's nutritious. Steams up really quick. Yeah. that pan fry anyway. And then we got this from the farmers market this weekend. We got to use this pretty soon. Yeah, we will. Um yeah, we'll probably use this tomorrow night or something. So yeah, we just cook up vegetables on the side, but it's nice to have something for sure that you can go to during the week. If you're sometimes we eat cat if if uh yeah, like if you have to stay late at work one day and you're like, "Ah, now I'm going to go home and snack all night." You can just, you know, you have this good stuff to make. Yeah, we don't always have eggplant. Eggplant's not a go-to, but whenever we hit the farmers market up, we just get a random vegetable that looks good or that we think of a recipe on the spot and then we just like to throw it in and like experiment a bunch. Yeah. So, that'll be good. Um, this bread I have to do the number crunches on the stat the the nutrients in this, but I think if you you can probably get 15 or so slices out of it, and I think each slice will be about 100 calories or so, maybe a little less. So, like a normal loaf of bread. Normal bread is usually a slice is 100 calories. Yeah. Yeah. There you have it. That's our meal prep. Check out our channel. I'll put the bread recipe on the blog this week probably. Let us know if you have questions. Comment on what you meal prep and what gets you through the week and then maybe you can try that out. Tell us your meal prep hacks. If you have any other quick hacks like we we have here. See you around the flip side. Catch you on the flip side. Keto kitty. Heat. Heat. Heat.