Heat. Hey, Heat. Sup y'all. Hi. We got something real just amazing. very experimental. Experimental Matt's just like sudden burst idea and he just screamed it out and I was like yes and then we made it happen. Yep. I was up late just thinking about this. I was like oh we have to do this overhead thing where we pour all the stuff kind of artsy and I'm not sure how it's going to go yet because I haven't edited it yet. So if it looks good then let us know. It turned out good. We're good at artsy stuff. So, we got like an overnight oats type of deal going on and we have seven different kinds. We we kind of just, you know, went for them and figured we'll try them on camera and then we can yay or nay them right for you guys. Yeah. This is how we come up with a lot of recipes. Test them all. Yeah. So, um we'll probably just give you guys all the recipes for these so even if we don't approve of them, you can kind of like modify them to your the major component of all of them is these hemp hearts. These are raw shelled hemp seed. You can get them on Amazon, which once we run out of this is what we're going to do. And I wasn't like a lot of people use them and like talk them up highly. And I wasn't so keen. I was like whatever. Like they look what like not so great. We have chia seeds. We have all that kind of stuff. But after making this, I realized like this is something I would probably want to eat often. Yeah. And hemp parts are great for that. It's good for those of you that are tired of eggs, which I don't know how that happens, but you can you can uh and macro cakes. You can use these for breakfasts instead of eggs. So, what's the nutrition on these guys? Pretty great. It's actually really great. So, we put two tablespoons in each of these, which is 120 calories, two fiber, two carbs. So, it's zero net carbs, but there's probably a little bit of carbs in there. 9 g of fat, 7 g of protein. So, that's a nice breakfast, too. Even if you pair that with your bulletproof coffee. Yeah. You're just killing it. Okay. And it's so nice. Grab portable. Yeah. Especially if you buy these little jars that Matt invested in. We have double chocolate. So that's cocoa powder and Lily's chocolate chips. We didn't mix this one that well. Also, um, so this one's really hard. They're varying hardnesses based on like what we used what we used. So if you use coconut milk, that firms up pretty good in the fridge. Like some of these are same with the heavy whipping cream. Heavy whipping cream, too. Chia seeds also like makes it more of a pudding type consistency. Some of them we did almond milk, no chia seeds, so this one's very loose. We're just kind of trying to play with the consistencies. So, the hard ones, as you'll see us do, you can add a splash of almond milk or if you like it hard, I mean, I think I just like I could dig into this hard longer to eat. Yeah, I like I like the hard ones, but you can also the next day add liquid, which is what we are thinking is that's what most people do. The next day, they add additional liquid to it. Right. So, we got the double chocolate. We have maple walnut. So, there's some walnuts floating in there. A little unsweetened maple syrup. Pumpkin pie. pumpkin pie which has some pumpkin puree and pumpkin pie spice. So double the pumpkin peanut butter peanut butter classic. This was my creation. Mega was against it. It is turmeric vanilla coconut milk. Coconut milk. So tumeric coconut. But I think those two go together well. So we'll see. Yep. And then we have almond joy. Now this is just classic. This one I think is going to be the best. Coconut almond Lily's chocolate chip shredded coconut. So you still you get a lot of like texture. I'm excited for that. and coconut milk. And then I'm wearing my plaid shirt cuz we got some bros. Now explain bros, Matthew. This is also my creation. It's Matt's just baby right now. He's championing. This is one of those things. It was like a light bulb moment. I was like mega bros. That's our next thing. Bro oatmeal. So you have protein powder in here. That That's what makes it the bro. Yeah. Part of it. And no offense to any bros out there. I'm part bro. Not really. We used our isopure cookies and cream protein powder. So, no additional sweetener added here because the protein powder is pretty sweet. But the rest of them, we did add a drop or two of stevia just to test out how much a drop would be, how much two drops would be, and then we'll be able to tell you what's the best. Let's start. Which one are we starting with? Well, you're holding the turmeric. Well, this is more of a weird one. We should do this in the middle once we have a baseline established. Double chocolate. Okay. This is a hard one. Oh, it's not that hard. Ooh, it's nice and mousse like. Ooh, I liking that. And it looks exactly like Oh. oatmeal. It's like the the texture of it, right? Mhm. Okay. Intense dark chocolate. Not a lot of sweetness. So, you can up it. Or if you like dark chocolate, this is good. That one needs a little more sweetness for sure. Yeah. Maple walnut. I think we should give this a little stir. Stir it up. This is Mega's favorite flavor combo. Well, I love unsweetened maple syrup. You guys know that, though. Sugar-free. Sugar-free. Sorry. And cinnamon. That's good. That one's a winner. I'm eating that for like dessert. Yep. This one does not have chia seeds in it, so it is a little bit looser. You can throw some chia seeds in here. That'll be good. Yeah. Great. Pumpkin pie. Pumpkin pie. You want to stir that? Yeah. We got puree and pumpkin pie spice. Smells like pumpkin pie spice. Oh, I'm into that. It's very um It takes me It's just like a very fall day. In my mouth. Like you're hanging out with your girlfriends having some Starbucks lattes. Someone brings up and the bros come over. Someone brings up some comment and you're like, "That's so awkward." No. Who does he know? Isn't that what girls say? It could be really awkward. So, yeah. This is so awkward. So awkward. Okay. Peanut butter. Peanut butter. Can't really go wrong with peanut butter. So, before we put these in the fridge, we gave them just a shake. Probably you should mix them. Yeah. But if you don't, the next day, you could still mix them. These ones, this one has chia seeds, it looks like. Oh, baby. Coming to mama all day. We in business. That's a good one. That's a winner. That one might be the best one yet. And we only used one tablespoon of peanut butter and it's just so strong. Comes through. Love that. Winner. Chia seeds. I'm liking like the result when you put the chia seeds in. The consistency I don't love. We We've had chia seed pudding, which I don't like, but I think the um the flavors we're doing mixed with the chia seeds makes me like it. Tumeric. Tumeric. Mega does not like turmeric that much. Well, it's highly used in it's used in every single Indian recipe. So, I love it. But I'm not flavor turmeric on its own. It's very intense. It goes so well with vanilla. There's vanilla extract in here, too. Um, no, I'm not a fan. Okay, maybe pass on the turmeric. Unless you're a turmeric fan, I think you will like this. Unless you have it, also. A lot of people might not have it. We just have a big thing of it because my mom gave it to us. People like tumeric. They It's like has health benefits. But would we have it if my mom didn't give it to us? I think we would. We would. Should we save Bro for last? Sure. Okay. Almond Joy. I mean, you're not going wrong here. No. And it's a nice chunky. I like this. The chunkiness of it. You can see the chips. You can see the almonds. We roughly cut the almonds. So, it's like big. Make sure you get chips. Smells good. It tastes like a freaking Almond Joy. It does. Yeah. Wow. That's probably the best thus far. Yeah. Yeah. We don't know. Bro is still coming up. I'm going to have a little more. You can taste the shredded coconut. Like you can feel the It's so good. This is my favorite. I think the peanut butter and Almond Joy right now. Could you mixing them? Oh, I wouldn't mix them. I'd put them in the same bowl. Just put my face in it. Okay. Bro, we used heavy whipping cream so it's thick but it's still moving. That's what a bro would do. He's trying to get his protein and his fat and he's trying to bulk. He's getting calories in. A keto bros. phenomenal. So, this is probably my favorite, but I love the cookies and cream isopir. So, whatever protein powder you use, it's really going to pick up that flavor. So, if you use one you like, you're going to love this recipe. And um it has protein in it and fat. It's like this is a great breakfast. I'll link the isopure below. This is our f this we have this on Amazon. Subscribe and save like every two months we get a three three lb jar of this. Like it's our favorite by a mile. It's zero carbs, 1 gram of fat, 25 grams of protein per serving, I think. Mhm. And it's it's pricey, which is a thing, but we get a three lb tub, and it lasts us two months at least. So, yeah, definitely look into that. These are great, though. Yeah. I mean, the basic premise of it is hemp seeds, chia seeds probably recommended, and then some liquid, and then, you know, just go wild from there, basically. Whatever flavors you want, guys. We're going to have a blog post with all of these listed in it and our winners and losers will our winners will probably have recipes made of them individually. Absolutely. We'll just put all these out there just so you guys can like take off from there. Yeah. A great breakfast option for you and fun to make, right? Be creative. What's funner than putting something in the fridge and knowing that like the next day it'll be it's waiting for you. Nothing, guys. So, that's a wrap on this. We're going to probably keep eating these and we'll see you guys soon. See you. Bye.