Hey guys, welcome to Keto Connect and today we have a very exciting video for you. We're doing a taste test of the three products right here. Do you want to list them? Yeah. We got Moon Cheese. Then we got these um Oh snap pickles. They're hot and spicy. We got these at Target. I am not a fan of pickles, so I'm not looking forward to this taste. I am a pickle connoisseur, so I'll let you know what's up. We got this. Yeah. Tell them. Preach. It's Halo Top. And I'm sure you guys have heard if you're doing keto, you're eating Halo Top. That's just a fact. That's a fact. We got it at Whole Foods. They normally have all of the flavors in stock. Yeah. This, if you go on their website, they list where what stores carry Halo Top and it's not it's not every store. We live in Philadelphia and there's two or three stores that carry it in the So, it's starting to spread. It seems like it seems like it's catching on and more stores are starting to carry it. If you live in a pretty big metro area, you should be able to find it within like 20 minutes. There's about seven flavors, I think. Seven flavors. Yeah. And we're doing today we're doing birthday cake. Birthday cake. I don't love birthday cake. I do like it a lot. I think it's it's Well, I've had it in the past. Normal ice cream. And it's super sweet. So like one or two bites I'm good. Like get me just Where have you had it at before? The only place I've had it at is Cold Stone Crearyy. I feel like that would be very sweet. Maybe like BaskinRobins or just a like a a big pint in like a friend's okay freezer. Maybe we should start with pickles actually. You want to go pickles first? This is a weird group, isn't it? Tastewise. I'm just going. You need a palette cleanser. We do. I have water. We'll start with these pickles. Fresh pack. Super crunchy. No brine added. There's And honestly, the serving size, how much was this? Do you remember? Uh like four bucks. This was four bucks. Oh man. But we had to get it. The serving size on this is pretty pretty small. There's There's maybe 10 little slices like this in there. Also, heads up, it's not realable. So, if you're like me, that annoys you. Let's do it. Oh, no. You going for a small one? Are you just going for the whole thing? Mm-m. They're spicy. Yeah, they're real spicy. They're right up the heat. These are pretty good. They're really spicy. I can see these going good on a sandwich or something. Definitely like a hamburger. Yeah, I like the crunch. The pickles I've had have been on like hamburgers. Um, and they're like thin and not crunchy. Just purely on taste, I would give these like a an 8 out of 10 as far as pickles go. But knowing that this is four bucks, I'm never buying it again. No chance. I mean, I don't love pickles, but given my pickle experience, it's like an eight and a half. Yeah, it's pretty good. I would I would eat more than one. So, if Yeah, if you're willing to spend four bucks and you're near Target, we recommend them. I There's also another flavor. Um I didn't I don't remember what the flavor is, but there's two flavors of these types. So, if you're not into spicy foods, the other one I think was just more of a a flavorless normal normal pickle. Yeah, normal pickle. Not flavorless. Sorry, guys. Next. Moon cheese. Gouda. I got Gouda because it's Mega's favorite cheese and I'm a great boyfriend. It is. So, but there are other cheeses. He told me after cheddar pro. No, cheddar. Pepper jack for sure. I think maybe provolone. I'm not sure though. Yeah, pepper jack. I'm That'll be our next buy when we're willing to splurge 3.99 on a little bag of cheeses. These are 70 calories per serving. Um there's about five servings in this bag. Six to seven pieces is 70 calories. So, it's about 10 calories per piece, zero carb. The only ingredient on the ingredients label is guda cheese. So, that's great. I just wanted like what are they doing? They just take Gouda cheese and what do they do to it to get it to get it like this? I have no idea cuz this is like I would describe it as an asteroid like consistency. That's a great descriptive word. Yeah, cuz it's it's heavier than you think it is. Yeah. It's not like a Cheeto. Cheers. Cheers. You can't smile. You got to have your face poker face. So, what I don't like is that it's 10 calories per little cheese ball. That's That's not bad. I don't know cuz I would eat the whole bag. I'd give it given the price. Yeah. Did we say the price? This is $3.99. Yeah. I'd give it like a 6 and 1/2. 6 and 1/2? Yeah. Cuz I would just love to go out and get normal GA cheese. Like a nice brick. See, I think I like this more than just normal cheese for a snack. Yeah, I would give this really high. Like a nine out of 10. It's It's a really good keto snack. I would recommend it. I'd recommend it. Definitely. Yeah. Great crunch, great texture. It really coats your mouth in like not a bad way, but it really you The guda hits you really hard and I love that. Yeah. Really packs a lot of flavor. Yeah. I was I'm I'm really impressed by these. Yeah, I like them all. I'm excited to try the pepper. I'm excited to try them all. We're going to try them all probably. Yeah, that'll be our next taste test. I mean, we're still working our way through the Halo Tops tonight. Transition tonight. So, on to Halo Top birthday cake. I'm super excited for this one. Also, opening a new container of Halo Top is also just exciting in itself, right? And this is has been sitting out for about 5 to 10 minutes now. So, we're in prime consumption state, right? Yeah. I've learned you want to let it sit for Wait, where? What? Oh, it's They give you so little. Well, it's angled to the side a little. They don't give you too little. They didn't even fill it to the top. They didn't fill it to the top. Those bastards. They filled it that high, which, you know, I'm not I'm not mad. I'm a little upset. I mean, they're $6.99, mind you. Yeah. Yeah. This is No, it's $5.99, I think, at Whole Foods. The one I went to was $6.99. So, I went to Kroger when I went back home to Michigan and it was $4.69. This is the crazy part about these, though. This is This pint of ice cream is 280 calories. Now, if you guys are familiar with Ben and Jerry's, a serving is like 240 calories or something. And there's four servings in a container. So, this is sorcery. That's That's smaller than like a dinner. 280 calories. That's nothing. That's a snack. That's less than all these cheeses. Four servings in here, which is standard for a pint of ice cream. They usually split it into four servings. 70 calories per serving, which is really low. It's 5 g of sugar per serving. five gram of sugar alcohols, which is the arythritol, and three grams of dietary fiber. So, you're looking at four. Oh, no, no, no. You're looking at four. Did they do the math right on this? Cuz it's five sugar alcohols, three fiber. That's eight. Yeah, but then there's five sugar. So, how do they get 12 carbs? They did the math wrong on this. It should be 13. I mean, that makes sense. The number is 5 + 5 plus three. Plus three is 13. So, Halo Top. I think there's five carbs per serving, but on the back here, it's telling you four. Let's get down to business. Birthday cake. Birthday cake. Obviously, macros for the biggest. So, talk to him. It tastes exactly like a birthday cake. You think it's like a mix? Okay. So, it's a mix in my mind in my taste buds. A mix of funfetti and the icing. Okay. Like the crappy icing, the white icing, but like the bad. Not like that. You buy in the cup. I like this one a lot. I'm going to give it a eight and a half out of 10. There's a lot of good desserts out there that are keto though. There is like the ones you make. Yeah, like the peanut butter chocolate protein bar. Protein bar she made. I've also made butter pecan ice cream, which that was really good. It was amazing. I give this like a four. Four. Mhm. I mean, I also personally don't like butter I mean birthday cake. And Hilltop has a lot of other good flavors we're going to taste test in the future. You're going for keto snacks. I mean, the tough thing is that they're going to burn a hole through your pocket, right? Yeah. You're paying for convenience. Yeah. So, four bucks. Four bucks. Seven bucks. I mean, I would say on average you can get this for like five to six bucks, depending on where you are. Um, but you're better off just taking a little bit of time. I guess how much you value your time comes into question, but you're better off just making snacks. Yeah. Oh, yeah. And I do a ton of um deli meat cheese roll-ups. That's a great snack. I see a lot of people doing that. Um, I've been making curried egg salad, which is really great. You didn't tell me that. When have you been doing this? I just do I do it all the time. I You never showed me that before. I wouldn't buy one like that. You don't like mayonnaise. That's true. These are more I mean, if you're on the go or you see something you want to try, I I'd recommend all of them. I can't recommend the pickles for bucks. But yeah, that's kind of where I'm at with the keto snacks is like if I see something that's new, like I'm probably going to p buy it at least one time, try it and hotop probably buy a lot of times. Yeah. I mean, it's tough to get a really delicious dessert. Yeah. There's nothing there's nothing else like this really. Yeah. Except the butter pecan ice cream I made. Yeah. Oh, you we should do a recipe for that soon. Yeah, we will. We're definitely gonna find a lot more snacks. We're gonna do more hilltop flavors. Yeah, we're always on the lookout for snacks. Yeah. And sometimes convenience is like the best thing. And and you know, price is always a deterrent, but sometimes you're on the go. People just starting and stuff will be in snack mode still. You know, they're cuz most Americans are snacking all day. Yeah. And it's nice to have stuff like this to turn to in your time of need when you want a snack or these are like great to have in your office desk drawer. Right. Exactly. Subscribe to our channel for more videos like this. Our website, we got a lot of recipes going. Yeah, we do. We've been killing it with the recipes lately. If you do try any of our recipes, please, please, please let us know. You know, email us, tag us in anything you do. We'd love to hear and see the variations you do on them. Thanks for watching, guys. Thanks for tuning in.