Hey guys, today we're going to make some keto beef jerky. And if you've ever been to the grocery store trying to find beef jerky without sugar added to it, you'll know the struggle. It's real. And it's pretty much impossible to find good beef jerky at the stores. All of them are like six plus grams of sugar per serving. We're going to make some awesome beef jerky that's kind of sweet, kind of spicy, mostly perfect with just a few ingredients. really simple to make and it's surprisingly easy to make in your oven, which is how we're going to do it. We don't have a smoker. Let's start by making the marinade. This is key. Now, you want to go like 4hour minimum in my opinion on the marinade up to like 24 hours. The key ingredient for this is Zvia Cola. Zia is sponsoring this video. And the good thing about these Zvia Colas is they're sweetened with stevia. That's the only sweetener in them. No aspartame, none of that stuff. And also no color. So, this is clear. This is what's going to add all of the sweetness to this marinade. If you want it sweeter, you can add some additional stevia. I found that this is about the sweetness level I like. So, one can of stevia. We're going to be using cola, but I would like to experiment with some of the other flavors, particularly cream soda, I've been thinking, would maybe be really good, like a cream soda and bourbon one. And um Dr. Pepper, I think they call it Dr. Zvia, though. One full can. And this recipe is for about three pounds of meat. And keep in mind, three pounds of raw meat will yield you about one pound of finished beef jerky. It loses a lot of its weight. Then we are going to add these liquid aminos. You can get coconut aminos, tamari, soy sauce, any of those. They're all pretty much similar tasting. We're going to go with a half cup. Now, this stuff's really salty, so you don't need to add any additional salt unless you really trying to go hard with the salt. Some rice wine vinegar. If you don't have rice wine vinegar, I feel like apple cider vinegar might be pretty good in this. It might add a little subtle sweetness to it, too. About a/4 cup of rice wine vinegar. I like to do 1 tbsp of liquid smoke per pound of meat. So, we're going to do 3 tablespoons. And this stuff is really strong. So, if you're not big on smoky flavor, definitely cut this down. I like mine to be pretty smoky. Also, I would even say this is optional, but since we're not smoking it, you really want a little bit of smoky flavor in your beef jerky. In my opinion, I would try adding some of this. And you can find this at almost every grocery store these days. It This is about $2 uh in the spice section. Time for the seasonings. You can really get wild with these. Go with whatever you want. One teaspoon of garlic powder. Onion powder is close to mandatory. I would say that's the one you really want to go with. I'm going to put a teaspoon of onion powder. Paprika, a little under a teaspoon. Ginger, we're going to go with half a teaspoon. This adds like a little Asian flavor to it. With the zviac cola, it comes out to be kind of like teriyaki sweetness level. So, I like having a little ginger in the marinade. And then for the spice, we're going to go with half a teaspoon of black pepper and a full teaspoon of crushed red pepper. And the crushed red pepper really gives it a nice heat and also some good flavor. And that's everything. You don't have to add any additional salt. Then I'm just going to like give this a quick quick mix. incorporate it. So, now it's time to cut up your meat into beef jerky size strips and marinate it. So, the type of meat you want to pick, in my opinion, should be something like pretty cheap cuz this doesn't really lend itself to like enjoying the taste of a good quality meat. Another thing you want to look for is low fat content. You're probably thinking keto, high fat, but fat does not taste good or it's just like really chewy when it goes through the process of making beef jerky. So, you want to get as low fat as possible. And what we're using here is top round. That's probably my favorite choice when it comes to beef jerky. You can get it a lot of times you'll see it thinly sliced at the grocery store already pretty close to being ready for beef jerky. You just have to cut it in strips. Or you can get like a whole roast, which is also a good option. You just have to cut it. When I'm making the beef jerky, I'm thinking like, what size strips do I want to be able to grab out and eat? And I like to keep them kind of smaller. So, we're going to cut this into strips. Now, just throw these in the marinade. And I would recommend you put the marinade bag in a bowl so just in case it leaks out of the bag, it won't go crazy in the fridge and contaminate everything. Give them a quick massage. Make sure the marinade gets everywhere. It's so easy to make beef jerky at home. It's surprising, guys. You're never going to be looking for the storebought stuff again. Then I like to try getting as much air out of the bag as possible so that the marinade covers all of the meat. So then you don't have to just be flipping it a bunch of times in the fridge. There it is. Place this puppy in the fridge for 4 to 24 hours. And it just so turns out that we have this bag has been marinating for I want to say like 30 hours now. No, it's probably like 24 hours. And we are going to cook this up right now. Here's what you're going to want to do, guys. Come on over to the oven. Just place some pans on the bottom for to catch the drippings just in case. There's usually not much drippings, but just in case. Now, you're going to need a bunch of paper towels and some skewers, bamboo skewers. If you want to do a smaller batch, you can also bake these on a baking rack. That works really well, too. But when you do a big batch like this, you can just get more volume in the oven if you're using skewers. We got to dry these off prior to skewering. So, I'm going to show you how to do one real quick and we'll put that in the oven and then I'll just do the rest. I like to lay the beef jerky out on a paper towel cutting board. This marinade is really good. Experiment with the marinade though. Change it up to suit your flavors that you like. Then just press out as much of the marinade as possible. You're probably thinking, "Wait, I want to leave all the marinade in there to get that flavor in there." But if you leave too much marinade in there, it just will never really dry out. It takes so long to get it to dry out. That's why I recommend marinating in overnight because that flavor that gets in there past 4 hours, like when you're going for 24 hours, you're really penetrating deeply the flavor. So, we are going to skewer these. It's pretty simple. All right, starting to bend. This is what it looks like when I'm doing squats with the squat bar. So, now we just come on in here. The oven's set to 170°. Set it as low as your oven will go. 150 is probably preferable. The lowest ours goes is 170. So, we're gonna place this one on. Okay, so there's one. I'm going to do the rest and then I'll come back and just tell you about the overall cooking time and everything. And these are complete. You kind of just want to feel them. They should feel pretty firm, like there's not much moisture left in them. Oh, they smell phenomenal. And you can just pull them off. And they're not actually that hot. It's cuz it's such a low oven temperature. They took 4 and 1/2 hours in the oven at 170°. Oh man, look at these. Get a closeup. Look how nice those look. It's so easy to make beef jerky at home. There's no reason not to do it. You don't have to sift through the 15 varieties at the store and find the one that doesn't have like 13 grams of sugar in it. These are super low carb. And this tastes better than any beef jerky you're going to find at the store, too. Guaranteed. I'm going to get the rest out real quick. There's nothing like pulling beef jerky out of the oven. And if you guys are wondering why it looks like it's been like 2 days since I filmed the start of the video, it's because I didn't have the oven on for like the first 2 hours. So, it actually has been like 7 hours since we've started this video, but that's cooking. The thinner you cut them, obviously, the less time it'll take in the oven to dry them out. So, this is on the thick side. I'd say like these ones right here, that's about as thick as I would ever go. We just got um like see like this one right here is really thin. That's kind of like my preference. The meat that we got today was just cut a little bit thicker, so I just went with it. The thicker the meat, generally, the longer you want to marinate it, too. Amazing. So, that's the stack right there. This was three lbs of meat. This is what you're left with. Look at all that. This should last you up to a month in the fridge. You can also freeze it. I don't know. I I wouldn't freeze it, but you probably can. I'm gonna try a piece now and see how it tastes. On the money. Right on the money. Not very spicy. If you like your beef jerky to be spicier, definitely add more spice. Good amount of sweetness, though. The zvia really sweetens it nicely. And then you definitely get the saltiness from the soy sauce. and you pick up a little bit of the vinegar. But if you like spices, I would add double, maybe even triple the amount of red pepper flakes and a little bit extra black pepper. But that's how easy it is, guys. Play around with the seasonings. You can get super creative. Even try different flavored zas, I would say. Like cream soda is one I really want to try. I mean, this is great for road trips. Everyone's always asking, "What can I take on the road trip?" Homemade beef jerky. Try it, guys. Heat. Heat. N.