Matt just took a nap. We just hit the jar gym super hard. You just hit the jar super hard. Peanut butter. The jar. No, I didn't. But I feel like it's coming through in the video. Like ah. Sorry, guys. But we're pumped. We're here. We're going. So pumped cuz it's # ketocookoff round two. We're going through the entries, which I love critiquing photos. We were a little harsh on people last time. Going to try being a little more harsh this time. Exactly. Also, the entries this time are substantially better. And what do they win? Oh, a spiralizer. I was pointing so you could grab it. Just took a nap but can't do any work. A spiralizer from Pampered Chef. From Pampered Chef. Janet provided this. We'll link her link below to Pampered Chef. And I checked out their site. They do have cool things. They have one thing that really interests me, which was a, you know, how we always make mug cakes. Yeah. They have like a special mug that has a top on it for making mug cakes. So, like keeps more moisture in and just cooks more evenly in the microwave. M seemed cool. It was like 12 bucks. I think we probably need that. He's got some shredded coconut on his face. Oh yeah, we're not making a recipe for this one. I just We've been pumping out video a day, May. And it's just hard. I couldn't think of anything good. We could have come up with something. We could have. I mean, you I came up with the last one. You I thought you maybe would do something for this. Should I make something? Oh, should we start? Judging phase two. Oh, man. We have some good entries. So, we are going to judge everyone's first and pick the final five. Same format as last time. We'll link last time's video above. It's so good, right? It is very good. It's very like like did you know that avocado egg sushi rolls with a raspberry cinnamon sauce? Get out of here with that. And guys, this picture is incredible. This guy is already in the finals. More than mistakes. I might be the worst photographer, but it was pretty good. So, it's a cinnamon mocha custard. You're not the worst photographer. I like that it's really good lighting and it's clean. Everything's white. I like One tip for food photography though is you really don't want to have the look where it kind of seems like the plates's like tipping and like weird. You want to have it like either overhead 45° angle or like a side avocado cream squares. I don't think I'd want to eat it, but it looks cool. I would want to eat it. You just should have garnished it and like done a little more with it. I think it's just too green. I think uh also a white plate maybe. And it's impressively done. I would like to actually try this though. Now, this segment is the Steven versus Jennifer segment. Last time, you know, Steven got the W. Um, French omelette with mole and avocado crema and a bulletproof coffee with cinnamon. So, just right off the bat, I don't like that you did that, Stephen. You split it up. You kind of took the easy way out. Unless there's cinnamon somewhere in your omelette, but the French uh French omelet looks really well done. But he does get extra points because his BPC has cinnamon, an egg, and avocado oil. So that's, you know, it's kind of inventive. Your bulletproof coffee has egg in it. Yeah, I've heard people do that. I need to try that. Okay. Jennifer just dirtnapped Steven, right? Uh, sweet cinnamon crepes with avocado chocolate mousse. That sounds incredibly Jennifer killed Steven this week. Uh, that evens the season series at 1-1. Great job, Jennifer. Very good job. Keto meets menopause. Openfaced fried cheese on bacon, egg, and avocado sandwich. Where is the cinnamon in this? Cinnamon bacon. That sounds delicious. It does sound It's a pretty good idea. And I feel like this one would taste really good. I want to try cinnamon bacon now. It's just not super creative. And don't put words over the picture. Oh, I like the little onion garnish on top. My Skinny Plate made avocado cinnamon muffins. Ooh, they look super moist. Those look great. It looks like they didn't like fully cook up into a muffiny thing, though. It's kind of doughy. It looks like they look like they're I like stuff like that. I like it, too. I mean, it would taste good, but it doesn't look like it fully cooked into a muffin. Yeah. And for muffin shots, a good idea is to like break one open. Side angle. This one's actually a pretty good picture, but like out of the wrapping. Yeah, I agree. And like a bite out of it. I like to be holding the phone. Yeah, I just Well, I just had to look close. Hey, now defending a previous top five. And she brought it again. Hey, now KC is doing some things. Collie rice pillow stack topped with sand. Pilow is how we say it in India. White people say pilaf. See, whenever she mispronounces words, she can just go to that. That's how they No, but it's not pilaf. It's rice pilaf. Topped with a salmon schwarma. Damn. Whoa, that's impressive. You can go chicken. You can go beef. You want salmon. Marinated avocado and topped with an additional fried egg for good measure. And she nailed the egg. I'm just so intrigued by the entire thing. I want to dig right in. I want the yolk to spill everywhere. I want to eat that rice. That rice looks spiced up. Hido is another um Was she top five last time? No, but she was close. Close. Yeah. Avocado fla. We just made fla. It looks good. Yeah, it does. Solid entry. Good picture. And that's a really good swivel on top. It's clean. Yeah. Keto Christie. Maple cinnamon avocado bread. So, not a good filter. Keto Christie. Nope. It makes everything look super dull. I can't even see like the bread what it actually looks like. It's probably good, right? I would think it looks Yeah, it looks like it tastes good. Maple cinnamon. It's derty. It'd probably be really good with some butter. Creative. Keto memo is another picture, but it's so hard to see. Cinnamon, bacon, black avocado and egg salad. Your other picture was definitely better. So, we're going to judge that one, not this one. We'll judge them both. Curry noodles with the homemade avocado cilantro cream sauce topped with a piece of pork rind crusted pan fried chicken. Yum. That I want to eat all day. Is a good entry. Cinnamon curry egg noodles with homemade avocado. That's a great How did you make those egg noodles? Yeah, those look great. I feel like overhead or like a 45° would be better for this, though. But nice clean plate. Nicole's in the running. That looks good. Cinnamon avocado fries. Okay. Ooh, yeah. Those sound like they would actually taste pretty good, too. They look good. They look very like fried and doughy. Yum. I like the grass in the foreground. Actually, I don't know if I like the grass in the foreground. That's hilarious. I didn't even notice it. I was like trying to peek through the grass. Then I noticed it's probably more of an artsy shot. Not bad. Creative entry. Keto custard bubble tea. Wa. Cinnamon avocado matcha milk. That sounds good. Yeah. What are those cubes? Yeah. What are those? Cinnamon egg custard. I think maybe this is legit. The recipe looks good. How do you feel about the picture? It's not bad. Should have picked a different color straw. I agree. It clashes with the green. Cinnamon, avocado, and eggs to make a mole sauce breakfast scramble. So, right off the bat, your plate is not a good choice. Too much going on. I can't really see what's going on there. It looks appetizing, though. Yeah, it looks good. Oh, zucchini. Ooh, actually, I would definitely eat this. Yeah, that would taste great. That looks delicious. Deled eggs with avocado, cilantro, lemon, cinnamon curry. M. Cinnamon curry. The filter is really bad. And the egg, the color of the egg, doubled egg yolk just isn't super appetizing. I feel like I think I would have just gone a little less cinnamon so it would be less brown. Probably tastes good though. Holista, we'll um all the people that entered that have YouTube channels also, we'll link below. Holista, Keto Meets Menopause, My Skinny Plate. I think those are the three this time. I watched her video, too. Holista has great cooking videos. I think she does a lot of vegetarian keto stuff. So, she says, um, don't include her in the ability to win the prize. She's just hanging out and promoting keto, which is super cool because she still used our ingredients. So selfless. So, the crust is avocado chocolate. It's a cheesecake. And I think the cinnamon's in the topping. Looks good. I love that you wrote your name out and underlined it three times. Country girl gone keto. Chocolate cinnamon avocado brownies with the cinnamon whipped cream topping. This is like Matt's Yes. I love that. This topping. I was thinking avocado dessert. That was my whole when I put this the three when we put the three together, the three ingredients. That was like my first thought. Some kind of cool dessert with avocado. So, the plate looks like it's from my grandma's like 1950s China. It does. Do you guys hear the ice cream man? The photo leaves something to be desired. Just kind of dark and the plate's not good. Oh boy. Liz Jarvis photos. Um, mini avocado cheesecake with a cinnamon walnut crust and mering cookie cuz that is a picture and a half. Really? I'm not a fan of this. It's a Are you kidding? Way too much going on. This is an incredible photo. That's something Matt would do and then I'd be like dust half of the stuff off and it'd be on point. Like there's way too many crumbs everywhere. I think this is a great picture. Yeah. So, I'm the stylist of our photos for the most part. Most part. I think that's a good picture. I think that's in the running. So, Mexican. Holy moly. It's keto cake. That's cute. Um, looks delicious. Photo is not great. That looks like a burger on top. Crazy keto balls. Coconut, almond flour, blend, ariththrtol, coconut, cocoa powder, cinnamon, so on, so on. Um, winged it and they turned out fantastic. They look fantastic. They look incredible. Oh my god. There's nothing I like more than a nice oversized ball. Good job, Tyler. This actually looked really good. This was one of our first entries. Why are you Is your music this loud? Raindrop drop shot. I mean, at least play something like cutting edge. This is the D song. Isn't it do it? No, it's not. Try it. This isn't it. But you got to do the double. Am I right or am I right? You're right. Okay, so this looks amazing though. Curried eggs with miracle noodles and veggies. Looks good. Avocado pancakes. Never put in a picture that's already like 3/4 eaten. Triple chocolate parfait. Wo. Quest bar crumble at the bottom. Chocolate avocado mousse folded with egg whites and cinnamon glazed peacons on top. Okay. And three different glasses. Yeah, you're in the finals for sure. I want to eat. No. No questions asked. Oh man. And there's a video so he didn't describe it, but it looks like cinnamon sticks. It looks like a cinnamon brownie. Avocado. Oh, Ana's Ania's Kitchen. Anya's kitchen. Okay. Well, if she has a YouTube channel, which maybe she does, I will link it below. I haven't heard of it before, but she might have one. Stop petting me. Keto donut with um dough in a waffle. It's a waffle. Oh, it's like a keto donut waffle. I like the way you did the bottom. I really like this picture actually. I didn't real I thought that was just a plate, but yeah, that's cool. Avocado mug cake. Whipped cream just looks a little weak for me. Looks sloppy. Looks a little sloppy. The mug cake looks like it might be good. Overall presentation could be better. I would say like maybe like turn it over, scoop it out, maybe take a cut. Yeah. Keto meets menopause is another entry. Synocado ice cream Sammy dusted in cocoa and pancakes with cinnamon sprinkles. I like that you use the term sinicado. I like that you use the word Sammy. Yeah, you're using good words. If this was a cool word contest, you might menopause wins. But since it's a keto cookoff, probably not going to want pictures. You are Jack J. We love you. She's dope, too. Keto crepes. Oh, we might have a late contender. Stuffed with a chocolate avocado mousse. Good take. I like that. I like the wooden. Yeah, it looks clean. That's a contender. We're back with the results. And first off, there we got the top five pick. There's two honorable mentions. Tyler Christa. Tyler Christa. Honorable mention number one. And a case of the runs blog. So, do you want to name our top five? The five finalists. You name them. HD Macaroni. Sure. from hanging out Casey, Nicole Nudo, and Liz Jarvis. Photos. This final five, really stepped it up. Miles better than last week. It was a really tough even just picking the top five, let alone scoring you guys. Yeah. Out of 30, we each rated you on three categories: creativity, photo, presentation. Out of five, HD Macaroni 25, Shirram 26. Oh, hey now. KC return to the finals for her and she's clocking in at a 26.5. Well done Nicole Nudo. 23.5. Valiant effort from Nicole and Liz Jarvis. Also a 23.5. So the winner is hang out Casey. Great job. Entered both contests. Made it to the finals both times. Two great photos. Two great recipes. She's taking home the spiralizer. She's just going to be spiralizing everything. So now you just have to come over and make that dish for me cuz it looked incredible. She's making great dishes without a spiralizer. Think about what she's going to be making with a spiralizer. That's very true. So once again, we'll link Janet's link below. If you want to get anything at Pampered Chef, click on it. Open up your mind to the world of possibilities. Pampered Chef. Pampering Chefs since 1983. Pampered Chef. If you're under the age of 30, ask your mom about it. She knows. Challenge number three. Oh yeah. Ingredients. What are the ingredients? Challenge number three prize. You guys have heard of it. You guys have wanted it. It's Goodies brownie mix. And is it the new flavor? It might just be the blondies. Might just be the blondies. Which dropped this month. Okay. Just came up with the three ingredients for this mystery box. Ricotta cheese. Broccoli. Bacon. Ricotta cheese. Bacon. Some of you, if you're like not in America, might have trouble finding ricotta cheese, right? Yeah. Maybe. Yeah, possibly. And if you're not in Italy, use something close. If you can't find ricotta cheese. Yeah. And if you don't eat bacon, try bacon. Step up your game, though. The game has been upped since last time and win some goodies. Baking mix. All right, guys. We'll see you soon. Heat. Heat. N.