This is going to be so gross. Why? I don't even want to eat this. Why not? It's 7:55 a.m. and we're headed to Taco Bell. West on North Bodini Street toward Cambridge Street. Come on, bro. On the best route despite usual traffic. You should reach your destination by 8:16 a.m. Can I get a mini skillet bowl with um So, no potatoes, no beans. Um are there beans in it? I don't know what's in it. I'm trying to figure. Okay. Is it just eggs? Potatoes. Okay. So, no potatoes. So, just eggs. Um I have a guacamole. Thank you. Welcome to the afterparty, guys. We were basically challenged to do a Taco Bell ketoi version cuz our last one we said give us ones you know we couldn't possibly do. Uh challenge accepted. We're here. We're eating. This is the mini scale. It's Hold it up to your head for scale. Pretty mini. Yeah. It's a dollar though. It's $18. So the original is a dollar. But how much was that one? Oh, the total of this one, it's like five bucks. Four bucks because the So the steak, we added steak is $149, which is um more than the bowl itself. And I've had the steak here before and it's really bad. I totally forgot till just now. But this is an an option. So they only serve breakfast till 9:00. Otherwise, I was also going to get the power menu bowl, which is basically like a salad. um and looked awesome, but I'm stuck with this pork's coming out. So, guys, not I'm not impressed. This is 430 or something. Just kind of like So, it's eggs, steak, cheese, guacamole, and it's a small portion and like just kind of blah. I'm be I'm eating this for you guys. Like, I would never eat this for you. But it's doable, right? We know some of you guys like going to Taco Bell, so we figured we'd try. I mean, I grew up on Taco Bell. I'm obsessed with Taco Bell. So, I'm excited to try this. I'm excited for this sauce. It's a Chipotle. Not bad. Oh, that Chipotle sauce is good. Spicy. You can't really taste all the different factors. Just like kind of mush in your mouth. Let me get some egg separately. I wonder what kind of egg it is. You think it's just like That's not egg. Steak. That's not steak. That's not steak. So, I'm never I've never been a fan of Taco Bell. I rarely have ever eaten it. just not my thing. And you have to eat this with a spork. Like, is there a worse dining experience than what I'm doing right now? There really isn't. Just sporking Taco Bell breakfast. The steak has some good flavor going on. I feel like I mean, the steak has good seasoning. It's just not steak. But other than that, it tastes like relatively decent. It's just you're not This is not $4.30 worth of food. And Carly Ray Jepson just came on. All right, we're going to eat now. I I couldn't that steak. I mean, Matt devoured his. 3 350 calories and then like three net carbs. Not the best way to start a day, but we did it. We'll see how the rest of the day plays out. I feel like what you eat in the morning really dictates your day. And if you're eating um a breakfast bowl from Taco Bell, it's not going to be a good day. Headed back. Headed back through traffic. So, we're leaving Taco Bell to drive home. Megan just got a ticket. I did. Better than getting my car towed, though. Also better than eating at Taco Bell for breakfast. What we got was the what's it called? Megan knows all the names. It's like the mini breakfast bowl. We got a mini breakfast bowl. The thing is the mini breakfast bowl is on the dollar menu and it comes with beans and potatoes and stuff. That's the dollar version. So, like to make the dollar version keto, it's basically just eggs and you can add a meat, but the meat costs more than the entire bowl itself. Yeah. Then you have to just add stuff to make it an actual bowl and that starts adding up. So, for that little bowl, it was four bucks each, 430 or something. So, Taco Bell's not good for keto. There's also the power menu bowl, which is probably not the best either. Um, I'd like to see how big it is, but it's basically a salad. It comes with like seasoned rice and beans, but you would obviously omit that. And you there's more meat options. Um, and I think they al So, not every place also serves breakfast. That's something you have to look up. And then some places have like crumbled sausage. So, it all it all varies from place to place. That pretty much sums up Taco Bell, but we did we did do it. We done did it. All right, guys. Keto Taco Bell. Yeah. If it's a bad if it if we like feel really bad in in a couple hours, we'll we'll update you then. We'll see. Okay. Hey.