What's up y'all? Hi. Coming at you with a listener question. Yeah, first one. We've gotten some questions, but we've never gotten like a video request, right? And it was also an email format. It was, you know, it was a pretty big request and we thought it's also a great question to answer for everyone cuz it'll apply to everyone including us. Mhm. So, our subscriber asked us in an email to do a keto holiday hacks video. So, with Thanksgiving coming up, we know there's going to be a lot of tempting desserts and foods and family members poking and proddding like, "Eat this. Eat this. I made it for you." Yeah, it's delicious. Who cares about your diet today? But no, don't listen to them. Listen to us. And we are going to give you five five hacks to sticking to keto on holidays. Let's do it. Number one, visualize. Think big. Make a plan. Think about the day, how things are going to go. Like, you know, you probably have someone in mind that you're thinking is going to be the problem actor. Aunt Suzanne. Aunt Suzanne, I made you this Oreo cookie dessert special for you. This is true story, too. The only the only thing she can make is Oreo cookie dessert. And she makes it special for everyone. So, whenever anyone she asks anyone, she's like, "Hey, Matthew, do you want Oreo cookie dessert? I made it special for you." She says that like 15 times on Thanksgiving. So, and inevitably he goes for the Oreo cookie dessert, right? It is good. She has this one thing down. So, yeah. So, we all have a relative like that or a friend or maybe several of them, you know, before the big day. You know what it's going to look like, right? You know who's going to be there. You know what the setup's going to be, what the dessert table's going to look like. So, think about it. Plan out what spots you're going to hit up, what foods you're going to hit up, what you're going to stay away from. Because if it's tempting to you, then why even go near it? you know, don't make eye contact, right? Yeah. I think there's two factors of like why you would cheat on your diet over holidays. One of them is just because the food's really good and you want to eat it and the other one is because you don't want to let down your relatives. Peer pressure. The second one is a much bigger factor for me. I would say the first one's the bigger factor for me. It's kind of tough to work around. I think it's tougher to work around the fact of letting down your relatives cuz not not eating the delicious foods is just, you know, kind that's kind of in internal within you, right? And feeling judged, that's more of like a, you know, you want to not feel that way. You don't want to be judged by your family cuz they're so important to you. So, you kind of just give in. Yeah. Feeling like you're the weird diet person, which they're also the weird diet people. They're just not making an actual decision. there's eating what's, you know, presenting standard. They're just doing the standard thing, right? And there is no normal. There's no standard. Everyone lives their life differently. And you've chosen a keto lifestyle. So, you know, stay accountable. And speaking of accountability, even if you have a husband, a boyfriend, a friend, a girl, like whoever goes with you, even if they're not on keto, you can have them help you stay accountable. You don't need an actual partner on keto to be accountable or have an accountability partner. Yeah. Hopefully, you have one understanding person in your family. I know some people don't. Um, but if you have one understanding person that you can kind of tell them about it and you know, like, hey, I'm doing this diet. It's important to me. It's important to me. Maybe get them like on your side for when you have to explain yourself. If and when you have to explain yourself to your relatives and you know, just having some kind of support there helps. Yeah, absolutely. I guess every family setting is different. I'm just using my own family as like a reference for all this, but they're really pushy with food and like why aren't you eating this? Why aren't you eating that? And people really project on you your dieting choices. You doing a new diet that you like or maybe it's not new, just a diet that's working for you. They'll be very like maybe like jealous and projecting their insecurities on you in a way that's like why are you doing that weird thing when really you're just, you know, you're doing what works, what you like, right? And what's what's a healthy option for you? So that's number one. Visualize, have a plan, accountability partner, just, you know, commitment is number one. That was a long one. Yeah, that's probably the most important one though, right? So, number two, two, what you got? Have an answer. So, for the question, so have an answer. Have an answer. So, inevitably, if you have uh relatives or people at your Thanksgiving dinner who are, you know, going to judge or unsure about it or just, you know, want to pry, they're going to be like, "What is the keto diet and why are you on it?" And so, those are two big questions we get asked, too. Like, last night, we went out to a bar. Um, it was a vodka distillery. We got a great keto drink cuz we had to convince the bartender that it was a good choice for us. But she you you could just tell her immediate um her body language. She was so turned off. She was like, "Oh, keto. What is that? What? Low carb, no fruit. Like why? I've been dieting for 2 years and I still crave pizza. You don't ever lose that craving." I was like, "No, but you do." And it's like why why would I fight with someone right over It's like things work differently for everyone. She was just set in her ways, right? Yeah. And um so the best the best way to deal with that is to have an answer to what it is and why you're doing it and just stick to that. Be confident and just when you say it, present it like it's a lifestyle choice. I'm not like, you know, ridding myself of certain sugars and this because I want to punish myself. It's it's something you enjoy and it works for you. So like think of when you used to go to the career fair to get a job or whatever. Just you have like the the little blurb about yourself that you're going to say like three sentences like you know my name's Matt. I really am competitive and I'm like I'm a go-getter like that type of thing. Just have that all kind of rehearsed in your mind about your diet and just so you can summarize it quickly and they'll be able to understand it. A lot of the times I don't like say ketosis. I don't go into all that. I'm just like, you know, I don't eat sugar anymore and no sugar diet. Yeah. Something like that. You can even try like gluten-free. You can say that. Yeah. Things that are more um like relatable. People know more about paleo and gluten-free and Atkins, so you can kind of relate it. Yeah. And you can also say a good thing to say might be, I'm really having good success with this and it means a lot to me to stay on my diet over holidays. Just telling letting a person know how much it means to you and it's like a real mission of yours, right? They're not going to shut that down. Yeah. They're going to be like, "All right, fine." Like, you know? Yeah. When you when you when someone's like, "Hey, have some of my dessert." And you say, "No, being staying on my diet throughout the holidays really means a lot to me." They're not going to say, "Well, just a just a piece." They're not going to like follow up. It's special for you. But no, they're just going to be like, "Okay, that's great." And then turn to the next person and then you're out of it. Okay, so that was number two, right? Number three. So bring a dessert, bring a side dish, bring something. Yeah. So you are contributing. You'll feel like you're contributing. People will acknowledge it. It's it's also a keto option for you. So you know, for dessert, we've been working on a keto pecan pie. And we're going to have that recipe out for you before Thanksgiving. Before Thanksgiving. So, look out for that. It's going to be a great alternative. It's just as sweet. It's just as delicious. Uh, but it's keto friendly. And then you can also bring a pint of Halo Top. Um, so delicious. There's like, you know, there's low carb options out there that are also delicious and you can bring and enjoy after your Thanksgiving meal. Yeah, we have a couple sides you could definitely bring. Cauliflower mac and cheese for sure. That would go over well, I think. Um, people would love that. People would love that. I would recommend uh bring a dessert though because the thing that you're not going to be able to participate in is dessert. And so my thinking is like, you know, you bring like a dozen cookies, you bring a pie, something like that, you can kind of like introduce people to it, like say, "Hey, this is no sugar in here. This is a healthy dessert." And when you say like healthy dessert, people want to try it and see what it's like. And right, they want to they want to poop on it. They want to say, "This isn't as good as ours." But guess what? Ours are just as great. I I guarantee even if you didn't tell them that it was a keto pecan pie, if they ate it just thinking it was normal normal, they would not even tell the difference. That's how good it is. Yep. So, that's definitely good to bring food. Yeah. For Thanksgiving and Christmas, most of the time you're going to have good options for keto. Like there's going to be a meat like turkey, ham, something like that. A good meat and then a salad. There's probably a side or two that someone makes like green beans, something like that that you can dabble in. veggie tray, you know, like you're going to have your options. And then another good side dish um would be our cheddar biscuits. Cheddar biscuits. Cuz there's always rolls and there's always butter and butter is our best friend. So grab a couple cheddar biscuits and then just, you know, you can heat them up there. You can spread them with butter and it looks like you're not even keto. Is that who you've been going to the beach with? Butter. Yeah. Uh number four. Number five, indulge. And this is something that might be difficult if you're starting keto and you want to stay strict, but you know what? Um, not mandatory. This just an option and it's probably what we'll be doing, too. Yeah. And it's it's a better option than cheating. It's a better option than eating high something high carbs is to just indulge in things that are keto friendly. So, eat three servings of meat. eat three servings of your eat more a lot of your dessert that you bring and you know you'll be over your calorie count but you'll be really you'll still be low in the carbs. Yeah. So so eating excess amount of food and keeping your carbs low is going to impact you dramatically less than it would if you just went off the deep end with carbs. Another thing I would say is just loosen the reins on everything. like um don't be in the mentality if you have to dissect every single thing like what's in this, what's in this, what's in it. If it looks like it's, you know, maybe it looks pretty keto-ish, like there's not breaded chicken or something and you're not sure like what the sauce is on it, maybe just have that, you know, try it. Yeah, try it. Um just loosen the resins. It e ease everything. It's one or two days a year, you know. Exactly. Um but just don't do your best not to go way overboard. That's what really hurts you. Yeah. but allow yourself to still indulge. And then that feeds right into number five, which is do not beat yourself up. So you have a cookie. So you have two cookies. So you have what? Like the corn a piece of cornbread, right? Whatever is delicious, whatever tempts you. Maybe you have a little sliver of pumpkin pie. If you eat a little something that you know isn't keto friendly, or a lot of something, right? Let's say you just go wild, too, which we're not encouraging, but if it happens, it happens. You know, we're a human. And this is the lifestyle. It's not like this strict diet that someone's watching you and you need to track your points. It's like you you choose what you eat day in day out. You choose what you do in terms of working out. So, this is the same thing and it's one day. And so, if you do go over your carbs or you indulge a lot more than you should, do not beat yourself up. just stick, you know, get right back on track the next day. Think of it like this. You used to be eating bad every day and you're slowly shifting your habits. Now you've been on like a streak of, you know, however many days you had one bad day. On aggregate, you're doing still doing really good. You've just had one out of the last 30 bad days. You know, another thing is don't try to make up for it the next day. Like don't employ any crazy tactics. Don't get on the treadmill for like 4 hours, anything like that. Just, you know, what happened? Whatever new day, right? do do act like it's a normal day. And so those are our five keto hacks for you for the holiday season that we'll also be employing into our regimen. So let us know if these have been helpful or you have any other keto hacks you'd like to share with us. And if you have any questions, definitely shoot them over. You can email, you can comment, you can subscribe, do it all. And you know, enjoy your keto holiday season. Bye bye. Heat. Heat.