Cam Newton threw another interception. Fantasy season's over. You know what's the only thing that could make me happy again after being eliminated from fantasy football? What? Homemade empanadas. I'll get right to it. I want to feel like I'm in Tijuana. Hey, keto fam. So, Matt just got eliminated from his fantasy team. Bad for him. good for me because I don't have to listen to him talk about it every Sunday moving forward. So, it's all eagles all day now on. Um, so he asked me to make some empanadas for you guys and for mostly for him. So, we are going to do that today and I have a recipe in mind. So, the first thing we're going to do is we're going to start by making a fathead crust. Heat. Heat. So Now look, the fathead crust is made. And it's clearly a really easy process. The only ingredients that really go into it are egg, cream cheese, almond flour, and mozzarella cheese. And any seasonings you want. We didn't go with seasonings. We're just going to keep it simple cuz the inside is going to be very seasoned. So now we're going to use a cookie cutter. Um, this is our biggest size cookie cutter. And if you don't have a cookie cutter, you know, we just got these recently. You can use a wine glass or you can use a mug of any kind. Um, but we're gonna use this cookie cutter. It's it's a relatively small size. And we're going to cut six empanadas. So that'll be 12 circles. Let's get to it. Oy oil. So, now that we have our 12 circles cut out, which will make six empanadas, let's talk fillings. Here we have two different fillings that Matt made earlier. So, this is a seasoned ground beef and this is a delicious pulled chicken adobo chicken. And so, we're going to do three of each. Um, you guys can, you know, go a simpler route. You can get pre-made chicken, pre-made beef from like the hot section of the grocery, and you can just add some seasonings if you want to add stuff. You can add, you can do vegetable ones, you can do tofu ones. You can go wild. Do whatever you want inside of them. Maybe even dessert ones. That would be really exciting. Maybe we'll do that next for you guys. But there's a lot of varieties out there. But we're going to go pretty traditional Mexican cuz you heard Matt. He wants to be down in Tijana. So, we're going to head down south and fill these puppies up. That's good. Hey, so we just pulled them out of the oven and they look incredible and smell delicious. Um, I put them in the oven for 20 minutes at 350° and they're perfectly browned uh on the top and the bottom. Um, so depending on how thick or thin you roll your fat head crust out, you can keep an eye on it, but I would definitely say somewhere between 15 to 22 minutes is a good range for how long you want to cook these for. Hello. Hey. What do you got over here? Oh, it's hot. Still hot. Yeah. Oh, empanadas. Yeah. You made them for me. Cuz you're a loser today. What flavors do we got? We got the beef you cooked earlier and then the adobo chicken here. Which is which? Can't you tell? I think this is the chicken. That's the one I want. Going in. Do you want to try it, too? It's too hot. Need a knife. Oh, yeah. They're steaming. Okay. You going to get that piece? Yeah, this will make me feel better about fantasy football. Fantasy football is a cruel mistress. That's what he says about me. Oh, baby. These are perfect. These are perfect. Now, you guys could fry them up, too, if you want. Um, we fried them before. Yeah, they turned out really good, but we opted to go with baked. Yeah, this is where it's at. I like the baked better. I'm a fan of the fried. I made the chicken earlier today. Recipes on the website. Soon, maybe not yet. It's really good. It's like 2 hours slowcooked chicken. Not in a slow cooker though. In a cast iron skillet. What do you think? Still feel like a loser. Yeah. Well, he's wearing my books. I got the best prize there is. You girlfriend filled with empanadas. All right, guys. Subscribe. Stay tuned for more great videos and more videos. Let let us know what you think about the cooking videos. We're trying to do more of those. And thanks for coming down to Tijana with us. Yep. Sorry we couldn't get any drugs for you.