Where are we going? Trader Joe's. Mainly in pursuit of what? Coffee flour. One tablespoon is one net carb. Trader Joe's has coffee flour now. And we looked on Amazon and they're basically the only place that has it. It's not like you can just buy it on Amazon. Yeah, it's Trader Joe's brand. Um, so parsnip chips, guys. Uh there's a lot of controversy and it's likely true that the nutrition on the back of the parson chips is extremely false and it's not two net carbs per serving. I wish I even made the mistake myself of getting them and eating a bunch, but yeah, it's likely it's definitely higher. If you just Google parsnip and you look at the nutrition of it, you can tell that the nutrition on the back of the parsnip chips is wrong. So, we're doing a Trader Joe's grocery haul again, part two. Addendum coffee flour no paradro baby like m what's your Asian type she looked at me and said hey you a baby right I told her I'm 18 and live a crazy life plus I tell you what the 80s like and I know what the ladies like need a man that's polite listens and takes advice so I could be all three plus I could lay the part come with me come stay the She looked at me laughing like boy your game is tight. I'm laughing like you right. Hi guys. We're at TJ's right now. Um we found these. I've never had them but Matt has. They look incredible. So we're excited to try those. Um just the huge lettuce. These are really good. They're cuz they're 600 calorie packs and they have a jalapeno spread in them. So you get like just a jalapeno hint that are really good. Um and then we always get this. It's convenient to put on our salads. And that's about it thus far. And we're getting pesticide free spinach. This is where they usually are, babe. They're usually right here. Oh, they're right there. Where? Oh, they did. We're going to get a couple of these. Just kidding. Nutrition. Still two net carbs for 12 for an entire ounce. That's just completely false, guys. But like they are amazing, but they're full of carbs. So chips are amazing. Yeah, we know that. So don't eat them. So we are in the frozen fish section. And Matt said this a lot. Um we never go for the fresh seafood cuz it's just frozen, thawed. and you don't know how long it's been there. So, we are we like we want to try something new. So, I've never had soul myself or we're going to go for the mahi mahi pieces, which I love mahi mahi. So, I wish you guys could give us instant feedback. Let's go soul. I was going to say soul. We've never cooked it. This looks like it would be good with like a fried crust. Look at what we found. What we came for. Coffee flour. Yep. You're good. You're good. How many bags are we getting? Two. Two bags. I want to We used cayenne, right? You used the cayenne today, right? New find. Black garlic. It already looks mushy. And it's a little black. A really long time. Oh. And it can just be fine sitting out like this. It's not even like vacuum sealed. I think it could be fine. Yeah. Wait, it has eight carbs in it. Oh, garlic has carbs. We're also getting hemp seeds. And they're super cheap here at Trader Joe's compared to anywhere else. Even online. Is that a keto snack? Keto snack, I think. Yeah. Oh, look at how cute the pickle is. She going to go for all in one. Whoa. That mustard. It's a grocery haul wrap, guys. TJ's. Check it out. A lot of new finds. We'll walk through when we get home. Girl in my ex want a holl told me to acknowledge it quick. She like mashed up front on that Dave House to come over. Let's swallow and sip. I'm like, "Mama's sick. I promise you dick." Usually have a problem with chicks. Why? They all say I'm riding and rich, but not her boobies real. High heel to be filled. Plus got them Gucci wheels. Yeah, you a cutie still. I miss my down girl too. Ain't no groupy. We left the movies. Hey guys. Hi. We just went to Trader Joe's. We did. As you saw, we hopefully got some good instore footage there. I think we did. We got some great footage. I'm really starting to come into my own and just not care about the surroundings. learning people staring at us. Except when I wanted to clap, he's like, "That's enough. That's enough." I was like, "Okay." It's really actually liberating not caring what people think. That's how we live my life. So, we got two large bags. We usually go super overboard at Trader Joe's. Pretty standard for us. We kept it retailer a bag, though. We kept it respectable. They have so much stuff that's like hard to find other places. Yeah. This was $106. Not bad. We got a bunch of great stuff. First bag. Lettuce. Classic. We got two lettucees actually. Yeah. Okay. This is the cheapest and like just kind of best we think lettuce. Those are what? 250? Yeah.$2.49. Yeah. Coffee filters necessary. So this spinach, right? Frozen spinach. The This is cool because on here it says pesticidefree, which is a really big concern with spinach. And I eat a lot of spinach. So, I usually try lately I've been trying to get organic spinach, but this is not organic, but it says pesticidefree, so that's kind of cool. And organic spinach is one or no, organic spinach is 350. This is 150. So, that's a deal. I'm always I mean, I don't not trust this. And you shouldn't trust labels like that doesn't I'm always skeptical. Exactly. So, yeah, you should be skeptical, but I feel like they can't just lie to me, but they lie on the par they lie on the parsnip chips. Yeah. Oh, that's huge. that those are not pesticide for sour cream and it's in some random recipes like we just did a spinach artichoke dip dip. Pause. They're not You're not going to be able to throw everything on me like you usually do. I know. That's okay. That's okay, though. Got some coffee. Not like Yeah, this is cool. I Every time I go to Trader Joe's, I try to get one thing of new unique coffee I want to try. This was $7, I think. And it's really cool because it's light city roast coffee and I like trying really light roast coffees cuz I like caffeine. Yeah, there's more caffeine in light roast. Then we got coconut oil running low. So we just grabbed some hemp hearts. If you guys want to try hemp hearts, like our hemp heart oatmeal, this is by far by a mile the cheapest you can find hemp seeds. TJ's pro tip. Like before we made the recipe for the hemp oatmeal, we went to the store and we're like, we have to get it no matter what the price is. $14. Bob's Redm Mill. Got coconut cream. We got two of those. I want to experiment with that. And like maybe some ice cream. Yeah. Some just a lot of things. A lot of things you can do with it. Oh, we can get milk. We have to go to the grocery store so often. 40 times a day. But I guess that's my full-time job now. So I'm Whenever I do it, I'm like, I guess this I'm working, right? When we move, we have to live right next door to a grocery store, literally. So I'm getting surgery tomorrow. And this is going to be my snack of choice for my recovery. Marinated olives with the pits. We always just have tons of butter in our fridge cuz we're going through it. We don't want to risk running out. So, butter. And here it is. What we went for. Now, this stuff is interesting. Coffee flour. This is new. Like, I've just heard about it a week ago, maybe. Week ago. Week ago. I was just about to go there, too. So, one tablespoon has 35 calories, zero fat, one protein, and then one net carb. So, seven carbs, six fiber. So, this is a high fiber product. This is like, think of this, mentally categorize it as like flax meal or like psyllium husk powder. High fiber. Yeah, this is fiber. Going to be interesting to try. The ingredient is coffee cherry pulp flour. I don't know. Like I have no idea what this is, but we're going to do some experimenting. Experimenting. I wonder how strong the coffee flavor is in it. Can we open a bag and smell? Yeah, we can actually like Yeah. finger dip it. Do a little tea bump. Smells like a smell. It's like a mix of cocoa. It smells like almost like like tea. Oh, tea dirt. Yeah, like tea dirt. It smells just like tea dirt, guys. Really sucked on that finger. I did. Like kind of coffeeish. Kind of more like tea. More like dirt. I like dirt. Yeah, this is going to be interesting. I'm like not as excited about it as I was. I thought I was just going to have a powerful coffee, which I love. I was like, we can make chocolate coffee brownies today and they'll be awesome. But we'll see. Maybe. Yeah, we'll see. Who knows? Bag two eggs. We have a ton, but we always need them. Mushrooms. I'm into just having some raw mushrooms on my salad lately. Yeah, he's been doing that a lot. I like that. Magnesium. Oh, this might actually be the thing I'm most interested in. Me, too. this fermented Japanese black garlic. I've never tried black garlic. I've never even tried to make it, but I've heard a lot of people say it's incredible. Basically, what it says is use it as if it's raw garlic, but it doesn't have like the bitter like bite of raw garlic. I I've wanted to try making it for a while, but I've never actually tried it, so that'll be good. So, and that little pouch was um $3.49 and you get three heads of garlic in there. So, you know, probably pricey considering, but it's definitely worth a try and we'll let you know. But you're really pay like this is tough to make. It's very time consuming. So, you're paying for something. But if you're like making fun recipes, we recommend it. But if you're just like heating up spaghetti, I wasn't going to throw that in. Don't do it. An onion. Onion. I'm going to try pickled onions, which is really easy to make from what I see. And I love pickled onions and salad. Yeah, I can get into pickling. We need to start going down that path. Couple avocados. Still two bucks a pop. Pricey, man. And in San Francisco they were $150. Couple little tomatoes. These are really good, but Mecca's Mecca's never had them. People call me Mecca. It's weird. I had a friend in high school named Mecca. So, this is mozzarella and pudo rolatini. It's called It looks amazing. These are so good. I want to eat it now. Yeah, these are these are fire. We should split one. Wait, I don't know. I got a long day of taste testing ahead of me. Do we? I a couple things. Oh, we're making pork rind nachos. Pork rind nachos. They might have already been out. And Cinnamon Toast Crunch. No, they will be out. They are definitely out. We're linking it above. We got this soul wild caught. Never had it before. Never cooked it. Yeah. We probably should do a better job of looking up like the sustainability index and stuff when we buy fish, but we really don't do that. That's something we need to start doing more. So, you know, this might not be the best. We don't know. Yeah. I mean, from what we've tried in terms of fish from groceries, Trader Joe's we think is the best in terms of quality, taste, and it's cheap. Like this was this is like three big pieces, right? Three or four and five bucks. Four bucks. Wild caught. Yeah. So, um if you have a TJ's near you and you're getting like your fish from like a market, like check out TJ's frozen. It's worth it and it'll last longer in the freezer. I recommend TJ's. TJ's has good seafood and cheese. Those are like the two things they really have unlock. This is new at TJ's, I think, too. Nutritional yeast and I really like it. I use it a lot now. I put it on my salad. It's really good. We use it in our zucchini fries. We bread stuff with it. Just a lot of B vitamins and good stuff in here. Then Matt also got this for snacking while he's, you know, partially decap decapitated. I love these. Um, they are expensive. Salmon jerky. They're expensive. This is 550. It also has a little bit of sugar in it. Brown sugar is in there. The entire package is six carbs. There's been an upset in Mega's cheese NCAA tournament. I've done it before. It's incredible. Creamy Tuscano is no longer the number one top dog. It's this Gouda, guys. You need to get this. 1,000 Day Gouda. I didn't You never told me that. This is aged for 10,000 days. I know. It's so good. It has the crystallization. Tons of crystallization. So, it's like gritty and it's so delicious. Yeah, this stuff is amazing. Try this, guys. Thousand day Gouda from Trader Joe's. And it's cheap. Always. We always get this to top our salads cuz there's always a couple days during the week where we're just like, we want a salad. We don't want to take time to cook the meat to go on the salad. Guacamole. The little packets are so good and just great for on the go. We like these cuz they just last so much longer. Reed on some flax seed meal. Yeah, their their stuff is cheap, so it's nice to like up on, you know, baking stuff, which is usually expensive in the keto world. Yeah. Hemp seed, chia seed, flax seed, almonds, like all those things are cheap at Trader Joe's. I run through string cheese like it's my job. Nobody's business. And that's it. So, yeah. So, all this for 106 bucks. Not bad because we got some high quality stuff and like generally expensive stuff, which like hemp hearts, the flax seed. Yeah. So, we got some good stuff. This was a good grocery haul. We didn't go too overboard, which we do every time. Yeah. All right, guys. Bye. That's TJ. Thanks for joining us. Subscribe bell. Let us know what you get at TJ's on the rag. Yeah. Let us know if there's anything glaring that we missed. We didn't really get any meat, I guess. All right, guys.