

=== FILE: Building Our Homestead - Step 1： Chicken Coop [-C0WJeVvjJo].txt ===

 universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal universal I made them. This is an alien ship. That's Felix. And that right there is a... This one right here is easy snacks and pooping. So today is going to be like six high of 62, which is exciting. So spring is starting to roll in. In about a little over two weeks, we're going to be getting 13 baby chickens and a rooster. Matthew has the garden fully planned out. So, yeah, a lot of progress. You'll see a lot of the chicken coop. Matthew's breaking down the old one that was on our property and rebuilding it closer to the home. We've got Jeffrey. Jeffrey's such a good boy. We've had Jeffrey for about five weeks now. So he is well adjusted. Bubba started becoming a prepper randomly last week. It's not random. I mean, the older I get, having kids, I think it's just important to be prepared for anything. Brown bear, brown bear, what do you see? I see a red bird looking at me. I think the one thing we can all, and I mean all of us agree on, is that we are very much so in a sweet spot, in a bubble. Things are way too easy and comfortable. Just like grocery shopping, door, like door dash, Uber, like people don't grocery shop anymore even. Getting everything delivered. And then just seeing the tension between, as simple as between like an Uber driver and someone's home they're dropping it off to. You know, there's just too much tension, too much, too much just like congestion and I feel like we're on the brink of something. I don't know what it is, but regardless, it's important in my mind to be prepared for anything. We might not even use anything, but worst case scenario, we need to use it. It's nice to have it. I am making a sandwich to take on the road for lunch. I'm doing very low sodium, so I usually just pack something if we're going to go out. Theo has art class today. It's a drop off preschool style art class, art based preschool. It's only 90 minutes, so I usually drop him off. Me and Felix hang out, we do something, we meet up with some mom friends and their kids for coffee. So I'm using this bread that I just found at Whole Foods. I know by the company, I feel like the ingredients have changed in the company's bread and it looked a lot better. That was Theo. So I was excited to try it. It's base culture. I tried it a long, long time ago. I really like it. It tastes as close to bread as possible. The ingredients, main ingredients are water resistant tapioca starch, coconut oil, honey, and then it's like a seed, super seed bread. So there's sunflower seeds, flax seeds, and then there's some coconut flour. What are you making? I'm making my sandwich for lunch. Why? Because when we go out, I need a sandwich. So if I don't use this base culture bread or when I run out of it, if I don't have time to go Whole Foods, because Whole Foods is a little bit more of a hike now, now that we live further out, I will just use Ezekiel bread. I have two of the chips too. Hands here, but the next chip right here. I'm showing up with my fingers. I tape it now. Huh? You broke this. Me? Yeah. No, Felix. Was it Felix or you? Felix Felix. Oh, I hear it. Your drone. My drone. Our trains are back without their child. Are those others? Yeah, I think so. I remember them having another drone. They're so cool. Let me change the lens and get closer. Stay back. I've never heard them this loud. Wait, did you tell them anything about Jeffrey? Um, just that we've had him for five weeks already. He's such a good boy. He's a good boy, right? Yep. He's AST. Bernard. He will be 14 weeks this week. So just over three months. And he's already 45 pounds. He could be anywhere between 150 and 200. He's lazy, playful, eager to please. I'm just learning about all these different types of breeds. Certain breeds are eager to please. Certain breeds are called like Velcro dogs. Like they'll never leave your side. So you don't have any- He's eager to please they say? Yeah. Oh. Megan just got done making them second breakfast. They're turning into hobbits. What can make them? Theo has a breakfast sandwich, egg and cheese. Fifi has some maple sausage. Ooh, yummy. Okay guys. So the cranes were gone for only like probably a month or two. Now they're back, but they don't have their baby anymore. So maybe the baby got married to someone. Cause they bond for life, right? Mate for life. I'm prepping for the garden season, which I'm very nervous about. Cause this is way bigger than I've ever grown before. You remember last year, if you watched our videos, we had like a little strip, probably like, what is it? I want to say like maybe 30 square feet of planting space. We have eight 30 by 50, 30 inch by 50 foot garden beds. Maybe. So like about a thousand square feet, I think. Maybe it's about a thousand square feet. So like, you know, I've never done anything like this. Probably going to fail in a lot of ways. All that I have going so far as the potatoes sprouting a little bit, three different kinds. All organic, right? Certain things. So if you want to plant them, I think ideally you need like locally grown organic potatoes. Cause they spray like some kind of thing that makes them not spot up like this. And then that's what grows the plant. And I'm an idiot. I don't know what I'm talking about. So never done this before. Tell me if I'm wrong in the comments. And then I'm also trying to, I took some cuttings from our pine trees. I'm trying to propagate them. Make like more of a barrier against the street with trees. We're getting chickens, little baby chicks in three weeks and a rooster. I'm not sure about the rooster comment down below. If you guys know about roosters, are they, what are they good for? I think they protect the flock a little bit. Obviously doomsday scenario. We can reproduce our chickens and you know, be more sustainable long-term. Or eat them if he's annoying us. Yeah. I like the idea of having a rooster. My dad says it's a terrible idea. We'll just play it by ear. See how it goes. Our neighbor says coyotes come for like two or three months at the start of the spring. Mm-hmm. And they'll like, they're very tricky. They like eat your chickens. They try luring your dog out to their, their pack and stuff. So our neighbors have been shooting them and that's been helping. So we got to kill coyotes and kill raccoons. I guess now. Yeah. Raccoons are a big problem. Got a bunch of seeds, which mega put in this binder. I mainly got it from two different places. Johnny's seeds and MI Gardener, which is from Michigan. Oh, and I got this. So for starting the plants, I'm going to try doing soil blocks. Instead of like pots that you, that you have to transplant. These are just blocks of soil that are sitting in these. And then you can plant them directly into the soil outside. You want to hold the camera, Theo, while I pull the cookies out? Yo, yeah. Mega made me breakfast, some sausage and three eggs. And Theo's going to art school. It's his favorite. So here's the full plan for the garden. It's a pretty big undertaking. I think we're going to struggle a lot, but I think you know, if we do it for a few years, it'll get easier and easier. The first thing I did was a soil test. From my understanding, this gets a little complicated. It's kind of hard to understand it all. The pH and the organic matter percentage, I guess, are probably the most important things. I don't know. Maybe that's not even true. But the organic matter is a little under 2%, which is not great from what I've read. And the soil pH is 6.7, which seems fine. I think maybe a little lower might even be better, like 6.3, 6.5. But not a big deal. Main thing is the organic matter, which I'm going to try remedying by ordering a bunch of compost. I have a big compost pile going. I don't think it's going to be ready for the start of the season, though. And I'm also referencing this book, The Intelligent Gardener. He has like a prescription for adding different amendments to the soil. So I'm not going to use any chemical fertilizer, which obviously makes it a little bit harder in the short term. But I think it makes it easier in the long term. Like your plants aren't as reliant on the inputs from outside. And then I also have a worm bin in the basement, which is going to help a little bit. And then I also have some charcoal that I'm going to inoculate. It's called biochar. I'm going to add that to the garden beds. So I'm doing a lot to help the fertility because that's kind of my major concern. I think over time, over the years, it'll improve no matter what. I think maybe for the first year it could be not ideal, but we'll see. Who knows? So I'm going to start a lot of the seeds in here. So that's most of the garden stuff. Book update. We haven't made a video in a couple months, I think, just because we've been busy moving in, things changing, the winter depression stuff. Not real depression, but just like, you know, seasonal sadness type thing. Also, I just am feeling a little burned out, I think, from just the like the seven years of Keto Connect video, like three videos a week. It's just, it sounds dumb because obviously people have like hard jobs, like, you know, working on oil fields and Alaskan crab fishermen and stuff. But it is, it's like a different type of stress and burnout type thing when you're, I don't know. It's, it's obviously first world problems, but yeah, feeling a little burned out for a while. I think I'm getting back into it though. I've been into books though, hard, especially since the start of this year. I think this is my fifth year of like reading. I've always read a little bit, but five years ago or maybe four years ago, I did a 52 book challenge. And ever since then, I've been kind of hooked on it, getting deeper and deeper into it. At first I was doing all nonfiction because to me that made sense. I want to learn about the world. I don't want to like just have fantasy stories, but I've come to find out that fiction might tell you more about the world than nonfiction. It's actually, I love it now. So I'm just like pure fiction these days. Currently reading Lonesome Dove. I'm about halfway done. Considered the best Western of all time. Pulitzer prize winner. I probably read 300 books in the last five years. The best five I've read. No particular order. Definitely in the top five, Infinite Jest. Just a masterpiece. Undeniable. Crime and Punishment. Jonathan Franzen. I think he is my favorite author. I would say the corrections, probably my favorite. They're both freedoms. Also really good though. Definitely. This might be my favorite. Honestly, Cloud Atlas by David Mitchell. I think most people would like that one too. Multi-generational story. If I had to round it out. Stoner. Really mundane. Boring-ish. I mean, it's not boring. It's just a very ordinary story, but it's... All these books are really sad too. That's my number one theme I'm looking for. And then I'm working on the chicken coop too. The garden's gonna be right here. I have these wood chips for the pathways. One problem is definitely gonna be the deer. So this is gonna be the annual vegetable garden. Which is what I'm planning for. 32 by 50 feet. And then this back here is gonna be a perennial fruit orchard. With some other stuff interplanted in between it, I think. Some annual stuff. So I'm gonna get maybe eight or ten fruit trees. Keep them small. Get some like blueberry, raspberry, strawberry, blackberry bushes and stuff. And this will be less labor intensive. And then over here is where the chicken coop is. Where they had it. And look at this giant. It's the biggest tree for miles, I think. So my dad helped me figure out what to do with this. We've been taking it apart over the last two days. Really big. So what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna save the front wall here. Fix up the nesting boxes. I'm gonna replace the roof. I'm gonna replace the back wall there. And I'm gonna shorten it up. I'm gonna cut right there. And then I'm also gonna raise it three feet off the ground. To protect it from predators and to make it easier to clean. And basically the goal is to start growing some amount of our own food. Slowly over time, do more and more. I think it's hard. I mean we have five, about five usable acres. So we could do like sheep or pigs or something. Cow would be kind of hard. Cause I don't think we have really enough pasture at all. We could do some chickens just for like some supplemental meat. Or maybe sheep. Sheep would probably be the best for this, this amount of land. And then the location of the chicken coop, we're thinking right here. We just left the coffee shop. I just got an iced coffee with cream. Now I'm gonna go pick up Theo and then probably get them something to eat. And we're going to go to Meyers. Which if you guys have not been, you are missing out big time. It's like an upscale Walmart, but just so much better. I'm obsessed. I love going as much as possible. So we're going to go run that errand. And then grandma and grandpa, Matt's parents, are coming over to help with the chicken coop. So then we'll probably have to head home earlier than usual. We got a playground. I saw the playground. Oh, I know. I saw the playground, but it's for a little kid's preschool. So we can't go on it. Okay. Just picked up Theo from art class. Show us what you mean. I made this and... Beautiful. I made this and what else did you do? What letter did you work on today? E. No. F. F. F for flowers. That's why you drew the flowers. Fish. Fish. Good. And I also made a couple of those stuff all by myself. All by yourself. And I made this. Beautiful. And I made this. Love it. And I made two whole things. This. Mm-hmm. And I made all this in one day. Oh my God. We can smell some horse manure. I made this. That's beautiful. I smell horse poop. I smell horse poop. I smell horse poop. I smell horse poop. No, Mama's art for Dad. I'm pretty fast. So Matthew and his dad, Grandpa, you're right there, are working on the chicken coop. What are you doing? Are you going poopy? No. Oh, and there's Matthew. There's the chicken coop. He's gonna wipe out. Disassembly complete for now. So we're not using any of that that's remaining. We got the front. Six nesting boxes, which is too many. I think I'm gonna cover most of them up. And then that piece right there. And then these are two pieces. So the two sides. So I have three sides. The front, two sides. I have to build a back that'll attach these two together. And then I'm gonna raise it up three feet to build a floor. Where's the rough? Oh, the roof is rotted too. So I'm gonna get a metal roof for the top. Okay, cool. And we're gonna move it up by the house. I bought a Sawzall to do this disassembly and it's a great tool. I didn't realize that it existed. It's a scary tool. No, it's actually not that scary. Can it cut through bone? Probably, yeah. Okay, we got kids crying. What did you do? What happened? Okay, we've got dinner. This is, woo! The fire's going strong. This is Theo's. Felix loves broccoli. So broccoli, eggs. Toasted buttered bread. And this is Fifi's yummy. An avocado. And my tummy. Sounds funny. The only thing we haven't started doing yet is listening to country music. Which will never happen. I doubt it'll, yeah, probably not. Never say never. But probably not. Yeah, it won't be our main steez. His mom brought over bread, so she made some garlic bread and then just ground beef, broccoli, Italian seasoning, salt, pepper, onion, fresh garlic, butter. Smell the food. They smell the cow. Oh man, it's really. I know. Do you really smell our food? What are you doing? What are you doing? Delicious dinner. Oh, you're filming me. Yeah. Hi. I thought you were acting up for the camera. No. Meg is making friends with a bunch of new moms. You gotta survive. Somehow, friendship's the only way. Fire's dying down. Sun is starting to set. Those are some good looking chickens, aren't they? They're beautiful. Really healthy looking. Yeah, we should ask him what he feeds them. Whoop, whoop, whoop. Be careful. It's not a playing area. They're just constantly trying to kill themselves. Yeah. Like, oi. Living in the country definitely ups the likelihood of that happening by like, at least 400%, I would say. Yeah. Do you think we have a higher chance of getting like, like a house, someone coming in our house No. Much lower. Or like, yeah. Stalking and raping. Like, I get so scared to be out here because these areas make you feel like you can hide bodies out here. People assume you just have like 15 guns around here. We can hide bodies in our backyard. Yeah. Yeah. Hold on tight. But no, people will enter your home more in the suburbs and stuff. That's hard to imagine. Yeah. Because there's so many homes. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong Yong not her and her husband are so she asked me she's like are we a suburb or are we in the country she asked you about her house or our house town we live in hers is more suburb but she's still in she has two acres of property though yeah so does everyone in that but it's in like a subdivision neighborhood yeah of two every lot of two acres no she out in the country though yeah i would say depends i mean if you're talking to like city folk yeah she's living in the country i mean if you're in the house it's the same as any other house so yeah okay gotta go wrangle the kids it was a good day it's a fun day grandpa came and helped out a lot which is nice with the coop so are you gonna be building tomorrow no i guess you could just do that over the next couple weeks now that you're good to go right yeah okay that's it thanks for joining us we'll try to keep up oh there's fire on the ground uh-oh try to keep putting more vlogs out now that things are blossoming okay say bye bye bye bye poop what can you just say bye guys bye poo just say bye guys bye bye bye bye guys he cannot control his mouth bye bye

=== FILE: Eat Healthier! 5 Simple Steps Anyone Can Use [WtUgmbYv53s].txt ===

! Good morning. Good morning. You're really sleeping in today. For breakfast, I made them wake-up wraps, we call them, because that's what Dunkin' Donuts calls them. It's egg, cheese, and a tortilla. This is a flour tortilla. I would prefer to use corn tortillas, but they don't really like those. Felix. Good morning. Morning. I don't know what happened. We were just in like a time warp and did not wake up. Happy Thursday, full day of eating. Oh, but yesterday the boys and Matt, we spent a lot of time outside their yard work, so that really exhausted them. Here's our big baby. I want to take a cake. Let's wake up wrap today. Check on the plants. I see one right there, let me try this. Three of them are growing. Two are not. Yep, that one's growing. This one looks like it's accidental seeds from the other two though, so maybe three of them are not growing. I see two growing. I see a bump hole. Oh yeah. You're right. There is something starting in there. Should we check on the other ones? Oh yeah, that. Daddy put daddy's in the lock. That's what I said. Oh, that's the corn, popcorn. And I see a little bit of watermelon starting right there. So we got to plant these outside soon, it looks like. Oil. Because they're getting too big. Any big news? Oh, those are sprouting. Nope. We've been doing like lots of spring cleaning, cleaning the entire garage, yard work, donating stuff, preparing for the rest of our lives. And we have a sponsor for today's video. It is Haya Vitamins. They've been eating them. They like the taste of them. They want more than one. Do you remember the Funstone vitamins? It's kind of like that. But good ingredients. So the kids are opening the boxes. They will fight over things. Can I see please? Nope, they're each claiming their territory. A jar like this. So there's no sugar. High fructose corn syrup, any of that stuff. Here is the package. They have this really nice reusable glass bottle. Kids can have some. Well, they can have one. Here's one for you. Here's one for you. On here it says for kids, two plus years, Felix is a little under two. All of the ingredients are really good compared to like what's in the other types of vitamins. Sweetener is like monk fruit. And it just doesn't have like a bunch of fillers and stuff that you don't want to be giving your kids. The vitamins are all derived from whole foods. The B vitamins are from quinoa sprouts. As close as possible to simulating just like eating real food, real foods to get your vitamins. Which is good. Has like a veggie blend, fruit and veggie blend. Especially if your kids don't eat that well, which I know a lot of kids don't. What I found is like once your kids start eating sweets, that's just like the only thing they want. So if he feels more like that, he's not that bad though. He still will eat healthy stuff. But Theo's pretty good. Just make sure your kids are getting their vitamins. You want more? Only one a day, baby. And they have a probiotic on their site as well. Was it Fifi or Theo who had a fever for like four days and then it was like, okay, I guess it was. Both of them, but Theo was the fight, big fight. When we gave them antibiotics, we also gave them probiotics. If you guys are interested in trying these out for your kids, the link is on the screen, HayaHealth.com slash KetoConnect. And you can get 50% off your first purchase right now. You can also click on the link down below. What was your plan for dinner? I'm going to cook one melon on the fire and I want to cook hot chocolate on the fire and we can play my new Gun J Gods. Yeah, so Theo, last night, Daddy took him and got him some new sport guns because he won Poople on the Potty. Which you guys probably don't care about, but it's very exciting for us. Yeah, this here, the outside, the right over here, my new sports guns. So this is an iced coffee from Starbucks, just with milk that got yesterday, but I didn't finish so I saved it. This is going to be my wake up call. And then after I drop off Theo and come home after some errands, I'll have my first meal. Farmers market, we got some English cucumbers. The boys love, well Theo loves cucumbers dipping it in white sauce, which is ranch. So I've been doing ranch and cucumbers for Theo all weekend. And then I realized, I really like that too. Got myself some breakfast. This is a chicken sausage from, I think Mega gets it, a Trader Joe's. Three eggs, cooked in butter, salt, and some string cheese to snack on. And I'm in a little bit of a reading slump. Been reading like a lot of nonfiction, like this gardening book. I finished this recently, Walden. Just the style, the English he uses. It's like written in the mid 1800s. Kind of hard to get through, but there are some like little, some little thoughts he has that are pretty good, profound. I picked up this recently. I really like Jonathan Franzen as an author, but I think I'm kind of feeling, I don't know anything about this book. This is kind of a challenge. It's a thousand pages. Might dive into this one soon. I've been looking for it. The used bookstore finally had it. All right, guys, just got back from the grocery. Here is the haul. It's 12 o'clock, so I'll show you what I got really quick. Here we have some English cucumbers. Theo is loving these. I'm liking them. So a couple of those, some yogurt. I've been using it, putting this in my salads to help like boost the salad dressing, like some olive oil. I got a bunch of cheeses. So these are all new raw cheeses. A couple we've tried. So Emminteller Swiss. This is a provolone Matt really likes. This is just a cheddar that looked really good. And then this is it's just a new one. It's Mideko. Oh, it's a goat milk. That's why I wanted. So it's unpasteurized goat's milk cheese. And I wanted to try that. Prejudo, which is really expensive, but a nice snack for Matt once in a while. I get and then this mozzarella is so fresh and good. I love eating it with some tomatoes and balsamic. Me and Matt have been doing that a lot, a little snack. And then these two cheeses, we do a lot of quesadillas for the boys or tacos. And then we do Cobb salad weekly now. So Matt really likes that for that. Carrots, of course. I love a lot in our salads. Some nice lettuce. I'm going to do egg roll in a bowl, I think this week. So some shredded cabbage, mushrooms. I've been loving mushrooms. So we'll have some shiitake mushrooms, maybe with like a steak, eggs, hard boiled eggs for the Cobb salad and just like as a snack for me. And Felix really likes them too. And then we're going to try out a two whole milk. And this is a new one. So this company, they have a grass fed one now, which is really cool. So I got that one. And we're going to try it out for Felix since he's off nut milk and we're trying to do dairy milk, but just like easier on his stomach and digestion. Bananas, which are so cheap at Trader Joe's and some blueberries. I might make a blueberry crisp this week. I was thinking CEO said he wanted a blueberry pie, but that, that's a lot more work. So, um, and then whatever I don't use, I'll freeze and the boys love frozen blueberries. So that is our haul. All right, guys, I got lunch going down right here. So we got some cucumber, tomato, mozzarella salad, dressed with some balsamic and the tomatoes and then the cucumber and then this carrot. We had one left. They're all from the farmer's market that Matt and I went to this weekend. Hard boiled egg and this is some Greek yogurt mixed with ranch. Um, and some celery and zucchini. So I don't know, just feeling like I want a big snack plate and this sounds really good. And then I have two chicken drumsticks that Matt grilled, I think maybe Friday. We did a lot of them. And so we had some leftover and I'm having two of these puppies. So that is lunch. Just did a little yard work. We have a big issue with water drainage. It's hard, hard to figure out a lot of work. So I'm having a snack, blueberries. Oh, and I have a little project in the freezer. I we're going to try growing blueberries from store bought blueberries. Apparently they have to be produced in the U.S. You have to freeze them for two weeks. So they go into hibernation and it simulates like a winter. And then you take the seeds out of them and you try planting them. We're just going to try to see if it works. Just having some blueberries and a epic bar as a snack at 2 p.m. But the corn is getting really big. Yeah, I just want to plant that. I think I'm just going to do like one or two corns. It's popcorn. It's not like sweet corn and maybe one watermelon. He'll be so excited if we really get a watermelon, I think. Yeah, or we could just dig a hole, put a watermelon and then have him dig it up. Well, they don't grow underground. He'll lose his mind, though. Be the best thing ever. Sometimes I hide stuff in the backyard, like Easter egg or something. And I tell them to go dig and like they find some stuff. I tell them exactly where it is. Sometimes I think it's good to do that stuff because it gets them really excited and they have an activity for like 30 minutes. But also I'm thinking like, do they now just think like these little plastic eggs like appear on the ground? He has no memory. He's not even four made mad a little snack. That's all that. Those are two new cheeses I got. I just tried them and they're both really good. So Felix just finished up lunch. He actually had some steak and rice and strawberries. And now he is he doesn't look it, but he had diarrhea in the afternoon, sadly. And then took a three hour nap. So I think he's still under the weather a little. I think he's pretty comfortable and relaxed. What's wrong? Oh, your foot stuck. There you go. And he's enjoying some A2 whole milk with a little chocolate protein in it. And we usually do half of it with water. All right, guys, Matt went to go pick up Theo. And here I have two boneless pork chops that I rubbed down in olive oil and Dijon mustard. Hopefully Matt does not see this before and he won't before he eats it. But I don't think he would like that. But I think it'll add a lot of good flavor. And then I season with salt, garlic, onion, sweet pepper, paprika. I've never really used it, but we'll see. And then obviously some pepper. And I'm going to pop this in the oven at 400 for probably like 10 to 15 and then broil for a couple of minutes so it's fully cooked through. I struggle cooking pork chop on the stove top. Either it's cooked and super dried out or I undercook it and then I just slice it and cook it again. So hopefully this will work out better and then I'm going to do broccolini on the side. Are we waiting for Theo? They should be here shortly. Just appreciating. What are we doing? We're waiting. Yeah, there's someone riding a bike. You can't paddle yet, so you can push them. So the boys are outside. They're actually downstairs with daddy starting the fire. They have their water guns. I just buttered this, this BUN up. We get potato rolls usually. That is for Theo. I put butter on it. I'm going to heat it up in the skillet and then we're going to take his hot dog down and we got, we went camping recently. No, we went to a cabin recently and we got like a hot dog cooker. So we'll put the hot dog on that. There's the hot dog. We always just get apple gate, like organic hot dogs and then we'll cook it and he can eat it. Fire going. I'm trying to give Theo more responsibility. It doesn't look like it's going too well, but I'm letting him fill up his squirt guns with the hose by himself. Daddy, I did it. Did you turn off the water? Yeah, mommy. So we need a flower to grow better. I put him a water over there by the flower. Ready to go? Mega cannot grasp the concept that the fire has to like warm up until it's in the state that it can be cooked on. I feel like you understand this yet. It's hot. You can cook on it. That's just what I think. You don't cook on the flames. You cook on the coals. Choppy chop pork chop and broccolini. Here's what the kids are doing. Look how much joy Pee Pee gets out of it. Is being a parent the best thing you could ever do? The best? The bar to entry is quite low. Mega has some cheese out that she's bringing up to temp. I'm having some gems for after dinner snack. What was the relationship advice? Here mom said, making sure that you put the other person first. Her example was that when your dad wakes up, he always he's like, Hey babe, do you need your coffee or your lemon water? And she's like, nah, I don't need it today. But then when I'm going out, I know that, you know, it's latte Tuesday. So I'm like, hey, Rich, do you need a latte? And then I bring him one and. Kids are setting up their nugget to play, play jumping games. I got this as a snack for after dinner. I have five easy to follow tips. Number one, probably the most important one. Whenever they ask you to supersize it, you say no. I feel like I'm struggling with this. So I'm excited for these tips, but you already lost me with number one. Cause you know what? My mind's thinking though, it's like, I didn't supersize it. So I'm not as full as I normally would be. So let me eat something else after McDonald's meal anyway. Like you're just, you're going to eat the same amount. Yeah, but that was a joke one. Did you understand that was a joke? No, I thought that was real. Whatever, whatever you resist persists. So if there's some truth to that, then you just can't resist anything. It's kind of the takeaway. That's where I'm at with food. Yeah. Number one rule, probably the easiest one to implement and the one most often overlooked, instead of thinking in a subtractive mindset, like I'm doing a new diet, these are the things I'm not eating anymore. Start adding in healthy things as part of your diet. So stick to like your same, whatever you eat, your normal stuff for breakfast. And then just over the course of the day, try to add in a few things. Like from our last video, I was like, here's five healthy things you can add to your diet. You don't need to cook. Number two, make sure you're not eating fake health foods. The primary one being margarine. If you think you're like, it's making a sacrifice by eating some, like a healthier alternative, you're like, margarine's really good. Instead of eating butter, don't make that mistake. Eat the actual healthy food that is, that tastes better and is better for you. What are other, you know, foods you'd put in that category? Well, there's obviously all the vegan things like Beyond Burger, you know, just the entire vegan section at the grocery would fall into that category. Number three, maybe mega was onto something. The resisting, persisting. Where'd you get that from? Whatever resists, you resist persists. I've heard it like in shows. Counting calories, I would say, isn't like a real good strategy. Focus on the foods you're eating. Eat them till you're full and try not to like snack a bunch, try not to have a bunch of sweet things that are like altering your sense of fullness and your cravings and stuff. Yeah. First you'll overeat and then over time it'll normalize, but you have to have more of a long-term mindset. Usually with dieting, we're like really short-term. So we're like, how little can I eat today? That's not a good way. If you're trying to do it in the short term, it's really not going to be conducive to long-term success. For me, what I found personally has worked in the past, but it's tough, especially with kids is if I'm just sticking to whole foods, I eat less. If you don't have a lot of package stuff, I feel like your options are also limited because you have to open the fridge every time. And there's not all like, I mean, you know, you get bored of cheese, you get bored of hard boiled eggs if you're trying to grab something quick. So just try to keep your foods whole. Number five is you have to make other changes or you have to like do other things to convey to yourself that you're trying to be healthier. You go for a walk instead of like a big one is just like watching a bunch of TV before bed, especially if you're staying up past your bedtime and you're like, just one more video, one more show. It's just not, not doing your mind right. Like you're not in the right mindset. If you get to bed early, you're like, I'm going to wake up tomorrow and really get after it and you're just more in that type of a mode. It's also easier to stick to your, whatever your nutrition plan you're trying to do is it's hard to just live your life the same way you've always been living it and then change the foods and like eat healthier reading. Reading is a good one because you're like constantly expanding your mind. You're slowing down a little bit. I feel like it just takes the stress off of you. You're not like always in this like, you know, like what's the latest news story? What's the latest trend that everyone's doing? It's just like, it's all that stuff is so dumb when you really think about it. All right. That's it. Say good night. Say night night. He does whatever Theo does. Bye. See you next time.

=== FILE: Healthy Grocery Haul + Garden Tour [mqxllF1WcaA].txt ===

 good morning! Good morning! Oh yeah! Making wake-up wraps, cheese and eggs. Looks yummy! Good morning! Here's your wake-up wraps. What do you have? You got mustard? Yes. Thank you. What are you watching? I'm watching a Deon. No, you're watching Spidey? Okay, so here's their wake-up wrap. Once it cools down, they're gonna have that, maybe a banana or something else afterwards. We also have a full day of eating. Welcome to the party! It's gonna be a fun day of kids' food and laundry and chores for me. Oh, that's a cute new stuffie. Did you get that from your party? So Theo had his fourth birthday party yesterday. And you had, how much fun did you have? A lot of fun. A lot of fun. What was your favorite part about the party? When I was over pleasant. New birthday toy. Matt made me my lovely Espresso, which he does every morning as a husband should, for his wife. I have my coffee with cream. Did you just push him down? In my favorite Mama Bear mug. Just heavy cream. And I put some... It's called barista. You can't talk anymore. I classed Felix's call off. Oh, good job. It doesn't matter what I put in it, because you guys can't hear me talk anymore. But it's called barista boost. It's essentially like cinnamon, stevia, and elfie. And I think are the major things. There's some other stuff in it too. The front garden. We're getting our first eggplant. It's a Japanese eggplant. I don't... I'll just talk later when I'll show you guys. Look at that spider. What should we do with it? Let's get there now. Let's check out the garden. How do you think our eggplant is growing? Beautiful day. This is our pride and joy at the moment. Yeah. Look at that. And it's kind of like... The plant didn't grow much, so it can barely support that eggplant. I think I planted this at the wrong time of year. So that's why the plant is not very big. My tomato kind of stopped producing. Mega's got some sunflowers that are looking pretty nice and strong. So all my beans on this pole have pretty much died. But the basil's looking really strong too. But this bean plant, which is the same as the ones on that pole is doing tremendously. Look at this guy. It starts right there. All the way up the rose bush and now it's sending some feelers out over here. And we have a sponsor for today's video. It is Element Electrolites. Without it out the best electrolyte supplement you're going to find. If you look throughout all the other options they either do not have significant amounts of electrolytes like this one does or they contain a lot of sugar and other added stuff that you don't really want. So this is very simple. It has natural flavors. It's sweetened with stevia. And it has good, significant amounts of electrolytes. A thousand milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, 60 milligrams of magnesium. Comes in a bunch of good flavors. The supplement comes in these pouches, which are single serving. Usually I add it to a pretty large glass of water, like about this size. Really great supplements for a keto diet, any kind of low carb diet. If you're really active, you sweat a lot. You need to replenish your sodium. So definitely pick up Element Electrolites. Use the link down below. There's a special offer. DrinkElement.com slash KetoConnect. You get a free sampler pack with your first purchase, which includes eight different flavors. Element Electrolites, definitely something you're going to want to try. And thanks to Element for sponsoring the video. What's up guys? I just got back from Whole Foods. It's about to be 9.30 and we're sure we're done. Okay, so we're doing Cobb salads for dinner tonight. So I got some Romaine lettuce, eggs. I got some berries. Both were on sale. They're still in season. Some kale sprouts, which we've never tried for our salads tonight. Some, a little bag of romaine for small salads, for like lunch, if I want to do. Coleslaw mix, which I also sometimes like to put in my salads. Or like tomorrow I'm thinking we're going to salmon bowls. So like just like a little extra crunch there. Carrots. I'm obsessed with carrots and hummus. I got a spicy hummus this time. And I'm obsessed with spice. I also found a new hot sauce that I want to try. Milk. Milk was on sale. And we have a little fridge downstairs. So I got two milks. Cheese. We got some string cheese. The boys and Matt love string cheese. Parmesan cheese. And the mozzarella. The salad. But also I think I'm going to make like chicken nuggets in the processor tonight. With some chicken thighs that we have. And then with parmesan, mozzarella and some seasoning. And like then air fry them. So we'll see how that turns out. These gluten free Noah um, cookie dough pieces that you can just quickly make cookie dough. The boys love doing that. Heavy cream for Matt's coffee. This bacon was on sale. It's thick sliced black forest bacon. So I'm going to do that for the cobs salads as well tonight. And then English cucumber. Pork rinds. Everyone loves some pork rinds in this house. Avocado oil mayo. Tomatoes. Snack on these all the time. Just throughout the day with hummus on their own. And they're also going to go in the cobs salad. Sometimes I put them in my eggs. Bananas. Everyone except me in the house loves bananas. Boys love bananas. Snacks, breakfast, Matt puts them in his smoothies. This sweet fire habanero hot sauce. I'm excited. I have another habanero one but this is lower sodium which I like and I'm hoping it's spicier. Lemons. Fresh lemons probably make a dressing out of it throughout the week. You got some yellow potatoes. The boys love um, potatoes in the air fry french fries. Avocado oil chips. My mom is in town. She's been here for like 10 days. She's going to stay here for another week and a half or so and she loves potato chips. Broccoli for um, I think maybe the salmon bowls tomorrow. Green onion for um, dinners. Some apples. The boys love apples. I always peel the skin and then they just go to town. Some baby potatoes. Felix loves these. So when he's home with me during the week uh, it's an easy, quick air fryer like heat up situation for lunch for him. And then these phenomenal pitas that are super simple the four ingredients that you'd expect. Flower water um, yeast and a little bit of salt. But that's the haul. I'm going to put it all away. I got to go. I have a doctor's appointment. Alright, I am taking a quick snack to go on the road. I got some carrots. Some of the new spicy hummus I got. I got plain hummus. And then the new hot sauce I got. I tried it. It's spicy. It's not like burning my mouth though. And I want burn my mouth level. So I'm going to have to find something hotter. And then I'm going to throw some tomatoes in here as well. And then I'm going to take a bag of these high-level chips, which are so good. The new device they have in place at Amazon. Not Amazon. Whole Foods. But it's like an Amazon Prime device. They can scan your hand. But you just put your hand over it and your credit cards attached to your like fingerprint your DNA. And it's like people are excited about it. And I was like, don't do it. Wait, it's attached to... How do they set it up? I need to know more. I don't know. She was like going to tell me. And I was like, I don't want to do it. Like, I don't want to hear the spiel. But like, she was like, yeah, it's like... No matter how they do it, I'm not doing it. Exactly. So here's what I got going for the outside backyard garden. Not a ton of sun back here. I would say like six to eight hours a day. So we may struggle. But I got some radishes. The way the sun shines, like this section here gets a little bit more sun. So these are looking pretty good. And I don't know what I'm doing. I've never grown any of this stuff before. We have some beets which aren't really doing much because this area doesn't get a lot of sun. Cucumbers are starting to do pretty good. These ones are struggling because they don't get sun. But we got like three or four pretty solid ones here. And then the zucchini's are doing really well. I don't see any fruit forming yet. But I see some flowers. Tomato plant. I started all this stuff really late. So. And then look at all these mushrooms we get every morning. I think that's a good sign for the quality of the soil and stuff. Got some marigolds blooming. My grandpa gave me those seeds. He dried them from last year. Let's see how much food we get. And then for breakfast, I don't feel like cooking. So I'm just going to have some of this stuff. Pistachios. Shell. Some figs. Dried figs. Probably like three. These smoked oysters in a can with olive oil. Raspberry's. Maybe half of this. And a paw patrol string cheese. Welcome back. I just got done with my run. Still battling plantar fasciitis. I can do like two miles maybe at most. I'm trying to battle through it but it's not going well. I just got back. It was a lot longer than I thought it was going to be. It's one. Had my snacks in the car. And so now I'm home. I'm going to also do a run. I started running again. I've only run one day. And I'm really slow. But it's like a nice little change up. I'm just going to hit the tread though. That's what Matt's aunt says. She says hit the tread. Alright guys, here we are. Matt just had his run. And it's one o'clock. So I'm going to make him a breakfast sandwich. There's three eggs cracked in there with some butter. And some avocado oil spray. And then I'm going to put some of this deli meat on it. It is the honey turkey. Smoked honey turkey. I think. Yeah. And then I'm going to do a couple slices of aged cheddar. He usually likes monster but we only have one slice left. So I'm going to do this so he can have two slices of cheese. And then I'm going to do it on this pita that you guys saw that I got earlier from Whole Foods. And that's all. It's super simple. And then I put a couple dabs of this hot sauce on it because it just adds a little bit of spice but not too much. But we will add this one today. Okay, so here's the sandwich. I always finish it off in the air fryer for like two to three minutes. It kind of just heats it through. Melts the cheese a little more. It's super simple. Super delicious. And this is going to Matt. What's up guys? It is three o'clock. Matt's going to go pick up the boys soon. I'm prepping dinner. I got this thick cut black forest ham. I'm just going to do it in the oven for ease. And then... Black forest ham or bacon? Bacon is what I meant. Black forest bacon. And then I just have to make the chicken nuggets that I told you about. I'm going to show you the process and hard boil some eggs. And then it's just going to be a quick throw together for these cob salads. Alright guys, here is the mix. It's the chicken thighs. I trim a lot of the fat off. And then Parmesan, and some garlic, salt and pepper. But guess what? Doesn't work. Cool. Thanks Theo and Felix. So I'm going to pivot. I guess the blender or an immersion blender. The Vitamix or an immersion blender. I'm going to figure out what to do and then I'll let you know. Alright guys, here's the chicken nuggets. They don't look that bad, right? So I used the immersion blender and it took a minute. But it looks pretty good. And I got it all mixed together. It also had an egg in it. I don't know if I showed you that part. And then I added some of this olive oil. Just to hydrate it a little more so that when I'm blending it with the immersion blender it breaks down. So let's get these in. And the bacon is out. Nice and burnt my specialty. Okay, so I pivoted from the oven. And I just put all the chicken in the air fryer after seeing them cook for like 8 minutes in the oven because they look not good. So I figured the air fryer always does damage control and it always can make something that doesn't taste that good. Tastes pretty good. I am snacking on some hummus, more hummus. I'm all about hummus these days and some tomatoes that I washed for the salad but I'm eating them so probably enough to wash more. Kids are home. Fifi, did you get a boo boo today? No. Hey mister! Where's your boo boo? Where's your boo boo? Right. No, I thought it was right here. Where's your boo boo? Right. Who gave you a boo boo? I did. Who bit you? Zach. Zach bit him. If there is a Zach, we're not sure yet. There's Theo's dinner. Have you ever had a salad before? Yeah, I schooled. I schooled. I like salad too much. Dinner time. This looks very gourmet. It'S4.30. Bacon, cherry tomatoes. And you made like chicken nuggets or something? Yeah, bacon, cherry tomatoes. Two eggs, shredded Parmesan. Because he didn't like chunks of cheese which is like so weird. Matt's the most particular person I've ever met. What else don't you like? Kale sprouts. I thought we'd try a different sprout. I'm going to try growing some micro greens I think. Looks good. Do you like chunks of chicken? Like that? Yeah. I made them fresh. Yeah. I struggled because our process was broken. I got everything in and then it didn't start. Why is it broke? I don't know. I was like, what was the other day? I can't figure it out. Get out of your comfort zone, baby. Come. Theo asked specifically for this dinner and then told me he actually does not want this dinner at all. And that is the life living with two toddlers. Three. You. So it was just birthday weekend and we were one of Theo's gifts was playing a lot of video games and we were playing like the shooting game. Can't really like control it that well but he drops down. He's very animated and there's like a bunch of enemies and he starts shooting and he's just out of nowhere. He says killing season. It was like sometimes you just say stuff. You don't even know where they get it from. Huge drama in the neighborhood. In the HOA. Usually I stay completely stay out of it. I don't care. Do whatever you want to do basically. I think the only time I was ever kind of like hey, something should happen was when there was like people renting in the neighborhood and they just had like their grass like like up to here. I was like okay, maybe we should do something here but in general just do whatever I'm fine with it. Live and let live. So the garden that I showed you in the front is becoming a problem. For one person. For one person in the neighborhood. Instead of just coming to me and being like hey, I don't really like this. How does everyone feel about it? Is it like, you know, messing with the whole look of the neighborhood which it's not. It's not very even noticeable. We're like way on the end too. She starts forming like a neighborhood coalition. And she's like, hey, like what do you guys think about that garden at the end there? There's like a few other people right near us that are way worse than us with like garbage and bad stuff. But she just lumped us in with them. It's just very like indirect and like passive aggressive about it. So for that reason, like if she would have asked me or it was brought up in a nice way, I probably would have just been like yeah, I can move it around or like, you know, just get rid of it because it's not really doing much. We just got the one eggplant at the moment. Oh, our sunflowers. Based on the course of action she took, I decided I'm 100% going to war dying on the hill of the garden. I don't care how bad it is. It's staying out there until there's some sort of action filed. HOA vote taking it to the board is going all the way. That's the decision I'm making. What do you guys think? The person with the issue with the gardens in our driveway is the person we would have probably said we're closest to in the neighborhood. Like we've hung out with them several times. They've taken care of things in our house. We've gone over. We've gone out to do stuff together. And so it's just kind of blind siding. And that's I think the most disturbing aspect of it. It's like, if you have a problem with it, fine. But like Matt said, approach us. Have the respect and the decency. I think it's just very spineless and it speaks to her as a person. I keep saying we're trying to feed our family. But we've gotten like what? Like seven, ten, good, delicious cherry tomatoes. We did a taste test store bought versus those. Amazing. So different. So I ate all five just back to back to back yesterday that you picked the other day. So good. So anyway, just if you have an issue with someone and you are 20 plus, like be an adult about it. Fine. I'll even say like 25 plus, right? Just be an adult about it. Hash it out. Tell the person you don't need to go around about way. Sorry. This is what entertains them the most right now. That's it for the meeting. It's about to be seven. We're going to take the boys out. Hit the hay. I'm tired. I'm tired. Bye. Bye. Bye bye. Bye.

=== FILE: How We Eat Healthy as a Family of 4 ｜ The Marshmallow Test [Q-nTwcpHNJE].txt ===

 good morning, good morning, everyone's sleeping in today, it's almost seven, here's their breakfast, eggy, and toast with butter, this is the toast that we get for them, and I already had a black coffee this morning, and we have two new kittens, Arlo and Gwen, and their sisters, well if you're new here, we are keto connect, we have run a keto food blog, which we have keto connect.net, and this is our youtube channel, we're not fully keto now, I would say, after having kids, you go in and out of paleo, and just like wanting to eat more healthy, so we definitely don't do any seed oils at all, we like to be active, have fun, we're a family, family friendly channel, except I say the F word sometimes, and Theos is poop all the time, there's gonna be a full day of eating video, started the channel before we had kids, he was still asleep at seven, sweet angel, he had a long day yesterday, and he wakes up to a video camera, here's mama's espresso, thank you, I'm going to turn into my plants got any big news? um no, how many kids left over breakfast, so me and Theo, what did we build out here, we got a little worm farm, for composting, yeah we need more worms, well a lot of them are like gathering on the outsides, it looks like, I don't know why, not a hundred percent sure what I'm doing, all I know is that they did go through a lot of their initial bedding and stuff, and I keep a damp towel on top, did they all have babies yet, some of them had babies, yeah, where are they? just finished a three mile run, it's the longest I've run in months, since I took like three months off, and I used to be able to just go like a mile, and I would start feeling my foot, and now I can go about three miles with minimal pain, so what I think I'm going to start doing, I haven't been doing this lately, or at all, because my diet hasn't been great lately, so what I want to do is more of a carb cycling diet, which will be on exercise days, so like four to five days per week, between like a hundred and two hundred grams of carbs, which is pretty high, higher than I've done in a long time, and on the rest days do lower carbs, not strictly keto, but like 50 to 75 grams of carbs, probably I'm going to make a burrito with this, mega did like a smoked pork thing, so we have pulled pork really delicious, one of mega's best cooked jobs yet, and then some eggs, and one of these green-free tortillas, here it is, doesn't look great, but it tastes great, just the pork, three eggs, and some like jalapeno salsa stuff that I mixed in, and this tortilla, and we have a sponsor for today's video, it is Element Electrolites, without question, the best electrolyte supplement on the market, especially if you don't want a bunch of carbs along with your electrolytes, now that I'm finally back to running, it is very important, especially once you start getting up there in miles, or like if you do like an hour exercise per day, you probably need to replenish at least 500 to a thousand milligrams worth of sodium, each packet here has a thousand milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, and 60 milligrams of magnesium, the flavor is really good, and it's between like one and two grams of carbs per packet, I usually have one of these packets every single day, especially I make sure to get it in when I'm doing heavy exercising, they have a lot of great flavors, I like the raspberry watermelon, and then also if you like to put flavoring in your coffee, this chocolate flavor is really great, and we do have a special offer for viewers of the channel, if you go to drinkelement.com slash keto connect, I'll link that down below in the description, you will get a free sample pack with your first order, if you're making your first order, definitely try the chocolate, and I would say either raspberry or watermelon, or if you like citrusy stuff, they have a citrus flavor that's really good, like lemon lime type of flavor, definitely check out Element, without a doubt the best electrolytes you're gonna find. It is 1030, I just got back from the grocery store, and I'll show you a couple things I got, but what you see in front of you right here is what I've been doing every single week, I've been making just like a really hearty vegetable soup, and then throughout the week, whatever meats we have leftovers, I'll add in to the soup itself for lunch, so I got onions, and garlic is always how I start, lots of both, and then I'm gonna do carrots, green beans, I'll put all of this kale in there, maybe save a little for Matt for like a scramble, I've been using this broth, which I really like, sometimes I do the veggie broth, I'll do the chicken this time, but the no salt added, and you can look at a lot of broths, and it'll say no salt added or low sodium, but it's not really that low, but this one is actually really low, it's 55 milligrams per cup, and in here there's four cups, I believe, yeah, and then I often do garbanzo beans, but I'm gonna try cannellini beans this time, and then maybe some tomatoes, I'm not sure to like just thicken it maybe, add some flavor, but that's gonna be the soup, this is all, it's gonna be in there, there's the green beans, the beans, the onions, garlic, and carrots, and then I'm gonna just add all the broth in, some water, and then the kale probably towards the end, because that really doesn't need to like cook too long, but I'll probably just let the whole soup cook and simmer for like an hour, just because that builds flavor, but it really doesn't need to, once like the green beans and carrots are cooked through, which will probably be pretty quickly, they'll be done. Got some minor updates, the first thing is for a while I was really into running, and then I got plantar fasciitis, it's actually de-abilitating, and you can't do anything with it, it really sucks, and so I took some time off, and I started again, and then I immediately got re-injured, not re-injured, it was just like a never-one-away, I'm going with a different approach where you're just like constantly active, and you're strengthening as opposed to resting, I got this book, a stretching book, and I'm just gonna be like really strict about doing my stretches every day, doing my strengthening exercises, kind of like almost like sports rehab type of stuff, and then my reading, I've kicked it back into high gear, I think I'm probably having my best reading year ever, 30 plus so far, maybe close to 40, I do have some new favorites that I'll share with you guys, and when I started doing this reading challenge, I think I did it, the first year was 2019, the goal was to read 52 books, and I was doing like mostly non-fiction, I was very into just like self-improvement, like you know, like the self-help type of books, I've completely evolved in my reading to thinking that self-help books actually suck, a lot of people kind of think this, but I do think they're dumb, they're repackaging, and saying in different ways like the same five or ten basic truths to improvement, and actually, I think fiction books are better for self-improvement than non-fiction books, yeah I'm really into fiction now. Anything by Jonathan Fransen, this guy is incredible, he's my favorite author, I will say though his books are very American, so if you're not American, you may not really appreciate Infinite Jest, the longest book I've ever read, one of my favorites. This is a pretty highly regarded and hyped up book, it's a six-part series, but I didn't love it, I'll probably continue reading it, but I might not go through all of it. This book, Cloud Atlas by David Mitchell, great. Maybe I'll share some books I really hated also, because I think like 95% of books I read are at least worth reading, there's only like 5% of books that I hate, and I wish I had never read. Here's a couple, On the Road by Jack Kerouac, is considered a classic? I don't get it at all. Repeatedly does the same thing, like travels on trains across the U.S., drinks a lot of alcohol, it's just like, not my thing at all. Anything really by Kurt Vonnegut? The first book I read of his, I was like, whoa this is awesome and he's really a genius, but it's kind of like gimmicky, I've realized now, he does the same thing all the time in every book, and it's just not really my thing. Cormac McCarthy, he's considered by many the greatest living author. Yeah, I don't really like his writing style. So this bag is just full of frozen berries and vegetables for Matt's smoothies, then this is just a bunch of fresh vegetables, some limes, some of these oysters that Matt really likes. We get them at Trader Joe's, I went to Trader Joe's and Whole Foods today. When he's running, he likes figs, we like pistachios in this house, maybe I'll roast and salt these. Every week, we have been choosing a different country to prepare dishes from. Well, Nugget does all the dishes. Matt chooses the country. We've done Greece, Mexico, Mexico was the worst so far, but was that the first one we did? Mm-hmm. She's getting better. Japan. And Japan. I would say Greece so far has been the best. Gonna do Italy soon, I'm saving that up though. We're doing Brazil this week. Oh, you picked Brazil? I gave her Brazil. I select two and then she picks which one she wants to do. This week it was Brazil or Philippines. When you actually go through the list of countries that have like a lot of cuisines that you're familiar with, there's not really that many. Like basically all of Northern and Eastern Europe is just kind of like no for me, like pretty much like Norway, Sweden. I don't want that food really, Germany. I don't really want that much. Anything like Russia, Ukraine, like Slovenia. It's not really my thing either. It's like a lot of fish and like cold fish is just the first thing I think of when I think of those countries. So here is the soup and as I mentioned, this is my meal prep for lunch every single week. And I love doing it. It's so quick to throw together. You can make it taste in any way you want with seasonings and then just add whatever meat you had from Dinger that's left over into it for lunch the next day. And I also added some zucchini. I forgot to show you and then the kale went in as you can see. It's about 1 p.m. and for lunch I'm having the smoothie which I make usually on days where I run berries, banana, spinach, kale, peanut butter, some greens powder, a little protein powder, like half a scoop. All right guys, this is my bowl of soup that I'm about to eat. Yum. It's one o'clock and we had a little bit of chicken left over from yesterday's dinner so I just put that in there as you can see right here. Then I'm going to enjoy it, sit down, fold some laundry. Hi girls, are you cuddling? Yeah, come hang out with me. I'm going to fold some laundry. They're like, should we do it? Oh, stop. I'm going to fold some laundry while I watch a show. The crowded room on Apple TV, it got really bad reviews but I'm liking it. It's like a suspense drama slash thriller and I really like it. And I'm also going to have one of these. It's called Poppy. So instead of Zivia, I've been getting, we have Zivia, but I really like these. They have really good flavors. I like it. So give, definitely give Poppy a try. I'm not like some too. You are the nutrition person on our team. Am I? And I saw a yummy snack at Trader Joe's today and I was just, you know, we always look at the oils and it has rice bran oil and I just like don't know where that falls, what I should think about it, what it does to me, should I get the snack? I honestly don't know the exact breakdown of rice bran oil but you can just kind of do some like deductive reasoning. Rice is very little fat. Rice bran, I don't, I assume that's like a byproduct of rice. It could be wrong. But generally you just want to have fats that are very easy to extract from whatever they're from. So like, tallow, if you kill a cow, there's like huge areas just of fat that you can render simply to make tallow. There's no like mechanical extraction, heating process. You have to render it so there is some heating but it's not like canola oil. You need to like, you know, heat, deodorize all these different processes that make it toxic to humans essentially. So like avocados, olives, butter, just, you know, all the basic ones that are easy to know how you get from the produce or the meat to the fat. What's grape seed and what's palm? Because palm's not that bad. It's just palm's not that bad. It's unethical. Yeah, the harvesting of it is not great. I think they're like tearing down the rainforest and stuff. Palm is similar to coconut oil. When you're heating stuff, you want to think of the polyunsaturated fats because that's what oxidizes at high heats. So if you have like tallow, it's almost entirely saturated fat, which is really resistant to heating. So you can like cook stuff at really high temperatures and tallow and coconut oil and it doesn't really do much harm to it. Things that are not as stable to heat like flaxseed oil is the worst. It will like start oxidizing just at room temperature in a lighted room. But then what about olive oil? Olive oil isn't great to heat really high. It has like a few grams of polyunsaturated fat per tablespoon, I think. Because they do olive oil in restaurants, right? I would think. Mostly they do canola oil. Sometimes they'll do clarified butter, which is best. But usually they're just looking for the cheapest stuff, which is canola oil. This would be an oil. Yeah, I would just assume anytime you get takeout stuff, it's always going to be vegetable oil. Unless there's like a few exceptions. Buffalo Wild Wings, Five Guys uses peanut oil, which isn't great, but it's better than canola oil. Yeah, I don't know why they use peanut oil because so many people have allergies. Yeah, that's funny. So I'm packing the kid's snacks for a pickup. And I'm going to give them some of these pork rinds I just got. And string cheese, and that'll be the perfect snack. And then I remember that this is an incredible snack I used to eat and I love. So just pork rinds dipped in cream cheese. And if you get the whipped kind, it's just so much better. Hi. I need some basil. Can you pick me some? I have a question for any of you gardeners. Check this out. These are tomato plants. Ignore these two. This is a different type. But these seven right here, and these three, all were the same germination date. They all started in little one by one trays. I transplanted them, four of them to these square trays here, and then three of them to these large circular trays. Obviously these hold more soil. Look at the difference in size. All these three have done so much better than these four. And I can't figure out why. Is it just the size? I don't feel like they're fully like filling up the size of the tray to begin with. So I feel like the size shouldn't be a factor, but that's really the soil. The soil is the same. Everything is the same. Can't figure it out. Must be, I mean, the only difference is the size. So that must be, and these are clear. And this is black. Maybe like the roots are heating up more in the black. I don't know. There's more light exposure. Hard to say. Okay, give me some basil. Oh, I'm picking some basil, I guess. Basil's doing well. That's probably our best plant we got going. So I was doing some of the seed starting right out here. I dropped a bean right here. And look at it. It's growing up the rose bush all the way up to here. Wait, it's actually, it's up to, it's up to here. You dropped the seed, right? Yeah, dropped a seed right there. It's all the way up to here. I want to be hilarious if that's our best growing bean we have. Here's my basil. I'm prepping over here. There's just onion and bell pepper in them cooking down. And then I'm doing shrimp in like a coconut cream sauce. Here's the coconut. And then this is just all of the salt, pepper and three garlics minced up. If you guys do not have a garlic press, 100% get one. Right there is how you say it in Portuguese. It might just translate to creamy coconut shrimp. But I'm excited to make it and show you how it turns out. So the vegetable mixture's in there along with coconut milk, chicken broth, some ground ginger, some paprika, and an extra little bit of salt and pepper. And now I'm going to blend it and let's see how it turns out. We're going to have to bring it to a boil. So I'm just adding it back to the skillet. And there's my cooked shrimp. Here I have dinner going for the boys. So I found these little mini hot dogs that I got and I heated three for each. And then some carrots, hummus, and then this is some pita that I warmed up with some butter spread on it. So hopefully they will eat all of it. That's always the goal. So small portions I found for Theo and Felix at least works best, less intimidating. I think that's like a general rule for toddlers, picky eaters, just like give them a little bit and then, you know, it allows them to decide without feeling overwhelmed by the food on their plate, which is very different from adulthood. I feel like if I don't have a lot of food on my plate, then I'm overwhelmed. So like that would be like, well, where's the rest? I would be like upset. I think one of the coolest things I find and enjoy about children in general is that they are so well regulated, like it comes so easy and natural for them. Like we're born with hormones that tell us when we're hungry and when we're full and when to stop and like we listen to them. And so I think it also depends on the food. So like Felix with candy could probably just go on and on, but Theo couldn't. Like he would eat half a popsicle or like take one bite of a cupcake and then he's good, which is very cool. And I tried to mirror that. I tried to like just note that, you know, they eat when they're hungry and they stop when they're full and we all start off like that and then somewhere along the line it gets a little messed up, but that's okay because we can always find our footing again. It'S4.45, Matt should be home any minute with the boys and then we'll eat and we'll chill out and probably go outside and check on the garden and just play with the cats. So we'll see you soon. I'll show you what Matt and I are having for dinner too. You're welcome, sweet boy. Oh my god, they're so cute. I love them. Oh, we should hang this one up. We should hang both up. So I looked up rice bran oil. It's the whole yummy yummy yummy. You have to acknowledge them. It's the whole grain of rice like the brown. So obviously here we like white rice like in America basically everyone likes white rice so they decided to like figure out a way to sell the brown. Oh, that's terrible. That's what they do. They come up with ways to like repackage the byproducts that people don't want and put it in stuff. We're watching Moana. Yeah, we watch a lot of Pixar and Disney movies. They're all like pretty decent. The one that I don't get that was such a big sensation is frozen. Yeah, it's really boring. I haven't seen Luca. She was Luca. It's really good. Here's my dinner. Got this bread here and this. Good spice, good flavor. Good. Nice and fresh. Nice fresh taste. Yeah, that's what I was surprised about. It looks like a curry, but it's not at all. Fresh. Yeah. And I'm also going to have a lot of this cream sauce. One second. But I'm putting it over a salad. I'm excited. So I just have a lot more volume and crunch. What? Daddy's wondering when's bedtime? Theo wouldn't like try climbing out of this crib and stuff, right? Yeah, we moved it down. Yeah, so Theo, hey, no. So, Fifi is way older than Theo was when Theo moved out of the crib. Fifi just doesn't acknowledge that like he can get out of the crib at all. He just sits there and wait. I feel like that's kind of a bad sign for like his... No, he has a big brother who comes and gets him. His drive is an individual. And I think these things you learn about them as little babies like perpetuates throughout their life. Doesn't like the marshmallows have... Which I heard recently was fake. Yeah. What do you mean? Why would it be fake? I think it never happened or like the results weren't what we were told or something about it is maybe fake. We should try it with our kids. No, we're not going to make fun. Right there. Here's the rule. These are marshmallows. Yummy, right? I'm going to put one marshmallow right here. Now, don't eat it. If you don't eat it and I come back in two minutes, you'll get two marshmallows. Okay? So, leave it right here. Don't touch. Do two marshmallows? Yeah. Okay. I'll be back in two minutes. You can get two more. No, don't eat it yet. Only because if you eat it yet, no two marshmallows. Big, or do you tap on it? No, don't eat it. No, no, no. Daddy, so, we're going to get it here. We're going to eat one more, so I put it away. Is it good? Okay, eat it. I'm going to eat it twice a day. You're going to get an extra treat too. Good job. Is it yummy? Yeah. See if he's getting ready to go to bed. He's had this band-aid on for two days now. Oh, that was a new one. Oh, he loves his band-aids. Time to go to bed for the night? We are ready. Wait, wait, wait. Be gentle. Bye. Bye-bye.

=== FILE: Our plan for the future of our channel (and lives)... [lBeYzN-ooJs].txt ===

 Good morning. Kids are sleeping, making them breakfast. Yummy. Dipping eggy, one of the favorites of theirs. Matt makes my coffee in the morning lately, and my mom a bear cup, because he's my sweet Papa bear. We've both been doing no dairy for like, for me, it's just been like four days, so I found this. And I'm becoming a master gardener. It's my new thing. Yeah, we have a lot to show you. I've never, like growing stuff is harder than you'd think. Some stuff has died on me, the watermelon died. I don't know what happened with that. I think I put it in some soil that was not, like there's no nutrients in it, just like, it grew a little, and then it just stopped for like a month, and then it died. So this is some bread mega-made. Yeah, I made this loaf yesterday. I wanted to try focaccia. That's why it has all those holes. The boys really liked it too. It's pretty delicious. Look who's awake. Good morning. Can you show everyone your tattoo we did last night? Fishy. How's your breakfast? OK. He's eating his eggs and just holding onto the bread. Felix is almost two. Theo's almost how old? Three. No, you are three. How old are you going to be? Four. Almost four. You want to tell everyone what happened? What happened? Fell off the treadmill yesterday. I think it was scarier than it was actually, like, bad. Oh, boy. Why, Peepie? Get out of there. Get your foot out. Keep it in, please. Last week? That was funny. I gave him peanut butter and carrots for the first time, and he liked it. But he, like, rolled over and just rolled right into the peanut butter and his entire back was just a big, I'm like, why do you eat these things? That was fun. That was fun. Ew. Wait. This guy's just an animal. Dad is getting attacked by monsters. I don't have shorts on. OK. Oh, wait. Theo, chill. OK, here's Matthew's bowl. I did the kale and the bacon first, and then I just put the eggs on top, scrambled, and then there's a bunch of cut up kale here, the rest of it, that I am going to use for my scramble next. That's what mine will also look like. And here is my scramble, kale at the bottom, couple eggs on top, and I just cut up some fresh tomato. I've been finding these heirloom tomatoes that I really think are just beautiful. So that is breakfast. I'm going to enjoy that and then just do some cleaning and some things around the house. I'm going to add these. They are just dry toasted pine nuts or just raw pine nuts. I've been getting where I find them. These ones are from Trader Joe's, and they're so good. I've been obsessed with pine nuts since we got back from Michigan because Matt's mom put them on this kale salad she made, and I was like, these are delicious. So I've been putting pine nuts and everything. I feel like their flavor profile is just so good. Toasty, obviously because they're toasted. Like a buttery, they're pretty sharp, nutty, earthy, great in salads, great in scramble. I feel like they're great in everything. Pasta is if you're, you know, whatever you're doing. I feel like for me, what I'm struggling with lately, if I eat a meal like this, it's all very soft, and I just, I need like that crunch, that like a texture balance, I guess. And so afterwards I'm like, oh, I need like something crunchy. So like, even if it's just like rock arts or something. But if I ensure that like all of my meals have several different textures, then I think I'm just more satisfied and like the right spices. So like, it can't be too bland. So I've been using like hot sauce more regularly and that just, it kind of just satisfies me more. Sometimes it can be tough to feel entirely satisfied when you're surrounded by so many snacks or you have kids in the house or just always snacking and you have all these like different goodies, I guess. So just making sure that your meals are one large enough to dense enough. I've been doing a lot of big salads, but I'm also making sure like I'm using enough olive oil. So there's a lot of fat in there. Quantity sometimes, right? That's totally fine, especially with like, when you're doing a lot of veggies, but also like you want something dense and then something just like satisfying, like on a like palatable flavor profile wise. Yeah, so just think about that. And maybe that'll help you just like, enjoy your meals a little more, slowing it down, eating it. Hi. Hi, Molly. Come here, sweet girl. Come say hi. Hi. Oh, princess. Since she's been an outdoor cat, she's been loving life and she's actually lost some weight. So she's just been so active. Someone's getting a workout in, listening to her erotic novels. It's not erotic. And I cleaned up the garage recently. It's so easy to make things very dirty again. You got this road bike a while ago. I don't know if I've been updating you, but I had a goal to run an ultramarathon, which I was on pretty good pace to do. I got plantar fasciitis like really bad in both my feet because I upped my miles way too quickly. Probably that's on the back burner for a while because plantar fasciitis, it just like never goes away or it's like really hard to get rid of. I went hiking for like a three day, maybe 30 miles of hiking thing. And it came back like right away. So not great. And I'm planning my fall garden right now. And we've been making less videos lately, probably one a month or so. Probably gonna continue more on that type of a schedule or should we do more of one? Well, I think we'll probably ramp up one. We've decided to move and like we start living in Michigan. We might have a second chapter and the channel will transition a little bit. We have a loose plan. We haven't told you, but I alluded to something, some big changes happening. We're gonna move to Michigan by my family, which we realized family is important for the kids to have like interaction. And like, I feel like a lot of having a big family around is like there's like a lot of pressures on the kids like behave properly and not just like, you know, become like delinquents and stuff. When it's just too you too, and you're kind of isolated, you don't have like a lot of family around. Stuff just gets a lot of control. So the plan is to move to Michigan and have some farm animals and a garden and stuff. So that tends to the gardening experimentation right now. I thought gardening would be a lot easier than it actually is. So I got some new stuff sprouting here. It hasn't sprouted yet. I have a rosemary lavender, whole beans or something. I just went and asked the guy, what grows good at this time of year in this climate? Chives, and then this is store bought blueberries. I'm trying to see if I can get any sprouts going from them. And then here I have some Mary gold. I think it's called Mary gold, I think. My grandpa dries out his Mary gold every year and he gave me some of those. And I'm about 80% of the way done reading Infinite Jest by David Foster Wallace. I told you guys about that last time, last video. Really exceptional, I love it. I've read actually a lot of his other writings. Now I have like almost everything he's written. Very just amazing mind. I read a bunch of his nonfiction stories because he was also a journalist. And I've listened to like all of his interviews on YouTube, pretty amazing guy. Some authors, when you read them, you're really kind of like interfacing with them in your mind and you form like kind of a relationship with them. He's like probably the best example of that I've come across. So this is what I got going out here. Still have some room, some more room in these beds. Though I still have this original corn, popcorn that the boys wanted to try growing. The only thing is that they're cross pollinated. So I think you usually should have at least four of these for them to even pollinate so that they fruit. Skeptical that these are gonna produce anything. I got some basil. I got this tomato plant that's getting some flowers there. And then this strawberry plant. This is a poblano pepper plant. And I'm thinking of where I have more space to grow. I was thinking maybe right here, I could get rid of this bush, try doing some stuff in the ground. Cause the issue with our house is we only get light in the front yard. And then over here, it gets too flooded. So I can't really plant a lot of stuff over here. Cause I gotta work, I gotta figure out the drainage. Kind of a fiasco. And we have a sponsor for today's video. It is Element Electrolytes. Easily the best electrolytes you're gonna find, especially if you're on a keto diet, low carb diet, because they have very little carbs. One to two grams of carbs per pouch. And you can compare these to other electrolytes you can find in the store. 1,000 milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, 60 milligrams of magnesium. You're not really gonna find that anywhere else. Especially like your sports drinks and stuff that are marketed as being filled with electrolytes. They really have no electrolytes to speak of barely. Mostly sugar, which is not an electrolyte. Probably the best thing about these is they actually taste really good. And we do have a special offer for you. If you click the link down below, or you go to drinkelement.com slash keto connect, you will get a free sampler pack with your purchase. So you'll get a sampler pack of all their flavors. And you can try them all for the next time. So you can reorder the one that you like best. So thanks to Element for sponsoring the video. Check out the link below, back to the video. It is 1.30 and I'm a little hungry. So I made a salad, cause I don't think I'll be able to make it all the way to dinner. And I'd rather just have something than like beating it out of the kitchen snacking. So I made a small salad with a veggie burger on top. And in it is arugula, romaine, cucumber that I cut up. The boys have been loving cucumber. So we have a lot in the house. And then this is the dressing. I did some red wine vinegar, some Dijon mustard, and then this green dragon hot sauce from Trader Joe's. It's super good. I highly recommend it. All right, mid afternoon snack time. I have this cod liver can, getting them from Amazon, three bucks each. Pretty good deal, especially for as much nutrients as is in here. And one of these protein bars, vital proteins. We got them lying around, might as well eat them. They're not really my fave. All right guys, I've prepped dinner here cause Matthew just left. It's almost four, so he's picking up the boys. And I've also got the kids dinner. So I'm gonna steam some broccoli. We got some baby corn. I already steamed and cut up green onion. And this is the steak that I marinated. It was a New York strip. I cut off the fat and then I sliced it against the grain and just marinated it in some coconut aminos, rice wine vinegar, a little bit of sesame oil, and a lot of garlic that I minced up. And the boys have a quesadilla. They're also gonna do a hot dog. I'm gonna cut that up. And then I did some baby corn in butter and salt. They love corn, so I'm hoping that they love baby corn. And then I'm gonna cut up a bunch of cucumber with white sauce I'm thinking for their dinner. This is all steamed, so I'm gonna add. I also cooked the meat and I took it off. And this is two like ginger garlic pods. Hi sweet boy! Hi! Hi! Oh, hi! Mommy, what is that? It's all just trash. Mommy did some summer cleaning. Hi! Hi sweet boy! What are you making? Dinner. Hi Angel! We filmed a vlog for a Keto YouTube channel where episode of Hoarder is buried alive. Here is their dinner. Oh, that's baby corn. Did you ever have baby corn before? Never! Is it yucky? No, it's yummy. Is it the same quality we eat? It's just like corn but baby. Mmm! Mmm! Good! Good? Mmm! I would like it. Mmm! Look, it's cracking. But it's not what I like. Guys, come over here. Dinner is served. Becca's really been cooking up a lot of fancy stuff lately. She's been watching. She's been watching a lot of cooking shows. What? Pet her! After dinner snack, I found this at Sprouts. And it's actually really good. It doesn't taste like... I don't know. It doesn't taste too coconut-y. It's like a really good substitute for dairy yogurt. And then I made some granola. One last week, I think. So I've just been having yogurt and granola. It's like a nice snack or breakfast. Oh boy. So that's that. Okay, time for a bath. Felix is really tired. He's pure delirium mode. He just moses around like this until bedtime. Bath time. Yeah. Really showing off some thigh there. Mm. Yeah, they go up for the bath. They get their milks. And then I go up and we shut the house down. That's it. That's a full day of eating. Thanks for joining us. We'll see you next time. Bye-bye! Bye-bye!

=== FILE: Raising Baby Chicks for the First Time [bqiPEThJkWc].txt ===

 UiH But if you guys want to see more full days of eating, you're not 100% keto anymore. Let us do them alone. We can still do that. Just got a call from the post office. And they said, make the chicken man with you. And he's going to come by now. Theo's home from school because he's sick. He is really sick though. Yeah, started throwing up at 1 a.m. We were up until about 5. He goes twice a week, so he's not missing much. But yeah, we're going to go to the post office. Our chickies just got here, so they're like a couple days old, right? They're two days old. Oh my God, that's like right out the womb. And Matthew fermented some grain. Chick food. Oh yeah. I tried to. I don't exactly know what I'm doing. I'm building the chicken coop as we speak. But they don't go in the chicken coop right away. They go in the basement in a little... We'll show you. But they'll be inside for about 8 weeks. I'm not sure exactly how long. I got to double check on that. I keep telling everyone 8 weeks though. Probably something like that. You give me like 4 facts, and I'm a chicken expert. Okay, let's go check out the setup for the chicks. These little like pebbles that they need to digest food, to like grind it up. I think worms are kind of the same way. Like they need some... They just eat rocks. It helps them grind up their food. Okay. What's the chicken coop? This is their home. I built this lid. I can build stuff now. For 8 weeks. Apparently they're just like very messy, and like... Yeah. They'll poop and everything. So like... That's what my dad was asking. He was like, so they're just gonna walk around and sleep in their poop? Yeah. My response to my dad whenever he asks any questions, they've been doing this for thousands of years. Yeah. That's kind of the way I think about it. But they're very domesticated now, so you know, they don't really have their survival instincts as much. And then the main thing they need... I gotta get the light. I gotta figure out how to get that going. This is our basement. That's our water softener. That's Matthew's bike. He used to bike. Now he farms. The worms are in here. I won't open it, but they're in here. There's a lot of them. They do escape. The light. So apparently with this, this is a huge hazard. If this falls down in the wood chips, it burns your house down. Oh. So you can't let that happen. Well, you left the candle going all night last night, so we're practicing. I'll do that once we get them. Let's do this. So I think when you get a package of chicks, sometimes some of them are dead. Why? Because they don't make it on the journey. They could all be dead. Probably not. I talked to someone who all their chickens died. Really? Yeah. You can get them a tractor supply, which we learned after. I ordered these from Cackle Hatchery or something online. I forget how I came to that, but I did a little research and decided that this seemed like a good one. Oh, I think because I was looking at another one, that most people get them from. It's like McMurray Hatchery or something. To get the chickens in March, you needed to order like 25 or more or something or 50 or more. So this place had smaller amounts. So that leprechauns come in and those leprechauns do like some tricks on their chickens or dogs, you know. Oh, no. Maybe the leprechauns will eat all the chicken food. Leprechauns is a big thing at home for these days. What happened last night with the leprechaun? Took my money pack. So that means he's real. Also, our neighbor has six chickens. So, and they're all over our yard only. So 10% of groups of chickens is the roosters. I think if you have a flock, yeah, they usually say like a 10 to 1 ratio, but I think it varies by the breed. Also, it seems like from what I read, there's a 90% sexing accuracy. So we have 15 or 14 female hens, hens they call them. We have 14 hens coming. So there's likelihood that one of those is also, at least one is going to be, probably be a rooster. But we wanted a rooster. So we might have two roosters, right? Yep. Will they fight to death? Roosters can't live with each other, can they? I think two roosters for a flock of like 15 might not be the worst case scenario, but I don't, I have no idea. I've already invited multiple people to a rooster dinner. Listen. That's the sound. I hear them! Do you hear them? Whoa! Do you know a rooster? You're not going to be able to tell which one's a rooster yet. They're so beautiful! This one has a little green mark on its head. I know, I see. Maybe that's the rooster part? No, no, no. Oh, yeah, that might be. Yeah, you're right. Look, you're going to take it. And you're going to dip their beak in the water. Not yet, Theo. What about the food? I don't know. Maybe I should do the food, too? Yeah, I think you should. Oh, they're going over to you. Whoa. They're so sweet and precious. Oh. And the little rooster. Oh, no, he's right there. I love keeping tabs on him. I'm already like manifesting what he's going to be, and he's going to be a very aggressive, possessive, mean rooster that we're going to have to eat eventually. I don't want to eat a rooster. Okay. I'm building the chicken coop as we speak, pouring concrete for my first time ever. Your dad. This is how your dad responded. Isn't that funny? My dad? Yeah. Yeah. He's like, where's the emoji with the heart eyes? And if you've ever met Matt's dad, he's not a heart eye emoji. here. Mom! Hello? Hi. A lot harder than I thought it'd be. Oh, we have one of these. Yeah, I needed it. I just got it today. I'm trying to level the foundation, which I thought was not a huge consideration, but apparently it is a huge one. I don't know. I was going to do two concrete posts here, and that would be... because the wind gets pretty, pretty windy here. I mean, trees fall over, so yeah. Extremely windy, I would say. But I dug down there, and there's like some kind of pipe or wire or something, which you're supposed to call before you dig, they say. But I didn't break it, but I just, we're not going to be able to do a post there. Where is the wire? It's down like maybe six inches or a foot. Did you see it, and then you covered it up? Yeah. So I'm digging down, and I'm going to do one concrete support here, and then all the rest will just be sitting on the ground. So what I'm building is a four by eight hen house, and then the run will be about, you know, like maybe twice as big, which the run is not as big as it should be for as many chickens as we have, but we're going to let them loose a fair bit is my long-term plan. Learn as you go. Like right now, I just learned, I was like, I saw at the start, I'm like, maybe I need one of those post hole digger things. But I was like, no, no problem. I can just dig with something like this. But it's not for digging, I realize. It's for getting the dirt out of the bottom, because you can't do it with a shovel unless you're just going to be here all day like this. Yeah. But I think that's a lot better. Maybe. Is it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. That's one thing about the country. You depend on your neighbors more, I guess, right? You can depend on your neighbors more. Yeah. Our neighbors don't really depend on anyone but themselves, and eventually I think we'd get there, right? No, but I mean, you're like living in the same environment, so it's like, oh, I saw a coyote. There's, you know, beware. You look out for one another for sure. One thing I've learned about building stuff in my three months of doing it is they literally have like a tool that makes everything easier. So like this right here I found. It's a post-leveler, specifically for this exact thing I'm doing. Are things good enough, or does it have to be exact? Is it like baking or cooking? Like within maybe an inch or something? I don't even know. Half inch maybe would be fine. Yeah, it looks like more perfect than perfect. That looks level. Yeah. So I got quick setting concrete. I've never used concrete before. Now I just pour the concrete in, I think. The dry? Yeah. And then you add water? Yeah. And you mix it in the hole? I think it absorbs it really well. You don't even have to mix it much. Mom. Okay, there you go. Thank you. There's people out there who put all this stuff away, right? Going to bed? Yeah, I'm gonna. You didn't last night. It's gonna rain tonight, I think, maybe. Oh. Rain's the only reason, though, right? Yeah. I wouldn't put this away if it was not gonna rain. Laid the concrete. Should we check in on the chickies one last time? Yeah. Did you name any of them yet? Yeah. What? I named one apple, cutie pie. Apple and cutie pie? Yeah. Can you unlock it? Yeah. Here, kids. Hey. I walked you out there, kids. That's a good trick. Oh, it smells delicious in here. But it also smells like my husband didn't eat any food. Here we go. I did. When you slave over a meal. When your husband specifically says Indian food. I tried my hardest thing. Then why did you say, babe, did I work a lot? I'm working a lot. I just want a pizza, a lot of beer, and a burger. I work all day like this a lot, so I didn't know. Well, now we know. You're just gonna eat basic American food. And we moved to Michigan, of all places. It's a great place. No, they think chili pie is like authentic cuisine. What is the word non-authentic like? Not erotic. What do we got here? Starting seeds. I already started our onions, and the germination rate was not great. Parsley. Cabbage. That's brussel sprouts. This is lettuce. Kale. This guy's just going to town on the dirt. He stomped on his leash. And I'm doing soil blocks for the first time ever. It's a block of soil. Well, I messed up. That keeps its form, and then you're gonna put the soil blocks in these trays, right? And you plant it directly into the garden. So there's no pot or anything. Shouldn't be doing this in the kitchen. Nope. You shouldn't be. What's the good one? What? Perfect. Perfect. That is perfect. That one's not perfect. Here's my soil blocks. Came out pretty good. You think they came out good? Well, this one came out bad. This one came out bad. This one came out bad. Okay. That's it for today. Who wants to see the chickies? You guys got to come up with more names, okay? Okay. I want... White. Oh, good one. I want Brayson. Brayson? Yeah. Chickies! Yay, chickies! Mommy! No, no, no. Bye, baby. Hold it. Hold it. No, no, no. Not you. It's for Fifi right now, Theo. No, Theo, no. What's happened to his paw? No, no, no. Is his paw dead? No. That's too rough, Theo. They seem to be doing really good. Yeah, they seem pretty happy. They're active. They're... Super hungry. Yeah. They're eating a lot. It's been a long day, but... We welcomed 14 new family members. Is it 14 or 15? Might be 15. 15 new family members, and we love them. We did our first cement pour. Matthew did. I take all credit now. Do we have a good day? Yeah, we have a super good day. Come up with one more name. What do you got? This is a good one. Carlo. No, apple pie. Apple pie. A lot of pies we're going to have then. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye, alligator. See you later, alligator. See you later, alligator, Mr. Pantangator. Bye-bye, alligator. Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi Noi No

=== FILE: We cut down a Christmas Tree for the first time... [M1UDybxwj8o].txt ===

 narnit надlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeit Look what's happening. What? It's snowing. Oh how pretty. Here's my breakfast. Three eggs, some bacon, and some Canadian bacon. We're coming out to look for our Christmas tree. Happy Christmas Eve. It's not Christmas Eve yet. Happy Christmas Eve. Let's look at our trees. We gotta pick one out. Check the selection. We can only pick a little one. There's the Christmas tree patch. There's a lot of them. What happened here? Like a bird died. Oh my goodness. Isn't that Christmas tree patch? Yeah. I can't even believe we have a... Oh boy. Oh my god, there's blood. There's a lot of hawks and stuff. There's even some bald eagles. No, that's Arlo. Come here. She never comes out this far. Oh, hi. Actually, what if Gwen killed the bird? How? Maybe. We got some little baby ones over there. Yeah. Too small. Yeah, one of these. No, I want a little one. Fine. But I'm out here. It's good. I'm just down here for a long time. You think that one's good? I like it. Theo's not opposed to it. Now we do this one because then we cut it right down there. Yeah, I guess this one's really good too. Just cut it higher up. Yeah, that one is really good. Yeah, I want to... Fine, Theo. You actually... That's a good one. How are we going to fit it for a front door? How? So probably like from right here up? Yeah. I love it. Do you like the tree? Do you like the tree? Wow! Spiderman shoes! Wow, really? Yeah. Fire! Okay, see what's your mom? Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Tito just like... Wow! Tito just like... Fire! Tito just like... Fire! Fire! Fire! We're having lunch right now. Felix is having some potatoes, leftover potatoes, a hard-boiled egg. He loves cutting his own egg. And then a little bit of sprinkles because that's how I had to get him to eat. And then Theo's having, trying some potatoes and then the... No, no, no. No, I'm not trying potatoes. My mom will put it on my plate if I want it. And then there's crackers, bread with cream cheese, and some Sam and Matthew grilled last night that he really likes. And then daddy has the tree coming in. Oh my gosh! Yeah, should I go? Should I open it a little bit big? Look! The floor! Two... Three... Two... This is huge! It's as big as the room itself. Guess what? What? There's something hidden in the Christmas trees out there. Oh! What? I saw it on the drone. What is it? I don't know. Some kind of mystery. It was pretty big. It looked like it was made of metal. It's way in the middle of all the Christmas trees out there. There's something. There's a one percent chance that it's some kind of treasure. I actually think there was two things. There was one big thing. At first I thought it was like a jeep or something. It was like pretty big. It's probably just some kind of garbage. Like I could only see it because I used the drone. We would never have known it's there. So it's in... if we cut down the tree, it's in the tree. No. It's not in the middle of an actual tree. Okay. It's in the middle of a grouping of trees. Okay, that's different. Getting up the Christmas tree was a huge ordeal. Way bigger than I thought it was. My huge feet. They're not that ripe. So I have to string it up. I've never had a real one. So this is my first time. But you grew up with one. So I thought maybe you would know what you're doing. I think this is bigger than any of my family's ever gotten. This guy's just becoming a farmhand. It was leaning a lot. So I had to string it to the wall with like a hook. Right there. Was it in there? No, it's not in there. Oh, wait, wait, wait. Oh, I see it. Okay. It's a little pokey. Be careful. There it is. Here's what we found. A little anticlimactic, but it is a Jeep. Just a kid's one. I thought it was bigger. And a sled. What'd you make for dinner? Tacos. So ground chicken, taco seasoning, fresh salsa that Matt said was disgusting. I did not say that. Lettuce. I look a lot. I got some jicama wraps. Haven't had these in a minute. I could eat like 70 of these. So I'm excited. And then we're also going to do some siete grain-free taco shells. Let's go. It never ends. Oh, what is it? What are you doing? I want ice cream man. What kind of ice cream do you want? Strawberry. Strawberry cheesecake. What kind? Strawberry cheesecake. What kind do you want? Strawberry cheesecake. Oh, you want poopy and apple? Oh no, you want chocolate, cheese? You know how they say like stay at home moms or like being a mom is the hardest job? Maybe it is. Yeah, it definitely is. It's actually like it's a different kind of hardness where it just like constantly is grinding on you and then it takes a lot like it takes a lot from you, but it gives nothing back. That's the hardest thing I think, right? Well, it does give a lot back in the long run. That's what like the people say that aren't really doing it every day. Night when he like falls asleep and he's like, love you mommy. Love you too. Fine. This was nice. Glad I had you. But yeah, day to day, it's just like survival mode. When you're asleep in bed and you're not with them and there's peace and quiet, you do. You feel like so, I feel really productive if my kids have had a really good day. Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee quesadilla that I made him for dinner and now he's drinking a smoothie. Felix, say goodnight, say bye-bye. Bye. Thanks for joining us. Let us know if you... Yeah, Theo turned the TV off. Let us know if you have any great Christmas traditions that you think we should start implementing. We like to do Crabby Eve, which I'm sure we'll talk about as it gets closer. No, more. That was good. That's enough. But yeah, I want to hear yours. So let us know down below. Okay. See you. Bye. Bye, Evelyn. If you guys listen, you're going to get to play with Santa.

=== FILE: We made a big mistake... [T_TjhYX9ONg].txt ===

! What are you doing? I'm doing my hair. Hi. What are you doing? I'm doing water. Welcome to our new house. We now live in Michigan. Sausage, banana, chippies. And Theo has a breakfast sandwich, which is egg cheese and a BUN and a banana. We've got some new rules in place in this house, like no eating in the living room. Matthew's been making my coffee every morning. Breakfast, right there. Right there. Right there. Thank you, Felix. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, thank you. What do you want for Christmas? My first. I want two things. My first is Matthew to cook me a very fancy dinner. And the second is, have you seen House To Musical? No, but I know about it a little bit. So yeah, Vanessa Hudgens and, um, what's his name? Mom. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. Anyway, um, you know the song we're soaring, we're flying? I want you to memorize the lyrics. What are all these noises? What is happening? The tires are going off. I'm making a loaf of bread and Dio's doing something. What? Daddy, how about we should make a book with Mommy to follow us? Got a new snow blower. Facebook Marketplace. I'm not good with engines either. You also can't say engines. And then just eat a riddle. We're making just like basic cookies that are easy to bake with the kids. I think it's like a butter sugar cookie and then we're going to put sprinkles on top. I got some crispy sprinkles from Trader Joe's and they don't have any dyes. So that's important. This is the foodie of the family. But like not good. Wait, why does he have a guns and roses sweatshirt? Dio picked it out for him. You know who bought that for him? Who? Your mom. That's it. That's it. Can you do that on all of them, please? Perfect. I made a garlic and herbs loaf this morning because I always go plain and the last loaf was pretty bland. So I was like, let me get some flavor in there. So you can see. Is there flavor in there? Yeah, you can see the herbs. Daddy's breakfast. I usually toast it but I left it plain with butter, two eggs, two sausages. We didn't have any bacon. We usually do bacon. We're big bacon people. Cookies. They do have. The kids touching the lens. Felix grabbed the whole camera. Christmas cookies. The kids helped and decorated them and then I left some plain ones for us. Felix is two and a half years old and he has never experienced Ohio State beating Michigan. Yeah. And later on, Mega will give a full channel update, the future of the channel. I sure will. Trying the bread and I got my Saints hat on, my favorite football team. Mega thought it was my favorite football team for some reason when it's actually like my least favorite. Is it a little undercooked? Is it sourdough? Or no? No, but it's proofed overnight. I've never proofed it for like 12 hours. Is it mad? No, it's good. Good bread. I made it. I go with breakfast. Eggs with cheese. And these, you finish it with. No, chili on top. Eggs and chili. Eggs and chili? That sounds really yummy. And a fork on bottom. Felix is finishing up his breakfast sausage. I reheated my coffee for the 20th time. Hi Daddy. Look at our glue gun. I love glue gun. Wow. We can hang it on the Christmas tree. This is their play room. We've been using Facebook Marketplace a lot. And then my office, which is a mess. I don't have any bookshelves, so I just have all my books on the floor. My plan is obviously to paint the walls because I don't know why it's yellow. I'm going to paint the walls like a very dark. I'm thinking like, I got some colors. This is the current leader in the clubhouse, Mountain Olive. But really any of the colors are really good. I'm going to paint the walls. I'm going to paint the walls. Mountain Olive. But really any of these, I'm going for like kind of like a dark office smoking room type of feel. I just picked like all the dark kind of cool looking ones. My plan is to hand make wall to wall, like the entire perimeter wall. All walls covered with bookshelves. The thing is I've never built a single thing in my entire life. So I'm learning that from the ground up. So that's my plan. Build bookshelves, build a chicken coop for the spring. Got a couple other things. I need to build like a workbench. So I got the preliminary tools for woodworking, like a drill, a driver, and a saw. And I'm going to start from there. See how it goes. We are having lunch. This camera angle is so bad. We're having chicken nuggets for lunch. I don't know how long it took us to even get actual filming with this camera. Megan has no idea how the cameras work. No, where is the other one? So she's standing all the way at the wall right now. This is the correct camera. 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. He ate 11 chicken nuggets. Grabbing gluten free chicken nuggets for lunch. Yeah, you were hoarding it in your locked office. I was charging it. I want to go and check on my compost pile. Oh. Got a bunch of leaves and grass and kitchen scraps and... What's the latest temp? That's how he eats and drinks. I've turned it over twice so far. Last time, it got up to 140. I thought I was going to have trouble figuring out how compost piles work. I got it. Got a thermometer in there. Somebody was going to take that. I tilled two garden plots. I'll go over garden stuff in a follow-up video maybe. But it's the middle of the winter, so not a lot of garden action going down. But we moved here and right before it got super cold, it was nice for like two weeks. So I plowed the gardens, staked them all out, measured out where they're going to be, cut down two trees. One of them was like 60, 70 feet tall. It was like this big around. Chainsaw and wedge. The scariest, coolest thing I've ever seen up close like that. Too falling. I didn't realize that getting it down a tree of that size and like cutting it up into pieces, transporting... Theo, we're talking. Stop. We're going to get a time out. And then transporting the wood to the wood shed and stuff. That's like an entire day, like a solid eight hour block. I got another video idea. Let me know if you think this is a good one. Pros, cons, or just like best and worst places to live. City, suburb, country. I've lived in the suburbs most of my life. Lived in the city for like two or three years, San Francisco. And the country for three weeks or about a month now. Yeah, I've lived in more cities and more suburbs than you know. More of a city girl, I would say. Oh yeah, we lived in Philadelphia for a year. Oh, you did too. Yeah. And Atlanta, so three. Oh yeah, Atlanta. So I've lived in the cities for like five years. So there's the house. Over here is my compost pile. And then this is where the garden plots are. I cut down this small tree. My dad helped me right there. And then that was the giant tree. There's still some branches and stuff over there. If you can see the stakes in the ground, is the garden plot. And there's another one equal size back there. So I got these kitchen scraps, which I put in the pile like once a week. So it's only at about 90 degrees right now. Probably has a lot to do with, I don't know, the coldness outside. But the last time I turned it, it took like four or five days to get up to 140. I think it'll just probably take longer since it's been so cold. Got my new tools in the mail. It was a great deal. I think it was 200 bucks for both of these. And then didn't you get something for free? And charger and two batteries. And one additional tool that you could choose for free. Yeah. And I chose a circular saw. Yeah, but other than what you have here, like Black Friday, Cyber Monday deals aren't really like deals like they used to be in my opinion. It seems like tools are really good deals on Black Friday. Yeah, that's like the one deal I feel like I've seen this year. A lot of the stuff they fake you out and it's actually like more sometimes. Yeah. And Amazon Prime, like the Prime day, it's always just like Amazon Firephone and stuff, which no one wants. Yeah, exactly. It's the worst stuff. And I'm going to have some lunch over here. I'm heating a soup that Matthew made me on Sunday. He's been making me some soups when I asked for it. And then it lasts me like partially through the week. Mushroom, chicken. And it's like a base of pureed carrots, onions and scallions and garlic. I've pureed it this time. I tried a new way. Yeah. And I like it. The flavor is a lot different. And then I added a ton of hot sauce. I've been on a hot sauce kick. This one I really love. Not too hot. Hopping errors aren't that spicy, but then this one, Matthew just got me. It's a chili hop in arrow, which I think is a lot more spicy. So I put like five drops of this in my bowl of soup. And it's a pretty, pretty good spice there. I'm starting to prep dinner. I'm going to do some Japanese sweet potatoes and then we're going to make an Asian chicken, like a general sauce style. So I got some marinade mixing here while the chicken breast are fine. And then Theo is outside with Matt doing some like work down at the garage. We're starting Theo very early with like the responsibility and the exposure of Felix as well, but more so Theo. It's been really helping just have a little more structure. This is our compost bucket. So much compost. Actually, first I'm going to melt some of this beef tallow in the pan. I'm going to pop it in the oven. The oven is already really hot. And then once the tallow has melted, I'll add the potatoes and toss. I heated up some sweet potato fries for Felix right now. And then Theo will probably be ready for a snack when he gets home. So Japanese sweet potatoes are incredible. Definitely my favorite potato. They're not always in stores. I feel like foods, I feel like carries them year round almost. I wonder, I feel like they probably grow in any climate, colder climate, but like potatoes can grow at any time. Even in the winter, I believe. I guess Matthew's the garden guy right now. But I'm going to go simple with the seasoning. Salt, pepper, a little onion, a little garlic. You don't even have to do anything. You can just bake it in the oven and then peel off the skin. And it's just a delicious fricking snack. They're just the perfect combo of sweet and savory. So if you like sweet potatoes, I don't really like sweet potatoes because they're so sweet. I prefer a real potato, but Japanese sweet potatoes are right in the middle. Mash, baked, just roasted. Any way you do it, you can't go wrong. That looks like Megas. But you can't really tell. There's two different foods here. Potatoes and chicken, it looks like. And then I have just the largest portion of dinner of all time. Kids are having a snack dinner. That's well balanced. Veggie, fruit, probably. I put it in my mouth and I chew it. Now I like. So they've got string cheese, mini pepperoni, one Japanese sweet potato, cucumber, hummus, and string cheese. And they're smoothies. Felix isn't as big of a meat eater as Theo is. And you can, and we've talked about this, you can tell. Tell. Based on how they were raised is what they enjoy now or what they kind of lean towards. Like Felix will randomly just be like, ice cream, yummy. I want ice cream. And I'm like, how did you have this train of thought? Like randomly, right? Like, I don't know, playing with bubbles and we're outside and there's a clown there. He'll just all this, you know, he just, he thinks about sweets a lot more. What's your favorite food? I think. Felix was only breastfed for like four months and Theo was for almost two years. So breastfeeding and then also my mom played a heavy hand in helping raise Felix. So he had a lot of screen time early on and like just snacks all day as opposed to like solid meals. Cause I was very sick last year. So I didn't, I wasn't really hands on with him unfortunately. And so he just a lot of junk. And good morning. It's the next morning. That is the end of our video. Hope you enjoyed it. Hope you like seeing all the new, new kind of stuff going on in our day to day. A lot of outdoor stuff, oddly, cause it's like super snowy outside, bitter cold. And now we're starting to do more outdoor stuff. So it's definitely not the way I would have gone, but here we are. And it's been really, really nice. The cats, they do have air tags because they both go out. Well, mainly she goes out and she loves hunting little things and climbing trees. And she's been loving the outdoors, but she always comes back when she's called. So that's really nice. They're still, they're still like babies. But yeah, we have transitioned a lot in our life at this point, moved up to Michigan, are experiencing the bitter cold in a way I never have. Our lives are kind of changing with the boys growing up, wanting to help out a lot more. With us just trying to slow it down. We're going to be transitioning out of Keto Connect. I mean, our channel now is not going to just be recipe videos. It's more going to be a sharing, going from like, at least for me, like I'm like a hardcore city girl, probably compared to a country person. So just going from a city to the country and seeing like how the transition feels, not only like physically and emotionally, but like what kind of tasks do I have to take on that? Like I never dreamed of doing. Matthew with the chopping wood, starting to build stuff, planning out the garden, just seeing it all into action is kind of a beautiful thing. And it allows me to see the vision. He's definitely more of like the creative director visionary type. And I'm more of like the, okay, I will, I will help make our dreams happen. So that's what we're trying to do. So I think it's just going to be Matt and Mega. So you guys can join us, follow along and guide us. Also, we can teach you hopefully that's, that's hopefully the goal. Get some warm socks, get a cup of coffee and join us. We have a lot to share. Thanks for joining us this time and seeing where we're at. Thanks for watching. This is Arlo. She doesn't really like to go out. He's a couch potato just like Felix. And then Gwen is Theo, very outdoorsy and curious. Get a lot of heated blankets. It's a good tip.

=== FILE: We're Leaving The Suburbs to Live on a Farm... [rDqgahpTFxg].txt ===

 Good morning! Good morning! Just me and Felix, because Theo's still sleeping. And we got some big news coming up. And I'm feeling a little sick. And I just bring in my bone broth. In his mama bear cup. He likes to keep it light in the morning. And he loves ears. Oh, yeah. The boys are having cereal. Uh-oh. What do you got here? What are you doing? Sit down, eat your cereal. I want to put it on here. Here's mama's signature espresso. Espresso. Espresso? Thank you. Good morning. They have some kind of like healthy cereal. What is it? It's three wishes. We do cereal, I feel like like once a month. And what's the big news? We are in the process of selling this house. We've already bought a home in Michigan. So we're moving. It's 10 acres. And it's beautiful. And you guys will definitely see it. We should be gone by Halloween. Ooh. What does a ghost do, Pipee? Ooh. Ooh. What are you guys going to be for Halloween? I'm going to be a minion. I'm going to be a minion dinosaur. We are going to be baby sharks. Baby sharks. So our house is all packed up mostly. We just always lived with this clean. It would be nice. Yeah, it's no clutter. Maybe we should next in our next house. Hey, Glanny. I'm going to have a hard boiled egg. I do at the beginning of the week. I just do a whole set of hard boiled eggs. And me and Felix go through them over the course of the week. So I'm just going to have one of these really quick. I'm going to kill it. Eat it. Gotta get the boys out the door. Oh my God. No, no, no, no. Okay. Thank you. Got a boo boo? No, my good. Your turn for what? My good. Where's your boo boo? It's spicy. Where? Oh, it's right there. I'm so sorry. You want some egg? No. This hot sauce from Trader Joe's is fantastic. And it's not too spicy. It's a really good flavor. It's a green dragon hot sauce. Now that I'm eating a lot of spicy food, I like to see what kind of peppers I enjoy eating. And Habanero is probably my favorite right now. They're spicy, but like, if you pair it with something sweet, it's just so good. Hi. The boys are off to school. You're wearing a hat? There's mama with all the stuff that boys need. And look what we have here. Four sail sign. And the garden's dying down a little. The sunflowers look like they're about to bloom. And despite this eggplant looking terrible, we actually got two eggplants off of it so far. And it looks like we're going to get a third. And our basil's going to seed. It looks beautiful though. Since we're going to be homesteading very soon, what's your number one? I think homesteading is not the appropriate term because, you know, we have like a nice house on the land. So it's not like really homesteading. It's not super remote either. My goal is... What's your number one tit? That's what I was saying. I don't have any tips. I have no idea what I'm doing. I'm a beginner. My goal is in five years to grow 80% of our own food maybe. Something like that. What are the main veggies we're going to be eating? Well, I mean, if you want calories, it has to be like corn and potatoes and beans, stuff like that. But we're going to do squashes on you. Yeah, squash is good. I'm going to be hunting for deer. I'm breaking it down. Do you want this on you? But I do have some questions that have come up. I'll hit you guys with later. On a scale of one real quick, wrap it up. A scale of one to ten. How manly are you? Manly. How manly am I? For my generation, I'm an eight out of ten. Oh, so you're going from eight to what? To ten? But if we're talking like my parents' generation, I'm more like a four. Yeah. If we're talking my grandparents, I'm probably like a one. So what is this new life we're about to take on? You're going to... It's going to increase your manliness, you think? Well, that's not the point of it. But yeah, I mean, to survive, you have to. You're going to give him a handy, you're going to hunt, doing everything that you set out not to do when you move to San Francisco. Yeah, exactly. Okay, see you later. The sponsor for this video is Element. And we love this electrolyte supplement. We drink it almost every day. And you can go to drinkelement.com slash keto connect to make your first order. And with that first order, you'll get a free sample pack of eight different flavors and then you can try them out, test which one you like for the next order. But we got orange, raspberry, citrus, and watermelon in this box right here. I love orange. That's my personal favorite. And what's great about this is there's a thousand milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, and 60 magnesium. Super delicious. I add it to a big water bottle and just drink it throughout the day and I'm ensuring that I'm getting my electrolytes after workouts just for long workdays while I'm on a low carb diet. So definitely check them out. Drinkelement.com slash keto connect. Make your order today. Okay, we ate a bunch of whole foods and I didn't get too much. Since we're moving in the next one to two months, we're trying to work through all of our meats. So we're not buying any meats. I did buy one meat. I just remembered it was on sale. There's so much stuff on sale at Whole Foods. The lettuce. I've been doing a salad for lunch every day, at least, you know, five times a week, which I like. The boys love bananas, all the boys. Butter. Some garbanzo beans. I've been doing lower protein in general and lower sodium better for my kidneys. So the garbanzo beans, or all the beans actually at Whole Foods in these containers, they're super low sodium, like basically none or 10 milligrams. I found this delicious dressing. It can be a marinade or a dressing, sesame ginger, and matched on a big ginger kick. And the ingredients are good. It's made with cold pressed olive oil. And I have my breakfast. Avocados are high in oxalates, so I can't really do that. Four pieces of bacon, three eggs, and avocado. Strawberries are still slightly in season. So we're trying to enjoy them while we can. So I'm going to wash these and cut these up. And then it's just easier. They're already pre-cut and washed in the fridge. Bacon. The Theo wants bacon for dinner. So we do a lot of bacon around the house. I don't eat it personally, but Theo and Matthew love bacon. Delicata's in season! My favorite. This is absolutely my favorite squash. We did butternut squash last night for dinner. And the boys loved it. So we're definitely going to be doing a lot of squash. I got some, we usually do bananas with a fruit. And these red pears looked and smelled really good. So I think Felix will like these. These pop, these are so cute. So they're called honey nut squash. No, honey nut butternut. I know honey nut is in the name and they're squashes. I think they're just like baby butternuts. And we're not doing these tonight because we're going to be doing all the corn I got. But I'm sure you can just look it up. I'm excited though. These are so cute! And probably super delicious. She's looking the package of the bacon. Okay, some kale for some scrambles. So that's what I'll probably do for my first actual meal. I got some high colored corn. And when we're getting all of these vegetables, fruit as well, we try to get anything grown in the U.S. as close to us as possible. So if something's local, even if we don't eat it like commonly, like I don't know, like a particular fruit, or you know, we haven't been doing a ton of tomatoes lately, but if they're like local, you know, Georgia tomatoes, we'll go out of our way to get those and then just enjoy them. So I got five tricolor corn here. They were on sale. I'm going to probably soak those and put them in the oven and then cut them off, cut them off the cob with butter and salt for the boys and all of us for tonight for dinner. So this is the one meat I got. Organic chicken breast. It was on sale. Some coconut milk. We do, obviously we do whole milk. That's our main staple for milk, but we've been cutting the bottom, like their milks with some coconut milk or you know, something or even just water because just, they've just been doing a lot of milk and we just want to like kind of dial back on that. Thea's been having tummy eggs. So the boys have been, you know, they're like growing together. So they're very naughty together and they're also very, you know, good together and they clean things together. They pick up after themselves. They'll help me with laundry. They'll, whatever, you know, they'll put their bottles in the fridge or put their dishes in the sink. Just little things like that that they've been doing. We've been doing like more of a reward system to offset the punishing like, you know, the timeouts because we do timeouts and just like listening like we do a countdown 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. And so if they've been good, you know, randomly, I'm like, okay, you guys have earned a gummy or earned something just to reinforce that behavior. At least we're trying with Thea. Whole Foods has Yum Earth brand. They have lollipops, gummy bears, jelly beans and, you know, all the other gummy bears, like all the other gummies or candies in general that aren't a particular brand like this or in a sold in a health store. They're going to have all those dyes like the red 40 and the colors come from natural fruits, which is nice. And they never have like a full packet because like a full package is 11 sugars, you know, isn't crazy considering what a lot of kids eat or maybe even what they give them at school with juices and stuff. But we'll do like, okay, you've earned one jelly bean or two jelly beans. Felix still really likes these pouches and they were on sale. Some fruits and some veggies in in like a tasty way. These popsicles, they're a little pricey, the king of pops, but they have like really yummy flavors that the boys love. Matthew loves these. The key lime pie is his favorite. All of the meat bars you could ask for, they were on sale. I only buy them in bulk like this one, they're on sale because they are expensive. And then we got some ginger puree. You do on ginger lately and 18 pack of eggs. And that's it. That's our haul. I am going to drink some more water. I'm going to do my run. I've been doing couch to 5k again. That really just like gives me like a goal. I only have to do it three times a week. It makes me feel good and I'm not a good runner. I don't have great stamina. I don't have great endurance, but this allows me to actually do a 20 to 30 minute run in intervals without fatiguing and I feel really good afterwards. So I'm slow, but I get the job done. Probably like a 17, 16 minute mile pace just for reference. But I was like running walk speed, but that's where I'm at. That's where I'm starting. All right guys, I just finished my run and this is my soup right here. There's mushrooms, carrots, onion, red and white onion, leeks, jalapenos. I got some raw jalapeno that I just tossed in there that Matt's parents actually grew. We have them right here. When I visited a couple weeks ago, they sent me home with a bunch of food they harvested. And so I've been trying to use it because it's just so much more exciting when it's like homegrown and then I used this veggie broth that I really like. That's super low sodium. Oh, there's some kidney beans and then just a couple pieces of chicken thigh that we had leftover that I didn't cook yesterday. So I'm going to actually probably have a bowl of this and have that for my lunch meal. Oh, I'm going to add some kale. And we're in the south. So now that we're moving up north, it's even colder than where I grew up in Philly. Oh right, I thought of Philly. Philly's probably like almost in full kick there. It's going to be a rough first winter. We're just like the plan was originally to move next summer. So we'd still get some warm, like maybe in May, like in the spring and then get the summer heat. But we're going balls to the wall right into the winter. So that's maybe not the best move, but I'm really excited for this move. It's more exciting than it is stressful. And that's a big part due to our new house. Just, oh, I'm so excited. I love it. I can't much show you guys. Yeah. Okay. I'm going to scoop myself a nice little bowl and I feel like I've talked a lot. So yeah, that's it. I'm going to add an egg to it though. So it'll give me a little protein, but not too much. Personally, one bowl is never enough. So I went back for a second serving, no egg this time. And I put a bunch of pine nuts on top. Love pine nuts. And honestly speaking, I am full. I'm full right now. So like, do I need the second bowl of soup? No. But I know that like, if I didn't, you know, I'm, I'm just like peckish. That's how I get after I eat. So I just have found that if I have that second serving or the second bowl of soup, or, you know, I have a plan snack or whatever afterwards, then I don't like find myself just in the pantry. I think a lot of people can relate to this, but you think about food so much. And so often I find that if I just eat what I want to eat until I'm really satiated that it takes it out of like, it takes the pressure off of it. And like, it's not a priority anymore. And I can just like focus on other more important things. Our basement actually looks pretty awesome now that it's empty. My plan is to allow whoever buys the house an option to buy the sona. I think it will be really hard to transport. But if they don't want it, I guess that's what we'll do. I just don't know if I'll ever get it back together. If I disassemble it, my cold plunge, I'm going to bring with me. I've probably been using the cold plunge more than the sona. They're both nice. I'm just thinking with the new house, like with some land, it might not be too hard to build like a little outdoor sona or something. So that's kind of why I want to sell it. And I've been slacking on my reading. I've been reading a little bit of Michel Wellbeck, who's a French author. I don't know. I don't love him, but he's okay. I've been reading Don DeLillo. I like him. He's pretty great probably like among my five favorite authors I've read or so. And then I'm just getting started on Thomas Pinchon. Pinchon. I don't know how you say his name, but he is allegedly one of the greats of the 20th century. This is not one of his best books, but I'm starting with something small because most of his books are huge. And you guys know that Frontier Lady? What's her name? Is her name Frontier Lady or something? The one with the cooking show who cooks for the Cowboys? Oh, Pioneer Woman. Pioneer Woman. Frontier. That's going to be mega. I hope so, man. I just wish we had more kids. So we have 10 acres of land and I guess we'll be there soon. Sooner than you know it by Halloween. So, but only about half of it is usable. So one long-term mission. I guess I'll get into this more when we actually get there, but I'm already like planning a lot. I'm basically already there. Reclaim the forest land. It's also like a forest and like a wetland type of situation. So it might be tough. We haven't really explored it. We haven't explored it fully. We have about five acres of usable land. Good area for a garden. Start with some chickens. Maybe move on to some bigger stuff. First dilemma. There's a huge black walnut tree. I think just one. Maybe more than one. I didn't see it. There's one pretty big one. There's two options for it. Leave it to grow and just produce. It's producing a lot of walnuts, which are good to have. It's probably like A-50-year-old tree or something. It's really big and it produces a lot of walnuts. I like walnuts. Walnuts are good. Yeah. The downside is that it poisons the land basically. So that's one of its competitive advantages. It kills all the other plants and you can't grow crops. I think it's even poisonous to some farm animals. So we should probably take it down. Yeah. So we could take it down. I think you can sell the wood for a lot. 10K. Maybe like $10,000 or maybe $5,000. It depends on the market at the time. But the wood is worth a ton of money for some reason. I think it's really good to build stuff with. Yeah. Walnut wood, people use it. It's beautiful. It's a good one, often, or we can just leave it to grow. I think a big part of our first few years meat harvesting is going to be deer because there's tons of deer in Michigan, tons of deer on our property. I think we can shoot deer on our property. Maybe, I don't know. I have to like... Well, there was a blind on the property. Yeah. The previous owners were doing it. So maybe you can do it. I don't know. I've never shot a deer. I've only shot a handgun like two weeks ago for the first time. So I'm learning that. So this is literally just all from the ground up starting from scratch. Yeah. Let us know if you want us to like get heavier in the vlogs with this. Oh, Megan can become one of those people that like wears American flags, bikinis, and like shoots like AR-15s. Instagram coming soon. Not a lot of Indian girls doing that. Yeah, they probably want blind. Yeah, I'm not. Yeah. For the guys who want that, I'm not their type. But if you guys have any thoughts, tips, you can comment and give us them. Yeah, please. Oh, and maybe we have to rename the channel to like Farm Connect. For Farmers. We can change it. First we'll change the standard American diet connect like many of you have suggested. And then we'll change it to Farmer Connect. Matt is about to pick the boys up. So this is their snack for after school. I've got some Betty straws there. Those are coconut oil ones. Some pork rinds. And then two little hidden, two of these jelly beans each. They each get two. They love when there's like a little sneaky surprise in there. I'm going to fold some laundry while I'm waiting for the boys to get home. I'm going to have this with half a bag from yesterday that I ate. I'm going to finish these off. The spicy ones are pretty good. Not overly spicy, but I like the cheese ones best. Look who's home from school. And his uniform looking beautiful. Feeling his corn. Oh, and then we got school boy Q over here. Mommy. Yeah, mama. Hi. Hi. Hi. My little kid I made. Whoa. Beautiful. Hey. Here, Pee-Pee. Hello. School boy Q. Mommy, look how Mr. Hale is. How are you doing, Felix? It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. It was good, good, good. job with the green goddess dressing and olive oil you got a boo boo on your mouth yep you fell hit his face hello my sweet boy what happened to you I know no in your mouth you got a boo boo money comes and goes but family is forever
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.450810Z ===
