What's up y'all? Hi guys. We are going to make Cinnamon Toast Crunch keto style. We just uh made it to test it out to make sure it was perfect. Where'd it go? It's right here. Don't show them that. Okay. Mega ate most of it. What's up, y'all? Oh, Bougie and Boogie in the foodie. See, it's like automatic. He says it all the time. I automatically say it. Um, we're also doing a meal prep giveaway. Our meal prep course closes tomorrow. And the way to win the giveaway, yeah, we said Cinnamon Toast Crunch. The way to win the giveaway is to guess the other ingredient that is in the Cinnamon Toast Crunch. Pork rind and one other item. If first person to guess it wins it. So, I guess we'll also kind of be keeping track. Yes. Got the oven preheating to 450 right now. So, this is going to be a lot of Well, cinnamon is in it, but I mean, there's like another big ingredient like Yeah. something that something that makes it substance cuz we ground up the pork rinds. We don't keep them whole. Yeah. Pork rinds are ground and formed together with one other ingredient. One thing. I like the guesses, but no one's gotten it yet. Butter is in it. So, we're getting closer. Oh, how loose are we willing to go with this? No one's going to guess exactly. No one's going to guess it. So then someone already said one word part of it. Keep guessing. Oh, egg. That could maybe work. We didn't try egg. Yeah, I think you're guessing too much. I'm not letting that one fly. Nope. Oh, peanut butter. X Factor, how was your Yeah, that's funny. How was your guys' Easter or just Sunday if you don't do Easter? Yeah, we didn't really do much Easter. We didn't eat a lot though. Or I did. Still crickets. Yeah, no one's gotten it yet. Love is in it, you guys. Love. It's huge. Nope. Closer. We're giving it What sounds like kind of cheese. We're giving it to AMHSPH. Cheese is the answer. Why? Well, cottage. It's not cottage cheese. Okay, fine. Cheese. Cheese wins it. Uh, email us ketoconnect@gmail.com and we'll send you the course. It's actually right here. It's queso defrier. So, it's frying Mexican cheese. You can also use queso fresco. It's Guys, this cereal is no joke. I just ate it with heavy whipping cream as milk cuz we didn't have milk. Um, it's super good. So, it takes about 30 minutes total in the oven. So, we're going to get it going right now. Do you want to do it? I'll entertain. So, so Megan's going to get this going. What's the ratio you think I should do? Uh, 2 oz of cheese to 1 oz pork rinds. And we are going to make this into a recipe, guys. But if you're watching right now, you can like get it a little early cuz we're not going to have this on our website for a while. I just put it on here and measure it. Oh. That's a lot. 1 oz. Yep. Yeah. Do a little less than that. There. And then 1 oz of this. Yep. No, 2 oz. So, get like 72 72ish the imitation vanilla all day. Who has the best Easter story? Did anyone get into like any uh family fights? Family fights. Yeah. We could get real vanilla, but then we're going to have to drop a check on vanilla. Bunch of ham. Nice. 56. So, right now we are combining the pork rind and queso fresco. Queso fresco is heavy. Yes, it is. Wait, how much you got in there? 56 gram. Okay. Hold up. Let me switch this. Can I switch the camera view? Yeah. Mhm. And you just Did you pulse it? Yeah. Oh, what's up, Dustin? Now you got to melt a tablespoon of butter and put a little imitation vanilla and cinnamon in there. What if we only have real vanilla? Doesn't work. Oh, hey Jennifer. Sorry guys. Shout out to the keto lawyers. Mega is almost a keto lawyer. If I was a lawyer, I would not be keto. Cocaine's not keto. Actually, I think we saw some like Madagascar vanilla uh a while ago, like for pretty cheap, right? Where did we see it? At Aldi or someone said at Aldi is cheap market. Oh yeah, that's what it was. Someone asked if we went to Penn State earlier. No, neither of us went to Penn State. Natasha fighting with the boyfriend so she can watch us right now. Mrs. Langdon. No. Costco for the vanilla. Yeah, we need to get a Costco membership. Whoa, whoa. First add the stevia and cinnamon. Chew this. Yeah. No, add the cinnamon just right in there. Just go wild with cinnamon. Yeah, the more the marrier. Good. Yeah. Then vanilla in here. Oh, vanilla taste test video. Good idea. Vanilla in here. Sure. That's a That's a tablespoon of melted butter. And then do about 25 or 30 drops stevia. Yeah. And then eyeball of vanilla. I love eyeballing vanilla. I don't know why. Oh, in here. I have to Google what imitation vanilla is made of. It's just made of I mean it says right on the bottle. propyline glycol, vanilla, vanilla, caramel color, sodium benzoate, phosphoric acid acid, and vanilla. That's what's on our vanilla. Sounds really good to me. Okay. Now, we are adding the butter, vanilla, stevia mixture. And then we're going to pulse it again. Is Riot Punch keto? Yes, it is. It's actually very keto, but I don't I don't know. I guess you have to sweeten it with something. Does the cheese have to be drained? Good question. I like It's probably best if you dampen it off a little bit since it is kind of damp, but it's it's fine. It's not really that wet of a cheese. Yeah. Um, this looks good. Do you want to do straight on this, Bill? We're not going to use any salt because the cheese is a little salty and that's already enough salt for And this is supposed to be like a sweet thing. Uh, I think we should do the bread pan again first with parchment. Yeah. It's relatively dry, but there is a little liquid in the packaging with the cheese. Yeah. Um, what cheese is it similar to? It's really not similar to anything. Um, it is similar to like a a paneer. like the kind of the the toughness of it. You want to watch show? Oh, how was the brownies? Uh, Emory amarna. Yeah, any kind of frying cheese is what it is. You can probably find it in the UK if you go to a Mexican grocery store if they have those. Do they even have Mexican grocery stores in the UK? I mean, there's Mexican people probably there. I don't know. Probably not. What did someone say? How much imitation vanilla can I consume before I'm kicked out of ketosis? Oh, that's that's would actually be really cool if we did uh a little demo cooking demo tour. We were going to do a cooking demo at Keto Fest, but some life stuff happened, so now we can't do it. Um, we're moving like at the same weekend that the Keto Fest is. And it's in Connecticut, so we're moving down south. It would just be like it would be crazy to go. Oh. So, guys, now we are pressing it out into a loaf pan with some parchment paper. It's hard with the parchment paper. You want to get it relatively thin. Dustin, Tampa was like the city we were considering between Tampa and Atlanta and we think Atlanta won. Do you live in Tampa, Dustin? Yeah, Dustin does. He doesn't seem like a Tampa person. I know, Jennifer. This is a lot of work for cereal. Uh, yeah. I think it's worth it. But imagine how they do it in like manufacturing companies, right? You might want to make a big batch. Yeah, we're using this cheese right here, Karen. Which is also good on its own if you guys just want to like pick some of this stuff up from the grocery store. It's pretty good. You can just like put it in a frying pan and it holds its form, but um it crisps up. Okay, so this is going to go in the oven. It's at 4:25 right now. For how long? It's going to go in the oven for about 20 minutes. Okay. Say bye. Yeah, we looked into KetoCon, Wimberly. Um, see, this is what it looks like in milk. It's been sitting for a really long time, but like it's legit. Is it still Is it still pretty hard or is it chewy? No, it's it's like a mixture. It's like that perfect still has a little crunch but still but soft at the same time. Um yeah, we were looking into KetoCon just recently. It'd be cool to go to I think our connection is poor. We have poor connection. Uh, Boogie and the Foodie. Yeah, we saw that recipe, the one on Ruled Me, the Cinnamon Toast Crunch. We wanted to like try making it better kind of. That's the inspiration for this recipe. Definitely. Oh, connection's fine. Cool. Um, I wanted to I would I think it'd be cool for I want to like try doing some speeches. It's like you know how people do keynote speeches. That's probably like a little bit out of my wheelhouse at this point, but I'd like to try it. What do you think about that? I think it'd be fun for us to like play off one another. Yeah, I I think cooking demo would be funner. More fun. Yeah, it would it would definitely be more of our comfort zone. Yeah. How was the recipe with peanut butter? That sounds great. We kind of inevitably end up matching our outfits like every day. Oh, we're like matching perfectly right now though. How was your first keto only week? Not a full week. First keto only week. You quit your job. Oh, it was incredible. Like I feel so hashtag blessed to big time. Like not like it's Sunday right now. Normally I have like that dreaded Sunday feeling like, "Oh, tomorrow's work." But tomorrow I just get to get up and do what I've been doing. And Matt's having deviated septum surgery tomorrow. Tomorrow. So he'll be like out of commission for a couple days. And that'll just give me time to just do stuff, which will be nice. Yeah. If you guys didn't know, Mega's last day of work was on Wednesday. Tuesday. Wednesday was my first day. I also did a day vlog. Matt just put it together. He's super dope at it. the best edited video I've ever done. Yeah. So, I'm excited for that to come out. Thanks. He He's not nervous about the surgery. He's excited about some pain meds, though. It's to the point where I just need Yeah, I'm excited about the pain meds, but I also just need to be able to breathe out of my nose. I can't deal with it at night anymore. Susan, join the Facebook group. Oh, someone hi. We already gave away the free meal prep course if you guys are wondering. And if you're interested, tomorrow is the last day to register. I'm going to be laying in a hospital bed, but you guys can still register until midnight. Thank you, Andrea. We love you all so much. Miley, she wants She's rubbing her face up against the poll right now. She's just saying hi to everyone. Should we tell them what's coming tomorrow? Let them in early since they're on our YouTube live. Oh, yeah. We got something cool tomorrow. Pretty cool, I think. Have you guys heard of Logan Delgado from Goody Beats? Got a vid. Yeah, we're doing a collab with him. It's a pretty It's a pretty chill vid. Um, we change it up a bit, so I hope hopefully that'll be awesome. Um, there's a final day for the course enrollment because it's the first like really big project we've ever done like this. So, we want to ensure that it's up to par and everyone's getting results. Yeah. So, if anyone like has question like every single question or concern is answered by us. Yeah. We want to get all these the first wave really good results like have them set up have uh just be able to devote time to them. So it'll open again in six weeks or a month, right? And then that there'll be like zero issues with any course if there are any. How much protein should you eat? That matters. Uh it matters on your body weight. So you have to give me that info. Do keto strips work? Not really. Mm- Is everything individualized? No. We have like a gen a generic setup, but then each meal plan can be scaled up or down for you. So, in a sense, it's customized and you can reach out with questions. We'll help you out. Exactly. Thanks. Yeah, that's what I always do. I always marathon YouTube channels. So, I I know what you're talking about when you say, "I watched 20 of your videos in a row. How did you manage with meals? Intermittent fasting, just same schedule with different meal portion sizes. Oh, like the two of us doing it together. Um, yeah, we just cook everything the same together and he'll just take mo more of the food. I'll take less of it. And when we work out, we basic we do the same routine. So eventually I will have Matt's body. I will be 6'4 and I'll be able to dunk. Mhm. That's the plan. I think the intermittent fisting inter gross the intermittent fasting video might be delayed a little bit because um because I'm getting the surgery tomorrow and then I'm going to be you know everyone like that. I want to be on the couch. I want to be on the couch for like two weeks. do some testing right now. Um, it's really simple to adjust. It's a system. It's re our meal prep course. Oh, yeah. Thanks. Yeah. Yeah. Guys, check out Boogie and the Foodie and the Food. It's not even Foodie. It should have been Boogie and the Foodie. It's not foodie. No, it's food. Boogie and the Foodie. Check out Boogie and the Food's channel. Um he has a channel and he also is hilarious on IG stories. He's like down to earth as crap. He's so awesome. Um the other day total failure made me cry. Good thing you ah don't don't like focus on things and don't let things like little things make you cry. You know if you have a cheat meal, cheat day, cheat weekend, whatever. Just move on guys. That's that's how you have to deal with everything in life. And dieting or like a lifestyle like this is one of those things. Just whatever, you know, that kind of thing. Yep. Um the Facebook group, if you're talking about our public Facebook group or like the the one that everyone's in is Keto Connection. Um if you're if you're in the course, I think you might have said you're in the course. We have a private Facebook group. It's Keto Meal Prep for Weight Loss course. Yeah. How do you sign up for the course? Go to our website, ketoconnect.net. Scroll about halfway down the page and there's a keto meal prep for weight loss image. You can click on it. Cobb Cobb salad is our joint. We eat that every day. Some variation on it. Yes, we do. Oh, tell them about the recipes we did this weekend. So, we made three different kinds, guys, of gelato. Um, so we made a coffee gelato, we made a mint chip, and a chocolate maple. So good. It's like dangerously good. Um, we also made what else? Oh, we made a beef stew. So good with radishes and carrots. What else did we make? We made spinach spinach artichoke dip, which is always easy and good. Um, oh, we made our 420 recipe. We made nachos, like steak nachos. Really good. Yeah, it's Yeah, we're definitely going to do a vid on the gelatoes. Yeah, we're gonna It might be a while till you guys get to see those cuz we got to do videos for a few of them. I mean, I can do the videos while you're No, if once Matt Matt is up to par, then we'll be hitting it hard. We're going to do We should announce the video in day now cuz it'll keep us accountable. People can keep us accountable. Do it. Okay, we're thinking about it. I think we're committing to it. No, we are. That's why I'm getting ahead and making so many recipes. Okay, so we are doing video a day May. Um, that's what's up. And I don't think we're going to get burnt out. We, you know, I don't know if Sexy Dance is on, but Sexy Dance commented on Twitter and said, I have a friend who did that. Got super burnt out. Yeah. And maybe that'll be the case, but we're not going to stop, you know, doing the three recipes and three videos a week, even if we do get a little burnt out. Yeah. You live in Atlanta, Dustin? Dustin said he's going to come visit. Oh, perfect. Um, how do we feel about intermittent fasting? We are proponents of it. Definitely to experiment with. Mega doesn't like it as much as I do. I don't do it. Keto meal prep for weight loss. Susan. Um, video a day. Yeah. So, we're thinking we'll probably do um like two or three recipes videos. Probably like two recipe videos a week. probably a couple just like info videos sitting on the couch type stuff and then more vlogs since Mega's doing this now. She'll have time to like just do vlogs. Yeah. Do you guys like the vlogs? I feel like it's not always providing maximum value, which I'm concerned about, but it's also I feel like I don't know. I mean, yeah. It's it's it's giving insight into our life. Yeah. So, do you guys care enough to like know about us? I guess that's the question, right? Know what we're doing on a day-to-day, but it's always al always ketocon related. Yeah, I like doing it. It's fun, but I feel like a little bit like self-important doing it also. Yeah, I guess that's the only downside. Yeah, thanks Dustin. Yeah. 16A intermittent fasting. Why did you start your channel? Great question. I don't think we've ever gotten asked this before. Um, we started our channel. So, we started a food blog, ketoconnect.net. That was like our goal. That was what we wanted to do. We wanted to see if we could make it work as a food blog. Like what that's like, like internet business. That was our thought. We thought of it as a business like right from the start. Mhm. Um, and then we were thinking YouTube channel as a traffic source to our blog. That was the first thing, but we just kind of like doing YouTube videos now. Yeah, we So, I'm more of like a talker and a presence and Matt has become one too as a like I'm not great at writing and I'm doing all the blog posts which is funny, but um it's not my strong suit. My strong suit is this like connecting with people. So, it kind of worked out that we built an audience on YouTube and we enjoyed it. So, we kind of just stuck with it. Yeah. Now, we just we would continue doing this even if we didn't have a um food blog. Food blog. Yeah. Now, we like it. We always liked it. It was just like hard for us at at the start. Like our first videos were really bad, which is everyone. Yeah, that's everyone. That's everyone with everything, guys. That's what I've realized lately. I've been watching all these all these YouTube videos that go through a rapper's career like from their first song till with current and all of them are terrible at the start. It's it's really like inspirational when you see these guys that are amazing now how bad they were at the start. They just they just never gave up. They just kept doing it. You feel tired on keto. How long have you been at it? Good question. Fastest way to satisfy your sweet tooth is to just power through and kill it by not feeding it. I think mega smash. It's Easter today. What's your guys' Easter traditions? I think we got like five more minutes on this. Yeah. Um I don't know how to kick off trolls. I didn't think that was possible, right? Isn't this kind of open to like whoever cuz it's public? Uh argue and eat ham. That's the best. Any good arguments? I always get into arguments with my family about like healthc care politics. I mean, I think that's the norm. Yeah. Oh, devild eggs. That would have been good, too. I should have done that. Easter egg hunts and naps. That's Yeah, that's what my Easter used to always be. That's fun. Yeah, I know. Same with my family. Every holiday tradition is eat food. I actually don't worship any gods, Hulk smash, but that's nice of you to ask. How many gods does she worship? Austin, Texas. How do you like Austin, Texas? Susan White House. Um, email us and I'll just add you to the group. ketoconnect@gmail.com. Is she looking for what group? Our meal prep, of course. It's in like the third or fourth video in the course, too. It's below the video. Yeah, the keto chocolate cake from Headbangers Kitchen is good. It's amazing. Hi, in Canada. I've never I want to go to Canada outside of Niagara Falls. I've never actually done that. Yeah, I want to go to Montreal. How how much longer on the cereal? Couple minutes. I'm not Hindu actually. Nope. She's just Indian. Why would you even say I'm Indian? I would have just I could say Hispanic. I get that. Thank you, Wimberly. I like that name. One of Boogie Boogie's cousins was uh had to hide the eggs and he buried them on the roof. You know what's funny? If I could be any character from Marvel or DC, I would be Hulk. And the person who's trolling's name is Hulk Smash. It's kind of like we're meant to be. I like a good troll person. Oh, that's funny. Matt's a white racist. I'm dating a racist. No, you are not. Basically, um, nothing. Never mind. What? Um, Seattle. I love Seattle. The skyline's so pretty with the um with the mountain in the background. Yeah, she it reminded me a lot of Philadelphia when we visited. Boogie, what are you working on? What recipes you got going over there? U I saw he has his last YouTube video is squash tortillas. Oo, we should give those a try. He said them on the top rack of his oven a little too long though. Did he say that? Yeah, in his Instagram uh story. Really? Our mixer has a couple attachments. It has a blender and a mixer. Yeah, it's it's mainly just a blender, but it came with the It's like the best blender we've had, right? Yeah, I would say. So, is Are you going to go check on it? Yeah. Miley, come here. I want to say hi. Hello. in Poland. Um, we do not eat plantains. Oh, basic white dots. That sounds good. Just like one cheese, a couple cheeses. Um, do any of you guys have off like for Easter? I know some like places jobs did. Mine didn't. Bring the camera over. Okay, we're going to go switch it around. Do what I was doing. All right, y'all. In here we have cinnamon and arythrtol. You can still answer the questions and stuff. Yeah, I know. waiting. Now, we're just going to cut this. It's still relatively soft, but it's starting to firm up. We stopped eating Quest bars a while ago, and we're really glad we did. But like when we were eating them, uh yeah, we'd eat one like every night. We'd split one It's kind of stressful to cook live like this. Is it? Yeah. Especially with recipes we just came up with today. So, we in case you guys join late, we are making keto Cinnamon Toast Crunch. Um, it's incredible. No joke. It's just a little bit of work for a bowl of cereal, but you know, Judith said you can handle it, Matt. Thank you, Judith. Um, we stopped eating Quest Bars because there was um there's an article. I don't Did they change the nutrition? I think they changed the recipe. They might have changed the recipe, but um they were subtracting all the prebiotic fiber from the Quest bars, but in actuality, it's only like half. So, we were eating like more carbs than we thought we were. And they were just like addicting for us. Yeah, it I had one like recently, Mrs. blast, but like it just tore my stomach up. Not recently, but like a month and a half ago. And I was like, I don't know why I ever ate those hot pot meals. Um, we're big on hot pot. We should do a hot pot video. Yeah, we do. We get shrimp. We toss in. You can do like little scallops. We really like tofu even though a lot of people don't like soy. We do tofu. Yeah. It is hard to stay on keto during the holidays. Um, especially more so if you're around family, if you're the only one that's keto around your family. Um, but honestly, if you just think about like what all the sugar is going to do, it's going to make you just feel crappy. So, I'd rather just like eat delicious keto food and not feel crappy. And then the tomorrow is not a holiday anymore. All right, guys. These are going to go back in. No, Karen, it does not taste like cheese at all. It tastes exactly like s like cinnamon Toast Crunch. Not exactly, but it's close. Uh, hit it with some of this. I mean, it's the best keto. I've had a ton of keto cereals. Like, I've tried them all even though they're like higher on the carbs and, you know, cuz I' I love taste testing everything. Megan's a cereal head. Yeah, I'm a cereal for sure. So, this is the best I've had. And it stays up in if you put it in milk, it stays crunchy. It's very similar to the ruled me recipe, just better. Mark, um, we are not proponents of like exogenous ketones. So, if you are if you feel like you're out of ketosis and you know or you know that you are, our best tip is to just start fresh and like just get back to it and don't guilt yourself or worry too much about it. Yeah, we actually just got sent some exogenous ketones to test and I'm I've been doing it for 10 days now and have you see I mean well he's going to do a video on it so it'll give you some guys a good baseline. Yeah, I'm going to do a video on exogenous ketones. Um, real quick though, don't waste your money. Yeah. Um, they're good for high-end athletes like that are fat They're good for high-end fat adapted athletes. Like if you're a cyclist that is fat adapted, then exogenous ketones work. If you have epilepsy, then exogenous ketones could be beneficial. If you um are a normal person, don't use them. Especially if you're using them in the way that they market them, which is like, take this and in 60 minutes you're in ketosis. It's a lie. Don't do that. Matt drinks apple cider vinegar every day. How often have we gone off keto? Never. Never. We're pretty much uh unbroken in our time doing keto. Mhm. So, we have those back in there for another 10 minutes or so. Um, and no, even around family, even though our families are proponents of like just eat a little, it won't hurt. Or like, you know, why aren't you eating rice or fries? It's good for you. We just, you know, we don't even explain it at this point. I feel like I'm just like, no, I'm good. It's almost known at this point for most people. Most people know we do this and they like make fun of us. Like, my friends always make fun of me for doing this. They make so much fun. I didn't realize. Which that's a a big barrier of entry why people don't do YouTube videos because your friends are going to make fun of you if you suck at it. Which we did. We did. And a lot of like I was talking to one girl and she was asking about like you know the business side of it which was great cuz not a lot of people ask and she was like oh wow but I have nothing to say. I was like everyone has something to say. Like people are just scared to put themselves out there but there's no need to be. If you people like hearing you talk about something you like talking about is what I would say. Um, apple cider vinegar. How do I take it? I usually mix it. You can just like take a shot of it, but I usually That's not good. You said I think you want to dilute it, but you can also just eat it. But um I just drink it with like eight ounces of water and maybe a little uh water flavoring stuff like stir is what we've been getting lately. Um what is our someone asked what our carb and caloric intake is. Um carbs usually 20 net. Yeah. Mega sometimes goes a little higher. I'll go higher because I incorporate more veggies like tomatoes and stuff. Um, caloric intake, I'm probably like, 1700 average. I'd like to be lower, but honestly, average, I'm probably like 2600ish. I'm going to try like cutting a little bit of weight soon. It's difficult. It is. Well, I mean, also, when it's your job to like make gelato and test it all day, it's impossible. Yeah, it's it is a a battle. Hey, Simon. Glad you found us. I'm gonna check on these. Thanks, Mark. Um, where's Mindy? You just got to keep at it. But so the most important thing about doing anything like this is consistency. Like if you're going to say you're do if you say you're going to do something like say in your opening trailer or first video, then you have to stick to it. Like I feel like there's nothing more of a turnoff or a turn on for people than someone who is or isn't consist like lies essentially, you know? That's that's how people might be viewing it. So, if you if you're consistent, then that's that's what I think matters the most, especially starting out. What are we talking about, Keto? So, no, someone said they started their channel a week ago, and they feel like they have a lot to say. Keep saying it. Yeah, exactly. Keep saying it. Hold up. I want to touch on this point. Um, James, the strips aren't they're not uh reliable. I wouldn't test your pee every day. Just because you're not seeing any color on the strips doesn't mean your body's not in ketosis. So, um, definitely don't waste your money for starting a YouTube channel. Consistency. Um, that's literally what I just said. We put out three videos a week, every single week, no exceptions. And just if you you have to have like a bond with yourself that you don't break. It's the same with like a diet a lot of the time. Like 20 grams of carb, 20 grams of net carbs, it's a bond. Don't break that. And uh that's like a big thing like how the limits you set with yourself and like how strict you are with those like if you're a person that starts breaking those easily and you don't adjust and it's like a thing that you just make okay like I can just break the rules I set for myself it's like a really like slippery slope. Yeah that's that we've had this discussion with someone before. The thing we fail to see the most, I think, is like how lenient we are on ourselves. So, like if no one's around, like it's easier for me to eat a brownie and like let it slip. Yeah. Yeah. Even since you've been home the last few days, I've been way better. Yeah. Home. All right. I'm taking them off. Where have I been? Oh, since you not working. Yeah. Um, thoughts on Jason Fun? He Dr. Fun is incredible. I read The Obesity Code. I highly recommend it. even if you're not keto or like not a proponent of highfat or intermittent fasting, it's just so fascinating and like it's a really easy read for those of you who don't read. Um, if you don't like enjoy reading, like I'm not a huge reader. Matt prefer loves reading. Um, but I enjoyed that book a lot and it was quick. Wimberly, that is not like technically no, that's not my maintenance. Um, but like if I put it into a calculator online, but I've been eating at that and I haven't like gone up in weight. So, I think my body's hit a point um where it is my maintenance if that makes any sense. Cuz you know that's also ties into Dr. Fun. Like the whole theory isn't calories in versus like it's not calories in calories out. It's what your metabolic rate is. Um yeah, that's something I'm really getting interested in lately. the calories in, calories out versus just like your body's natural rhythms of metabolic rate. Like there's things you can do that increase your metabolic rate. And I feel like your metabolic rate over the course of your life can really like shift like monthtomonth. It can be totally different. So like looking at the calculators, it gives you a good um basis. Yeah. But it's not it's not hard and fast. Mark. Um, we it is all about the carb count, but if you're just starting out, we do recommend like trying to stay away from sugars, but certain things have sugar. Like if you look at almonds, those have just naturally occurring sugar. Veggies. Yeah. So, like things Exactly. So, there's things you don't need to stay away from. High fallutin low carb. What's up, man? High fallutin, low carb. Oh, whoa. Hey, we just watched the video yesterday. Uh, it was great. Do you have a camera hanging from your ceiling? I love that shot where you like showed the yeast at the end. Yeah. Check out High Fallutin Low Carb's channel, guys. If you like our channel, you'll love his channel. He's so great and like down to earth. An accent. Like, I love the sun. Accent is killer. And he compares low carb recipes, which is cool. Which is what you want to know at all times, right? What's the best one? Yeah. Um, he didn't. Our bread got second place in his voting, though. But it was close. Soup. So close. Um, what macro? We have a macro calculator autumn on our site that we've used. Um, also if you guys came late, we're in the process of making Cinnamon Toast Crunch Keto, so stick around. They're just about done. We're going to unveil them in a minute. Um, second is the new first. That's the best response you could have given. Uh, someone asked about bulletproof tea. Um, we do a turmeric. Well, so you just you can add just make any tea bulletproof. Yeah, just you can add the butter, the MCT oil, the heavy whipping cream. I feel like chai is probably the best. No, I would We should try it with green tea just to see one day. Yeah. Um, we've used carb quick. We used it once to make keto donuts, which is a recipe on our site. We haven't used it since because there's other like bread recipes that are better in our opinion. Yeah. And when we're making recipes for y'all, it's like we don't want to use pre-made stuff. You don't want to be like, "Go buy carb quick, then make the recipe." We just want to be like, you know, go in your pantry, grab either almond or coconut flour, which most keto people have, right? That's like a lot. Like, we just went today to Trader Joe's and we got coffee flour and we want to make a recipe with it cuz it just came out and it seems cool. Mega already made something with it, but I don't love the taste of it. It's going to be tough for you guys to find it if you don't have a Trader Trader Joe's. The green balls recipe is coming soon. Karen, and random name a lot. So, our first week was so long ago, so I don't even remember if I had carb cravings because I was also doing it with Matt, like we were doing it together, so that was nice. Um, but the best way I would say if I was doing it alone and I was doing that over again, would be to just overdose on like foods that are keto and just keep my carb count low. will like not worry about the caloric intake and the more fat you eat and and keep your protein at the level it should be, the fuller you'll be. Um, and so that'll kind of adjust over time. Just make sure you keep track of your carbs. We use Isopure protein powder. Um, cookies and cream is our favorite. It's zero carb, which we love. The quality is incredible. It tastes really good. Even just mixed in water. I've done that before. Um, it can be a little pricey, but don't ever get it from GNC. It's like way overpriced. We get ours from Amazon. We just subscribe and save and sometimes they have deals um for like a month or something. Isapir is amazing. Judith. Yeah, James. Buffalo wings are like really all I crave anymore. Um, so I I know pregnant women Oh, wow. Um, that have done the keto diet and haven't had any issues from what I've seen. I'm not We haven't like done any reading on it. Um, right. Do you know anything? No, I'm not fully informed on that. We just look into it. Maybe ask your doctor. There they are, guys. Cinnamon Toast Crunch. You also like these might look like they're a little on the burn side, but you really want to get them like that if you want them to stay crispy in cereal. And they actually are like, take a bite. Listen to this. Can you guys hear this? Actually, when they cool, they're crispier, but they're pretty crispy. Yeah. So good. So, if you guys missed this, what this is is Let me grab it. You guys have to try it. I can't stop eating now. We are It's this queso fresco uh cheese mixed with um pork rind. Pork rind. Cinnamon stevia arythrito and then cinnamon arythrl like sprinkled. Mhm. We're definitely going to do a recipe on it. Maybe not super soon, but um it's just so good. James, we really want a sousie machine, but it's a big investment right now and we're moving. So, we're probably going to wait until we get to Atlanta. Yeah, I use BCAAs during workouts. My my intraworkout drink. I've been I've been pretty consistent with it lately. I like it a lot. Is a scoop of branch chain amino acids, uh like a half teaspoon sometimes, usually a/ quart teaspoon of salt and creatine. We use Arthritic off Amazon Now Foods brand. It's the brown bag. Um, also guys, some scores we got today. We're going to do We did a grocery haul. We filmed today. We got this. If you guys haven't seen this yet, it piqued our interest. Coffee flour. Um, no, I didn't get the waffle maker yet. And the stats are You guys see those? Seven grams of carbs, six grams of fiber per tablespoon. So, it's one net carb per tablespoon. Did you just say that? Um, yeah, one net carb per tablespoon. And it's one It's basically like a fiber supplement almost. It just tastes and it smells and like kind of tastes like tea dirt. Boogie in the food would know. I loved his response. They're so funny. And then we also got this black garlic, which I'm very interested in trying. And Matt L, you asked, "Do we track and log?" No, we don't do that anymore. Um, not like we just free-for-all, but we just we we've been on it so long and we like know what has what. We can kind of just eyeball it and keep a mental track of carbs and, you know, make sure we're on point. Uh, there is no potato chip that I can think of. Flackers. There's like those Quest protein chips. You could try those. They're not good. Not good at all. They're all right. I mean, yes, the fam love the brownies. We're We're pretty happy with that recipe. I feel like no one really has a recipe like that. And they're really fudgy brownies. Yeah, they are. Should we just ban Hulk Smash? I mean, he has a few gems of jokes, but I don't know how you can do it. I don't know how to ban people. I don't like care that much, but it's just distracting. Yeah. Oops. Wait. Just block. Okay. I think I blocked him. I hate that people really force my hand like that. Like, I'm pretty chill. Oh, we do have Costco, but his mom got us Parmesan crisp, which are like the wisps and they're so good. I put my someone's s my salad the other day. Yeah, they're good. We don't know our body fat percentage. I'd say I'm That's something I want to know. Me, too. What would you say? 17, 18. I I feel like I'm like 25 to 30. It's hard. I have no idea like even how to gauge. Uh yeah, the parsnip chips, which we also commented on in our video today. The nutrition's wrong on those. Um I wouldn't eat those. They're high carb. Thank you. Patients. We're really working on our patients, especially with each other. Yeah. Um did we 15 17% visible abs? I have relatively visible abs. Oh yeah, you're you're probably like 12 to 15. I've been I've been at like 12 10% before, I think, at my prime. And my abs are always peeking, so I'm like 6% body fat. Just kidding. So totally kidding. Um, parsnip chips are high carbs. DD, do not get them. What kind of milk do you recommend for cereal? Really, it's whatever kind you like between like almond, cashew, cashew, coconut, coconut. You can even water down heavy whipping cream, which is what I've done. You can even just go straight heavy whipping cream. We are moving to Atlanta just to move to Atlanta. It's It was kind of our compromise. Matt wanted I wanted Tampa, which is extremely hot. Matt wanted North Carolina, which is like not that hot. So, Atlanta. And I have a really good friend that lives down there. I am going to have a really good friend that lives down there, too. His name's Young Thug. We're going to be buddies in like a couple of years. I'm either going to make it as a wrapper or a keto or he might convert to a chef. Yeah, we or chowo carb pasta. We've made dishes with shirataki noodles before. They're good. We like them. We really like the shiritaki stuff. Wait, goldfish? Like food? Goldfish? I don't know what you're talking about. Oh, like the fish. I don't know. Three Keto Connect recipes in two days. That might be a record. Wait, which ones? Uh, brownies. Oh, the Parmes. I always forget those. Those were so good. We like on them in the video. Yeah. But then we Well, our first taste they weren't great, but then as we kept eating them, we were like, these are pretty good. Let's get back to our live. We are getting a house with a bigger kitchen. Hopefully kitchen is the pro like all we're all we're looking for is KC setup with our next place. We just want a bed in a kitchen. We have tried great low carb bread company. I would say it's probably for the money the best low carb bread you can get. Like there's some that are super expensive. Um we've tried a couple of them. Great low carb bread company is worth a try if you like if you need bread in a package. New house, new goldfish. Are you suggesting we get a goldfish as pets and pack crack someone whatever someone's name was. Yeah, there is a lot of drama in the Facebook group. Yeah. What's going on with the Facebook group, guys? I don't get it, guys. Everyone need to chill the freak out and just But I I kind of get it. There's a lot of people that get entertainment from that type of thing. It's unfortunate, but I I like working in the group super hard trying to like ban the bad the evildoers, but it's hard and people just blow things out of proportion. Oh, James is on here. What's up, James? Yeah, we've been talking to him. Oh, yeah. 50k members is tough. Yeah, and that's what people don't understand. People directly message Matt telling him, "This is why I left the group." And it's like, you're one of 50,000 and I have a life to live. Yeah. What can Matt do? I get sucked into the Facebook group too much. Like I'm trying to do things like this that like more people can see other than just me banning one random guy in the Facebook group. Yeah. Oh, did I turn the oven off? It's so hot tonight. Yeah, it's really hot here. It's like 85. Yeah. Yeah. I love the posts on like the the meta posts like a post about a post. It's so bad. I mean, it just makes me wonder what your dayto-day is if your main focus is surrounding a group of 50,000 people you don't even know. No offense, but seriously, surrounding. Yeah. Like your focus, if you're writing a post about a post in a Facebook group while you're at work, like your focus is clearly on the your priorities are wrong. Cinnamon Toast Crunch. Um, if you missed the recipe, we're going to run through it one more time just because we're not going to have this up on our blog for probably like um at least three weeks or so. Yeah. So, what it is is two parts um this queso fresco queso day fryer, whatever you want to get cheese. It's a Mexican cheese. Um so, two parts of that, one part pork rinds processed in a food processor, fine powder. You add 1 tbsp melted butter, about 25 drops of stevia, and a tablespoon of cinnamon about. No, not a tablespoon. I'd say half a tablespoon cinnamon. You bake it for 20 minutes at 450. Then you cut it into pieces when it's almost cooked, but still easy to cut through. Then you bake it for another five minutes. You coat with cinnamon and arythril. And that's the recipe. Who's Tom Woods? He charges $5 a month for Facebook group. I didn't know that was possible. I mean, yeah, it's Could you What's 50,000* 5? I'm terrible at math. Well, not everyone would be in it. That's the point. It would be You'd have a little skin. You'd have a little skin in the game. Time five. 250,000. I know. Yeah, there would be not a lot of people. Yeah. Guys, subscribe to Boogie. Boogie and the Food. Good channel. Not Bougie and the Foodie. You Yeah, he has to have a bad and bougie like recipe video with cooking up cook up dope in the crock pot. I know. I'm I'm just not I'm not as ind. I'm I'm running a food blog and a YouTube channel. Clearly, I'm not following the Indian rules. I should be a doctor or an engineer according to my dad. Ja Dudley. There's a channel we just discovered recently that we really like. It's high uh what is it? High Fallutin low carb. High Fallutin low carb. He's funny and he compares recipes, low carb recipes. Did Iron Smash just make another account and come back? You're an idiot. I hate you. I admire his passion, though. No. Do you at least change up your name, bro? Don't put Smash at the end of everything. And it's all Marvel characters. Marvel character then Smash. That's classic, man. Zantham gum hits for using hints. Hints. Start slow. You can't start slow. Absolutely. But it is such a pro tip for thickening, guys. Yeah. Like any gravy. You can even like use it as binding in like baked stuff. So if you have what like oat fiber doesn't bind that well necessarily, but no. Or almond flour doesn't. So if you're mixing like oat fiber and almond flour, zantham gum could be a good way to bind that. Um soups. Yeah, I think it's it's great for thickening. Like if you want to make like an Asian sauce that you want to stick to the chicken, you a little zantham gum helps with that too, just thickening. But the real thing is like you can't take it out. You can only add it in. So start super slow and it thickens up quickly. We've never used arrowroot. We It's similar to zantham gum thickening wise. I think it just is more carbs per and we've never used guar gum either, Boogie. Nope. Should I just ban Iron Man Smash, too? Sorry, bro. I just want to see what his next account is going to be, actually. Oh, did I delete him or just Okay. I don't fully know. We've never used Guam. Yeah, Boogie might know. What's the difference between Zantham and Guir? Guar's a rock band. Isn't it? H foods. Foods we'll miss from Philly. We don't eat out. So what would you miss from Philly? I don't know. Nothing really. I guess just they're probably going to have better food in ATL. Yeah, like more barbecue and stuff. I'm thinking Hotlanta. I'm going to eat wings all the time, guys. I'm going to Should I do a wing fast? Yeah, she's been wanting to do a wing fast. Like two weeks straight of just eating wings. Uh, hi Foon. Where are you where are you located at? South somewhere. It seems Texas. Texas. It seems like Texas, but I would not be surprised if it's like Alabama, Pensacola, Florida. Gee, we use it all the time. We love it. Is Pensacola like panhandle? Is that far from Atlanta? We should do a vid together. Florida via Alabama. Okay. The nut-free life is tough because it really restricts me in terms of baking. Yeah. Oh, well, it doesn't cuz I used almond flour recently and matches this taste. I can't taste test before I put in the oven, which is tough cuz I'm always I'm always lacking on sugar or like arythrtol. Like I always go less. But, um, it's it's nice not eating the nuts because I would just pound like almonds and pistachios all day long. It is nice. I think I'm going to do a little dairyfree action when I recover from my nose thing. Prepare ribs. Get uh Cajun seasoning, right? For the ribs. Um, what did we do? We did that Cajun seasoning. We wrapped them super tight. Yeah, we used the food from your car. Was it Cajun? Oh, Creole. Creole Creole seasoning. We used Creole seasoning last time. Creole seasoning, butter, and we just wrapped it in tin foil. We went pretty low in the oven. I think it was like 3 hours or so. Yeah, I'm getting a deviated septum surgery tomorrow. So, I'm going to be out of commission for a while. Yeah, she made she just made a recipe using the co the coffee flour. It's super intense, but like now I'm glad I know how it works. So like when I go back into using it, a lot of recipes we've seen are just using it for brownies, which makes sense. Yeah. Um it's just really intense. Um, so I thought buying it was like I could make brownies with coke with coffee flour, but in reality it's more of like a thing that you put in with another flour, like a small part, I would say. Yeah. It's not like you can make a recipe completely out of coffee flour. If you have a video suggestion, Pat Crack Fever. Yeah, we're always shoot it over. We're always taking video suggestions. Yeah, we have favorite sports. I play college basketball actually, so that is it. But I love Michigan football. I was a triathlete on Team USA. I um I rode for a year in college, but I didn't do any sports in college. Mostly just drinking and eating pizza. Um but I love football, the Eagles. I grew up watching them. Um, and actively right now we we work out four to five days a week. That's our activity. But I feel like when we go down south, it's going to be warmer, so we're probably going to do like hiking more hopefully and like just things. We need to pick up a nice hobby. And we want to join we we used to um in San Francisco, we joined a dodgeball league, which was really fun. It wasn't that fun cuz no one on my team was wanted it. And yeah, that's true. We we were like stuck with the group of just bad athletes. Not even athletes. It's not I don't care if you're a bad athlete. I just want you to want it a little bit like act like you care about winning from San Francisco. Where in San Francisco? Streets. Hey Jason, thanks. Thanks for the shout out in your last video. Oh yes, check out Jason Whitrock's channel. I'm sure you guys already do. He is killing it. Yeah, real solid shout out. That was awesome, Jason. Yeah, people were taken back because you know you us by a six-pack. Yeah, he has super fab abs. He's probably like 3% body fat. Actually, I'd be curious to know like six. He's probably walking around at like six, but he can get low. We do have a mac and cheese recipe, Rebecca. That's what I want to do. Frisbee golf. There it is. I need I want to start doing that. Oh, I played frisbee in college. Ultimate Frisbee. I don't look like it, but I did. No, you look like it. No, I don't. You look like you were on the cricket team. That's racist. Hey guys, uh if you are just joining, we made Keto Cinnamon Toast Crunch. Oh, Boogie, we got to play. Yeah. Wait, where do you live, Boogie? Texas. Where does Boogie live? Boogie lives in I don't know somewhere in the south. Texas Florida. Texas I think Texas, Pensacola. Everyone lives in Pensacola. Oh, San Antonio. Ja. Dudley, I did just look you up today and I saw that you fight MMA. Like I looked up your name and you like hardcore fight MMA. That's super awesome. That is awesome. I was like, Beth, do you know Ja Dudley? I don't know how I scream. So, yeah. Um, what was what did I just see? Oh, Boogie, did you like when Charles Barkley was always making fun of the women in San Antonio last playoffs? That was funny. Oh, he's in Texas. He's He's near Logan. Oh. Um, we don't use bacon grease for added fat, but we use like just butter, coconut oil. We also got duck fat and we have some lard. I mean, we use it like if we cook bacon, we'll cook something in it afterwards. Relentless guy. Yeah, there is a lot of southern folks. Yeah, we're going to be southern folks soon. Yeah, we are. Soal. Hey, Scott. Oh, did we ever get the cross streets from the San Franciscan? No. The duck fat. Oh, what did we use that with? Yeah, we use ghee all the time. One of our faves. Duck fat is pretty good with Asian cooking, but it's it's pretty good with everything really. Yeah, we got the epic duck fat, which was pretty pricey, but I think it was like 10 bucks. We throw into our salads. We use lard, too. Um, we just used lard to fry up some chicken for a lemon chicken recipe, which was really good. In our salads, we put bacon, eggs, chicken, avocado, olive oil, sometimes cheese. Yep. Lately, I've been sprinkling nutritional yeast. Nutritional yeast. We thought about Austin. Um, but my one of my best friends lives there and she says like outside of Austin, like the area she lives near the school isn't that great. I I think Atlanta I want to see what Atlanta's like. I'm interested in it big time. And we want to live somewhere where we can afford we can afford what? Afford more space for less money. Oh, also guys, let me just show you what we got recently. We use coconut oil or ghee for when we're just um doing our cast iron seasoning. Seasoning the cast iron. We usually use coconut oil. Check this out. If you guys are looking for a cookbook right here, it's not that expensive either. It's like 20ome on Amazon. The Bible. Don't um Yeah, this book's incredible, guys. We just use a really cheap lard. Yeah. Yeah. Kenji's incredible. Sometimes we just get cheap stuff. Yeah, we usually just get the cheap lard. Um, for hair falling out, we haven't seen that issue personally. No, but Healthful Pursuit has videos on that. If you're a woman, she talks about it. You can head over there. We are also going to start working on a cookbook really soon, guys. Yeah, we're thinking. Um, the most excited part about it for me is going to be like the pictures. Yeah. Also, do any of you guys have experience taking Ashwagandha? I've just started taking it uh the past few nights. I'm not creeped out. Thank you. Let me know if you guys any of you guys have taken it in the past. Matt loves Ashwagandha. I don't know if I love it yet, but I feel like I like it. fermented foods. Ew. I tried fermented tofu the other or like a a month or two ago and it was just it it felt like it was alive in my mouth. Like the fermentation what the tofu? Yeah, it was really bad. What neutropics do I take? I'm just starting to experiment with these. Um Eltheanine is one that I like a lot so far. It synergizes with caffeine really well. I would say caffeine gives you scattered energy. Eltheanine harnesses the energy. Um I've been taking I I got a couple that I'm going to start experimenting with, but uh ashwagandha. I got some new pept is the another one that I'm gonna try. Pep pratipan press paramatan pen penal paramatan paracetam parasitan um I'm just going to try seeing how that how they make me feel. Um there's a ton um outside of eggs to eat. You can you can almost eat most things. Carbups. We're going to dive into those pretty hard here soon. I was going to do one actually today, this weekend, but with Matt's surgery, we're probably not going to be hitting the gym like we've been hitting it. So, um, when I do my carb up, I want to see how it affects my performance at the gym for the next couple days cuz it's supposed to. Yeah. Um, and I'm doing research on it. So, the video we put out for the carb cycling is going to be detailed and give you like a like a carb cycling for dummies kind of thing cuz I'm like learning it and it's, you know, confusing. This also plays into that whole like calories in, calories out versus your own metabolic rate. Carb cycling is something that can increase your metabolic rate. Theoretically, we've never done it, but there's some science that seems to say that. We have tried oil pulling. I kind of like it. It's not something I do all the time though. So, my dad is a dentist and he had a patient come in and like all her teeth were like loose and like falling out and my dad was like, "Oh, do you oh, do you do oil pulling?" And she was like, "Yeah, it helps so much." And then I told my dad I was doing oil pulling. He just like laughed and told me that story and I was like, "Really? Okay, maybe I don't want to do oil pulling." He was like, "Yeah, of course." Like, if you know if it's inflamed and you're just hitting it with oil, like she thought it was helping, but in fact, it was worsening it. Okay. I'm I Everything I read says there's no it doesn't benefit anything, but I've noticed some benefits from it. I don't do it all the time, though. But your dad probably knows better. Um the Yeah, I guess we have to ban this guy, too. But farts are so funny. The surgery I'm getting is deviated septum. Deviated septum. I can't breathe at night. Um, my nose is probably going to look a little different afterwards, too. Like, this bump's I think going to be gone. Well, it's crooked right now, but if they shift, they'll probably break it and move it right back into place. That's how they like I'd imagine. Yeah. Is it really easy to just like make a name real quick and go into a live? Like, I've never done that. I guess so. Have you had that? It's a tough recovery. Yes. Have you had that surgery? high flutin, uh, lowfat. Um, I got some TV shows lined up, though. I haven't watched the latest season of Sunny in Philadelphia, which is just the bomb. Was he coming back? Tell them what snacks you have. What snacks do I have? String cheese, marinated olives, marinated olives, salmon jerky. Salmon jerky. Yep. Probably going to have some pork. We have the Parmesan cris. I'm going to watch Silicon Valley last season. Get ready for the new one. I mean, this is just At least be funny with your remarks if you're going to troll. Low carb ice cream. Yeah, we actually have a fridge full nugget just made. It's incredible. And it's more like gelato, which I love. It's like h it's so good. Thank you. We're We're hoping for um a quick recovery. Oops. Did you block someone? I accidentally blocked the wrong person. Did Can you unblock her? Yeah, I did. Sorry, Rebecca. Sorry, Rebecca. Yep, we've tried Halo Top Ice Cream. Pretty good. We try to stay away from it, though, if we can. We just made an incredible recipe, though. It'll be out in not not too soon, so don't get your hopes up just yet. Um, Costco, we have We haven't shopped at Costco. And it would be tough because we'd also be buying like peanut butter in like the double drawers like joined together, and they're like the large ones. I mean, can you get normal size stuff at Costco? I don't know. We We definitely get a ton of toilet paper. Matt runs through toilet paper like nobody's business. What? It's who you are. They love it. We didn't make a gelato video yet, but we're going to. So, when you guys see stuff on our Instagram and like the the initial pictures of us just like coming up with the recipe, it's so far from actually getting to you guys. Um, we usually remake it to get pictures and we remake it again to get a video if it's like a recipe we want to do a video of. Ooh, cherry. I want to try ashwagandha now. Why? Her Ayurvedic doctor suggested it for less stress, zen feeling. Yeah, I don't sleep that well. I wake up every night to go to the bathroom and I feel like I'm always half awake and like, you know, I should try it. Is it good before bed? Yeah, that's when I take it. Rebecca, sorry. Um, oh yeah, guys, our meal prep course registration closes tomorrow at midnight. Yeah, sorry. The giveaway's over. Giveaway's over. Oh, hopefully that person who won emailed us. Made Cinnamon Toast Crunch. Anything else going on in life for us? I think we should probably end this relatively soon. Yeah, I'm getting tired. Surgery at noon tomorrow different. Yeah, we we're thinking of doing keto ethnic meal series. We've done a Asian recipes. Those seem to be really popular. So, we are definitely working on those. We made lemon chicken, which is really good. Um, what? We're definitely going to do lamb shanks soon. Lamb shanks. The curry ones. I think curry would be good. Curry lamb shanks. We made ones just for like fun. So good. Have you guys made lamb shanks before? It's so rewarding and easy. I know. Thanks. Thank you. Keto butter chicken. That would be dope. We should do that. What? Don't blow your nose for a few months. Someone said, "Oh man, Matt loves No, you don't really blow your nose, do you?" Oo, Mediterranean tuna crust pizza. That sounds good. We should do tuna one time. We've been keto for over a year now. Gum sugar-free gummy bears. I got excited and then he said four farts. Um um if you want to check out the meal prep course, go to ketoconnect.net, our homepage. Scroll halfway down and there's a big picture. keto uh meal prep for weight loss course. Make a video about what? Matt surgery. Yeah, make a vlog video tomorrow. Guys, I really want to hear what you think about this uh vlog video we made for Mega's first day doing Casey full-time. I edited it like I put so much time into editing it. I was trying all these new techniques and I think it's really good. So, I want to hear what you guys think of it. Oh, they can see Miley in the back. Where? Move over. Oh, there she's dead. Um, what else is there? The video's not out yet. It'll be out in a week or so. Oh, and I think someone asked where I'm from in India. I'm from Amdabad. What? These comments are just so crazy. What? It's kind of funny though. Oh, chicken noodle with white cream would be good. A chicken noodle. Okay, guys. Should we call it? Yeah. Yeah, if we ever go to India, we have to meet up with Headbangers Kitchen in person. Uh, is He's not on, is he? No. Okay. But someone said coming to India soon. Oh, if we are, we are first of all vlogging the entire thing. You'll know where we are at all times. So, you can stop us. But we will come find you if you want us to because that would be awesome, right? To cook in like some in your kitchen with you. That'd be so fun. That would be great. I mean, our double date with Headbanger and his wife Sahesh Sahil Sahil and his wife would be awesome. Would be super dope. Um, yeah, guys, check out uh Boogie in the Food and High Fulutin Low Fat. Yes. Or no, High Fut. Low Carb. High Futin, Low Carb, low fat. Check out those two channels. They're both doing good things. And obviously Jason Wetrack and Yeah. We out. Check out our meal prep course. Tomorrow's the last day. Have a good night. Bye.