Carbs versus net carbs. Which one should you be using? And this is just like one of those questions I feel like no matter how many people answer it, it's still going to just be a question. Um, there's actual factual information on this though. It's not like up for debate. So, the answer is net carbs you should be using. Why is that? Net carbs with a few exceptions which we'll go into. Okay. So, what what are net carbs? Net carbs are any carbohydrates minus fiber and sugar alcohols. And this applies to US labeling only. Like in foreign countries, I'm pretty sure it's like almost all foreign countries, they already have the net carbs listed as carbs. And when you look into the reason for why they do that, it's the reason that we're about to explain why you should be using net carbs is because fiber is not used by your body, so it doesn't count. So, if you're trying to get an accurate picture of how much carbs are actually impacting your body, that's why you would use net carbs because fiber is not impacting your body. So, if you're in a foreign country, you don't subtract the fiber. It's already subtracted. So, on a foreign country's label, if you see like total carbs two, fiber one, the net carbs is actually two. So, what are some examples of foods that do contain a lot of fiber? Vegetables. Vegetables are a big one. So, if you're eating salads, if you're tossing in any veggies extra, like cauliflower, broccoli, tomatoes, you're getting carbo uh fiber from those veggies. Also, avocados are extremely high in fiber. So, they have a high carb count, which throws people off, but you're subtracting that fiber. So, in actuality, it's a low carb count. So, one avocado has 17 g of carbs. So, I can totally see why if you think you're supposed to be counting total carbs and then everyone's like just eating avocados all day on keto, you're like, "What's going on here?" Right. That looks like you're eating like 50 grams of carbs. Yeah. You subtract the fiber. So, when you subtract a fiber, an avocado has like three or four grams. Exactly. Uh so, why would you subtract fiber from your carbs? A lot of good reasons why you would want to do that. There's two types of fiber. There's soluble fiber and insoluble fiber. So insoluble fiber is just completely disregarded by your body. Your body can't use it in any way. Totally a zero. Like just cross it off. It doesn't count. Yeah. Soluble fiber is a little bit of a different story. It's partially used. It's actually two calories per gram. But it is not used in the form of carbohydrates. It's partially digested and converted into short chain fatty acids. So your body actually uses it as a fat. Short chain fatty acids really good for like your gut bacteria and stuff like that. No, it doesn't count towards carbs. And these are not opinions. These are actual facts which we'll I'll link a little a couple studies below. And I think that's an issue with a lot of people's reasoning when they say why they do total carbs or net carbs. There's no backing that I've seen personally when I've watched videos or when I've seen um like even articles. There's no the there's no science behind it. So, I don't really know why I should be doing net carbs or why I should be doing total carbs. And so, we're going to provide you those links so you can also just like read and research for yourself. Don't take our word for it, right? Don't take anyone else's word for it. Do the research. Do your research. Exactly. Now, before making this video, I looked up like tons of different sources and trying to figure out why would anyone say to use total carbs and it always got to the point where it's just like this is just based on my personal opinion. For example, today in our Facebook group, we always get this people always ask this question and then there's like hundreds of responses and I saw one response. It was the individ individual who said um I do total carbs because I think after doing net carbs I realized my body just views fiber as carbs. There's no mechanism by which that's possible. Your body doesn't know literally anything like there's no concept of anything for your body. It intakes whatever and outputs whatever. I mean it's worth experimenting like maybe your body doesn't feel good when you're eating a lot of carbs. That's totally possible, but there's no mechanism by which your body makes fiber carbs and doesn't with mine. Yeah, I would say there's a few exceptions to this now. Um, so at the start she said total carbs minus fiber and minus sugar alcohols. You want to be a little bit more careful with sugar alcohols. Definitely. Yes. Um, melat is the big one. That should not be just subtracted. Like when you're looking at the Russell Stover candies, the Atkins bars that are like 40 gram of malitol, that's effectively like 20 gram of sugar. Exactly. So don't eat those. Um same with xylitol. Malitol is bad. Xylitol is not anywhere near as bad. Xylitol is fine in moderation. It just does have some carbs in it. Right. So the sweeteners we are specifically talking about are arythril and stevia, which is what we mostly use in all of our baked goods. monk fruit in too and monk fruit and those are the only three sweeteners we use. So when we do give you baked goods, you know, you can subtract that sugar alcohol. There's a tad bit of carbs in arythrtol. It's 0.2 calories per gram. So with a zero glycemic index. Yeah. So like 10 g of arythril probably equates to like half a gram of carbs, something like that. But the big reason I think you should be using net carbs is mainly the vegetable proposition. Like vegetables are pretty unanimously viewed as healthy things to be eating. I don't think you should be in a situation where you're questioning whether you should eat this thing, this extremely healthy vegetable, because it's going to put you over your daily carbs, net carbs. So that's the big one. We encourage a lot of vegetable eating. That's the way we like to do it. Also, you can not eat a lot of vegetables. That's cool, too, right? You can do lazy keto. Eat a multivitamin probably though. So, if you are doing total carbs, it's very almost impossible to eat an avocado on a salad cuz right there you're you're done way over your carbs. You're done. I would just say look into it. Just look at how fiber is handled by the body, how it's digested. Use net carbs makes everything easier, but it isn't like a cheat. Like I feel a lot of people that are saying total carbs, they're looking at people that are using net carbs as if it's like an easy way out, cheating type of thing. It's not. One other thing I would maybe be a bit cautious of is the super high fiber bars and stuff like Quest bars. You know, I wouldn't feel comfortable just chalking the 17 g of fiber up as just subtract that, right? Um they're using corn fiber now, which has a really low glycemic index and doesn't spike insulin from what I've read. But like the Vitaf fiber and stuff, which in our Questbar recipe, we use that. That has a little bit of a glycemic response, I would be cautious with that. I wouldn't just subtract it. Uh there's certain things you want to be cautious of. But if you're just eating veggies, avocados, good stuff like that, right? Subtract it. Yeah. I think overall, um aside from our takeaway of this video being use net carbs over total carbs, is that try to incorporate whole foods more so than going to the bars. I know if you're on the go, shakes and bars are easy. So, just for a reference point, on average, we are probably eating between 20 and 30 gram of fiber a day. Mhm. 50 total carbs a day, which gets deducted to be around 20 to 30 net carbs. Um, if you're hitting like 100 g of carbs with 80 g of fiber cuz you're eating the Atkins bars and the Quest bars, that's probably an issue. You're probably like, I wouldn't just subtract all that fiber. There's definitely some kind of dim point of diminishing returns. Exactly. But yeah, do some more research and if you guys have any like evidence of, hey, this is why you should use total carbs. Here's a link to a study that shows fiber is converted into sugar, let us know. Link it below. Link us your reasonings for using total carbs. We're interested. We want this video to be like a factf finding mission and a collection of information. All right, guys. That's our take. This is why you should use net carbs. Bye. Nothing but net. Heat. Heat. N.