Hey, today we're going to talk about the seven tips we would have for any newcomer to keto just starting out. One through seven, hitting the big seven. I wish I had these seven when I started. Number one, eat as much as you want. Starting off at least. Why we would say eat as much as you want. A lot of people maybe disagree with this. Just let everything correct itself. Like cuz if you're getting on keto, you're probably on a standard American diet and you're overeating. So if you're just eating a lot of fats, eventually that will just autocorrect. So once you start eating a lot more fat, you'll just be fuller longer. So eventually Yeah. your body will adjust so that you'll stop eating as much in the be as you were in the beginning. Yeah. I think it just makes the whole process easier. Just keep your carbs under 20, but eat as much calories as you want. For the most part, I really had to take advantage of it because I was I felt like I wasn't eating enough because I wasn't eating cereal and I wasn't eating sandwiches and your body adjusts. So, just let that take its course. And also, your body is not going to right away it won't be as good at making use of all the fat you're eating. Like, when you're on keto for a longer period of time, your body's very gets very efficient at using the fat. So, it'll make it even easier to eat at a calorie deficit or just at your calories. Number two, commit to it and do your research before starting. That's a big one. Reasons being is you have this voice in your head, right? If you are not very resolute in the reasons you're doing this and you don't think it's the right thing and you're not positive that it's the right way of eating for you, that voice is going to start chirping in your ear, you know, and it's going to be saying like, you can have the the chocolate chip cookie. I mean, mom make mom only makes them once a month, right? I can have a cookie, right? Yeah. Mom only makes them once a month. You won't always get mom's cookies. Yeah. So, see that voice is going to start becoming louder and louder. And if you're not very def definite in why you're doing this, that can become an issue. My immediate thought is like when I do diets generally, I'm like, "Okay, when am I going to fit my cheat meal into my diet?" Mark it in the calendar. Yeah. I do that off the bat. So, um, you know, I was like, "We should just do it like once a week." you know, was it was nice to have Matthew because he was like, "No, at least for the first like 3 months, we should just go strict." And that's what we decided to do. And it was easier to stick to it because I knew at the end of the 3 months, like my body would have been adapted at that point. And so doing a cheat meal, it wouldn't be as harmful because it's easier for my body to get back into a state of ketosis. And also just knowing the repercussions of a cheat meal is just like the the drop in energy levels is the main reason I don't even really want to do cheat meals that much. and like probably just like stomach cramping and pain. Yeah, it's just such a momentary like pleasure for the long term. It's not worth it. Number three. Number three is make a plan. It sounds similar to the second one, but it's different because we're talking about a meal plan. And so if you have stuff prepped, and you can look at our videos cuz we do prepping video. Um if you do prepping, it's easier to stay accountable. And once again, all of these seven starting off rules um tie into one another. So for making a plan, if you're meal prepping, you're going to you're going to commit more. You know, you're going to be more accountable. And so it's just important to know what you're going to be eating before the week starts. I'm a big fan of when I just start a different way of eating. Like when I start keto, just eating pretty regularly, like maybe five meals, switch those in and out. Just stick to your basics. You have to go to the grocery store. You only need like 10 items or something. It's pretty easy. Now we cook different things like every single night. and we like to get creative. Yeah. But if you just have a a set meal plan that you're going to follow, that's probably a good way to go to start. It's easiest. Number four, accountability. And this is huge for us or for me at least was having Matthew to make me accountable for myself because I would feel guilty and I would tell him that I cheated or whatever the case is. But it's important to have a partner or, you know, use an outlet like Instagram. A lot of people do that. So, if you don't have a partner, you can just post pictures. You can post what you eat, and it just makes you accountable with a huge audience. Yep. There's a couple ways to go about it. Instagram's a good way. Another way is just to like tell one of your friends or something like, "I'm doing this diet." Tell your family off the bat. They're going to question it. Oh, you can email us and we can have like a little accountability email list, which we are thinking about starting depending on the interest, gauging interest right now. So, yeah, you can do that. get in touch with us. And if you take like pictures before, you know, you'll feel more motivated because you want to work out harder. You want to take that next picture and look, you know, leaner and fitter in the next picture. So, I mean, just watching your body progress, like looking in the mirror every day, those are things that'll keep you motivated mentally, and that's a huge part of it. You also want to be working out. When you start seeing results, it gets addictive, too. Yeah, it's exciting. It's good. Once you get the ball rolling, you just like put in one good hard month and the ball's rolling, you know. Number five is know what to expect before starting. Do your research. This also ties into the other ones like they all do. But um you want to know like the first week or two it's going to suck. There's no way around that really. You're going to be tired. Your body's not going to feel good. You're going to feel really sore. It's going to suck for the most part. But you have to know that going in. And that can't be an excuse once it starts happening. You're like, "Oh, my body feels bad. Maybe this isn't the right thing to do." That's why they all tie in together. You have to commit. You have to do your research. Now your body's feeling bad. You know it's going to feel bad before you started. Um stay accountable. You're going to be dropping like, you know, 5 to 10 lbs each of the first two weeks just water weight cuz your body's going to be holding less water. And then when that starts slowing down, when you start losing a pound or two or maybe even not losing for a week, you have to know that that is something that might happen. Like you're not going to be just dropping like this consistently. Yeah. You're going to start out the first few weeks, you're going to lose a lot of weight, but it's going to be mainly water. So, don't let that deter you and then be like, "Oh, well, I dropped the 10 lbs. Now I can go back to normal eating cuz that's not how it works. You'll gain it right back." And we can promise you that. Yeah. Then when you start eating carbs, your body starts carrying more water again. So, it gains back really quickly. And this ties into number six, which is trust the process. It's his favorite saying. It is my favorite saying of all time because if you just keep on doing the work, you keep on put, you know, you keep on Exactly. things happen. The ball starts rolling. Just gradual changes add up over time and it all is worth it in the end. So this keto diet, who knows? A lot of things have changed for up changed for us. We are big believers now in like positive thinking and positive reinforcement. And if you think something's going to happen, it's going to happen. So if you tell yourself you can do this, you can stay committed, you can stay accountable, you're going to do it. Positive selft talk absolutely big. Every morning wake up, tell yourself how great you look, how greater you're going to look once your body's adapted, and just keep on keeping. Yep. Number seven, learn to cook new things. You know, not really necessary, but it's the fun part about it. It's the fun part in our opinion is learning to cook new things. A lot of the new things you might want to learn to cook, you can find at our website because we have a bunch of great recipes. I just think it's it's kind of fun to like, you know, like, oh, I used to always make chocolate chip cookies. How can I make chocolate chip cookies that I can eat without carbs? Right. We have also a lot of links in our um in our recipes that give you ingredients that aren't that expensive. So, it's not like going keto means you're going to be spending more on ingredients at all. Mhm. So, don't let that deter you also from like trying to bake chocolate chip cookies in a different way. Um, a lot of experimenting we've done. It's been really fun and not costly and we highly recommend that. Those are the big seven and these are seven things that I think pretty much anyone can apply and it will help them get a good start on the diet. Yeah, these are definitely things that I wish I knew beforehand. They would have made my journey better. Not that it hasn't been great, but we've also had each other. So, if you are going solo, you know, this is a video for you and we'll definitely help you get through that first two weeks at least, if not months. Hit us with anything you guys would add to this list. If you have other great tips for starting out, so then the people watching this video can read your comments, have additional information, which is great. Um, and if you want to partner, email us as well cuz we want to keep you accountable and then, you know, we'll update you. We'll let you know what we're eating and what we're snacking on and then you can keep us accountable. It'll We're just a big community. We're the keto community. Yeah, it's ketoconnect@gmail.com is our email. Subscribe to our channel. Check out our other videos. We got a lot of great stuff like this. We have some cooking videos if you want to learn how to cook for step seven. Just check out our other stuff. Check out our recipes. Thanks for watching. Bye. Heat