 Good morning. Kids are sleeping, making them breakfast. Yummy. Dipping eggy, one of the favorites of theirs. Matt makes my coffee in the morning lately, and my mom a bear cup, because he's my sweet Papa bear. We've both been doing no dairy for like, for me, it's just been like four days, so I found this. And I'm becoming a master gardener. It's my new thing. Yeah, we have a lot to show you. I've never, like growing stuff is harder than you'd think. Some stuff has died on me, the watermelon died. I don't know what happened with that. I think I put it in some soil that was not, like there's no nutrients in it, just like, it grew a little, and then it just stopped for like a month, and then it died. So this is some bread mega-made. Yeah, I made this loaf yesterday. I wanted to try focaccia. That's why it has all those holes. The boys really liked it too. It's pretty delicious. Look who's awake. Good morning. Can you show everyone your tattoo we did last night? Fishy. How's your breakfast? OK. He's eating his eggs and just holding onto the bread. Felix is almost two. Theo's almost how old? Three. No, you are three. How old are you going to be? Four. Almost four. You want to tell everyone what happened? What happened? Fell off the treadmill yesterday. I think it was scarier than it was actually, like, bad. Oh, boy. Why, Peepie? Get out of there. Get your foot out. Keep it in, please. Last week? That was funny. I gave him peanut butter and carrots for the first time, and he liked it. But he, like, rolled over and just rolled right into the peanut butter and his entire back was just a big, I'm like, why do you eat these things? That was fun. That was fun. Ew. Wait. This guy's just an animal. Dad is getting attacked by monsters. I don't have shorts on. OK. Oh, wait. Theo, chill. OK, here's Matthew's bowl. I did the kale and the bacon first, and then I just put the eggs on top, scrambled, and then there's a bunch of cut up kale here, the rest of it, that I am going to use for my scramble next. That's what mine will also look like. And here is my scramble, kale at the bottom, couple eggs on top, and I just cut up some fresh tomato. I've been finding these heirloom tomatoes that I really think are just beautiful. So that is breakfast. I'm going to enjoy that and then just do some cleaning and some things around the house. I'm going to add these. They are just dry toasted pine nuts or just raw pine nuts. I've been getting where I find them. These ones are from Trader Joe's, and they're so good. I've been obsessed with pine nuts since we got back from Michigan because Matt's mom put them on this kale salad she made, and I was like, these are delicious. So I've been putting pine nuts and everything. I feel like their flavor profile is just so good. Toasty, obviously because they're toasted. Like a buttery, they're pretty sharp, nutty, earthy, great in salads, great in scramble. I feel like they're great in everything. Pasta is if you're, you know, whatever you're doing. I feel like for me, what I'm struggling with lately, if I eat a meal like this, it's all very soft, and I just, I need like that crunch, that like a texture balance, I guess. And so afterwards I'm like, oh, I need like something crunchy. So like, even if it's just like rock arts or something. But if I ensure that like all of my meals have several different textures, then I think I'm just more satisfied and like the right spices. So like, it can't be too bland. So I've been using like hot sauce more regularly and that just, it kind of just satisfies me more. Sometimes it can be tough to feel entirely satisfied when you're surrounded by so many snacks or you have kids in the house or just always snacking and you have all these like different goodies, I guess. So just making sure that your meals are one large enough to dense enough. I've been doing a lot of big salads, but I'm also making sure like I'm using enough olive oil. So there's a lot of fat in there. Quantity sometimes, right? That's totally fine, especially with like, when you're doing a lot of veggies, but also like you want something dense and then something just like satisfying, like on a like palatable flavor profile wise. Yeah, so just think about that. And maybe that'll help you just like, enjoy your meals a little more, slowing it down, eating it. Hi. Hi, Molly. Come here, sweet girl. Come say hi. Hi. Oh, princess. Since she's been an outdoor cat, she's been loving life and she's actually lost some weight. So she's just been so active. Someone's getting a workout in, listening to her erotic novels. It's not erotic. And I cleaned up the garage recently. It's so easy to make things very dirty again. You got this road bike a while ago. I don't know if I've been updating you, but I had a goal to run an ultramarathon, which I was on pretty good pace to do. I got plantar fasciitis like really bad in both my feet because I upped my miles way too quickly. Probably that's on the back burner for a while because plantar fasciitis, it just like never goes away or it's like really hard to get rid of. I went hiking for like a three day, maybe 30 miles of hiking thing. And it came back like right away. So not great. And I'm planning my fall garden right now. And we've been making less videos lately, probably one a month or so. Probably gonna continue more on that type of a schedule or should we do more of one? Well, I think we'll probably ramp up one. We've decided to move and like we start living in Michigan. We might have a second chapter and the channel will transition a little bit. We have a loose plan. We haven't told you, but I alluded to something, some big changes happening. We're gonna move to Michigan by my family, which we realized family is important for the kids to have like interaction. And like, I feel like a lot of having a big family around is like there's like a lot of pressures on the kids like behave properly and not just like, you know, become like delinquents and stuff. When it's just too you too, and you're kind of isolated, you don't have like a lot of family around. Stuff just gets a lot of control. So the plan is to move to Michigan and have some farm animals and a garden and stuff. So that tends to the gardening experimentation right now. I thought gardening would be a lot easier than it actually is. So I got some new stuff sprouting here. It hasn't sprouted yet. I have a rosemary lavender, whole beans or something. I just went and asked the guy, what grows good at this time of year in this climate? Chives, and then this is store bought blueberries. I'm trying to see if I can get any sprouts going from them. And then here I have some Mary gold. I think it's called Mary gold, I think. My grandpa dries out his Mary gold every year and he gave me some of those. And I'm about 80% of the way done reading Infinite Jest by David Foster Wallace. I told you guys about that last time, last video. Really exceptional, I love it. I've read actually a lot of his other writings. Now I have like almost everything he's written. Very just amazing mind. I read a bunch of his nonfiction stories because he was also a journalist. And I've listened to like all of his interviews on YouTube, pretty amazing guy. Some authors, when you read them, you're really kind of like interfacing with them in your mind and you form like kind of a relationship with them. He's like probably the best example of that I've come across. So this is what I got going out here. Still have some room, some more room in these beds. Though I still have this original corn, popcorn that the boys wanted to try growing. The only thing is that they're cross pollinated. So I think you usually should have at least four of these for them to even pollinate so that they fruit. Skeptical that these are gonna produce anything. I got some basil. I got this tomato plant that's getting some flowers there. And then this strawberry plant. This is a poblano pepper plant. And I'm thinking of where I have more space to grow. I was thinking maybe right here, I could get rid of this bush, try doing some stuff in the ground. Cause the issue with our house is we only get light in the front yard. And then over here, it gets too flooded. So I can't really plant a lot of stuff over here. Cause I gotta work, I gotta figure out the drainage. Kind of a fiasco. And we have a sponsor for today's video. It is Element Electrolytes. Easily the best electrolytes you're gonna find, especially if you're on a keto diet, low carb diet, because they have very little carbs. One to two grams of carbs per pouch. And you can compare these to other electrolytes you can find in the store. 1,000 milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium, 60 milligrams of magnesium. You're not really gonna find that anywhere else. Especially like your sports drinks and stuff that are marketed as being filled with electrolytes. They really have no electrolytes to speak of barely. Mostly sugar, which is not an electrolyte. Probably the best thing about these is they actually taste really good. And we do have a special offer for you. If you click the link down below, or you go to drinkelement.com slash keto connect, you will get a free sampler pack with your purchase. So you'll get a sampler pack of all their flavors. And you can try them all for the next time. So you can reorder the one that you like best. So thanks to Element for sponsoring the video. Check out the link below, back to the video. It is 1.30 and I'm a little hungry. So I made a salad, cause I don't think I'll be able to make it all the way to dinner. And I'd rather just have something than like beating it out of the kitchen snacking. So I made a small salad with a veggie burger on top. And in it is arugula, romaine, cucumber that I cut up. The boys have been loving cucumber. So we have a lot in the house. And then this is the dressing. I did some red wine vinegar, some Dijon mustard, and then this green dragon hot sauce from Trader Joe's. It's super good. I highly recommend it. All right, mid afternoon snack time. I have this cod liver can, getting them from Amazon, three bucks each. Pretty good deal, especially for as much nutrients as is in here. And one of these protein bars, vital proteins. We got them lying around, might as well eat them. They're not really my fave. All right guys, I've prepped dinner here cause Matthew just left. It's almost four, so he's picking up the boys. And I've also got the kids dinner. So I'm gonna steam some broccoli. We got some baby corn. I already steamed and cut up green onion. And this is the steak that I marinated. It was a New York strip. I cut off the fat and then I sliced it against the grain and just marinated it in some coconut aminos, rice wine vinegar, a little bit of sesame oil, and a lot of garlic that I minced up. And the boys have a quesadilla. They're also gonna do a hot dog. I'm gonna cut that up. And then I did some baby corn in butter and salt. They love corn, so I'm hoping that they love baby corn. And then I'm gonna cut up a bunch of cucumber with white sauce I'm thinking for their dinner. This is all steamed, so I'm gonna add. I also cooked the meat and I took it off. And this is two like ginger garlic pods. Hi sweet boy! Hi! Hi! Oh, hi! Mommy, what is that? It's all just trash. Mommy did some summer cleaning. Hi! Hi sweet boy! What are you making? Dinner. Hi Angel! We filmed a vlog for a Keto YouTube channel where episode of Hoarder is buried alive. Here is their dinner. Oh, that's baby corn. Did you ever have baby corn before? Never! Is it yucky? No, it's yummy. Is it the same quality we eat? It's just like corn but baby. Mmm! Mmm! Good! Good? Mmm! I would like it. Mmm! Look, it's cracking. But it's not what I like. Guys, come over here. Dinner is served. Becca's really been cooking up a lot of fancy stuff lately. She's been watching. She's been watching a lot of cooking shows. What? Pet her! After dinner snack, I found this at Sprouts. And it's actually really good. It doesn't taste like... I don't know. It doesn't taste too coconut-y. It's like a really good substitute for dairy yogurt. And then I made some granola. One last week, I think. So I've just been having yogurt and granola. It's like a nice snack or breakfast. Oh boy. So that's that. Okay, time for a bath. Felix is really tired. He's pure delirium mode. He just moses around like this until bedtime. Bath time. Yeah. Really showing off some thigh there. Mm. Yeah, they go up for the bath. They get their milks. And then I go up and we shut the house down. That's it. That's a full day of eating. Thanks for joining us. We'll see you next time. Bye-bye! Bye-bye!