Hey guys. Hey. What's up? We have something really exciting in store for you. We have a contest. A giveaway. A giveaway. What are we giving away? We are giving away PlayJoy. Have you heard of it? I'm sure you have. What's Play Joy, Boo? PlayJoy is a meal planning service and they have keto options. They'll make you a whole keto meal plan. Actually, actually, that's what we're going to show you in the second part of this video is us using Plate Joy and abusing Plate Joy. No. So, it's definitely the first meal plan service that we've seen that has a ketogenic option, which is super awesome. Dope. Fits our lifestyle perfectly. Um, they reached out to us and they wanted to give us a free six-mon subscription and they said we could offer it in a giveaway as well if we liked it. So, we went through it. You'll see it next. and we really loved it. We actually did the whole process. So, we ordered through Instacart, we cooked the meal. Super delicious. So, now we are offering it to you guys. When we made this video, my thoughts on it were like it. Yeah. But that was two weeks ago when we recorded the second half of this, but since then, we've actually used it one additional time other than the one you're going to see in this video. And I would upgrade it to a loved it now. Yeah, it super clutch. It came in handy. Yesterday it was super rainy. We didn't want to go out. We didn't really want to do anything. So, we hit a plate joy cuz we're in like the upper like 2% of people. We pro we cook like literally every single night. Not many people do that. And even we find times when we're like we just want to look on Plate Joy and have them send us things that we haven't tried before and we'll try cooking them. We don't want to make all these decisions. You do it for us, guys. Exactly. So, we're still cooking. Yeah. But they're making the decision for us. Funny story though. Last night we tried ordering um lamb chops. I think it was. We tried getting lamb chops. No, we tried getting lamb chops. Okay. The dish called for lamb chops. And we're looking at Whole Foods on Instacart and it's like, you know, like $26 a pound. So, we're like, nah, we're not doing that. And we saw then we scrolled down and we saw this one. We thought it was lamb chops. It was like $9.99 a pound. Turns out it's lamb shanks and totally different thing. So, they weren't butchered at all. Yeah. So, we just had two two pounds of lamb shanks. It's just two guys, two legs. And so, uh what we thought a quick nice romantic dinner was going to be turned into a threehour slow roast of lambshakes. But it was delicious. It was actually fun cuz and now this we think this a recipe we're going to make for you guys cuz it turned out super good. Incredible. And yeah, it's worth the wait. It is. It was really good. So, do we have any guidelines for this guidelines? We got a lot of guidelines. Not really. We have a few guidelines. A couple. Tell them. So, we have four social medias that we want you to go and like two of. So, you can like Pinterest, Facebook, Twitter, or Instagram. They're all linked in the the description, too. So, hit those up. And then the second thing, wait, wait. Some people might want extra credit. And you get extra credit if you follow us on all four. Oh, yeah. If you're an overachiever. So, the second guideline is we're going to post Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. We just posted it. Sorry. We just posted our picture from the first PlayJoy meal we created, which was creamy cilantro chicken. Super good. And we want you to comment below and tell us what you want us to make next. It's as simple as that. And that is how you are entered to win a free six-mon subscription. So, why don't we tell them how much it normally costs? It normally costs, I think, $59 for six months and then $89 for 12 months, which, you know, if you don't win, is still a very affordable price given what they're giving you. And what's our coupon code for? How much percent off? We have a coupon code in the description. I forget how much percent off it is. It's either 10 or 20. One of those two. So, if you I should go look it up right now, but just it's either 10 or 20. It's in the description. So, if you don't win, definitely go check out the coupon. And it can also be as a great gift for a mom, a dad, or like a boyfriend, right? Who's on keto, even if you're not on a keto diet. So, any human being, basically. Even cats. No, no. That's that's a a whole business venture. We could make a meal planning service for cats. Comment, let us know if you like that idea. We're walking through the uh PlayJoy experience right now. What up guys? Hey y'all. So, what we're going to do for you today, answer the questionnaire, get a meal plan and then order the ingredients for one of the meals on Instacart, get it delivered today, we think, and then cook it tonight and do the meal and then give you like a quick review of what we think of it. Exactly. So, you'll get the whole rundown. Also, real quick, check out our website, guys. Here it is. Go check it out. We got baked uh chicken tenders, day after Thanksgiving pancakes, and we're also trying to grow our Facebook and Twitter feed. So, if you guys have those, you know, just follow us, maybe tweet at us for fun. Um, we're always on. We're always checking. So, I enjoy. Here we go. We're answering the questionnaire to figure out what kind of meal plan they'll devise for us. So, first question. How many are we shopping for? Two. Miley doesn't count. We got our names in here. trying trying to lose weight. No. But you can see it's really cool. You can customize and say if you want to try and lose weight and put your weight in, go away, age. Okay, that's pretty cool. So, we're going to go with no for now. And you want to do size? Regular. Regular. Yep. Well, I'll eat a little bit of yours. What I didn't like is they automatically put small for a female and then they automatically put regular for a male. But I'm I'm a regular portion size eater. So, are you limiting carbohydrates? This is the coolest part to me. Great. Yeah. Not a lot of services will have an option for keto. Yeah. Some will have like paleo, definitely Atkins, but you've never I've never seen ketogenic personally. Yeah. So, the difference between low carb and ketogenic on here is no grains, very low carb, highfat versus and low carb is low grains. So, you probably get like some brown rice or something in there at some point. Yeah. So, yeah. So, we picked keto and you guys will too. So, that's cool. So, here's uh another cool part. What is your daily carb intake? You can go under third, 50, under 40, under 30. We're going to go under 30. Yeah, cuz we want to try it. And you know, also we just had a huge Thanksgiving extravaganza. So, if we're going to do it, we want to do it strict. Um, what do you want Plate Joy to plan for you? Courses. And we picked a bowl. So, you can do no snacks if you're trying to be even more strict. We should probably do no snacks, right? What you can do though is you can just put everything and then I think when you get the meal plan generated for you, you can exclude whatever you want. So you can take things out of your queue. Where do you shop? Um traditional. So mostly we do traditional Safeway. We went to Acme this morning, but they recommend the Whole Foods Wegman. So if you guys are splurging and Oh, let's do that. You have that option. Do the recommended. And um it'll it'll what it does is it navigates to your Instacart. So when it goes to your Instacart, it'll choose Whole Foods as opposed to Safeway. Which of the following do you have? We have all of that other than slow cooker. What kind of milk does your family prefer? Almond. How much time do you have for breakfast? I really like this cuz you know some people work early. How much variety do you prefer? This is another cool thing. Um you can get something different every day, two or three options each week or the same couple things every single day. So let's go middle of the road. Yeah. How much time do you have to make snacks and desserts? Mix. Yep. Okay. Create. So now we can create our own menu. And then here's where you get to decide. So what are we going to do? How many meals would you like to shop for? Maybe just one of each, right? One breakfast. Let's do a zero lunch. Well, I want to see what they give us for lunch. One dinner. One dinner. One snack. One snack. Okay. So, you can either blindly trust the meals they pick or you can review what they've picked for you and change them in and out, which is cool. So, here's what we got. Tomato and avocado omelette. I'm into that. Scrambled eggs with cheese and veggie bacon. Okay. Let's So, click click on a meal. You can click on a meal and then it'll give you the nutrition. Okay. Right. And it'll give you the ingredients and how long it takes. So, and what what I really like is they separate it out for men and women. I really like that. Very low carb. Yeah. I like the veggie bacon. We wouldn't normally do that, but you know, if the price is pretty cool. Yeah. Is there a certain one we'd want to do or you want to just do like a a dinner? We're going to do a dinner for you guys. Ooh. Yeah. Let's pick our favorite one. Creamy cilantro chicken skillet, cilantro salmon with asparagus. And this looks good. That one looks good. But let's scroll down. Let's Let's show them all. Fittata. We We love our fittatas. So, they like know us already. Mhm. Oh, lamb chops. I love lamb chops. I think I'd like the skillet one. Which one? Yeah. You want to go with this? Yeah. Let's see the ingredients. Butter. We have mustard still, right? Three net carbs. Ooh, this one. This one looks delicious, guys. Yeah. Creamy cilantro chicken skillet. So, that is what we are going to order off Instacart and cook tonight, I think. So, three net carbs for me. And look at this. It's actually like pretty. Look at the keto macros they come up with, too. And it's hard to find a meal plan that's like really on board keto style where it's giving you like 60 grams of fat for a dinner because everyone's still on the low fat thing, you know, more fat than protein. Yeah. Let's see how much fat I get. 46 to 40. Yeah, this is great. So, scroll down. So, this is cool cuz you can pick what you have and what you need. Um, and I like that they pick it for you. So, you don't have to go and scroll at all the um and stand in the grocery for like 3 hours and decide which dark chocolate you want. They kind of just do it for you. And sometimes we need that in our life. Okay, update. We don't have any of this. Okay, cool. So, this is our menu for today. Order ingredients on Instacart. So, you also you don't have to check everything. You can if you want. Um, sorry. You don't have to check all the boxes cuz it'll automatically populate on Instacart, which is something I learned when I um I watched a review on it. You have one free delivery. Got it. I don't know if that's through Plate Joy or if that's just I think it's cuz we're ordering through Plate Joy. Okay. It might be or it might just be because we've never ordered on Instacart before. So, two times avocados. Add 5 oz baby spinach. Add cilantro. Whatever. We'll splurge. We'll use it all. Thighs. Two 8 oz chicken breast. Breast. We like our thighs. We do. I'll take some breasts though. Oh, and thighs. And thigh. 4.99 a pound. If you go up to stores, just hit on that so we can look at it. You can change which store you want to order from. So, if you don't want to do Whole Foods today, you can look at the other ones around you. So, we have a BJ's near us. We have a Reading Terminal Market. Like, it it uses your zip code. Yeah. So, if you want to just eat cat food, you can do Petco, you know, whatever you want. All right. So, cart check out. It's not too pricey. $17.96. We had a lot of stuff. Also, foods is good. I am probably going to fill this in off camera. We'll get it delivered to us and it will arrive. It says within an hour. Yeah. So, we get it today. It'll come to our front door. So, we're going to cook this up and try it. Yep. Check it out, y'all. We already got our delivery from PlayJoy, and it took like 40 minutes. Yep. Really legit. Very impressed. And the the Whole Foods is like 20 minutes away, so it's like they had a guy I'm sure they had a guy they have a guy there like all the time that just gets waiting in his car. Yeah. So, we got what are we making again? Creamy chicken. Cilantro. Cilantro. Cilantro. Chicken. Yeah. So, we got cilantro. And we always get cilantro, but we never like can use it all before it goes bad. We'll go hard with the cilantro in our meal and we'll just have to keep using it moving forward days. Some spinach for our lunch salad. Lunch salad. Two avocados. Let's see how ripe they are. And I touched them. They know we have to use them tonight. So, I'm curious. They do. They know though. Oh, I guess that one's That one's usable. Perfect. Ready to go. We got a thighs. They gave us a pretty expensive pack. Yeah, pretty expensive pack of chicken breasts, too. And that's everything. It's one day's worth of meals. Yep. And I guess the And so we have like the eggs and the butter and the cream and the certain things in that are going to go into all our meals. Yeah. So the only downside I would say to this besides like I mean it's incredible cuz it's just an hour delivery. It was great. Yeah. Delivery time is crazy. We didn't have to leave. And when it's freezing outside, who wants to go out? But the downside is that we don't get to pick our cheap meal. Our or we don't get to pick which ones we want either. Yeah, that's true. Which is, you know, you can't have everything. Beggars can't be choosers. We're not beggars. We're using Instacart. True. So far so good. All right. So, we are going to cook this for dinner and report back on how good the recipe tastes. I think is probably the last step, right? Yep. You get all the directions and everything on your Plate Joy menu. So, you go back to it. Yeah. So, also we'll tell you how easy it is to follow the recipe. Exactly. And timing wise and prep and how do they how narrowed down do they really have it? We should set a timer to see if it's 20 minutes. Did it say? Yeah. Yeah. So, we'll report back. And there you have it, our creamy cilantro chicken in a skillet from PlayJoy. So, thanks, PlayJoy. Meet us at the dinner table. Hey guys, just finished cooking and we have creamy cilantro chicken skillet. Um, this was a dinner that most attracted us on Playchroy, I would say. Right. Yeah, definitely. Looks good. Looks good. Finished product resembles the picture on our website pretty closely. Not too far off. And it smells delicious cuz it's still warm. Give it a taste. See what we think. The first word I would use to describe it is creamy. Right. I'm on board. Extremely creamy. This is great. Mhm. This is very good. Um, it's pretty simple, but you come away with like a nice looking It looks like you cooked something good. It seems like it'd be challenging, but like they really provide you good steps and it's pretty doable. It's very doable. And I like the amount of cilantro. We were like, how much is it? Half a cup. We like half a cup, that's a lot, but seems like a lot. It really hits you with the cilantro flavor. So, if you don't like cilantro, stay away from this. A critique I would have though is you're looking at it's just like a plate of chicken. Really? Right. Where's like the I don't know like a cauliflower rice or something like you know this could be even good over a bed of lettuce or like salad. Yeah, it's kind of a one note thing. You're just getting a bowl of chicken, but the macros are great for keto, which, you know, it's it's hard to find that. Definitely. Right. Yeah, it's great that they even have this option. Yeah, this is incredible that there's websites doing this now. Yeah. 567 calories, 46 fat, 40 protein, three carbs. Great. Great for keto. Perfect. This is 709 calories, 58 fat, 50 protein, four carbs. Instacart. We know it's not Plate Joy, but you know, it's it's affiliated or it's attached to Instacart. So, we only needed a pound of thighs, but they gave us 1.54. And it's cool cuz, you know, they send you an email that gives you the adjusted weight as to what they actually gave us. But then they're charging us more than what we thought we were going to get charged. We ordered one lb of breast, right? One pound of thighs. And we got 1 12 lb of each. Yeah. Um, so our total bill at checkout was $17 and it ended up coming out to like $23.2. 252. Yeah. Which is like a pretty significant increase. Like if you're buying $200 worth of groceries and they come back with 300, you know, that's like that's like what's going on here, guys. So we prefer obviously cuz if we were in the grocery, we would have gotten like just under a pound or just shy a pound instead of 0.54 over. You can do this without Instacart, but it just makes a lot of sense to use Instacart integration. Yeah. When we were cooking, we were talking about like who this would come in handy for, like aside from us, but like if you did have a family or if you were a single person and like or you're just lazy and you wanted something easy to just deliver the groceries to your door and tell you exactly what to do. Uh, also, if you're a little confused on how to start and like what you should be eating, you just like don't know where to start, this is also a good option for that cuz they give you meal plans and the meal plan is a legitimate keto meal plan. It's not like just low carb. Yeah. So, that could be a good option. Like if you're a person who knows how to cook decently well and you just want to start keto, don't know what to do. Definitely try it. Yeah, PJ is recommended. Yeah, you always have the veto power. So there's no like, oh, I wound up with 2 lbs of shrimp. What am I going to do now? Like, you know, you can always always figure it out. So I would definitely recommend this. Yeah, maybe a downside um is that it only comes in six month or 12 month subscription. Yeah, there's no I pretty sure there's no monthto-month Yeah. option and the cost is $59 for six months, 90 $89 for a year. So, which isn't which isn't that bad if you think about it, but um you know, if I just want to try it out for a month, I'm really having to commit to 6 months. Um so, overall, I'd say we co-sign this, right? Yeah, definitely. Just like the Cereal Quest bars. Oh, the other good thing, this is another Instacart thing, is you can like if you go to work, you can just make a routine out of it. Like you you check your meal plan, then you like deliver this at 5:00. If you get home at 5:00 every day. Yeah. Okay. Go sign plate joy. Woo. All right. We're going to eat. Bye.