Check it out, y'all. Hey, super excited. It's my favorite time of day. We got a new development. I always say new development. I don't know why it is a new development. Quest cereal protein bars. Came out Saturday. Hot off the press. Mhm. Three new flavors. We got them all. Just drove there tonight to get them. So, yeah. Originally, I was actually at GNC on Saturday. I walked by one and so I went in and I was like, "Oh, I got to get one for for a taste test each one." Um, and then I looked at the label and I was like, "No way. This is like 8 g of sugar." Because they actually use alulose and we had never heard of alulose and they don't put it on the label. So, it says zero arythrtol, eight sugars, and then like 17 fiber. So, I was like, how are they just going to throw carbs at us like this? It's Quest. I'm assuming it's like an FDA regulation. going to have to list it like this cuz otherwise they would not be doing it like this. Yeah. So, we kind of read up on it and also is similar to because it's the 1:1 ratio and it's, you know, 90% less the calories but just a sweet. Yeah. Zero glycemic index, all that good stuff. So, it's safe, keto safe, naturally derived from fruits like jackf fruit or something and figs. Just read the label down here. They have they still have their thing where they kind of list out how they're calculating the carbs. 17 g of carbs, 7 g of fiber, 8 g of alulose, 0 g of arythril, which equals out to two net carbs for this one. So, these two have two net carbs. There's cinnamon roll and chocolate. Those have two net carbs. And then we got waffle, which I'm super excited about cuz I love maple syrup. And that has three net carbs. So, half the calories, about half the carbs as a normal Quest Bar. The same price. Same price. That's the downside, guys. I mean, we'll let you know if they're worth trying, right? Yeah. So then we also got the new Quest bar which is Rocky Road. So they oatmeal chocolate chip blueberry muffin. And now we're going to be doing the third Quest bar and marbled with like marshmallow. Looks interesting. Let me just show you guys the label here for these. Boom. All right. What are we trying first? Uh obviously the Quest Bar. Okay. Rocky Road. Five net carbs. Yeah. kind of high. They repackaged a normal Quest bar and labeled it as Rocky Road is my thoughts with it does have a marshmallow. A little bit of marshmallow tinge. It's really good, but yeah, it tastes like the chocolate fudge brownie ones. I'm sure you guys have had it. It's just more of normal Quest bar. Like when I tasted the oatmeal one and the blueberry one, I was like, "These are new things." This is not a new thing. It's the same same old stuff. But it it works cuz it's Quest and they just really know how to do it. They're good. But I just put them right in the this one right in the middle of the Quest Bar lineup. Okay. Which we've tried all of them. Almost all. There's a few we haven't tried. Peanut butter and jelly. Yeah. There's a mint one. We both don't like mint. No, I tried that one a bunch of times. Yeah, I like that one. Oh, there is a like peanut butter pie one that's eight grams of carbs and just has like a gross yellow or like green label. Green. Yeah, the green just always deters me. I'm like we should No, let's not do it. Yeah, repackage re label the the peanut butter pie one. Maybe we'll get it cuz it's a great flavor, right? Peanut butter pie sounds great in a green vomit package. No, no, not happening. So, which one of these do we want to go with? Well, we can't do chocolate cuz we just said chocolate. Waffle. Let's keep for last. Waffle is what she's most excited for. Cinnamon roll. Drum roll, please. Just a great smell coming off this one. Yeah. Cinnamon. Cinnamon roll smell. Yeah. Like we're outside of a Cinnabon right now. Oh yeah, the cereal bars. You know how they make those? Yep. That tastes exactly like the Cinnamon Toast Crunch one. Cinnamon Toast Crunch with the milk in the middle. With the milk in the middle. Oh wow. Except a lot more nutritious. Those were huge though, right? They were like this big. Oh. Have you seen the ones they sell at the gas station for like two bucks? The ones that are like this? No, I've never Yeah. Yeah. They're like, "Do you want to to build a house out of out of Cinnamon Toast Crunch cereal bars? You want your own log cabin built out of Oh, man. cereal bars." But they're so good. But yeah, kids just like eat those for actual breakfast. Um, so that's a winner. Thumbs up for sure. Next. Chocolate. Chocolate. Not that smelly. No, not that chocolate. So, what's this white glaze? Is that like a milk? Is that the milk? Maybe. Yeah, I guess they are they are cereal bars, so that's maybe what they're going for. Yeah. Yeah. You don't really get a flavor. I get a flavor. What? It's chocolatey, but it's It's kind of chocolatey. It's in the realm of cocoa puffs. Like when they're not soaked in milk and they're really hard and kind of gross and you're like working so hard to chew them that you try to get the flavor and you can't. Good call. Not great. A little Teddy Grammish. The chocolate. Chocolate anything really isn't my favorite. Like I don't love chocolate cake. I love chocolate. Vanilla cake, chocolate icing. Like I need hints of chocolate and that really amps any time. I do really like vanilla cake chocolate icing now that you mention it. So yeah. So this one is way less good. I wouldn't pay 289 for it. That's And they all have 12 g of protein which is great. We didn't pull out pull them out. Let's pull them out. Let's pull one out. Okay. So we cut off about you know like three oneird of it. So, it's the size of slightly larger than like a chewy bar, right? Wouldn't you say so? It looks like very nice and appetizing, too. They got the aesthetic down. How do they make that? I don't know. I guess that's our next quest bar. Yeah. Right. It's not vitaf fiber. Okay. Um, last one. Showing some leg down here. It's getting hot. Last one. The most exciting. And look at this big jar. Butter, maple syrup, stack of waffles. Yes. I feel like they could make the waffle picture a little better if I'm being honest. Or they could just make me eat the bar and I love it and I don't care about the picture. Let's do it. Oh my god. Such a mapley smell. What does that taste? It's so good. It's hard to say. You're right. But it is definitely good. Oh, it's amazing. Similar to this one. Like they used maybe the same base and they just added some other stuff to make the flavors different. The cinnamon and the maple. Yeah, it tastes exactly like something and I just can't figure it out. I feel the same way. But it's amazing. Yeah. So, we should rank them. Number It's really close for number one. I'm going to go cinnamon roll waffle. Then this Rocky Road, which should kind of be categorized on its own, I think. And then this one's definitely fourth for me. Yeah. Chocolate cereal bar. I'm a waffle girl. You should get a shirt. I'm a waff. That should be a great shirt. I'm a waffle girl. Then cinnamon roll. Then cold rocky road. You know what? I think chocolate's number three cuz I really like the cereal bar texture. Like I want to cut this up or crumble it and put it in almond milk. Yeah. Like I would do that. You want to do that? Yeah. Let's do that afterwards. And then this one because this is like guys, come on. Try a little harder. Yeah, you should give them AI'll give this one fourth also just for lack of effort. Yeah, these these guys just killed it. The new the branding, the texture, just all of it. Really good. Definitely give these thumbs up. Try these. They're good. Don't buy the box cuz you don't want to burn a hole in your pocket. But definitely try them. It's really nice to have like, you know, this is a substantial snack and it's two net carbs. Yeah, that's nice to have. Like Quest Bar is four net carbs. It's like a little bit like, you know, you feel bad about it kind of. Yeah, you do. And um it's great for on the road. Yeah. Yeah. Great for a sweet tooth. These are definitely filling a void in like a keto on the go type of in Waffle Girl's life. All right, guys. It's been Matt and Waffle Girl from Keto Connect. Thanks for watching. Giving you a taste test. We have like probably like six or seven taste tests now. We would have a hundred if it was up to her, but uh check out the other ones. Yeah. And uh definitely go out and get these and let us know what you guys think. Waffle girls.