Hey guys, with summer right around the corner, we are going to be making a very simple side dish you could take to barbecues. You could serve at dinner. It's just a nice cold broccoli salad that's quick to put together and it's going to be delicious every time. You can even change up the seasonings, you can change up the add-ins, but I'm going to show you what I like to do for a quick and simple cold broccoli salad side dish. So you want two large heads of broccoli cut into florets, but I found this bag of just large chunks that I thought would be a lot easier. So if you have the convenience, you can use these or you can just buy the broccoli heads. So what I'm going to do is just cut these into the size of my liking. So like bite-sized basically. Like that looks good. Some big, some small. And then we're just going to add them to a bowl. And right now on the stovetop, I have a large stockpot coming to a boil. It has water like halfway up the sides cuz we're going to blanch the broccoli just for a minute. So I've got my cut-up broccoli florets and the water is boiling. Perfect. So we're going to drop these in and remember, just 1 minute. It's a quick blanch and then we're going to hit it with cold water after we drain it. So let's head over to the stove. All right. So I am going to just add everything in. And you'll know cuz it'll turn a super bright green. Cook it slightly, still has a bite, and then you hit it with cold water. Add it to an ice bath. You can just drain it and then top it with cold water to stop the cooking process. So you can see, if you come in, that like the broccoli has turned super bright green. So this is cooked. Like this is totally edible at this point. I am going to drain this. Getting a nice facial. Broccoli facials the next celery juice. So I've drained it and now I'm going to remove this lid and get some cold water in here. I'm even going to hit it with some cubes to ensure the cooking process has stopped. So while the broccoli is chilling, let's make the sauce that this is all going to be coated in. So it's really simple. We're going to be doing some mayo, some apple cider vinegar, and some fresh squeezed lemon juice. So we're going to start with a cup of mayonnaise. This is like my fantasy and this is like the grossest thing for Matt to see. This dog can. People are going to be so grossed out. They're going to be like, "Oh, it has a finger." Okay. And to this cup of mayo, we are going to add a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar. The acidity will go really, really nice with this from both the vinegar and the lemon juice. And then like two teaspoons of fresh squeezed lemon juice. I'm just going to eyeball it. Now we're just going to give this a nice stir. Now we just got to add the rest of our ingredients and then refrigerate this so it's nice and cold before we give it a taste test. So let's check on the broccoli. So we're going to drain that completely and maybe pat it dry. We don't want it like too watery to add to this cuz then that'll make this whole salad a little watery. So let's get head over to the broccoli. All right. So I've drained the broccoli. I'm just giving it a little pat dry. So I am going to add the broccoli to this first off. And I've just got a broccoli. And then we're going to just add the remaining ingredients, which is half a teaspoon of pink salt, eight slices of bacon cooked and chopped up. So this is bacon that we pre-cooked and we just chopped it up roughly. Large pieces, small pieces, all of that. We're just going to add it right in. Red pepper flakes is also an option if you want a little kick to it. I'm not a personal fan of red pepper flakes, so I'm going to leave that out. And then the last ingredient is sunflower seeds. So we're going to do half a cup. Also good would be pumpkin seeds. Could be really any types of any type of nuts. You can do sliced almonds. Now let's just give this a mix. Probably want like a wider bowl easier mixing. Okay. So broccoli salad's done. But I'm going to refrigerate this for at least an hour up to two. And that's what you'd want to do before you bring it somewhere, before you serve it, and the flavors just melt together a little bit better. But I'm going to pop this in the fridge and then we'll be back in an hour to give it a taste test. Okay. It's been an hour. Let's grab our broccoli salad out of the fridge. So before I serve it or try it, I would give it another big nice stir. So let's give it a try. Get some bacon, sunflower seeds, broccoli. That is so simple and would honestly pair perfect with any like hunk of meat or any other food. The broccoli is cooked perfectly. You want to make sure you blanch it just briefly for like a minute cuz you still want that nice hearty bite to the broccoli. And then refrigerating it allowed like the bacon flavor to immerse throughout all the broccoli salad. But yeah, this is a perfect cold summer salad broccoli salad recipe that I highly recommend you make and bring to your next barbecue, your next gathering, and impress your friends and family and stay keto. In the description below is the recipe linked with the ingredients and the recipe on how to make this. And have fun with it. Let us know what you decide to do in the comments. You can like tell us how much you loved it, how much you hated it, whatever you want. We're open to all feedback. Thanks for joining me.