кікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікікі Okay, we got Fifi's breakfast. We got some scrambled eggs and a little salt in butter. Some chicken and maple sausage. Some avocado, which he doesn't really like, but we're going to try. He eats so much in the morning, so I'm going to go for it. And then Matt made a little special French toast yesterday. And I got my coffee, and I've been using this, Barista Boost. You're welcome. I think Mega ordered it. Theo has a wake-up wrap from Dunkin' Donuts, which is his favorite. You know my egg and cheese bacon? What's in it? Because it's eggs and bacon cheese eggs. So my fantasy football drafts tomorrow, and Mega's helping me with the prep. I am. Well, he's not really taking my advice into account because he keeps... He's pretty wishy-washy. We had a good strategy. I have my strategy. We had a strategy. I'm not... You're not trying to beat me. You're having a strategy with me. You're like, how can I keep her on her toes? Yeah. So it's a two-quarterback league auction draft. I think my strategy this year is going to be to get two high-dollar quarterbacks. Maybe go kind of cheap at running back. I'm just... I'm like the best support system you could ever ask for. I would say if I would have met you in college, I'd probably be in the NBA. That's true. If you really sit down and think about it... I'm doing a lot. I mean, I think all moms could probably agree. Especially ones that are sick. Still sick, guys. Being a mom is the hardest job in the world. See, you say that very, like, patronizingly. That's probably what they put on their fishing boats in the Bering Strait in the Alaska Crab Fisherman. Being a mom... You think that's harder than what I'm doing? Yeah. I would rather have two healthy kidneys. And be a crab fisherman? Yeah. This is my coffee right here. I put a scoop of this chocolate collagen in there and then some half and half. And I've always really liked this. This one in particular. It blends well. It's not clumpy. And it's sweet. It's stevia. And then chocolate is way better than vanilla. One. Two. Three. Daddy. Daddy spin me around. Daddy spin me around. Oh no, he's gonna crash. Got breakfast. Mega said I cooked the eggs. Lovely. But I don't know if it was Matt or my new ceramic pan that I'm obsessed with. Yeah, I do really like it. So we got scrambled eggs and I mixed a little cream in. Holds it like that. And then here I have sausages, avocado. I'm gonna have some eggs. And then two string cheese. This is me. I made a special trip to the store yesterday to get string cheese because Mega hasn't been buying them. You go in and out of phases. I'll buy a hundred things of his favorite thing. And that day he'll be like, I don't like this anymore. This is the tastiest brand I've decided. It's like, it says Galbani whole milk. How do you peel it like that if it's whole milk? Because that's the secret. What is the secret? The Galbani family secret. Right there. Whole milk. Huh. I'm skeptical. Felix just woke up from a long nap. Maybe like three hours. And this is lunch. It's a gluten-free chicken finger. And then a Birchbender's waffle with lots of butter on it that you can't see because it's melted. And I'm just going to cut that up. And I'm probably going to give him a fruit and veggie pouch as well. What do you got on your plate, buddy? There it is. There's the waffle and the chicken finger. Are you chowing? Yeah, he's chowing. And we do have a sponsor for today's video. It is Element Electrolytes. The best tasting electrolyte supplement you're likely to find. And it actually has adequate amounts of the electrolytes you're looking for. If you compare it to like sports drinks or other electrolyte supplements, none of them really replenish electrolytes to this degree. Tastes great. Really good ingredients. The only ingredients are the sweetener, which is stevia, some flavoring, and the minerals, the electrolyte. They have a bunch of different flavors. They have fruit flavors. They have chocolate flavors. Chocolate is great for coffee if you like doing bulletproof coffee like I do. And Element Electrolytes are one of the few out there that doesn't have tons of sugar in them. If you're thinking like sports drinks and even a lot of the electrolyte mixes. So these have no sugar, only two grams of carbs per pouch. Really good stuff. Give these a try. drinkelement.com slash ketoconnect. I will also link that in the description of this video. Go there to get a free sample pack with your first order. drinkelement.com slash ketoconnect. Okay, looks like Megha's preparing dinner in her new pan, which basically cooks for you, I hear. So I already cooked that because I was feeling better earlier. And this is the seasoning. We always have a bunch of packets because it's just perfect. And we're doing tacos. I'm going to do the taco salad and everyone else is going to do tacos. Okay, Megha prepared my tacos. Two softs and a hard. We're siete on deck. It looks like we're a siete family. And Theo likes them too, but he doesn't really know how to eat tacos. Sufi's coming in. Sour cream, cheese, beef. Wait, he doesn't. He always does a taster first. He's like me. He loves beef. He loves all food. He's going to be way less picky than Theo. I feel like when it comes to that kind of stuff, Theo's going to be more like Matt. Theo's going to be like me. Daddy! Yeah, I see. Wow. Wow. That is crazy. Is the door open? Shut the door. Shut the door. Why is the door open? Shut the door. I feel like just becoming a parent is just so natural for me. I see why it's hard for parents to stick to a diet now. With kids, yeah. Yeah, it's a lot harder. Oh, yeah. Especially when you're the one serving snacks and meals like me. Like I was talking to my two girlfriends. I was like, do you guys eat everything that your kids eat? Like even if it's not something you want, but you just have to eat it because you're serving it. Last Friday, Matt surprised me with a nice family dinner. It was really fun. And I brought a draft to the table. We did a fruit draft. Sounds dumb and not super fun, but it was. It was fun, right? I thought so, yeah. It's a little entertaining thing to do with like your spouse or friend or whatever. And so it's just a draft. In fact, we have our top five players and you rock it out to see who goes first. And then you just draft and you can't pick the same fruit, obviously. So I thought we would do that with keto snacks. Or do you want to do a back and forth? Well, I got to think about it. No. This is like an on the spot type of draft. You take your first pick. Go ahead. My number one pick. And this is relatively new for me. It is the Cool Ranch Hilo chips, tortilla chips. Oh, I shared a bag of those with Theo this afternoon. While we were watching a show, because I didn't tell you guys. And just phenomenal. In order to look good for the channel, I'm going to go with String Cheese. What do you say? Okay, so what is this draft even about? Well, I just had some today and I realized that it's top tier. But are you setting the roster up for your best future? Yeah. Or is this all a facade of like what makes me look the healthiest, skinniest, best version? I mean, String Cheese makes it in either format. Second one, Quest Candy Bites. That was going to be in mine. Sorry. These are the Quest cookie bite things she's talking about. Candy Bites. Candy Bites. And did you know they make whole bars of those? No. But that's too much, right? I think that's the perfect size. Yeah, these are really good. Would have been on my top five. I'm going to go with this, Power Crunch Bars. She went from String Cheese to Power Crunch? I'm reaching and matching, yeah. And I'm going to have one of these as an after dinner snack. Finished my salad having this for after snack. Third pick peanut butter. You can't do like peanut butter and berries, but that's, I would probably pick peanut butter and blueberries, but. Okay, we got to get through the rest of these kids. Number three, I guess? Quest Chips. Flavor. I don't have a strong flavor preference. I guess this one's pretty good. Yeah, that one is good. Maybe this is my favorite? Four. This is tough. It's a tough one. What'd you find? So one of my go-to snacks that I really like, I'm just going to, I'm going to do it anyway. It's going to be like Faye yogurt with protein powder in it. Can that count? Sure. Okay. Raspberries. The only thing is they get mold on them really quickly. That's the downside. Okay, that just reminded me, I'm going to go blueberries. Assuming budget doesn't matter, macadamia nuts. Because they're expensive. Vote on who had the best top five. We both did a good job. Okay, so I think that's it. Felix is still chowing. He's always last, but not least. Serenity Kids Roots pouch. We love those pouches. A ton of ground beef. And some healthier cereal, which is Three Wishes brand, which we like to have. Theo likes to eat it too some morning for breakfast. And that's a wrap, right? Yep. Okay, so this was a chill day. It was Labor Day. Okay, bye.