Hey guys. Hi. It's a little windy today. We just did our um video recording shooting and IG live which was really fun. We might do that more. So um we'll let you know though. Yeah. So this recipe released yesterday. Check it out guys. Linked above. Yeah. Turmeric tea. If you don't know how to spell turmeric, there's an R. Yeah, there's an extra R. Same with Sriracha. Sriracha is so hard to spell. I almost didn't Google it before I like made I wouldn't have I was like I was impressed he googled it. Yeah before I made the pin like for Pinterest. I was like I know how to spell Sriracha, right? But I was like maybe there's something weird here. In fact, when I went to go write the blog, he usually has the keyword already written in. I was like just going to have to yell at him for spelling Sriracha wrong cuz I bet he didn't figure it out. He's like he knew. Okay. Cheers. Cheers. So guys, linked in the description is our IG profile. A thing we're going to start doing a little more is doing IG live while we film YouTube videos. So if you want like to just get things as they're happening. Uh check that out, follow us. But this video Mhm. is on I guess we don't have like a definitive name for it, but it's on just what we eat in a day. Yeah. Just a little discussion on that. Staple foods that we eat multiple times per week, every week for the last year basically. So just in general as opposed to like doing one day of eating. And just to touch on guys, we make a lot of recipes, right? Like unique recipes, cool recipes that you want to try, but there most of them are not things that you probably should be eating like every night for dinner or desserts, right? Like they should be maybe like once or twice a week, stuff like that. I would say fun like a family night or like cooking together on a Sunday night. That's when we usually make those kinds of recipes if we're going to make them outside of videos. Yeah. I mean, there's definitely some that are like totally fine, like chicken salt bokeh, chicken crust pizza, those type of things. Like, you can pretty much have every night if it fits your macros, right? But like, you don't want to be having protein cakes every night probably. Yeah. Or like the cheesecakes. Most of the desserts you don't want to be having every night. I guess just the ones that are like dense, high calorie meals are like the deep dish pizza. deep dish pizza. Like it's hard to not overeat calorie-wise when you're eating the deep dish pizza cuz that little deep dish pizza was like around 1,000 calories. Yeah. Just over Yeah. So, you know, it's tough to calorie restrict when you're doing that. Exactly. So, um so there's a lot of those kinds of recipes and it's it's easy to we have all the nutrition always. Um we're starting to put My Fitness Pal, if you guys haven't noticed, right below the nutrition so you can just look it up easily. You don't even have to plug it in. We did the work. Um, it's easy to gauge though, like what you shouldn't be eating every night. And another thing also to be cautious of is the flowers you're using. Like almond flour is a big one. Like those are almonds. You're just eating almonds. So if you make a dessert, like a mug cake with a/4 cup of almonds, that's, you know, one serving of almonds basically, right? You're eating like 18 almonds. So that can really add up. Like if you make our bread, which the bread is something I like to make and I take to work a lot. Like I'll take two slices to work. No big deal. But then you can't really come home and have almonds for a snack unless you want to just be eating like ounces and ounces of almonds, right? Which we don't recommend cuz and we don't do. But on to the meals we eat. Yeah. So, let's talk about what we do eat. So, our top five foods that we eat in reverse order meals. Also, apologies for my lips being orange from the tumeric tea. But number five, it's tough going backwards. It is. Cauliflower fried rice. Yes. Yeah. I think that's a good one. And it's surprisingly like healthy and it could be low calorie cuz cauliflower is. But it's so filling, guys. Yeah. Like I'm always like I ate way too much but you eat a normal serving. Yeah. It's a lot of fiber and it absorbs a lot of fat. It's just a really good way to go. We have a recipe on our site. In the recipe on our site though, it's like moderate carb. It uses carrots and peas just to be like traditional, but you can totally leave those out and go like broccoli. Broccoli, snap peas. But you, the great thing is we always add egg and like another chicken. I mean, or another meat, usually chicken thighs. Yeah. But you could also do like groundup sausage. You could literally put anything you want in like a cauliflower fried rice. Yep. So that's number five. Yeah. Number four, the thing I have for breakfast more than anything else is um a bulletproof coffee with a couple hard-boiled eggs. Yeah. And just hard-boiled eggs in general is like our number one snack. Mhm. Uh I'll do like for a snack, hard-boiled eggs with like an ounce of cheese. I didn't used to like them, but I've grown to love them. So, if you're like on the fence about them, just give them a try. I turned him on to them. Yeah. Every successful man needs an even more successful woman. Number three, Numba Trace. Alan Iverson. Julia Roberts. Roberts. Um, so lately we've been doing fish. So we always do like we did tilapia last night for instance. So a fish and a side vegetable. Yep. Usually 4 oz for you. I'll try to go like six or so. Um, just in a pan, right? Both. Yeah. Both seared separate. Um, you can also swap out fish if you don't like fish for like 4 ounces of chicken thigh. We cook it in a good amount of oil. And I like to put another tablespoon of butter on top once it's done. Mhm. And then a side of vegetables, usually broccoli or cauliflower, asparagus, or if we did a fish and we didn't have like a vegetable, we would do a side salad. Um, as simple as that. Number two, the second most made dish in our house is bacon, eggs, avocado, just like a breakfast, classic breakfast, perfect keto macros, almost zero carb, and your eggs must be over easy. Must be. Just kidding. That's a pretty standard. That's like if you're making a keto meal, that's like the first one you should make. And number one, the one that I would say helps me stick to this diet more than any other meal. It's the one It's the one day. It's the thing I crave most. Like, it's the meal I most want to have. Me, too. When we did our fat fast, egg fast, first meal, all we could think about was this. Mhm. We're We're really building this up, aren't we? What is it? What else can we build up about? They already probably know. If you're If you know what it is, type it and say, "I said it before you guys told us." salad. Cobb salad. A huge fat fatty, meaty, hardy salad. We don't go soft on our salads, guys. She goes some somewhat soft a lot of the time, but I go like I want to say probably like what, like 10 cups of lettuce at least. Yeah, I do like six at least. Two hard-boiled eggs for me usually. A whole avocado. Olive oil. Any any meat that we have in the fridge, we use that for about 4 ounces plus eggs. two tablespoons of olive oil or avocado oil and maybe an ounce of cheese. Sometimes we leave that out though. I never do the cheese. I've been tossing in tomatoes lately. I like the burst. I've been up in my veggies personally. Um so yeah, those are our five big guns. Um so right now we're going to do a rapid fire round. Matt, are you ready for rapid fire? What is this? Yeah. I'm going to give you 30 seconds to name. Okay. Five five like not processed but like pre-made frozen foods you have in our house. We have frozen in our freezer right now. In our freezer. Okay. That we always have. Okay. Um 30. Oh, you can't count. Um 29. What's that? Uh cauliflower. Frozen cauliflower. Handover frozen cauliflowers. Spicy Chipotle. Frozen spinach. I put in my smoothies all the time. Real good pizzas. Trader Joe's turkey burgers and chili lime burgers and mahi mahi burgers. And right now we also have real what's that called? Um the bread low carb the great low carb bread company. We have like a loaf of their bread and we have some chicken wings. Chicken wings and a bunch of fish frozen. That was more than five. But those are what we always have in our freezer. Maybe not the wings, maybe not the bread, but fish, burgers, spinach, and what was it? And the cauliflower mash. Those are our four main stays. What are five graband go snacks we have in our pantry or fridge? 30 seconds. Go. Hard-boiled eggs, cheese sticks, like twisty cheese sticks. String cheese. String cheese. We don't have Jell-O, but we usually have that. Like the 100 calorie avocado, like little packs. Yep. Beef jerky. Pork rinds. We have nuts. I don't eat those. Matt does. We have some chocolates. We touch on those at night. Um, that's five. That's like seven. Yeah. All right, guys. That was a long enough video. I think that wraps it up. Uh check out our turmeric tea video. This is something we've been drinking for the past 2 or 3 weeks. We're really liking the benefits. I like it. Um it really fills you up and like a comfortable like you're not snacking full. Uh so I'll link this recipe below and thanks for watching y'all. Let us know what main stays recipes you have in your house and maybe we'll start incorporating those. Yes. What's your guys' Oh below list your number one, your top one and maybe we'll make the recipe. Yes. All right. See you. Bye.