 air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air air Let me see. Do you see me? Yeah. What do you do when? I'm watching TV with my son. How do we turn the door? What do you want for breakfast? I want two feet. That's his go-to joke. Hey, no, no, no. This is not sausage. No. No sausage? What about bagel? No bagel. Okay. It's about 6.30. I'm cooking breakfast for the kids and myself. It's a weekend. And it's been a while since we made a video. We'll do some updating later on. Diet updates. Life updates. This is Theo's usual, just eggs. Sometimes he'll have sausage, but lately he hasn't really been doing that as much. Hi. Hi, Daddy. And Daddy, what is that for? You want your breakfast? Right here. Yeah. We said this is for playing. For fun to play. No, I didn't say that. I said that's for putting the camera on. So Theo's three and a half now. And then this is Felix's breakfast. He likes a sausage a little bit more. And an egg. And then here's mine. Two sausages. And my eggs here. Three of them. And I had my coffee earlier, which I did whole milk and like a tablespoon of coconut oil. And I'll explain the whole milk, which is not really keto friendly. Hi, Phoebe. Hey, Mama. Keep me happy. Here's our little angel. Good morning. Good morning. Hello. Felix. Hey, you're going to do it. Good morning, dude. I'm going to have to go put... I'm going to have to put in the cliff. No, you can just leave it down here. Say hi. Hi. Felix is eating watermelon. They're two beautiful boys. Good morning. This is a scramble. Two eggs, some onions, celery, carrots, and then ground chicken peas and faye yogurt. Greek yogurt. It's so good on everything. And that's what I'm eating. And I'll probably eat the rest of Felix's sausage and egg because he didn't touch his. Faye yogurt is Erlich Bachmann's favorite. Yeah, but he gets the one with like the jam and he needs the little spoon. An emotionally charged moment. We're going to the grocery store and the park and Starby's. Starrocks. Where's Phoebe? Where's Phoebe? There. Okay, let's go. We're going to the park trying to beat the rain. And I got... What? And there's a storm coming. There's a storm coming. And there's a vitamin. And I have a cappuccino. Cappuccino? And I have a cappuccino. Whole milk. Whole milk. And I had a cappuccino. I had a cappuccino already. You had a puppuccino. I had a puppuccino. And I also got a cappuccino. Whole milk with one stevia. And then I also got an iced passion tango tea. It's just so refreshing. And makes me feel hydrated. That's it. We're going to the park. They really don't tell you what you're getting into when you have kids. So Theo's outside playing with his friends so I can finally talk for a minute. Diet update. So I don't know how long it's been since we made a video. At least... Two months? More. Way more than that, I think. So it's been a long time. And the last year was not great for my diet. At least for like the past... I want to say six months I've been... Not really doing too much of a diet. At all. Can I get my back to your... No. It's all muddy. Oh. It never ends. If we go, I'm going to talk to them. And if they say no, I slice the mama. For maybe like five years before that I was doing keto. Now... The last six months have been really bad. Like I had Chick-fil-A and like pizza and stuff. Which I haven't had that in a really long time. Even before doing keto I was like... I never really ate that. But you did the grilled Chick-fil-A. I did when I was in college. No, I had like a Chick-fil-A sandwich one day. Oh yeah, yeah, we did. That was great. Because I never tried one before. But now I'm on to something new I'm trying. I've only been doing it for maybe two weeks or so. And part of it is because I'm running a lot more. Which I started like maybe five months ago. And then I got plantar fasciitis because I was like scaling up my running too fast. I'm trying to start again. But what I'm doing right now is the Ray-Pete approach. It's hard to focus and contact. I can't do anything. I know. Oh, I thought he was being super cute. Oh. It's all over guys. It's all over. Okay, so Ray-Pete. Who I learned about him from some book I was reading. You know, I'm not actually like really an expert. I just kind of started it without knowing a whole lot about it. Haven't... He has... He's written like one book I think. And it's not in publication. It's really hard to get. He has a bunch of blog posts. But they're like very science-y and hard to read. And there's nowhere on the internet or anywhere really like clearly defined like this is the diet. You kind of have to deduce based on what he says. He does interviews and stuff. He's actually passed away recently I think. But yeah, he has like some interviews. And I haven't actually gone through all this stuff. I just got the basics, the premise of what it is. And I've been doing it for like two weeks. So no real like stuff to share yet. But to summarize I would say the primary thing is no polyunsaturated fats. That's his like number one thing. So no nuts at all. No obviously like soybean oil, canola oil, things like that. Even avocado oil and things that have like a little bit of polyunsaturated fat but are generally considered healthy is to him a no-go. Coconut oil, butter, stuff like that is good. But it is more moderate in fat. It's not low fat. It's not high fat. Definitely not high fat. It's like moderate in fat. Protein. It's lower I would say in protein. It's more, it's similar to what keto is protein wise. But predominantly your protein comes from dairy. So he's like really big on dairy. The second maybe tier of his whole methodology is the calcium to phosphorus ratio he thinks is like really out of whack in our current diets. Apparently a big source of phosphorus is like grains is the main one. There's others. I think it's like found in most foods in small amounts but concentrated in grains. So you don't do grains. So no grains. He is big on having a lot of dairy. So cheese, milk, yogurt, things like that. And very low phosphorus. So recalibrating that ratio. Protein kind of low to moderate. Meat still. He says eat liver, calf liver, beef liver once a week. Oysters once a week. Like fish and stuff once a week. He's big on tropical fruits is like the departure from keto which I've been doing lately. So like he takes it to the extreme which it my guiding light with nutrition is what's natural is generally what's good. So he does some things that I would consider unnatural but I'm doing them anyway. I'm just you know trusting the system for now and just going with it. So the main thing he does is like a lot of orange juice. Pineapple or just like tropical fruits like stuff like that. He says he drinks like is it a pint or like a quart? I don't know those terms very well. A pint maybe. Is that bigger? A pint or so of orange juice a day which is like 10 to 15 oranges which probably is not very natural thing to do. He's not really that afraid of sugar. The only real source of it he recommends is like tropical fruit and honey and milk sugars like lactose. Yeah he does. He like eats ice cream and stuff doesn't he? Yeah ice cream he'll eat and things like that. And so then the fats are like coconut oil and butter. Yeah. And then he does some root vegetables. Yeah potatoes stuff like that. Sweet potatoes. There's mostly like forums on his approach and his diet and his beliefs and people just like conversing back and forth. It's not super mainstream. Yeah it's a lot of like cryptic like this is kind of what he says maybe you do this. Here let me pull up. I took a screenshot of format. Format. I'm not doing repeat. Repeat also big on carrots. He has like just a carrot salad and I was going to make it and then it's like oh it's just shaved carrot and vinegar. It's all very basic whole foods and stuff. So like Matt said he doesn't have like a foundation of what you should be eating or anything like that but he has. But people I guess have created an image online of what it should look like. I'll just put it overlaid here. Oh. Yeah send me the picture. Okay. But you're liking it. You're feeling good? Too early to report but I'll let you know. Yeah my thing is like when I see you drinking just like all that juice it looks really tasty and refreshing but I also know like I would feel like the sugar from it. I haven't been testing my blood sugar or anything. All done. All done. He does all done. All done. Another thing he recommends which I haven't done is testing your body temperature upon rising and then after your first meal to see how you respond to the meal and stuff. I haven't really gone that in depth into it. I'm just going to maybe do it for a month and then reassess. And for this video guys we do have a sponsor. It is Element. This is definitely one of our favorite products on the market. We're always stocked up with Element packets. My favorite being the citrus salt. That's my favorite. And then Matt's is the raspberry salt. So definitely want to try these ones out. They are really delicious. Electrolyte drink mix packets. A thousand milligrams of sodium. Two hundred potassium. Sixty magnesium. And that means they work on any diet. So you're doing keto diet? Great. Like us. We like to drink these. But paleo diet. If you're just doing low carb. If you're getting started. Definitely a great way to supplement your diet. To feel good. Feel replenished. Hydrated. We drink one every single day. They even have a chocolate one. Super tasty. And we mix some of that into like our kids hot chocolates. Theo and Felix love it. With the new year a lot of you guys are probably starting to work out again. And like I mentioned in the video I've been really sick. So I'm also like just starting to get back into going on walks and doing stretches. So I'm going to be drinking a lot more element packets. Just because I'm going to be moving around a lot more than I was last year. So if you guys are on the same boat. Definitely want to check out the link. It's going to be on the screen. And right now with your order. Any order. You'll get a free sample pack of eight different mixes. So you can try them all before you actually invest in one of these big big boxes. It's going to be drinkelement.com slash ketoconnect. That's D-R-I-N-K-L-M-N-T slash ketoconnect. And you can get your free sample pack today. So my diet obviously also alongside Matt's has just been off the rails I guess. Or just there hasn't been much thought put into it. I think my primary focus was obviously like my health. And then like trying to be present with my kids and my family. Survival. Literally just surviving day to day, minute to minute. And so food wasn't even like a point of pleasure or anything. It was just like eat what's available. Whatever Matt cooked. Like don't come. You know just like eat it if I'm hungry. And then when I'm not hungry I don't eat. Like I was trying to keep my pain level down. So food wasn't even at the top of my mind. But now you know like when we're healthy and when we're happy or we're doing well. Food is always just like circulating right in our minds. So I was sick. Pretty severely sick. Wouldn't you say Matt? Yes. For 2022. And that took a toll on my diet as well. And I feel like I ate a lot of rice and popcorn. And just like things that like bland things to keep me going. I had surgeries on my urinary system. So like I was having like lots of bladder pain. I feel like a lot of women can sympathize with that. And I was in bed a lot or on the couch a lot. Not moving at all. I had lost a lot of weight. I have zero muscle right now. I'm trying to work that back up. And just eat nutritiously. But yeah. So I wasn't getting a lot of nutrients I feel like. It was more just like energy to like get through the day. And kind of battle it mentally and physically. But since I've been feeling really good again. And you know I'm starting to heal. I had a major surgery back in October. That went really well. And since then healing. And I'm actually I'm going to have another meal right now. So I've just been eating a lot more. I'm just eating when I want to eat. And I'm trying to choose nutritious things. Matt made a bone broth soup last night. That was really good. So I'm going to have that. Still I'm not super honed in on anything specific. I'm not keto, paleo. I'm not repeat. I'm just honestly trying to eat as much nutritious food as possible. Stay energized. And be present with the boys. I feel like I lost so much time. And I feel like a lot of people who are chronically ill or sick. They feel this way. And it does suck you in. So like when you are sick. Social media it like it falls into like an algorithm. And it knows like that you're sick for some reason. Because I was like watching sick people. And so it was just it was nice to have a community of people who were like yeah I feel like I'm losing out on time with my kids. And so right now diet isn't my focus at all. It is my boys. I'm eating lots of veggies. I'm doing like a salad every single day which I've been loving. So yeah. So that's where my diet's at. But I'm enjoying life again. We just got back from the park. And I was tired but I was like hey I haven't been able to do something like this in a very long time. So it was really nice. Yeah kids really change things. Yeah. They change you. Hmm. And I am now a master of literature. And that's how I say that word from now on. I have read a lot of books lately. And I'm getting into the classics now. I don't know how long it's been since I did like a book update. But I have some great ones. So at the end of the video since most people don't care. I'll give you three top recommendations. So this is what I got for lunch. This is Parmesan cheese, coconut, pineapple, a lot of pineapple, and a hamburger that Megha is finishing up for me. And a crying baby. And Megha's having some of the soup I made yesterday. Carrots, onions, celery, lots of chicken, and there's some potatoes floating around. Okay this is Fifi. What are you having babes? Some potatoes from the soup from last night. And then some burger. Yummy! So here's my soup. I added some peas and some raw onion to it. And then I'm also going to add a dollop of sour cream. And that'll be my lunch. Recording. There it is. So Megha and the kids are out and about. And I am having just like a snack dinner. And I know this is a little bit of a departure from the days of eating I've been doing for like the past five years. Maybe not applicable to all of you. I will say though like I feel a little flabby already. So we'll see how long I do this for. So what I'm having here is these oysters and olive oil. A lot of them come in like soybean oil and stuff. So you know I avoid those. It's an epic bar. Which is just like chicken and some spices. Orange juice. And quite a bit of it. It's probably like 40 grams of sugar. So a lot. But I don't really feel any kind of sugar high. Which I was expecting to feel when I started doing this after doing really low carb for you know four to five years. And then this is Greek yogurt. Five percent milk fat. So like whole milk yogurt. And some local blackberry preserve. I think in 2019 is when I shared with the channel that I was doing the 52 book challenge. And I've really been like addicted to it since then. So this one I think most people would love. Station Eleven. It won the what did it win? The National Book Award. There's actually a TV show made off of this. This is really good. Easy read. Then there's this one. It is by John Williams. It's called Stoner. And it's not like about smoking weed and stuff. It's the guy's name is Stoner. It's really like kind of the weirdest book I read. But I really liked it. It's about like a life of quiet desperation. Which many of us lead. Nothing too crazy happens. Nothing special. It's just like you know a sad kind of yeah like a sad average life kind of a thing. And lastly what I would now say is my favorite book of all time. It has displaced The Catcher in the Rye. Which was my favorite book. I read it when I was in middle school and I've loved it ever since. I've read it like three or four times. And it really changes each different stage of life you read it. But this book. Whoa. Incredible masterpiece. The Corrections by Jonathan Franzen. A lot of the reason maybe this book appeals to me is because of my Midwestern upbringing. And this is like a very... The author is from the Midwest. And it's just a very Midwestern book. Really incredible. My new favorite book. So those are the three probably. Family's home. That's the end of the night. I'm wearing my clothes. Look. Your new outfit. Yeah. I'm taking them off. Sorry. He's a natural born star. And Fifi's a natural born... Fifi, go, go. He has like a very strong musical talent. He picks up songs like immediately. Fio's more of like an actor, like a thespian type. Yeah. Fifi's more of a... I'm thinking of him kind of in like an Allen Iverson sense. But the Indian Allen Iverson. Oh, I like this on the back. Okay. Say bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.