 narnit надlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeitlichkeit Look what's happening. What? It's snowing. Oh how pretty. Here's my breakfast. Three eggs, some bacon, and some Canadian bacon. We're coming out to look for our Christmas tree. Happy Christmas Eve. It's not Christmas Eve yet. Happy Christmas Eve. Let's look at our trees. We gotta pick one out. Check the selection. We can only pick a little one. There's the Christmas tree patch. There's a lot of them. What happened here? Like a bird died. Oh my goodness. Isn't that Christmas tree patch? Yeah. I can't even believe we have a... Oh boy. Oh my god, there's blood. There's a lot of hawks and stuff. There's even some bald eagles. No, that's Arlo. Come here. She never comes out this far. Oh, hi. Actually, what if Gwen killed the bird? How? Maybe. We got some little baby ones over there. Yeah. Too small. Yeah, one of these. No, I want a little one. Fine. But I'm out here. It's good. I'm just down here for a long time. You think that one's good? I like it. Theo's not opposed to it. Now we do this one because then we cut it right down there. Yeah, I guess this one's really good too. Just cut it higher up. Yeah, that one is really good. Yeah, I want to... Fine, Theo. You actually... That's a good one. How are we going to fit it for a front door? How? So probably like from right here up? Yeah. I love it. Do you like the tree? Do you like the tree? Wow! Spiderman shoes! Wow, really? Yeah. Fire! Okay, see what's your mom? Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Tito just like... Wow! Tito just like... Fire! Tito just like... Fire! Fire! Fire! We're having lunch right now. Felix is having some potatoes, leftover potatoes, a hard-boiled egg. He loves cutting his own egg. And then a little bit of sprinkles because that's how I had to get him to eat. And then Theo's having, trying some potatoes and then the... No, no, no. No, I'm not trying potatoes. My mom will put it on my plate if I want it. And then there's crackers, bread with cream cheese, and some Sam and Matthew grilled last night that he really likes. And then daddy has the tree coming in. Oh my gosh! Yeah, should I go? Should I open it a little bit big? Look! The floor! Two... Three... Two... This is huge! It's as big as the room itself. Guess what? What? There's something hidden in the Christmas trees out there. Oh! What? I saw it on the drone. What is it? I don't know. Some kind of mystery. It was pretty big. It looked like it was made of metal. It's way in the middle of all the Christmas trees out there. There's something. There's a one percent chance that it's some kind of treasure. I actually think there was two things. There was one big thing. At first I thought it was like a jeep or something. It was like pretty big. It's probably just some kind of garbage. Like I could only see it because I used the drone. We would never have known it's there. So it's in... if we cut down the tree, it's in the tree. No. It's not in the middle of an actual tree. Okay. It's in the middle of a grouping of trees. Okay, that's different. Getting up the Christmas tree was a huge ordeal. Way bigger than I thought it was. My huge feet. They're not that ripe. So I have to string it up. I've never had a real one. So this is my first time. But you grew up with one. So I thought maybe you would know what you're doing. I think this is bigger than any of my family's ever gotten. This guy's just becoming a farmhand. It was leaning a lot. So I had to string it to the wall with like a hook. Right there. Was it in there? No, it's not in there. Oh, wait, wait, wait. Oh, I see it. Okay. It's a little pokey. Be careful. There it is. Here's what we found. A little anticlimactic, but it is a Jeep. Just a kid's one. I thought it was bigger. And a sled. What'd you make for dinner? Tacos. So ground chicken, taco seasoning, fresh salsa that Matt said was disgusting. I did not say that. Lettuce. I look a lot. I got some jicama wraps. Haven't had these in a minute. I could eat like 70 of these. So I'm excited. And then we're also going to do some siete grain-free taco shells. Let's go. It never ends. Oh, what is it? What are you doing? I want ice cream man. What kind of ice cream do you want? Strawberry. Strawberry cheesecake. What kind? Strawberry cheesecake. What kind do you want? Strawberry cheesecake. Oh, you want poopy and apple? Oh no, you want chocolate, cheese? You know how they say like stay at home moms or like being a mom is the hardest job? Maybe it is. Yeah, it definitely is. It's actually like it's a different kind of hardness where it just like constantly is grinding on you and then it takes a lot like it takes a lot from you, but it gives nothing back. That's the hardest thing I think, right? Well, it does give a lot back in the long run. That's what like the people say that aren't really doing it every day. Night when he like falls asleep and he's like, love you mommy. Love you too. Fine. This was nice. Glad I had you. But yeah, day to day, it's just like survival mode. When you're asleep in bed and you're not with them and there's peace and quiet, you do. You feel like so, I feel really productive if my kids have had a really good day. Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee Lee quesadilla that I made him for dinner and now he's drinking a smoothie. Felix, say goodnight, say bye-bye. Bye. Thanks for joining us. Let us know if you... Yeah, Theo turned the TV off. Let us know if you have any great Christmas traditions that you think we should start implementing. We like to do Crabby Eve, which I'm sure we'll talk about as it gets closer. No, more. That was good. That's enough. But yeah, I want to hear yours. So let us know down below. Okay. See you. Bye. Bye, Evelyn. If you guys listen, you're going to get to play with Santa.