Where are we going? Whole Foods. There's a new one. It's beautiful. It's the one that we went to in that Halo Time video. They have the hot and spicy peanuts I want. Oh, we're going to get so much of those. Tell them about the hot and spicy peanuts. So, I found hot and spicy peanuts at Whole Foods. At Whole Foods. And they're each peanut is the size of my thumb. No joke. I know. For real. And they're just like the crunchiest peanuts of all time. Oh my god. And they're perfectly covered. And I think they're actually like Philadelphia made. Phil local. We're going to the basement cuz I get to park downstairs. Matt has to park outside. Yeah. Let's check out this dungeon of a basement we got here. Look at this. Show them where we live. Exactly. This Look at this. Just crazy. 40 written in blood. Not actually in blood, but in Philadelphia, this is what they got to do. At least we get a spot. I'm in love with my house my fo always asking the learn. So we got some flackers which are an option a lot of people use. Um, eight flackers. Eight flackers um per serving. But the whole bag is $1,000, sadly. One net carb per serving, though. It's just made out of flax seeds. 90 calories, eight fat, one net carb, four protein. I don't love them, but I guess they're a good they're good. They're a good option for like dipping cheese, dipping. Pretty much as good as you can get, right? For a flacker, for a cracker. All right, so we're going to grab them. A lot of people love them. Yeah. They have hickory smoked over here. Nah. How do they taste? I don't like hickory smoke stuff, but you just exactly hickory smoke stuff. It's a whole process at Wford. It's for the rich white folk. They love this stuff. What What's the stats on those puppies? 25 peanuts, which is 28 gram, is 170 calories, 13 g of fat, two net carb, and seven protein. Boom. Can't beat that. Which one? The one on the right. Okay, guys. $14. One on the right's almond flour. The one on the right is almond. This is coconut flour. That's cool. This one over here is almond flour. Yeah, super small. What's the damage? 1 g of carbs. $14. Um, it looks kind of good. It's 60 calories per slice. I think we should look at the ingredients and try copying this and make it. But, I mean, come on. To $14. It's ridiculous. Does that mean our bread would sell for $14 and ours is twice as big? I don't know. Are they doing well? Do you guys think we should go into business retail? No. Keto bread. 14 bucks. This is This is like 98% profit margin. Maybe we'll try this one day in the distant future. We're coming after you. Paleo bread. I think we should splurge on this one day just to try. Yeah. 14 bucks though. I can't do it today. When I turn white and when I turn rich, we'll do it. Exactly. When I turn white and rich. Apparently, you just throw paleo on the label of things and charge absorbent price. This is This is $11. It's 10 ounces of granola for $11. 5 g of net carbs. So, it's like a potential option, but it's a million dollars, so not really. today. You know what they say. We back. Good morning. It's Saturday morning and we just went to Whole Foods. Nice morning grocery shopping trip. It was small though. And their bag is a little deceiving. You can see here how it says great great price. And it also has the same color as Home Depot. So you might think we went to Home Depot. Yeah. Which we should go to Home Depot to build Miley some new stuff. Oh yeah. We're thinking like in the corner like a big post. We're going to carpet it. Yep. That'll be great for her. She also just left us a pooplet when we walked in the door. Great word. Cuz she's a little idiot. She's right on the front door waiting for us when we got back. Then she watched us clean her litter box. Just stared. And now she's bringing us toys as if you know. She's so needy. She's the worst. She's the best actually. Cat for sale. Cat for sale. She's so awesome. Actually, though, minus the pooping on the ground. But it was protest cuz her litter box was pretty full. She poops like a lot. So, we need to do it every day. So much, you know. All right. You Let's We didn't get like a full grocery haul from Whole Foods because it cost a million dollars. And we also have a lot of groceries right now, but we did get some cool stuff that we can show you. Just one shopping bag. 30. What was this? All of this cost us 30 $34. Start off with probably our favorite thing we got. Yes. Mega discovered these when we went on our mission to find Halo Top like a couple weeks ago. Yeah. Hot and spicy peanuts. And these guys are they're two net carbs per serving. Yeah. Which is great. Standard serving of nuts. 25 nuts. 25 nuts. And they're really like wellcoated and huge peanuts and a great crunch. Yeah, they're extremely crunchy. Highly recommend. Now we just have a bunch of nuts in there covered in Matt's hands that he used to clean the litter. Did you wash your hands? Yeah, I washed my hands. Okay. I heard him go to the bathroom this morning. Number two, and he didn't wash his hands. What are you talking about? I washed my hands after. I washed my hands. I was too tired to say you. No, it was a two flush. I washed them after the first flush. Then I waited for the Put his hands in the toilet. That's a two flusher. All right. Um, what else we got? Oh, I forgot we got these. Um, I don't love them, but I'm excited to have something to spread cheese on. Flackers. Yeah, these are good. Bit pricey, but you know, a nice indulgent crack. Like, you know, crackers. I do miss crackers a lot. So, yeah, as far as storebought crackers go, those are like one of your only options really. And it's a lot of fiber, so you'll definitely be going. It's basically a cracker made entirely out of flax seeds. Yeah, we got savory, which is like tomato basil type stuff. Yeah, they're sea salt original. Two for four. Best avocados you can get. Unfortunately, Whole Foods has the best ones, right? Yeah, these are really So, we do go at least for these guys. Acme terrible. Trader Joe's terrible. Yeah, like one out of every three avocados you get from Acme or Trader Joe's just never gets ripe. I don't know how that works. They just And then the other two just aren't good either. Yeah. Bad. These ones are great though. I love these. Big and like perfect. It's got some limes for some some stuff we're going to cook. No big deal. Yeah. Fresh juices. $2.99 a pop. On sale at Whole Foods. It might be on sale at your Whole Foods. So, go check it out. Ky Gold butter, unsalted. This is the stuff you want to be getting on keto. There's other brands, too. This is the most popular by far, though, I think. Uh, grass-fed butter. Good for like bulletproof coffee. Yeah. And kind of stuff. And Yeah. And so then we got this guy. So some some things, you know, we don't want to use our nice expensive grass-fed butter. So we always have like this guy in the background as well. Yeah. For baking. Yeah. Like for pies, we use that butter and stuff cuz you're using a lot. So can't really use KY Gold unless you're an aristocrat. Chicken thighs. I'm going to cook these up today. I think these are my favorite actually. I like cooking them in a skillet and getting the skin really crispy. And yeah, these are just they're also good because of the fat. These are the fattiest, one of the fattiest parts of the chicken. So, these are definitely good for keto. And Whole Foods has really nicely priced cheap, I would say, chicken thighs. This, it was four bucks for that. Yeah, thighs are always pretty cheap. This was $2.49 a pound. That's not bad. And then our last piece of pie is Lily's dark chocolate bar. So, we've gotten the chips before, but the chips package is 8 oz and it's like $7.69. 69, which is absurd. Yeah, this stuff is really expensive, but it's great for cooking up keto desserts. Yeah. So, this was $3.99, I think. But we still, you know, we we figured it'd be good to have um since the holiday season's coming up, we're going to maybe try some fun recipes, right? Yeah, definitely. So, we got the bar. It's sweetened with stevia and arythril. Aythril and stevia. So, it's just like you would think of like a milk chocolate bar except instead of sugar, it's the stevia and earth. And it tastes really good. Yeah, this is the best. So, if you're going for a bar anyway, like if you want to have like a bar in your cart or like at your desk or something, it is a little pricey, but it's definitely worth it. It's um the whole bar is eight net carbs. That's not bad. You just, you know, don't eat the whole bar. He doesn't ever trust my math. I'm not good at it. This just these are just super expensive. Four bucks for this. It's not a big bar either. Small 3 oz. But you know, some days you just need a chocolate bar when your cat's just pooping all over the place. So, that is our entire Whole Foods grocery haul. Small but sweet grocery small grocery. We're going to kill Miley after this. She's a cuddle buddy. We could probably cook up her hind hind leg really nicely, right? Yeah. Over some cauliflower rice. Oo, that'd be nice. She would love that. Yeah, she loves cauliflower. She She would love that because she loves cauliflower. She'd like to be served over it. All right, fam. That's our entire Whole Foods grocery haul. We might do a bigger Tell them how it was, right? Tell them how much it was. Yeah. This was all $34 for a small bag of groceries. Um we don't usually shop at Whole Foods for like a reup on our entire like when we go weekend grocery shopping. This it's more of just like a supplemental shopping. Yeah. And it's like a fun They just said new one. It's big and our hot and spicy peanuts are there. So, that's it. That's a wrap. Peace. See you. Enjoy your weekend. Look at her. Look at the camera. She's like, I want to play, but I want to be like, that's exactly what she was thinking. Heat