What's up? Hi. I always feel like we have to wait for people, but I just remember Oh, this is It starts. It starts. Um, so right now our meal prep course is available for registration. Indeed, it is. It opened on June 1st, closes on June the 30th with no question mark at the end. June 30th. What's up, guys? Wow, I look just as white as Matt does. No, you don't. It's the camera's playing tricks on you. So, if you guys are interested in the meal prep course, check that out. I'll try linking it like in the description after this video is published. Hey, everyone. Cat's name is Miley. Miley, what's up everyone? Hello. Hello. Hello. Um, just got Yeah. Oh, go ahead. I was just going to say that we just got back last night super late cuz Spirit Airlines pushed our flight back 2 hours and 40 minutes. You get what you pay for. Yeah, it was a cheap ticket. So, that was great. Um, we flew in back from Atlanta and we finalized our apartment search yesterday. It's a beauty. So much light. It's awesome. Two bedrooms. I'm happy about it. Yeah, it's going to be so good for our videos and food photography and stuff. Big kitchen. Big kitchen. You're growing that long southern girl hair. I am. Thank you for noticing. Your face is covered by the comments. I can't see you. So other people can't see me or you? No, I think they can see you. Um, how do we feel about exogenous ketones? We're not really into them unless you're a high performance athlete, which I am not. Yeah, Spirit Airlines is not good. I've been on keto for almost a year and still not losing weight. Even on 2300 calories. I started keto at 174 nine months ago. I'm 184 now. What could I be doing wrong? I think it's your calories. Those might be a little high, especially if you're 174 pounds. When you say even at 2,300, does that mean like you've been slowly getting down to 2,300 or you're going up to 2300? I think your calories are too high. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Have you used a macro calculator and figured out your macros and you got 2300? Yeah. Check out our website. We have a macro calculator and watch the video on how to use it. Thoughts on Trader Joe's cauliflower crust? Those are loaded with carbs, I think. Right. Yeah, they're check out the nutrition. Not great. Besides f growing the keto business, why are you moving to Atlanta again? I may have missed a video. Just a change of pace. Um, the Yeah. Okay, fine. You just say, "Yeah, we don't give our expand. Expand." So, um, the weather is killer up in Philadelphia, and I'm sure most places you guys are. Um, we've been, we were down there for three days, and I was just infinitely happier. The weather really dictates my mood, unfortunately. I think that's with a lot of people. Yeah. And so being able to like go swimming in September, October, like in our pool, it'll be nice, will be really nice. Um, also, we just wanted cheaper, slightly cheaper rent, not substantially cheaper. And it's not like we just picked Atlanta and we we went, we're going. Um, we did visit it twice and we fell in love. If we didn't love it, we wouldn't be going. Yep. We love you, too, Jessica. on everyone. Let's see here. Get rid of I guess it doesn't matter. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Yes, I've been going down. My macros should be Your macro should not be 3150 calories. If you're 174 pounds, you need to recalculate your macros. Email us and we'll help you out with that if you want. And don't if you're for the activity level, put sedentary. Don't put like highly active. It depends on what you're doing. Yeah, just shoot us any secondary. Um, that's way too high. What do you got? How can you use a macro calculator if you do things like boxing and jiu-jitsu every day? Isn't it hard to determine how many calories you use? How do you calculate macros factoring in for exercise? Basically, it depends on what your goals are primarily. Well, you don't have to be exact is the thing. It's a guide, right? So, I personally normally say to just exercise to a deficit. So, don't factor in your workout calories unless you feel the need to. If you're trying to lose weight, just exercise to a deficit. Um, but you can also just like ballpark it. Like an hour of jiu-jitsu is maybe, I don't know, like 500 calories burned. You don't have to be exact. I eat 4,000 calories. That guy who's saying carbs. Screw fat. I don't think that's real. Okay. How many veggies do you eat a day? I think we eat on the high end compared to what I see most keto people eating. We definitely we eat veggies with every single meal. And then one of our meals, we always do a salad. that for me especially because I started throwing in tomatoes, broccoli, occasionally onions, um, and Matt just does a lot of lettuce. That's like just I feel like mostly veggies. Lettuce all day. I have like eight to 10 cups of lettuce per salad. Yeah. Can you talk a little about intermittent fasting? I think it's like a nice add-on um once you're uh keto adapted. Definitely to experiment with. is not for everyone. Mega doesn't like it. She stopped doing it. I find it's just like more with my natural eating cycle. Like when I wake up, I'm not hungry, so I don't eat breakfast. Have you watched Have you watched The Bitter Truth About Sugar on YouTube? I don't think I have. No, we have not. Maybe I have. I forget. They all blend together for me. I've watched a lot of keto related documentaries. Happy birthday. Do you guys play any sports and has keto affected your performance? I used to play basketball. Um, we mainly just lift weights now. Yeah, keto I would say maybe negatively affected my weightlifting slightly, but I've been doing a little pre-workout carbs and I notice a huge difference. I really like it. If you're having trouble lifting weights on keto, I would say first thing, try a little salt pre-workout. Second thing, try a little carbs. See how you like it. I do like 10 grams of dextrose preworkout. What do you use to check your keto levels? Pea strips? No, we do not use pea strips. Um, we find um that they're extremely unreliable past the first week or so, and that's when your body is getting into its um it's learning how to use the ketones. So, it's secretreting them when it's not utilizing all of them. But when it starts using them, you're not going to be secretreting them in your urine. So, you won't see any color on the strips, and that can deter you or discourage you. Poop strips. What does that even mean? I don't know. Okay. So, yeah, we don't use strips. We have a keonics meter, which tests your breath. We don't test that often. We kind of just eyeball it. If you're under 20 net carbs, for us, we're higher now. were like usually like 30 35 depending on the day. You're pretty much within ketosis range. I don't think you need to be obsessed about tracking ketosis. Just go by how you feel. That's what matters. Um, is the chicken crust still your fave? I would say yeah, probably our fave. It It's just the best pizza, but not like favorite recipe. Yeah. Sugar substitutes we use is arythril and stevia mostly. Yeah. Um, I've car refeeded once and that was after a year and a half of doing keto. Matt has yet to do a refeed. So, we don't like have refeeds that we just normally incorporate. Someone from the Philly area said, "What is good places to get meats around us? We use ShopRite." Shopright has pretty good stuff. I feel like um Trader Joe's has some good frozen uh seafood. Um, so there's actually a CSA. It's called Greens Grow Farms. They have grass-fed everything. It's just a little expensive. U and then Reading Terminal Market has a lot of good stuff. Reading Terminal Market has great stuff on the weekends. On the weekdays, they're kind of minimal. Graveyard Shift meal plan. It's just a normal meal plan, but you change the meals around. So, I don't fully know what a graveyard shift entails. Do you not like have access to a microwave or something or a fridge? Yeah, that we need. Um, we usually just use olive oil or avocado oil with any of our dressings. If we are getting storebought dressings, cuz I do time to time like blue cheese or Caesar or something, just check the nutritional labels. Um, the lower the carb, like one per serving, the better. Um, what should you do when you hit a plateau? In my opinion, you should trust the process. You can try doing like more fasting or egg fast and stuff like that. I would recommend you just stick to the plan, though. Yeah, just keep going. Um, plateaus occur for everyone. At some point, you break it. It might take longer, but you know, just stay the course. I've decided on eating a carb heavy diet for 3 days, then reverting back to keto. I've heard this is called carb cycling. Your thoughts? Um, we've been doing a lot of research on it. I don't have definitive thoughts on it yet. I think it's definitely worth exploring, experimenting with, especially if you're at goal your goal weight or you're like trying to gain muscle. Yeah. And it'll very much so depend on your body and like what hormonal issues or insulin sensitivities or just anything you have. If if you don't have if you don't have a problem with carbs, you're going to probably see more of a benefit as opposed to a negative from doing carb refeeds. Yeah. If you're not like carb uh insulin resistant. Yeah, we do. I watch Thomas Dauer a little bit. Uh we haven't shown our bodies on camera, I don't think yet, but I will in the future probably. Yeah, I just need to get jacked first. Cookbook hopefully before Christmas. Yeah. Um, yeah, I've been doing intermittent fasting for a long time. 168 mostly, but recently I've been doing 24 and I like it. The gum is Trident. Yeah, right now we got Trident. Are you on the go? No stopping during 11:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. shift. Graveyard. No stopping. Like, do you have access to a Yeah, I guess. No stopping. Like, you have to have a lunch break or something, right? That's Is that legal? Yeah. Just make you go for that long straight. And what do you have access to? Fridge, microwave. Is 11 to 8 hours? Nine. Okay. What you mean? I'm bad at math. I couldn't do it quick enough. I don't have fruit cravings, surprisingly. We drink um stur stir in our water which is like fruity so that gives me like that satisfaction. What keto doc would you recommend? Uh that sugar film is a good one. There's one called fathead which people love. I don't love it. It's kind of like someone I someone they the person asked that question once and I saw it and I was like I don't like I just ignored it. But I thought you were asking what keto doctors and I was like I don't know. Do we have keto doctors that I recommend? Um, what kind of workout should I do during keto? People ask this a lot. You do the same workouts off works for you. Yeah. Yeah. Whatever you're trying to work towards. And if you're not working out, we love incorporating workouts into our dayto-day. Even like three times a week, you just feel so much better mentally. Like keto aside, just like the mental and the physical, like you're you're tired, you sleep better, and sleep plays into everything. You're stressed, you're eating. So, go ahead. No, I was just going to say, so like start, you know, put like walk, go on a walk now that it's summer, enjoy enjoy working out. Yeah. My theory on working out is if you say you don't have time, working out is a net is a net zero time cost proposition. Like any time you put in the gym is returned back to you at least the same value if not more just by your like productivity throughout the rest of the day. Absolutely. Your energy. Like going to the gym doesn't actually cost you any time, right? I need to like twist this. And you don't have to like if you can't afford a membership, if there's not a good gym near you, you don't have to go to the gym to work out. No. Do some walking. Couch to Couch to 5K on Reddit. There's also like an app, Couch to 5K running. Yeah. Is that It's made by the Reddit people, I think. Okay. Um, what was that one that was good? Workout in the morning or night. We like to work out at noon. I've read a lot of stuff that says midday is the best time to work out, but you don't need to hit the best. Just anything is better than nothing. And from my experience, I've I've worked out at night, like 10:00 p.m. I've worked out in the morning. We used to work out 5:00 a.m. and I've done like the midday shift of working out and midday is just if you have the opportunity if there's a gym in your building like you're just such a you just have such a better performance. Will you be full-time bloggers? We are both currently full-time bloggers. Very happy to say that. Gum Trident five gum is also sweetened with sugar alcohols. Trident. Yeah, that's what we're eating, right? Yeah. I think Trident doesn't like it's hard to find good gum. Trident doesn't have aspartame, I'm pretty sure, which is a plus, but it still has like super spartame. Thank you, Denise. If you're insulin resistant, you believe carb refeeds won't be beneficial for muscle gains. I think carb refeeds are always beneficial for muscle gains, just maybe less so. from your bacon vid earlier, what temp and how long did you bake the bacon on both the parchment paper and not I think it was 350 for 15 to 20 minutes. Is it not in the post? I don't It's not in the video. I didn't remember what we did it at. Do we have it written down? That's not good. You store the extra in the fridge for the tortillas. Yeah, I would put them in like saran wrap or an airtight container. Um, can I eat complex carbs on a keto diet? Not if you want to stay in ketosis, but if you want to do like a cyclical type of thing, maybe they can be worked in. Did you ever imagine you'd be full-time bloggers? I imagined I would be in the NBA, but I imagined I'd be an OBGYn. Yeah. So, no. Oh, also for the bacon, we do have it written down somewhere in a notebook when we were doing it. I feel like we were I was definitely writing it. So, I'll find it and I'll I'll put it in the post. Sorry, guys. We use liquid stevia, like the little bottle. It's very concentrated. It doesn't taste good by itself and you only need to add a little. Aritzer does get subtracted due to its zero glycemic index. um barely h it just it kind of just goes right through you. Yeah. If you eat actual sugar but still can fit it in your macros, is that bad? Um or should you only stick to carbs? That doesn't make that much sense. But yeah, it's not ideal. But if you're staying under 20 carbs, no matter where the carbs come from, generally you're in ketosis, right? Are five carbs a day? Yes, zero carbs a day are okay. We prefer to be closer to like 20 to 30 cuz you're getting eating veggies. Yeah, I feel Do do you guys not think about eating veggies or like it's is Okay. So, for us the name in for me the name in the game is eating veggies as much as possible because I know how like I feel good on them and they help with my digestion. Not zero carbs. I don't I don't want to keep my carbs as low as possible. I definitely want to keep them low, but I want to get them all from veggies. Well, there's some If you're going just for pure weight loss, maybe the lower carbs the better. That could be possible, but um I would just recommend mostly go by how you feel and just do the long-term game. Weight loss will come when you start getting your body back to feeling really good. Yeah. Eat veggies, folks. After starting low carb, I noticed my fat percentage had gone up and my lean muscle has gone down. What do I do? Um, are you losing weight? Are you working out? Like, I need more info. Did you get that like actually tested? Yeah. Also, how did you test the body fat? I eat a pound of veggies a day. My carbs are at 50 grams, but I work out two times a day. Sounds like you're doing some good stuff there. Lacul I don't know what that means. Laculose throws you out of keto ketosis. You said l I don't know what that means. Laculose. I think that's like something you take to help with digesting dairy products cuz you have Oh, I've never heard of that. Is a car refeed necessary? No. Nothing. A carb refeed is never mandatory. How are your cholesterol levels? Didn't you just get yours checked today? You haven't gotten results, right? I just got blood work. I haven't gotten mine checked in a while. I need to Great podcast. Two keto dudes. Yeah, they actually made our keto bread about like six months ago and they commented on it. It's pretty cool. They have a good podcast. Laculose is a medication for constipation. It's a type of sugar. Oh. Oh. Then yeah, that will probably affect keto. What about like Metamucil or like try Have you tried any like fiber supplements to help with your constipation? What protein bars do you suggest? I suggest avoiding them if you can. Yeah. Quest bars are decent. Um, we got keto bars recently. Are those like protein bars though? Those are more just keto. They're fat. Yes, those are purely keto. Perfect keto makers. Yeah. Um, oh yeah, one bars are okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. You're over the next like 3 to 4 days after your refeed the you lost the weight basically, right? Yeah. So, I actually got low to my lowest after my refeed, like two days I was at 117 like six, but then yeah, now I'm just normal. Back to normal. So really not a huge I put on like six pounds. Like not even a full pound. So I don't know if that even counts. I guess it counts. Sorry. How do I dab? How often do you guys supplement with MCTs? I vary in and out of how much I use. I've gone from doing like a/4 cup a day and lately I've been doing maybe like a tablespoon, maybe zero. Um I don't notice a huge difference either way. I just noticed like right after I take it a slight increase in energy. Um people have um had like I've read people have had issues with their menstrual cycles when starting keto issues in the sense like I've seen it go both ways. Like people have very heavy periods and then people like myself lose all the bloating. My cramping is not as bad and uh my period's very very light which I feel like is the normal route. Like you're you bleed less. Sorry. Is this too graphic? Nope. If I eat a bit of carb sugar, is it good to eat it with fat to slow down insulin spike? That's kind of the whole idea with the highfat and keto is uh it does I've seen conflicting studies on this actually, but I think having a lot of fat with carbs slows the insulin spike. Also fiber. Are you drinking virgin coconut oil? No, we're drinking water. No. Does fidgeting spin it does spinning fidget spinners increase cortisol? Yeah, the fidget spinners are all the rage these days. What's this spinning fidget? A fidget spinner. I got to turn Is my screen I don't know if that gets broadcasted. What? My red my blue light remover. I liked it. It made me look nice. Oh. When do you put the MCT in? Uh, I put it in coffee. I put in a smoothie. Sometimes I'll add it to like a mug cake if I make one of those microwave mug cakes. I've taken a spoonful before. Before you used to do it all the time. Yeah. So like Oh, before in the sense like Yeah, I used to do it. I don't really anymore. Explain the use of fats in keto. The use is that you use fats for fuel. And basically, if you're not eating carbs, you're eating adequate protein. What else are you going to eat really? There's just fat left. So, I don't Oh, Farmer Mima. Who's Farmer Mima? I watched her YouTube channel before. Is she on here? Hi, Farmer Mima. I You'll keep asking. What are you asking? Max amount of carbs. It varies from person to person. You want to be under 20 grams of net carbs, people? But like for example, the helpful pursuit like she stays under 50 grams net carbs. Like there are people who do varying net carbs or some people do just full carbs, but like we're going to do a video on that soon cuz we have something to say. Go by how you feel, right? Just your body trumps all. I might be Mark Zuckerberg. Why would you be Mark Zuckerberg? What do we think of Keto Lens? We think it tastes delicious. Mhm. Um, real food's better. Real food's better. Have we tried protein powder with keto coffee? Yeah, we've tried it. It's pretty good. I haven't. Oh, probably is delicious cuz it's sweet. Caffeine content is the same for both light and dark roast. No, it's not. I don't think that's true, but I'm willing to be convinced otherwise. Light roast h I listen to a whole podcast on it. Light roast has more caffeine. Has more caffeine because it's it's roasted less time. Yeah. For someone starting keto, figure out your macros, do some research, join our Facebook group. Um, you know, plan ahead. Make a grocery list for yourself. I feel like if you're starting any new diet or lifestyle, you you got the same basics. Yeah, plan ahead. That's big. How much sodium do you consume per day? You know, it's kind of hard to track sodium intake, but I have probably at least an additional teaspoon added to my drinks and food per day. I add it to a lot of my I add it to at least like two or three drinks during the day. Usually, it's absolutely okay to if you're not hungry, no need to force yourself to eat. Listen to your body. Exactly. The Facebook group, um, we have a public Facebook group called Keto Connection. You can go in there and get into some awesome arguments over the strictest of keto foods. All the risk amount. the keto meal prep group that's only for people that have the course that is a support group and it's actually supportive extremely beneficial. Yeah. Yeah. I have seen that banana girl channel uh freely the banana girl. Um yeah I mean they're very fanatical and who they're they do this. It's like 30 bananas a day or something. They're just like vegan. And they do 95% carbs, but they also I mean, do you have to gain weight? No, they just they burn like 20,000 calories a day cuz they do like extreme biking. My stepmom, my ex-stepmom did a banana diet cuz she thought like bananas were really good for you and she put on weight. Um, yeah, it is Farmer Mima. She has a YouTube channel. Check her out. I commented on one of her videos and she never replied to me though. What brings you to Atlanta? Yeah, we just hate winter mostly. Yeah, it's absolutely the weather and now like the people are great. Area is beautiful. Did you really do 30 pieces of bacon a day for 30 days? I don't I saw this. Okay. Yes, of course. Yeah. I don't really know much about the iodized noniodized salt. I need to look into that. We're not in ATL yet. We're glad you like the tortillas. A lot of people had trouble with them and but like a lot of people also had a lot of success, so I'm not really sure. She didn't see my comment. Yeah, I think I'll get some sunburns in Atlanta for sure. What's that behind you? What is behind us? just like some packages and stuff. We're messy couple. What about the whole heart disease thing? Do some research, guys. What about the heart disease thing? Like the I think cholesterol, eating cholesterol feeds cholesterol into your body. Is that what someone says? I don't know. That's what I'm saying. Like heart disease. There are like some studies that link red meat consumption and stuff to heart disease, but that none of those are really controlled for like other factors. It's just like standard American diet contributes to heart disease. I've been losing weight on the scale. I have a weighing machine that generates body fat and lean muscle percentage. I work out four to five times a week. I'm still gaining body fat and losing muscle. I don't know how the scale really does it. Yeah, I would question the scale, but um if you're lifting weights and gaining body body weight, it's tough for me to believe that you're actually losing muscle and just turning into fat. You suggest hardcore workouts. Yeah, hardcore workouts are always encouraged. I don't think anyone doesn't suggest hardcore workouts. Keto areas for doing keto areas for a research student to explore. What am I interested in learning about? I'm interested in learning about like I guess just the whole calories in calories out thing which everyone is kind of interested in. Yeah. Like Yeah. I don't know how you would really test that. I guess I would like to see just like a true year-long long-term study of a keto diet, something like that, because there hasn't been really good long-term studies with like blood levels and like or taking someone who has really high cholesterol and like has a lot of health issues generally and just seeing what that long-term keto diet does. Are you stoned? No. People ask me that all the time though. Um, how has your family reacted to your keto lifestyle? Um, mine's been now it's like normal. It's just accepted. My family is very They just act like things don't exist. So, they act like it doesn't exist. They don't know like they pretend I don't have a girlfriend. They probably pretend that she's like Yeah, they just pretend a lot of things are different. How much deficit is too much? Um, I think just like the big thing with deficit is what's sustainable long term. I think like probably 30% just off the top of my head, but it has to be something you can sustain. Like if you really feel like you're depriving yourself, you're probably going to fall off, right? So I would say that's the biggest concern with deficit. Yeah, we see Dr. Jason Funk like we understand it. Um, but it'd be interesting to see someone write a paper on it. I mean, more more info is always better. Yeah. I don't think there's like been a definitive study. Keto donuts. We have a really old recipe on our food blog, but it uses um carb quick. Carbquick. So, we should probably try making just a normal one for sure. I wouldn't say you shouldn't bother measuring calories. I think any form of measuring anything just gives you a better picture of what's happening. Thank you. Thanks for saying we have a good YouTube channel. How do you socialize with family now that you're on a ketogenic diet? The same way I used to socialize. I haven't stopped talking to them. I haven't stopped laughing or being myself. Um, and I mean I guess do you have a family that like bases every meetup on like cakes and croissants? Because yeah, I guess that should be an issue. The only talking points are today's croissants. Nothing outside of that. I got told to do a 60% deficit straight out of the gate. I think if you have a lot to lot of weight to lose, like we watch that show 600 pound life once in a while. They're on like an 80% deficit a lot of the time. Oh yeah. Big hardcore. They're eating like going from like 12K to like 1,200. It's very person specific. Do you guys eat fast food? We do occasionally. Yeah, if if we need to like if you know when we road trip or when we're on the go, honestly. Like not often. I think the only time we vol like we'll eat Chipotle. That's like as bad as we'll go. I feel like Yeah. But voluntarily it's for videos. for videos. We do it and then people people yell at us for eating bad food. I'm doing a 1300 calorie keto diet. Should I calculate my protein based on 2,000 calorie diet, which is my maintenance? No, you should calculate your protein based on your body uh your lean body mass, right? Which doesn't matter what diet you're on, like what calorie diet. My experiment with elenine is actually going I want to say like miraculously. I really like it. It's um I take it every day. Um I take I have a coffee when I wake up and then I take that like 11ish and yeah, I'd say it's one of the few supplements that I definitely notice a big benefit from. Hi everyone. I would say give it a try, John, if you're if you're thinking about it. Um, I say pop now. So, we don't really just argue about pop for soda. Favorite keto pop is probably Zia. I like black cherry. See, AG, this is a big question we get asked all the time. I actually don't like answering it that much anymore. Yeah. Can I have bulletproof coffee on intermittent fasting? You can. You're not really still fasting, but you're not raising your insulin at all. So, you're getting some of the benefits, just not a lot of them, right? Yeah. But it's fine. If you find that it helps you and you can stick to that, that's probably what matters. Can sugar-free gum be an exception when cutting out sweeteners? It depends. If you want to cut out sweeteners, don't have sugar-free gum. Yeah, that's very much a personal thing. How strict do you want to be with yourself? No, you don't have to hit macros for the day. If you're trying to lose weight, don't eat. I definitely didn't hit my macros today. Marcola. No, we don't read Marca. Got to hit the gym. Good stuff. Matt has bad breath. Do it. But I don't know if it's from keto or it's just cuz he normally has bad breath and he doesn't know it. No, I do know it. And you just breathe into the car anyway? Well, a lot of the times I have I don't have gum to chew and stuff, but you can ask, "Is my breath bad? Should I open the window and breathe out the wind?" Just kidding. Oh, John, you've been taking off the Indian. Yeah, I really like it. It helps with anxiety for you, Matt. Um, it helps with anxiety. Is that what he said? Yeah, obnoxious edge dropped his anxiety. I wouldn't say anxiety, but I would say, you know, Yeah. Just gives me more focus. Do you think you have to take it with coffee in order to see the benefits? Yeah, it synergizes with caffeine. But does it synergize by itself? I've heard people take it at night like to sleep and stuff. It does. It's more for relaxing if you don't take it with caffeine. I have to stick kiss the stinky keto breath. What happened? Oh. Oh, maca powder. I've been looking into this a lot lately. I'm trying to figure out like can I fit it in? It's kind of like borderline. And it has a lot of carbs in it. Could you take it with tea instead of coffee? Yeah. Yeah. There's caffeine. It's just not as much in tea. So, the pill I have is actually 200 milligrams of atheenine and 100 milligrams of caffeine. So, you can take it just by itself. It has the caffeine in there, but I would recommend getting just the Althenian on its own so you can experiment with that. Like I would like to experiment with this at night, but I can't really do that because it has caffeine in it. We do like Primal Edge Health. We um watch his YouTube channel. He does some good stuff. I like Primal Edge Health a lot. I've rarely watched one of his videos and been like, I don't agree with what he's saying. And his voice is sweet. Yeah, I like him a lot. He's one of my favorites. Coconut oil or powder? Coconut oil powder. Does that exist? Someone just asked you. I mean, if MCT oil powder exists, why wouldn't coconut oil powder? I don't know. Someone just asked you if you've ever had an eating disorder. No, I do feel like I have like some body dysmorphia disorder. I think mo. Do you feel like you have that? Um, I think I think though for this question, it's more like you just don't have self-control. Oh, the smaller eating window. Yeah, I don't have like I like to use hacks to help with my self-control. I would say I don't have the best. I have really good self-control with certain things, but with food, not the best, probably. So, like if there's a jar of peanut butter and he had unlimited access and no one was in the house, he'd probably eat the jar of peanut butter, I would say. So, but like you wouldn't feel guiltridden, right? You would just be like, "Ah, won't eat jar won't eat a jar of peanut butter tomorrow." Right. It's like I don't know. Right. Um Yeah. No, like I know that's another thing. Like I know I will just eat jars of peanut butter, so I don't buy peanut butter. Um I Yeah, I'm just more proactive about it, but yeah, I don't have like the best natural eating habits for sure. Don't worry about it, farmer me. Just kidding. But I No, I did actually leave you a comment though. But I'm I'm not upset about it. I have one meal a day. I think whatever works for you, it's worth trying. Yeah. fridge for the tortillas. Is Tristan Primal Edge guy? Yeah, he Yeah, he's not a fan of Does he hate it? He said it has some utility when I I watched his video on it. You did watch We watched the same video then. He said it's far from necessary. Yeah, but it has some utility. And my takeaway from him was that he is not a fan of them. Yeah, he's not a fan. He wouldn't recommend them ever. Why do you continue on keto assuming you're pretty healthy? What diet's healthier? Um, yeah. Should we just go back to standard American? That's the thing. Everyone's like once you get off the diet, you're just going to get fat again. You don't go back to eating really bad things. Yeah. But yeah, we're we're like experimenting with different things. Megan did a carb up day. I'm doing pre-workout carbs. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We're not like going to kill ourselves and stay under 20 for the rest of our lives because it matters to us like figuring out what works best for our body. Yeah. I think I'm always going to have like a baseline of keto, but I'll branch off a little bit from time to time. So, um the thing with the wedding and the baby situation is that you have to be mar Well, you don't have to, but like society compels you to be married before you have the baby. And I feel like it should be the other it should be the other way around, right? Like I'd rather have a little like mega running around than be like, "All right, let's tie the knot and then we're allowed to have a baby." Yeah. But it's also like our families would not be okay with us just having a baby out of wedlock. Well, they're not okay with me living with my girlfriend either. Same with my dad. But they're also just like ignorance is bliss. Carbups. I don't like it. Why don't you like it? I'm Give us some reasoning. People are very dogmatic about the no carbups. I feel like because it's a little bit of an attack on someone doing they feel it as an if it's an attack on strict keto when really it's just experimenting. If you were a dynamic duo, what would your superhero name be? Mine would be Oh, someone named us already. I'm Waffle Girl and you're a pancake guy, right? Yeah. I would rather be Macroman. The pancake prince. Macroman. How much dairy is too much? Person specific. Mostly when you're farting a lot. Yeah. Person specific. Yeah. I think that's a good other take. Like if we go on a crazy vacation or something, I'd probably need to try the local fair. Oh, absolutely. Cuz I'm too much of a fan of food. Yeah. But like we just went to Atlanta and we were keto the entire time. It's not too difficult. Not tough. What are your thoughts on total carbs versus net carbs? Um, net carbs because that's what science says basically. Um, and also we eat veggies and avocado. Yeah, that's the one thing I don't get. If you're doing total carbs, how are you eating avocados? Uh, fiber isn't used by the body though, so you don't count it. You see her? How cute is she? So Matt wants a sharpi now. Yeah. Or a corgi. How long you two I if per day? Me 16 hours a day. Um I did 16 hours for a long time. I've been doing 20 lately. Maybe more like 18. Yeah, we're thinking either adopting or getting a cute one. And they're mutually exclusive. No, they're not. The puppies were adorable. Hello from Miami. Hi in Miami. Can we visit? I'm making a commitment to going to the Rolling Loud Music Festival in Miami next year. You coming? Duh. We do everything together. We're inseparable. I've never had acne. Matt has had acne. I've heard a lot of people say the opposite actually, though. Cleans your skin. Yeah. I think acne, there's a lot of stuff that says acne is like dairy related a lot of the time, but I had acne acne when I was in high school, but never really since. An egg fast generally is, yeah, purely eggs, then like a form of fat like butter or oil, and then an ounce per cheese. You optional for every egg you eat. And you should eat at least six eggs. So yeah, avoid avocado and bacon. But we drank coffee. What kind of music are y'all into? I'm a diehard hip-hop fan. It's all I listen to. Also, people always complain about our um complain about the music we use in our videos. The music I I use. Guys, I'm going to be honest with you. I don't care what you think about the music. Give us good feedback. Is weed keto? Yes. CBD for acne. Okay. I haven't heard that, but maybe. We You tried a keto corn dog, didn't you? Yeah. But with coconut flour. It probably work better with almond flour. Kind bars. Those are the opposite of keto. There's so many bars like that that are disguised as health foods. Like the Nature Valley ones are delicious. They are delicious. like the new ones they came out with with like the cream in the middle. We saw the commercial. Yeah. We were like, we both like stopped dead in our tracks and watched the commercial and we're like, whoa. Um Oh, those looked incredible. Yeah. Uh the best sweetener we recommend is liquid stevia. It's really cheap on Amazon. Yeah. Uh we got the keto flu for sure. About like a week, a week and a half tops. Um, but that was so long ago. I do remember us being like bedridden and not being able to go to the gym. Yeah, it's hard for me to even remember that. Pork rinds that don't have MSG. Most of the original ones don't. It's usually just like the barbecue ones that have it. Um, if one keto meal large one works for you, you should do that. Matt's done that before. I've done it. Not like intentionally, right? But just like you have done it. I sort of yeah I do like a 4-hour eating window which kind of turns into one meal for me a lot of the time it's like one long meal one four hour meal the um arythrtol cooling effect I had that really severely when I first started eating arythrtol but I'm can't even I don't even have it anymore you just get sensit desensitized to it you guys ever just taste a nibble of non- keto food no no we don't really have non- keto food in the house I feel like you've taken a drink of like some cocktail or something before, but I've taken a sip of a sour beer. Yeah, we'll do stuff like that once in a while, but rarely. I've never taken a bite of someone's sandwich, though, cuz that's not going down with just a bite. Like just eating one chip. Yeah. Why would I ever do that? Adopt. They love so much more. Bloating since I started keto intermittent fasting. Have y'all experienced that? So that is one reason I realized if wasn't for me. So when I was doing intermittent fasting, I was doing an 8 hour eating window starting at 1. So I'd have my first meal at work. I'd come home, you know, and we would just eat. And then like the next morning, I wasn't looking normal. Like I usually like flatten out kind of. I don't know how to explain it, right? Your body digests everything. But I was bloated and uncomfortable. And I just I never like felt good or looked good. And that's a big thing for me. So, what are you doing now? You usually wake up and eat something or like I eat when I'm hungry. So, like yeah, I normally eat I'm normally hungry like 9:30 10. Um I'll have had like an espresso at that point. And so I'll eat a small meal usually like two like I've been doing um what's it called? Egg salad for my first meal. So, eggs and mayo, which I think is a great way to start for me. And then my second meal will be right after the gym with Matt. And then we'll have dinner. I just really hate eating like anytime near when I lift. Yeah, I can't do like three probably three-hour window. I don't like doing it before. That's the big thing for me. I ate such a small amount, but I need to eat something. Maybe I'll try that though. Maybe I should try like a small breakfast. I try to push past that morning hunger. I find that it goes away if you just push past it for a week to two weeks. Oh, we try a ton of recipes that go very wrong. What's gone the worst? Like certain pancakes we've tried that just turn like butt taste. Yeah. Um I feel like I try really experimental ones that a lot of the times are bad. Yeah. Yeah. I've tried like make oh anything with coffee flour has turned out horrendous and I've made like big cakes and I was like can't use that. We tried a cinnamon rolls like 15 times. Never never worked out. Yeah, that's what we're thinking of doing. We're going to actually like try filming more when we mess up. So then we at least have that to go back to when we want to use it. Yeah. You're allergic to egg whites and milk. Will that make it hard to do keto? No. easiest recipe that fills you up. For me, it's like an egg salad or a chicken salad. Anything like with a good amount of fat in it or like eggs, bacon, avocado. Is that a real recipe? Is that what you Eggs, bacon, avocado to fill you up? Yeah. What's the easiest recipe? Easiest h I just curry egg salad. Yeah. I like some like hard-boiled eggs and bulletproof coffee. Have you ever feel the body alarm when you eat non- keto? I don't know what that means. Yeah. What happened when you had your carb up? Did you feel the body alarm? Did you feel the body alarm or No. What the What's the body alarm? I mean like like things going on like ah that type of thing. Yeah, I guess so. I mean, I felt uncomfortable. I had a headache. I got um bloated. I felt sluggish. Is that the body alarm? Maybe. I feel I feel like maybe like jittery like No, I felt like a sloth. I can't rap a verse. Come on, Boo. Just rap. I can't understand a verse of my favorite. All he does is talk about rap and people ask him to do it and he just can't. He's a man that doesn't deliver, in case you guys are wondering. What? That's not what you were saying last night. First of all, this is family stuff. PG. And there was no last night. We were on a plane. I heard egg whites are the high protein part of the egg. Is that true? That is true. You've heard it or you've read it. Any negative effects as far as sex drive? Sex drive on your testosterone levels. Don't answer if it's too personal. Nothing's too personal. Um, no negative effects really. I would say, um, one thing I notice increases testosterone is like calorie deficit, which I haven't really been at for a while, but I think I'm going to I want to try like cutting a little bit. Cutting what? Wait. Oh, like getting ripped because I feel like I've definitely put on a lot of muscle in the last six months. I need to cut now. Yeah. But I have looked into like ways to naturally raise testosterone. Like parsley, I think, is a big one. I started adding parsley to my smoothies for a little. Didn't notice a huge difference. Um, Brazil nuts, stuff like that. Try stuff like that. Try natural ways to increase. We do have some EAS ketogenic shakes, but we've never tried them. How much fiber do you need? I don't think you need much at all, but we usually get about 20 grams a We get a lot just cuz we're eating veggies. Veggies. Cutting what? Wait. Oh yeah. That's how a lot of our conversations go. Even when we're not live. Who's a better rapper, Tupac or Biggie? On three. One, two, three. Biggie. Tupac's more culturally relevant, but Biggiey's better. Like Biggie is more talented. Any date on cookbook? No date. Sorry guys, but we're thinking late fall before Christmas for sure. Please say a corny pickup line. Make my night. Um, I can't think of one. I'm trying to think of an actual like clever one that I'm making up on the spot right now. You remind me of my favorite country. India. Cuz I'm India. That's so good. Actually, um, we Matt's kind of converted his sisters. Oh, they've tried it on and off. Yeah, I think we're going to do digital and for real. For real. For real. For real. Did someone say, "Are you doing digital or for real?" For real. Yeah. Any ideas on making plain pine nuts into a tasty snack? If plain pine nuts have an idea on not being $37 a pound, we'll start working on it. They're so expensive. Like I want I just want to buy them to put on like some asparagus. Like I wanted to buy them for our asparagus dish. Asparagus they're expensive. Yeah. A little jar of them is like $6. I don't need pine nuts. Thoughts on steak and red meat? We're not Christ followers. We're not what? We don't have a live pregnancy test. Yeah, it's easy to cherrypick studies. Um, I would be interested in looking at those though, definitely. What is the worst ingredient that a lot of keto recipes call for? What do you mean by worst? Like least healthy one that we hate the most or like one that's hard to get? What is the worst? I hate when people use like arrowroot flour. Like I'm never buying arrow root flour and you need such AI thought about buying it. I thought about buying it too, but like there's so many flowers I can buy and arrow root like there's three like four of those kinds. I would say coffee flour is probably the worst because there's nothing to do with it. Trader Joe's chocolate bars. Are they okay? They contain malitol. They're not the best. They're okay though. Yeah. Um, thoughts on red meat? I'm a proponent. I mean, I don't think you should go super overboard, but like twice a week may I mean, I don't know enough to really like say a number. And thank you. I um I like have been thinking about it and I'm always thinking about it instead of actually doing it like um saying I want to look better on camera. So, I was I'm always like I'm going to straighten my hair. I'm going to blow dry it. And then finally today I was like screw it. I'm going to take the 20 minutes it takes to do it and so I can keep this like this for the next three days of videos. I'm making a conscious effort. I'm committing to you guys right now to not dress like a scrub on camera for a while. Don't say that cuz look at you. Well, this is impromptu. It's not going to work. I am Indian. Chickpea flour. I don't think it's keto, but we tried it when we were before like pre keto for vegetarian and it made me I got like such a bad stomach ache. So much happiness like severe diarrhea for me. I was like I vow to never eat it again. I'm not I'm I'm not Hindu. I'm not religious. Don't say that. That'll split the audience. What religious? Oh, I'm chicken or red meat? Have like both in moderation? No. Like, do you prefer one? Maybe. I like chicken. I think I like chicken, too. Which R&B song would you dedicate to one another? Ooh. I don't like R&B that much. I'll Make love to you. Boy men, maybe. Oh, that's a good one. I don't really know it. I'm gonna I'll make love to you. I was actually listening to Bryson Tiller Exchange today and I think that might be my cuz it's a little bit of rap or say it by um that's is that Bryson Tiller? No. Say it. Oh, actually no, no, no. Jeremiah with Jacob. What's that one? That's the worst. I love that one. Let's say it. Oh, no. That's the roots. Yeah, my favorite. Break you off. You got to bring the politics and religion. Casey Jojo is great. I just listened to an awesome hardcore history podcast. Aritzer sweetener. Peaches and cream. What? Someone said they get migraines of stevia. Brussels sprouts. Yay or nay. Yay. But they do have some carbs. Just count them. We've had Lily's chocolate bars and they are really good. Yep. Simply, it's called simply like the Trader Joe's chocolate bar. Um, did he get bashed on his channel? Jason went rock 4,000 day challenge. Why hasn't he put out videos? I mean, he's he lives a life, so I don't know. I don't think he got bashed for the 4,000 days. He did. That was a great challenge. I think that taught us a lot. Um, I do know he got a new job and he moved to like Colorado. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, he moved to Colorado. Yeah, he has a family. He's a kid. If we had a kid, Yeah, we'd be busy. He's also like a fitness model that like is doing amazing things. Yeah, we're not fitness models. I'm sure he'll have one soon, though. What are your thoughts on Soilent? I actually made my own Soilent a couple years ago. Ew, that's disgusting. Just kidding. We have never experienced keto rash. No. I think it has a lot to do with your body not being able to handle all the fat you're eating though, but I'm not 100% sure. Cow's milk kefir would just probably be high in carbs. Yeah. Uh, Farmer Mima finally found my comment. A, you've been scrolling. That's dedication. Thank you. Check out Farmer Mima's channel. Keto Soilent. Yeah, they have keto lent. Jason is the bomb. So nice. We talked to him on the phone. He was awesome. He really gave us some good guidance and stuff. Heavy whipping cream is good. Good call. I feel like a lot of keto people overdo it on heavy whipping cream. I will say that. Yeah. I feel like someone commented once on our Facebook group and they was like, "Oh, I just bought heavy whipping cream and I took a sip and then I just had drank half the gallon." And someone was like, "That's like 50 carbs, bro. It really adds up fast. And yeah, there there's sneaky carbs in there. Is Keto Crate worth it? It's hard to answer. It's worth definitely worth it for some people. If you like fun surprises monthly, who doesn't? I like rooting for the Warriors cuz we lived in San Francisco for a while. And I'm just I'm not really a LeBron hater, but I don't like Ohio since I'm from Michigan. We are Philly sports fans. I'm not. We are Philly sports fans. Fave place to shop like clothes-wise? Probably just online shopping. Yeah, I haven't found a good place to shop as you guys can probably tell. Um, I didn't really notice any hormonal changes. Oh, my period got a lot lighter. So, like I have like my period for one day. It's crazy. As long as I have it, I'm cool. Yeah, you would lose the fat if you cook bacon in the oven rack. We save it though a lot of the time. That's why I was expecting the oven rack not to taste as good, but it really did taste good. Yum, yum, fly, eagle fly on the road to victory. San Francisco is the most expensive city in the world and we lived there for I lived there for two years, you live for three. It sucked. I mean, it's amazing to live there. You get what you pay for. It's, in my opinion, the best city to live in. You should test the car brief yourself. That's definitely a good thing to do. Exactly. Especially if you're trying to gain muscle. Feel free to test things for yourself. Don't be so dogmatic about like, I need to stay keto 247 365. If you're trying to gain muscle, staying keto probably not the best. Yeah, we like making cauliflower fried rice. Dogmatic is the word of the day. Yeah, that's the thing. It's really good mentally. Yeah. Um Thomas, it sounds like you're looking to build muscle. Try checking into keto gains protocol. That's what I'm doing right now. I think you might like that. It's a good workaround where you're in ketosis most of the time. Why is keto so perfect in what sense? M&M versus Biggie. Biggie. Biggie. Zucchini noodles are absolutely tremendously delicious. I wish we ate them more often. There's It's hard to find low carb yogurts. I've been looking. Yeah, so have I. I love yogurt. Mixing protein powder into yogurt was the jam. Are there payment options for the meal prep course? Email us. We can see if we can work things out. Do you watch Popey the Performer? No, we don't. Five more minutes. Yeah. Oh, it's been an hour, guys. Time flies. We love doing this. Oh, almond flour. Pazelle. Oh, I love paleis. Is it pronounced pizzale or pel? It's pel. I'm not even Italian. My mom has a pale machine and she used to make them all the time. I'm proposing. When do you think I'm proposing? Probably within a year. Little does she know. Will you marry me? One time I came home from work one day. That was so weird that it just didn't I came home from work one day and I asked him to marry me and I brought him a flower and she was genuinely It seemed pretty like authentic and he laughed and really didn't take it seriously but I was serious. Your wife period has changed. Is that normal? Um changed in what way? And I mean normal in the sense, yeah, it's happened to many people. A lot of um women lose their period. It becomes lighter. Um some I've actually read have had heavier flows. And if someone asked me about it, I mean it's best to just talk to your doctor. I'm not a doctor. I just know what's happening with my body. And I make I' I've spoken to my doctor just to make sure it's okay. You you always want to check with those kinds of things. Favorite workout? Bench press. Thoughts on endurance levels during refeed? The thing about that is we didn't really get a good test case for that because Megan is not an endurance athlete whatsoever. She's a pure power lifter. That's true. I can't run for not big on running. I mean like I just can't run. How much you bench, bro? See, I like doing bench press a lot, but I'm It's not my best lift. That's why you're not supposed to tell people that. Tell them your best lifts and then they ask. I can bench like 225 max. One rep max. Not Not very good. I have long arms. I'm 6 through four. Here. Excuses. Woo! 20 pounds. Good job. How do you get my kids on keto? How old are they? I mean, it's not very difficult to sneak stuff in or pretend like it's normal. Like, if they ate the chicken crisp pizza, I'm sure they'd like it. What I like this question. What is the worst product labeled as keto that isn't really keto? Well, the worst product the most mis marketed product is exogenous ketones. Oh, but those are keto. They're just for the most part useless. But I think like Atkins bars are probably pretty bad. That's tough. Or like Russell Stover chocolates. Yeah, something just like that's basically 20 gram of sugar alcohol. Anything that's 35 gram of melat is not keto and will make you poop your pants. Oh, parsnip chips is a good one, too. But they're not labeled keto. They're just labeled parsnip chips, and some idiot one day labeled it wrong. Um, I do like that, too. The Paleo bars are really comical to me cuz it's just like keto approved. It's 35 grams of honey and then it's a paleo bar. We would be killing it as paleo food bloggers. I mean, I'd also have like sludge on my belly from all the honey. I'd have a honey belly. All you're doing for paleo is pour honey on things. I'm kidding. No, I would kill it on paleo. That's so easy to stick to. Paleo? What is like the whole 30? I've never actually looked into what? It's just whole foods for 30 days. Oh, we should do that. Yeah, I think we could. What with the cauliflower rice? Do you eat anything with that? Like, yeah, we eat we'll eat a meat or we'll make cauliflower fried rice. We try making cauliflower fried rice. So, crack eggs into it. Add some chicken. Add some broccoli. Broccoli. You're good. Yeah, Whole 30 is truly great. Maybe we should do next month, first month in Atlanta, like a Whole 30 challenge or something. Yeah. So, you mentioned no cheats on the refeed. Do you fit your alcohol into your macros? Yes, we do. Yeah, we usually just do um what's it called? Liquor. So, there's no carbs in that. We do occasionally have wine. So, we probably if anything we go over a little on calories, but probably not because we don't like drink heavily. Yeah, we've really cut back on drinking since doing keto. What is your MBTI personality types? What does that mean? I don't know. It's I think everyone does like this INTJ things and stuff. I don't know about it, but it's supposed to tell your personality. We should do a video of cauliflower fried rice because I feel like we do it in a unique way that would help people make it better. My favorite color is brown. Black. Oh, brown is the color I am. Black is the color he wishes he was. Did y'all decide on one of the places in Atlanta? Yeah, we did. We didn't do a video about it, though. It's option 1A. That really nice one with like windows and stuff. If you watched our Snapchat though. Well, I think Instagram. Who else would know about the apartments unless you're watching our Instagram? Oh, duh. Chia seed oatmeal. What about it? The keto cookoff was really fun, but a lot of people didn't like it because they weren't partaking. Yeah. The thing about it is just not a lot of people. It's fun for people we critique, but that's like 40 people. I think we'll maybe do a different like reincarnation of it. Maybe where like not a YouTube video, but something else. Maybe YouTube live or IG live or something. Quest bars are decent for keto. Okay, fair. Yeah, just read the labels, guys. Um, we are not transferring jobs. We are just full-time bloggers. We created our own jobs. do an episode where you eat the cat. We've been contemplating that for like six months now. Yeah. We're thinking like a really nice slow roasted hind leg. She would taste so bad though cuz she pulls poop out of litter box in her mouth over a bed of cauliflower rice though. She's only three. I could stay on this all day but we should go. Cat would definitely be keto approved for sure. She's pure fat. You have to cook it in gutter oil, though. Do you guys know what gutter oil is? E. No, you don't. No. In China, they make they press oil out of gutter things and make like fry stuff in it. What's a gutter thing? I don't I think it's like sewage and like landfill stuff. Like a tire that we found in the gutter they press and get oil out of it. Yeah, something like that. I have to look into it more. That sounds like completely made up. You should probably not say that on the air. Is malttodextrin bad? Uh, yeah. It's bad for keto. I don't like saying things are bad, though. We're making a We're getting an air fryer and so many other things when we move to Atlanta. Yeah, let's list them. Air fryer, waffle iron, immersion uh immersion blender. Immersion blender. Um, a new processor, food processor. Oh, yeah. We're going to get a We're going to get like some quezin. Wait, what are the quezin art? the brand like the good KitchenAid mixer. KitchenAid mix processor. Um, there's so many things I want. Instant Pot. Instant Pot. We need at least a slow cooker. Something ring for mega. Ring for mega. Um, this was not planned, but when we are about to do it, we announce it on Instagram. Yeah, I think we're going to have more time to do these though. Um, and also guys, follow us on Instagram. Those are like really fun. the Instagram lives more intimate. We do those every Tuesday night. Every Tuesday. Same faces. God bless you. Just put all those things on the registry. The the gift registry is a thing that doesn't make sense. Yeah. So Matt's very against the whole marriage thing. I'm not against the whole marriage thing. Just like making it a showcase. Yeah. Which I am against that too. I'm against writing down things for my friends to buy from me. That's like weird to me. You don't you scan them when you're at the store. I just hate buying in playing into all these corporate propaganda. I got a deviated septum surgery. You got an indent. An indent. Gutter oil. See? Elicit cooking oil which has been recycled from waste oil. So, we just assume Lazero Castro knows what he's talking about. He copy and pasted that from somewhere. Can we see your cat? Yeah. Go take the camera to her. Marriage is a racket. Rackets are a racket. She's too busy eating. She's fattening up so we can eat her later. We should both take the MBTI test. We are doing uh planning to do a city hall marriage. Are we? I don't think we've discussed that. She just has all these plans and she's like, "Well, that's what I want to do. Cats are too special." I know. Too special. Yeah. Our cat's name is Miley. All right, guys. We got to call it. Yeah, it's 110. It's been an hour and 10 minutes. We love you. We'll try doing these every two weeks minimum, maybe. I'm just like making things up now. All right, guys. Don't count everything at all. Okay, bye bye. Our Instagram account is keto.connect. Follow us. Follow us. Bye.