 In this video, I'm going to show you everything you need to know about how to improve your hip range of motion. Before diving into the exercises, I want to set two expectations for this video. First, I'm not going to show you how to do the front splits, side splits, a full pancake, or any other extremely impressive displays of flexibility. Rather, the goal is to show you ways to restore or increase your range of motion to enhance daily function and performance, especially if it's been reduced as a result of an injury or surgery. This might include getting up and down from the floor more easily, sitting in a deep squat, or feeling more confident and capable during different sporting activities like cutting and pivoting. And second, there's not a standard amount of hip mobility that you must possess. How much you need or can even achieve is widely variable based on factors like your medical history, anatomy, anatomy, goals, etc. In most cases, I recommend working towards whatever amount is necessary for the activities you want to perform. For example, if you want to do deep weighted squats at the gym, possessing more hip range of motion can be advantageous. However, the amount you need for this activity is going to be a lot different than if you had a hip replacement and your only goals are related to everyday activities such as getting in and out of a chair or going up and down stairs. Another option is to work toward a similar amount as your non-injured side, assuming it is feasible. For instance, if you are recovering from a muscle strain, this would be a reasonable goal. On the other hand, if you had surgery that restricts your range of motion, which may be the case after a total hip replacement, trying to achieve a similar amount as your other hip may not be realistic or even necessary. I also want to point out that I'm going to use the terms range of motion and mobility interchangeably. However, it's worth noting that some people might refer to range of motion as passive flexibility, whereas mobility is what you can actively control. I am going to show you four categories of exercises aimed at improving your hip rotation, flexion, and extension range of motion, as well as groin mobility, which focuses on the muscles of the inner thigh. For each category, I will include two types of exercises. The first type is exercises that stretch into that range of motion. Since many stretching philosophies can improve your mobility, it can be helpful to briefly explain the most common methods. Let's say you wanted to improve your hip extension range of motion. This would involve stretching your hip flexors or the muscles on the front of your thigh. Here are five options. One, you can hold a static stretch for a set duration of time, like this half kneeling hip flexor stretch. Hold times can vary from 15 seconds up to three minutes or longer. Two, you can perform a dynamic version, which involves actively moving in and out of your end range. Three, you can do what's known as contract and relax. In this case, you would contract your hip flexors by actively trying to drive your down knee forward. Your knee won't actually move, but you should feel your hip flexors working. You hold this for three to ten seconds, relax, and try to move deeper into your stretch. Hold this new position for three to ten seconds, and then repeat this sequence. Four, you can try to simultaneously lengthen and strengthen these muscles. An example would be a straight leg raise off a bench. Not only are you stretching the hip flexors as you move toward your end range of hip extension range of motion, but you are also strengthening them as you slowly lower down. This is known as an eccentric muscle contraction. And five, you can perform various exercises emphasizing a full range of motion, such as a split squat, that focuses on hip extension of the rear leg. This example would stretch the hip flexors of the back hip. The second type reinforces that range of motion by strengthening the muscles that move your hip in that specific direction. Continuing with the previous example, after performing a hip flexor stretch, you would then strengthen the antagonist muscles, the glutes and hamstrings, at or near the end range of hip extension. Examples of such exercises include a glute bridge and standing cable kickbacks. A couple of other things to note about the exercises. I tried to organize them into specific directions as best as I could, but as you will see, some exercises will target a combination of movements. For example, I put this hip circle exercise in the rotation category, but it will also move your hip in other directions like flexion and extension. I also tried to include exercises of varying levels of difficulty. Not every exercise or exercise category will follow a perfect linear progression, but it will hopefully provide you with options for adjusting the difficulty based on your goals, tolerance, and function. If you had surgery, you may have range of motion restrictions, so you should talk to your surgeon before starting any new exercises. Okay, category number one, hip rotation range of motion. Improving hip external rotation mobility generally includes stretching the hip internal rotators and then strengthening the external rotators at the end range of your hip external rotation range of motion. The opposite is true for internal rotation. Stretching exercises are meant to target the external rotators and then strengthening exercises will contract the internal rotator muscles at the end range of hip internal rotation. For most people, hip internal rotation is more restricted than external rotation and exercises may not produce the same stretching sensation. This is because hip internal rotation is more often limited by bony anatomy. It's recommended to avoid pushing into sharp pain or a pinching sensation. The first movement provides multiple options for both stretching and strengthening into external and internal rotation. Sit on the floor in what's called a 90-90 position. This means your front knee and back knee are at roughly 90 degree angles. Sit up tall and hold this position for 30 to 60 seconds. If this is too difficult, you can place your hands on the floor behind you and or sit on a yoga block, pad, or another object. To bias external rotation, you will rotate over your front knee and hinge forward with a relatively flat back until you feel a stretch in your hip and glutes. Place your hands on the floor for support if needed. To bias internal rotation, you will rotate your chest over your back leg and try to maintain an upright trunk. If you find this too difficult or uncomfortable, you can lean back slightly and place your hands on the floor behind you. After you perform these stretches, you can then reinforce that range of motion by strengthening the muscles that move your hip into external and internal rotation. For external rotation, drop onto your forearm just outside your thigh. Then, lift your foot toward the ceiling as high as possible. For internal rotation, lean over your front knee with hands supported on the ground and lift your back foot toward the ceiling as high as you can. It's not uncommon for your hip muscles to cramp when performing active exercises, especially if you are pushing into your end ranges. Therefore, while you can try to hold these for time, you might find that performing 10 to 15 repetitions with a 2 to 3 second hold is more feasible. The last variation you can perform from this position is called a 90-90 transition. Start with your hands on the ground and torso over your back leg. Actively rotate that hip into external rotation as far as possible without letting your other knee off the ground. This will require you to drive the down knee into the floor using your outer hip muscles. Once you cannot open any further, slowly transition to the other side, trying to keep your knees as separated as possible. Then, repeat in the other direction. To make this more challenging, you can eventually try to perform without your hands on the ground. Here are two additional stretching options for external rotation. Option 1, Seated Figure 4 Stretch. Cross one ankle over your other knee, creating a force shape with your legs. Gently press your knee away from your body and hinge forward until you feel a stretch in your glute and hip region. You can also perform this stretch while lying on your back. With both knees bent, cross one ankle over your other knee and gently push that knee away from you. To increase the intensity, lift your foot off the ground, grab the back of your thigh, and gently pull it closer to your chest. Option 2, Standing External Rotation on an Incline Surface. This is a good alternative to the well-known pigeon pose because it is more scalable and modifiable. Place your front leg on an elevated surface with about a 90 degree angle at your knee. Keep your back leg straight if possible. Hinge forward with a relatively flat back until you feel a stretch in your glutes and hip. You can use your hands for support if needed. You can hold this position for time or perform a dynamic variation by moving in and out of a stretch position. This exercise can be made easier by increasing the level of inclination or made more challenging by decreasing the level of inclination. You can eventually work up to the pigeon pose on the floor, but your goal should be to keep the same positioning. About a 90 degree angle at the front knee and your back knee fairly straight. To stretch into internal rotation, lie on your back with your knees bent. Move your right foot out slightly and cross your left ankle over your right knee. Let your left leg's weight gently rotate your right hip into internal rotation. Keep your lower back and pelvis on the floor. Hold for 30 to 60 seconds, then switch sides. And finally, here are two more options for strengthening hip external and internal rotation at their end ranges. Option 1, active external and internal rotation. You can perform this movement from multiple positions. While lying on your back, lift one leg so your hip and knee are flexed to 90 degrees and keep your other leg straight. Grab the back of your thigh and actively rotate your foot inward as far as tolerable, moving your hip into external rotation. Rotate your foot outward to move your hip into internal rotation. If flexing the hip to 90 degrees is uncomfortable, you can also do this with your hip in a more neutral position, either lying on your back or your stomach. When lying on your back, you will keep your leg straight, and while lying on your stomach, you will bend your knee to 90 degrees. You can also do this exercise from a seated position. Make sure you are seated high enough so your foot is not on the floor, and as you rotate your hip, try to minimize excessive movement at your pelvis or trunk. The last option is to perform these movements in side lying, which will be the most challenging since it requires you to lift your leg against gravity. For external rotation, lie on your side and flex your bottom hip and knee to 90 degrees. Lift your foot toward the ceiling as high as you can. For internal rotation, lie on your side and flex your top hip and knee to 90 degrees. Rest your knee on a yoga block or object so it stays parallel to the floor. Again, lift your foot toward the ceiling as high as you can. These active external and internal rotation exercises can be performed for 30-60 seconds or 10-15 repetitions with a 2-3 second hold at your end range. And option 2, hip circles. This movement requires more coordination and control, but is a great option since it moves your hip in almost every direction. While maintaining about 90-degree angles at your knee, lift one leg toward the ceiling and then create a circle with your hip. Once you get back to your starting position, reverse the movement. Go slow and try to minimize pelvis and trunk movement. Imagine there's a glass of water bounced on your lower back that you don't want to spill. You can also do a similar movement in sideline, half kneeling, or standing. For any variation, if it is too difficult or uncomfortable, start with smaller circles. Aim for 30-60 seconds of total work on each leg. Category number 2, hip flexion range of motion. This involves exercises that stretch the hip extensors, such as your glutes, followed by exercises that strengthen the hip flexors at the end range of hip flexion. Similar to the stretches for hip internal rotation, you may not feel a stretch sensation as your bony anatomy can be the limiting factor. Some easier options that move into hip flexion include child's pose and supine knee to chest. You can hold for time or move in and out of your end ranges of hip flexion. More advanced options that move into hip flexion include deep squats and split squats. For the squats, elevate your heels and slowly lower down as far as comfortable. Pause for a few seconds before standing back up. When you are in the bottom position, try to maintain a relatively flat lower back. To make this easier, you can move through less range of motion or hold onto a TRX or another object for assistance. To help you move through more range of motion, try holding a weight in your hands. If you want to bias one hip, you can try a front foot elevated split squat, deficit split squat, or deficit rear foot elevated split squat with an emphasis on hip flexion of your front leg. To make these easier, you can start with a regular split squat or hold onto a TRX or another object for assistance. To make these more challenging, you can increase the height of the object or hold a weight in your hands. For squat or split squat variations, emphasize a slow controlled movement, pausing for 2-3 seconds at the bottom of each repetition. To strengthen the hip flexors at the end range of hip flexion, here are two options. Option 1. Supine hip flexion Lie on your back with both legs straight and pull one knee toward your chest. If that's too difficult, try bending the opposite knee or just starting with a heel slide. Use a band or cable to make the movement significantly harder. And option 2. Standing hip flexion While using one hand for balance, stand tall and lift your knee as high as possible. Shorten the range of motion to make it easier. And add resistance using a band, cable, or weight to make it harder. Another option in this category includes hamstring specific exercises. These muscles won't limit your end ranges of hip flexion, but they can restrict certain movements like bending forward to touch your toes. Some dynamic stretching options I like to use are inchworms, alternating knee extensions, and Jefferson curls. You can also focus on lengthening and strengthening the hamstrings by performing gym-based exercises like Romanian deadlifts. To reinforce this newly acquired hamstring flexibility, you can follow up any of these exercises with seated straight leg hip flexor liftoffs. As the name implies, lift one leg off the ground as high as possible while keeping your knees straight. Hold for a few seconds, relax, and repeat. To make this exercise harder, lean your trunk forward. To make it easier, place your hands behind you and lean back. Category number 3. Hip extension range of motion This category is about stretching the hip flexors to improve your hip extension range of motion, and then strengthening your hip extensors at N range hip extension. Here are three stretching options. Option 1. Half Kneeling Hip Flexor Stretch Tuck your tailbone underneath you by squeezing your glutes, and gently rock forward until you feel a stretch in the front of your hip. If kneeling is uncomfortable, you can also perform this stretch standing. Since one of your quadriceps muscles, the rectus femoris, crosses the hip joint, targeting this muscle can also improve your hip extension range of motion. You will set up in a similar position but with your rear foot elevated on a bench, chair, or couch. Squeeze your glutes, tuck your tailbone underneath you, and gently rock backward until you feel a stretch in the front of your thigh. Either of these options can be held for 30-60 seconds, or performed for 10-15 repetitions, moving slowly in and out of your N range. Option 2. Split Squat Set up in a stride stance, tuck your tailbone, and lower straight down. Hold the bottom for 2-3 seconds before standing back up. To move through more range of motion, elevate your front foot on plates or another object. You can also perform a split squat while keeping your back leg straight. Again, squeeze your glutes and tuck your tailbone, but this time you will lunge in the forward direction. To bias the rectus femoris, you can perform a rear foot elevated split squat. Squeeze your glutes, tuck your tailbone, and slowly lower down and back. You should feel a stretch on the front of your thigh. Hold for a few seconds before standing back up. If you have trouble balancing during any of the split squat variations, hold onto a wall or object for assistance. And option 3. Straight Leg Raise on an Elevated Surface You can perform this exercise with or without an ankle weight. As I mentioned at the beginning, this option will lengthen your hip flexor muscles through an eccentric muscle contraction. To strengthen the hip extensors, one of the easiest options following an injury or surgery is a glute bridge. This can be an especially good option for those who had a hip replacement with an anterior approach, since it also will provide a stretch to the front of the hip. A bridge progression would start with two legs, progress to a staggered stance, then a single leg, and finally, you can add weight over time. You could also perform hip thrusts in which your upper body is supported on a bench or couch. Progressions include performing them on a single leg and or adding weight. Other options for strengthening your hip extensors at the end range of hip extension include prone, quadruped, or standing extensions with your knees straight or bent. For either variation, avoid excessive arching of your lower back. And category number four, groin mobility exercises. The last category focuses on stretching the adductors to improve hip abduction range of motion and then strengthening the abductors at the end range of hip abduction. One option is a quadruped rock back. Set up on your hands and knees and straighten one leg out to your side. While keeping a flat lower back, rock toward your heel until you feel a stretch on your inner thigh. Hold for 30 to 60 seconds or perform for 10 to 15 repetitions before switching sides. You can then strengthen your hip abductors at their end ranges by performing liftoffs. Rock back and lift your leg off the ground. Keep your knees straight and try not to rotate from your pelvis or lower back. To make these liftoffs more challenging, perform them with your foot elevated on a bench or box. A similar but more advanced variation is a frog stretch. Set up on all fours with your knees wide apart. Lower your forearms to the ground and gently rock your hips back towards your heels until you feel a stretch in your groin. Hold this position or rock in and out of your end range, keeping your lower back relatively flat. You can also perform a lateral squat. Hold onto a TRX, squat rack or another object and squat to one side, keeping your other leg straight. Hold for a few seconds, then transfer to the other side. To build more strength and control with this movement, you can work up to a weighted variation. Just make sure you move slow and controlled, pausing for a few seconds at your end range before switching sides. Other options for improving your groin mobility include a horse stance squat, wide stance hip hinge, and a Copenhagen plank, which lengthens and strengthens your adductors. Finally, one of my personal favorites is a seated butterfly stretch with weight. Sit on the floor with your upper and lower back against a wall and bring the bottom of your feet together. Place a dumbbell on each leg, allowing the weights to help move your knees closer to the ground. Hold for 30 to 60 seconds while trying to breathe slowly and relax into the stretch. Immediately following this stretch, you can strengthen into this range of motion by squeezing your glutes and trying to pull your knees closer to the ground. Aim for 10 to 15 repetitions with a 2 to 3 second hold at your end range. Another consideration for some of these hip stretches is performing a banded variation. For instance, during the supine hip flexion stretch, you would anchor a heavy band to a sturdy object and place the other end around your hip. As you pull your knee towards your chest, the band would be pulling in the opposite direction toward the anchor point. Another example is performing a hip flexor stretch and having a band pull your hip joint in the forward direction. There are limitless applications, but it's important to understand that these are not a necessity for improving hip mobility and are not altering the structure of the hip joint as some people may claim. However, if they feel good and allow you to move through a bit more range of motion, they are another option you can implement. In terms of programming, there are two main factors you should consider. Time and intensity or effort. Time is about the duration of each exercise, but also the total amount of time you are performing the exercises each week. As I mentioned, most exercises can be held for 30 to 60 seconds, but I think 30 seconds is a good starting point, especially if you are performing them at higher intensities. If the exercise is performed for repetitions, you are trying to accumulate at least 30 seconds at your end ranges. This is usually about 10 to 15 repetitions when adding a 2 to 3 second hold. At the absolute minimum, you should be performing these hip exercises at least 5 to 10 minutes a week per direction at a challenging intensity. The intensity you perform these exercises can vary, but a simple guideline to follow is to make them challenging but tolerable. They should not be unbearable or painful. For example, muscular discomfort or fatigue experienced during a set of high repetition push-ups is an acceptable type of pain. However, you wouldn't want pain in your shoulder joint. The same thing applies here. Let me show you four examples to help put all of this information together. One, you had a hip replacement three months ago and want to improve your hip extension range of motion. One option is to perform 2 to 3 sets of the dynamic half kneeling hip flexor stretch and 2 to 3 sets of glute bridges every other day. Two, if you don't have specific goals and just want to work on your general hip range of motion, your mobility routine doesn't need to be separate from your workout. For instance, you could do strength training through your full range of motion, such as performing deficit split squats, hip thrusts, Romanian deadlifts, straight leg raises, etc. Three, suppose you just want to be as comprehensive as possible. In that case, another option is to include hip mobility exercises as part of your dynamic warm-up, at the end of your workout as an accessory, or even on your non-gym days multiple times a week. And four, let's say you don't have any hip injuries and your main goal is to perform deeper squats at the gym. Realistically, you would probably just spend more time performing deep squats at the gym or at home. One of the best ways to get better at a movement is to spend time doing that movement. However, if you thought improving your hip flexion, external rotation, or internal rotation would help, here are two options. For hip flexion, you could perform three to five sets of a front foot elevated split squat, followed by three to five sets of a standing hip flexion isometric. And for hip external and internal rotation, you could perform three to five sets of the 90-90 hip stretch, followed by three to five sets of active external and internal rotation in the same position. You could perform these exercises two to four days a week. Remember, these parameters are a recommended starting point. You might need more or you might need less. For instance, this might not be enough for some people watching this video. Therefore, you may need to consider increasing your volume, intensity, and or frequency. In contrast, if you are recovering from a recent surgery, you might need to reduce these variables, at least initially. Regardless of how you choose to program these exercises, just make sure what you are doing is intentional and effortful. This means you aren't staring at your phone and watching videos from your favorite YouTube channel. Focus on movement quality and moving into as much range of motion as you can tolerate. I know this video is already really long, but I want to conclude with one final point. Not everyone will need to do mobility-specific work. If it's not important or relevant to you, don't worry about it. If it is important, you need to make it a priority and understand that it will take time, effort, and consistency. If it's helpful, you can view this process of improving flexibility as similar to hypertrophy training. If you want to grow your quadriceps muscles, there are a lot of exercises you could perform. A squat, split squat, leg press, leg extension, etc. However, it's about consistency and picking the exercises that target the adaptations you want. In this example, you might pick one to two exercises to perform two to four days a week and stay consistent for months to years. Improving your hip range of motion is going to be very similar. Choose one to two directions you want to improve, pick a couple of exercises that feel appropriate for you, and start by implementing them for at least five to ten minutes a week at a challenging intensity. Over time, you can manipulate these variables and experiment with different exercises or techniques as needed. Regardless, you need to stay consistent for months to years if your goal is to improve your hip range of motion. Thank you so much for watching. If you need more guidance outside this video, we offer rehab and performance programs. Or, if you're looking for something a bit more individualized, we do offer consultations and remote coaching. You can learn more about those on our website at e3rehab.com. Otherwise, if you enjoyed the video, make sure you hit that like button, subscribe, and drop any comments down below. Until next time. Thank you.