 Whether you had a total or partial knee replacement, this video is going to teach you everything you need to know about rehabilitation after surgery. This includes strategies for managing symptoms and restoring your knee function as it relates to improving your range of motion, strength, and tolerance to functional activities like going up and down stairs, standing up from a chair, and walking. While I will briefly touch on some options for returning to higher level activity, that will not be the primary focus of this video. I'm. This is a way to rapidly speed up your recovery, but you can delay it if you push too hard or too fast too soon. One of the biggest examples of this is people wanting to rush off their assistive devices, such as a walker or crutches, too quickly. However, these devices serve an important purpose of managing your pain and swelling by offloading your knee early on. This will improve your mobility and help you normalize walking so you're at less of a risk of developing a limp. There is no set time frame for when you should stop using these devices, as it depends on factors like your function, symptoms, and tolerance. When the time is appropriate, your physical therapist might have you transition from a walker to a single point or quad cane to no device over the course of several days to weeks. In a majority of cases, the eventual goal is to be able to walk unassisted without a limp. Here are three things that will help you achieve this milestone in order to be able to walk unassisted without a limp. One, managing your knee pain and swelling as I just mentioned. For example, if you stop using your assistive device too soon, and this leads to a flare-up in symptoms like increased knee pain and swelling, this may delay your progress. Additionally, you will perform lower-level exercises such as ankle pumps and quad sets periodically throughout the day to promote early movement and help reduce swelling. Icing and elevation can also be used early on to help manage symptoms if desired. Two, restoring your knee range of motion and quadriceps strength through various exercises, which I will demonstrate shortly. And three, performing specific gait training drills and activities. This usually starts with more simple exercises like weight shifting and standing, multi-directional stepping, and marching in place either with or without upper body support. One long-term goal is being able to balance on a single leg for up to 30 to 60 seconds on each side. Since this can be quite difficult early on, easier options include using your hands for assistance, standing with one foot in front of the other, or standing in a semi-tandem stance in which you bring your feet together, but one foot is still partially in front of the other. Your physical therapist might also incorporate other drills like backward walking to help improve your knee extension range of motion and control, and stepping over hurdles or objects, which helps cue you to bend your knee during walking. Alongside these drills, your rehabilitation will focus on two main exercise categories, restoring range of motion and building strength. As mentioned previously, the purpose of these exercises is to improve your tolerance to functional activities like walking, navigating stairs, getting up from a chair, and other daily tasks. Category 1, Knee Range of Motion Exercises This includes exercises aimed at improving knee extension, or straightening your knee, and knee flexion, or bending your knee. As a quick disclaimer, regaining your knee range of motion can often be uncomfortable. However, the exercises should not be unbearable or lead to a significant increase in symptoms, as this would be counterproductive. For knee extension, your goal is to get your knee completely straight, or close to it, as soon as possible. Depending on your previous range of motion, you may even achieve a few degrees of hyperextension. Most protocols suggest achieving zero degrees, or full knee extension, by six weeks following a total knee replacement. To help improve your knee extension, the easiest thing you should be doing throughout the day, every day, are quad sets. If you're sitting in a chair, on the couch, or your bed, scoot forward to the edge and straighten your leg as best as you can. From here, squeeze your quads, the muscles on the front of your thigh, for 10 seconds, relax, and repeat. If you'd like to intensify the movement as your range of motion improves, you can use a strap to pull up on your foot, adding a calf and hamstring stretch while you perform the same quad contraction. You can also do quad sets while lying down. Since your knee will have limited extension immediately after surgery, you can place a towel or pillow under your knee for comfort. From here, squeeze your quads by trying to push the back of your knee into the towel or pillow. Hold for 10 seconds, relax, and repeat 10 times. As your range of motion improves, you can remove the towel and perform quad sets by trying to push the back of your knee into the floor, couch, or bed. Finally, the last progression involves propping your heel on a small object in order to move through more range of motion. You want to start these quad sets early, usually within the first week after surgery, and perform them as often as possible, multiple times throughout the day, every single day. It's hard to overdo these, and I can't emphasize their importance enough. The other exercise you'll want to do is propping your heel on a towel or object, trying to accumulate about 30 to 60 minutes a day. Since some people might not tolerate this duration initially, it's okay to break this up into 5 to 15 minute sessions 2 to 6 times a day. While this position might be slightly uncomfortable, you want it to be tolerable for the entire duration. Over time, you can progress the exercise by increasing the frequency, duration, or adding weight to increase the stretch. This might include a small weight on your thigh or placing a bag over your leg. If you've regained your full knee extension range of motion and want to integrate the quad sets into a standing exercise, you can add external resistance such as a small ball against a wall or a band anchored to an object. Improving your knee flexion range of motion will be another major goal. Normal knee flexion is generally around 135 degrees or being able to bring your heel to your butt or very close to it. However, achieving 135 degrees of knee flexion following knee replacement surgery may not be realistic or even necessary. For context, the protocols mentioned earlier recommend achieving about 115 to 120 degrees of knee flexion by 8 to 12 weeks after a total knee replacement. However, it's important to discuss your individual goals and expectations with your surgeon as they may vary based on your unique circumstances. To improve your knee flexion, I'm going to show you four options. Generally, you can start these exercises within the first week following surgery if tolerated. Option 1, recumbent bike. Begin with the seat further back and perform partial revolutions, moving your knee in and out of as much flexion as you can manage. Once you can complete full revolutions, gradually move the seat forward in order to expose the knee to more flexion. As your range of motion improves, you can do a similar progression on an upright stationary bike. Start with the seat at a higher level and perform partial revolutions. Once you can complete full revolutions, gradually lower the seat. Do this daily for 5 to 30 minutes, gradually increasing the duration as tolerated. For instance, in the first few weeks after surgery, you may only be able to do 5 minutes of this exercise each day. As your tolerance improves over the following weeks and months, you can gradually increase the duration to 20 minutes or more. Option 2, scooting knee flexion. Sit in a chair with your foot flat on the ground, then use your arms to scoot your hips forward, which will help bend your knee further. Perform for 2-3 sets of 30-60 second holds 2-3 times a day. Option 3, seated heel slides. Sit on the edge of a chair and place your foot on a slider if you're on carpet or a towel if you're on a hard surface. Gently slide your foot backward, trying to bend your knee as much as you can. You can use your other leg to provide gentle overpressure if desired. Hold the end position for a few seconds, then return to the starting position. Repeat for 2-3 sets of 10-20 repetitions 2-3 times a day. And option 4, supine assisted heel slides. This is a similar movement, but lying on your back will allow you to move through more range of motion. Wrap a towel or strap around your foot, slowly slide your heel towards your butt, and then gently pull on the towel or strap to help bend your knee further. You can place your foot on a slider if you're on carpet, a towel if you're on a hard surface, or simply hover your heel just above the ground. Perform this exercise for 2-3 sets of 10-20 repetitions 2-3 times a day. The programming for these range of motion exercises will vary based on factors such as your tolerance, functional abilities, and access to equipment. However, here's a general example of what a weekly program could look like during the first few weeks after surgery. To help restore knee extension, the heel prop exercise can be performed for 5-15 minute sessions 2-6 times a day, while the quad sets should be done as often as possible every single day. For knee flexion, the recumbent bite can be used for 5-10 minutes every day, and seated heel slides performed for 2-3 sets of 10-20 repetitions 2-3 times a day. This example might seem like a lot, but regaining your range of motion is extremely important for reducing symptoms, restoring function, and ensuring that the rest of the rehab process goes smoothly. As your range of motion, symptoms, and tolerance improves, you can progress the volume and intensity of exercises. For instance, you can add weight to the heel prop exercise and increase hold times to 10-15 minutes, ride an upright stationary bike for 15-30 minutes daily, and progress to assisted heel slides using a strap while lying on your back. Once again, this may seem like a lot of work, but the surgery only gets you back into the race, while your commitment to rehab gets you over the finish line. Category 2, Strengthening Exercises I'm going to show you two groups of exercises, one for quadriceps strengthening and one for hip strengthening. For the quadriceps, in addition to the quad sets mentioned earlier, other lower level exercises include short arc quads and straight leg raises. Short arc quads involve placing a foam roller or object behind the knee, squeezing your quads, and trying to straighten your knee. For the straight leg raise, line your back with one knee bent, straighten the other leg by squeezing your quads, and lift that leg until your thighs are in line with one another. Slowly control back down. An important milestone is being able to perform this movement with your knee completely straight. While these two exercises are helpful in the early stages, to maximize your function during daily activities, as well as improve your tolerance to knee flexion range of motion, you will eventually want to progress to squats and step-ups. Here is a simple squat progression, since it's helpful for everyday activities like getting out of a chair. While holding onto a stable object for support, gently tap your butt to a pad or pillow placed on top of a chair or box, then stand back up. To make this more challenging, remove the pad or pillow so you move through more range of motion. Eventually, you can perform these without upper body assistance. And if you really want to make them harder, you can hold a weight in your hands. Another option is this step-up progression, which is needed for going up and down stairs and navigating curves. Start at a lower height and use your hands for assistance. Over time, you can do them without your hands, and then gradually increase the height of the step. If you have good balance, you can also stand sideways and practice lateral step-downs. For these, try to gently tap your heel to the ground, then stand back up. To make these harder, increase the height of the step. If you have access to a gym, you could also incorporate machine-based exercises like a leg press or leg extensions. Some home-based variations of leg extensions include using ankle weights or performing isometrics using a band. Depending on your goals, you may also want to eventually consider more advanced exercises like a split squat. The next group of exercises targets your glutes and hip muscles, which are important for walking, stairs, balance, and general hip stability. Lower level exercises that may be recommended initially following a knee replacement are side-lying hip abduction and prone hip extension. For the side-lying hip abduction, lie on your unaffected side with your bottom hip and knee bent. While keeping your top knee straight, lift the top leg up toward the ceiling and lower back down. To make the exercise harder, you can add a cuff weight to your ankle or a band around your thighs. For the prone hip extension, lie on your stomach, straighten your knee by squeezing your quads, and then lift your leg up toward the ceiling. Once you possess adequate knee flexion, about 90 degrees, you can perform glute bridges. Lie on your back, squeeze your butt muscles, lift your hips up toward the ceiling, and lower back down. If you want to progress, you can stagger your legs so that one side is working harder than the other. From here, the next level would be performing single leg bridges on each leg. Finally, the last option would be to add weight. Other hip exercises of varying levels of difficulty include standing hip abduction with or without a band or cuff weight, and side steps with a band around your knees or ankles. If you wanted to eventually include more advanced hip strengthening exercises, you could perform a deadlift variation, which can be helpful for picking things up off the floor. A general guideline is to perform 3-5 exercises for 2-3 sets of 5-20 repetitions, 2-3 times per week. Building on the earlier example, in the first few weeks after surgery, you may begin incorporating exercises like short arc quads, side-lying hip abduction, partial squats and step-ups with upper body support, and double leg glute bridges 2-3 times a week. When symptoms and function allow, you can add more sets or repetitions, or progress the exercises to a more challenging variation. For instance, you may add a cuff weight to the side-lying hip abduction exercise, perform squats and step-ups without assistance through a larger range of motion, and progress to single leg bridges. Of course, this is only one example, as I can't provide recommendations for everyone and their unique circumstances. I also only presented two categories of strengthening exercises that I think should be the primary focus of rehab. This is because the main goals after a knee replacement is to restore range of motion, normalize walking, and improve strength and tolerance to functional activities. However, if you want a more comprehensive program, you could also include other exercises targeting the hip flexors, hamstrings, and calves, such as standing hip flexion, standing knee flexion, and heel raises. In either case, I cannot stress enough the importance of minimizing flare-ups and reducing swelling during your recovery. There will be times that you may end up pushing yourself too hard or too fast, and your knee becomes more painful, swollen, or sore. Don't worry, this can happen, and you likely didn't do any harm. But your goal is to reduce these occurrences by constantly monitoring your response to activity and exercise, and adjusting accordingly. For example, if you perform squats for three sets of 15 reps, and then experience a flare-up afterward, such as significantly more pain and swelling, it is recommended you scale back the volume or difficulty. A simple modification could be to perform three sets of 10 repetitions the next time you do this exercise. On the other hand, if you experience no symptoms, feel strong, and find the exercise relatively easy, you might consider progressing by increasing to three sets of 20 repetitions in your next session. Before wrapping up this video, I want to answer six common questions about knee replacements. Number one, how long will my knee replacement last? This ultimately depends on your surgery, implant, activity levels, etc. Plus, technology and medicine is constantly advancing, so it's hard to provide a definitive answer here. For some context, a 2021 article by Rashed et al. reports a survival rate of about 95% at 15 years, while a 2019 article by Evans et al. suggests that 82% of total knee replacements last for 25 years. Number two, should I get a continuous passive motion machine? No, these have not been shown to significantly improve range of motion, pain, or function. In fact, the latest clinical practice guidelines for total knee replacements advises against their use due to factors such as cost, time spent in bed, and overall inconvenience. Number three, should I avoid pain with exercises? Not necessarily. For instance, as I mentioned earlier, regaining your range of motion will be an uncomfortable process. Some discomfort is okay, as long as you're not experiencing a significant increase in symptoms afterwards. Number four, is it safe to kneel? Yes, although you might find kneeling positions sensitive or uncomfortable in the first few months following surgery. However, you can gradually improve tolerance to this position, just like other exercises or activities. For instance, you could start in a quadruped position on the floor, and gently shift your weight back and forth from one knee to the other. The next step would be to hold this position with equal pressure on each knee. Once you can do this, you can progress to a tall kneeling position, and finally a half kneeling position if it fits your goals. For either of these levels, I recommend using a pad or pillow under your knees for comfort. Number five, what about cardio or other means of physical activity? If it's comfortable, does not exacerbate symptoms, and you are clear to do so, you can ride a stationary or recumbent bike, swim, walk, garden, or do any other activity you enjoy. This leads me to number six, will I be able to run and play sports again? Currently, there's limited long-term data on this topic, so you'll need to weigh the costs and benefits, and have a discussion with your surgeon. If this is one of your goals, once cleared by your doctor, you will need to include more advanced exercises in the later stages of your rehab. To wrap up this video, here are the four key takeaways I want you to know about rehabilitation after a knee replacement surgery. One, monitoring and managing symptoms such as pain, swelling, and joint soreness will be one of your primary goals. This involves finding the right dosage of activity and movement while trying not to overdo it. Two, don't rush off your assistive device. They're important for managing pain and swelling by offloading your knee. This will improve mobility and help you normalize walking so you're at less of a risk of developing a limp. Three, focus on exercises that help restore your knee range of motion, strength, and tolerance to functional activity. You should expect to commit to a rehab plan for at least four to six months or longer, depending on your functioning goals. And four, as challenging as it may be, try not to compare yourself to others. Everyone's journey is unique with individual timelines and goals. By focusing on your own progress and the information in this video, you'll set yourself up for a successful recovery. Thank you so much for watching. If you're looking for more guidance outside this video, we offer rehab and performance programs. Or if you're looking for something a bit more individualized, we do offer consultations and remote coaching. To learn more about these, visit our website at e3rehab.com. Otherwise, again, thank you for watching. If you liked the video, hit that like button, subscribe, and even turn on notifications. Until next time. Bye.