

=== FILE: ACL Rehab： Phase 1 ｜ 0 To 8+ Weeks (Education ｜ Strengthening & Range of Motion Exercises ｜ Walking) [GlmphYGAyBg].txt ===

 In this video, I'm going to teach you everything you need to know about phase 1 of ACL rehab, also often referred to as the early stage. Aside from protecting the newly reconstructed ACL graft, there are 5 primary goals during phase 1. 1. Minimize increases in pain and swelling. 2. Restore knee extension range of motion. 3. Restore knee flexion range of motion. 4. Improve quadriceps function. 5. Normalize walking. 5. Normalize walking. Throughout phase 1 and throughout the entire rehab process, you should focus on your function, not time. In the title of this video, I suggested that phase 1 will last roughly from 0 to 8 weeks. That timeline might be aggressive for some individuals and conservative for others, but it should be realistic for the majority of people watching this video. I only say this because I truly care, but there are no participation trophies in ACL rehab. You don't get to run on a swollen knee because a certain amount of time has passed. You have to earn the ability to perform more difficult tasks. This is meant to minimize setbacks, reduce your risk of re-injury, maximize long-term performance, and provide you with the confidence needed to return to your desired sports and activities. Don't stress too much about timelines. Don't compare yourself to others. Focus on your function because your progress will depend on your symptoms, your preoperative function, and a variety of other factors such as the type of surgery performed. For example, if you had an ACL reconstruction and meniscus repair, your initial recovery is likely going to be slower because of restrictions provided to you by your surgeon to allow for appropriate healing. Similarly, if you had a hamstring graft, the introduction of hamstring strengthening will likely be delayed. For that reason, this information is not meant to replace a consultation with a physical therapist or overrule any information provided to you by your physical therapist or surgeon. Let's start with goal number one, minimize increases in pain and swelling. This is the most important consideration after surgery. Pain and swelling are a normal part of the early rehab process, but it is your responsibility to minimize unnecessary increases in pain and swelling when possible. There are two simple ways to facilitate this. One, use your crutches as long as necessary. Not using your crutches as instructed by your surgeon or physical therapist or rushing off of them too soon can actually delay your progress by increasing pain, increasing swelling, and contributing to a compensatory gait pattern. Being able to walk without crutches is a product of good rehab and is dictated by your function, not time or personal preference. Two, don't overdo it. Early on, you don't want to spend too much time walking or being on your feet. Excessive activity can increase pain and swelling. Following this simple advice will make the rest of your rehab significantly better. Less pain and swelling make it easier to regain your range of motion, improve your quadriceps function, etc. What about a knee brace? Not every surgeon will prescribe one, but a brace is meant to provide stability, protection, and limit unwanted motion. However, it doesn't offload the knee the same way that crutches do. So, use your brace as instructed, but understand that it's not meant to be a replacement for crutches. What about ice, compression, and elevation? You can do all of these things as often as you want, especially if they help get you off your feet in the first couple of weeks. Your rehab exercises can also contribute to reductions in pain and swelling. For example, ankle pumps and quad sets, an exercise I'm going to demonstrate shortly, can be performed anytime you're sitting or lying down. The last thing I want to mention in this section is that if you feel like you're experiencing an unusual amount of pain, swelling, redness, or drainage from the surgical site, or you're feeling unwell, communicate that information to your healthcare provider. Goal number two is restoring your knee extension range of motion. Although I said not to stress about time, this is a top priority because the longer you wait, the harder it is to get back. You need to be diligent with this aspect of your rehab as early as possible. There are two primary ways to improve knee extension. One, prop your heel for 10 to 15 minutes, 4 to 6 times per day, to accumulate at least one hour of total time. The position might be uncomfortable, but it should not be unbearable. If you're lying on your back or sitting up, it's preferable to be on a firm surface like the floor. You can also do this in a chair if you can prop your leg on another chair or object. Over time, you can add a light weight to increase the stretch if needed. Your body's natural tendency is to flex the knee, so you need to commit to this process and allow yourself to get comfortable resting your knee into an extended position. At the end of each 10 to 15 minute duration of passive knee extension, you can perform a minute of patellar mobilizations. This just involves moving the kneecap slowly in different directions. The second way to improve knee extension is by performing quad sets all day, every day. Straighten your leg as best you can, then squeeze your quads, the muscles on the front of your thigh, by trying to push the back of your knee into the floor. Hold for 10 seconds, relax, and repeat for 10 repetitions. Initially, if this is painful and difficult, you can place a small towel under your knee for comfort and feedback. However, as I just mentioned, your body's natural tendency is to keep the knee flexed, so you wouldn't want to rely on the strategy for an extended period of time. To progress the quad set, you can incorporate the heel prop I just discussed. To increase the range of motion even further, use a strap and pull up on your foot to add a calf and hamstring stretch. You can also do a similar variation while seated at your desk, at the dinner table, on the couch, etc. Straighten your leg, squeeze your quads for 10 seconds, relax, and repeat. I cannot overemphasize the importance of doing quad sets as frequently as possible. One well-known ACL protocol recommends doing up to 1,000 repetitions per day. This is one exercise you cannot overdo. Also, make sure each repetition is focused and intentional. Contracting your quads is extremely difficult after surgery, so avoid being distracted or scrolling social media when doing them. The end goal should be to get your knee extension range of motion equal to your uninjured side. Completely straight or some degree of hyperextension. One thing you can look for is a heel pop, which refers to the heels slightly coming off the ground when performing a quad set. Goal number three is restoring your knee flexion range of motion. Thankfully, this is typically easier than restoring knee extension, so it doesn't require the same volume of exercise. As a reminder, you may have restrictions to limit your knee flexion to no more than 90 degrees initially if you also had a meniscus repair. There are a lot of ways to improve knee flexion, but these are my two favorite. One, heel slides. While lying on your back, slide your heel toward your butt, hold the end position for a few seconds, slowly straighten your knee, and repeat. To assist the movement, wrap a towel or strap around your foot and slowly slide your heel toward your butt while gently pulling on the towel or strap to help bend your knee further. Heel slides can be performed for 10 to 20 repetitions several times throughout the day. The second option at some point in your rehab is a recumbent bike. Position the seat further back and begin with partial revolutions, moving your knee in and out of as much flexion as possible. Once you're able to complete full revolutions, gradually move the seat forward to expose the knee to more flexion. You can also follow a similar progression on an upright bike. Start with the seat at a higher level and do partial revolutions. As your mobility improves and you can complete full revolutions, move the seat down to further challenge and increase your knee flexion. For either option, you can start with 5 to 10 minutes and gradually do more over time. Once again, working on knee flexion might be uncomfortable, but it should never be unbearable. This is not something you have to force. The end goal should be to get your knee flexion range of motion equal to your uninjured side, which usually involves getting your heel to your butt or close to it. Goal number 4 is improving your quadriceps function. The quads effectively shut down after an ACL reconstruction secondary to pain, swelling, and the nature of the surgery itself, including any associated nerve blocks. Two strategies to combat this are methods we've already discussed. One, minimizing unnecessary increases in pain and swelling. And two, quad sets as frequently as possible. When you've restored your knee extension range of motion and your function has improved, you can perform standing quad sets with external resistance by using a ball against a wall or a band anchor to an object. An important milestone that you'll need to achieve is the ability to perform a straight leg raise without lag. Lag refers to a slight bend in the knee. Quad sets will help you achieve this milestone. When you eventually perform straight leg raises, you'll likely be asked to perform 3 sets of 10 to 20 repetitions daily. However, it's important to keep in mind that the primary action of the quadriceps is knee extension. Therefore, straight leg raises are not effective for improving quadriceps function beyond your very basic needs since they become more of a hip flexor exercise. More needs to be done, but squats are not enough. Research by Sigward et al. in 2018 found that people unknowingly perform compensations to offload their quads during squats for at least 5 months after surgery. For this reason, I highly recommend isometric leg extensions between 90 and 60 degrees of knee flexion using a machine, strap, ball, or some other immovable object. I think it's one of the most important exercises to perform as quickly as possible and throughout the entire rehab process. Leg extensions might not look functional, but the quads are the only muscles capable of extending the knee. There is no way to compensate. Aren't they dangerous? No. Not only is there no research to suggest this, there is research to refute this. However, the purpose of this video is not to convince you otherwise or defy any precautions provided to you by your healthcare provider. Plus, I am only recommending isometric leg extensions between 90 and 60 degrees of knee flexion. Isometrics in this range of motion place zero strain on the ACL. I'll repeat it one more time. Isometric leg extensions between 90 and 60 degrees of knee flexion place zero strain on the ACL. That's less than walking, squatting, or any other activity you might eventually do. Aim for three to four sets of 30 to 45 second holds. As with everything else, they should be tolerable. You don't need to push all out. I recommend trying them on your unaffected side first to get a feel for the movement. I also recommend that you gradually ramp up and down your effort so you don't accidentally get a spike in symptoms. This will take practice to get right, but you can do isometrics for the entire eight weeks or longer if you prefer, as they're effective at improving strength and hypertrophy while reducing any worry you might have about strain on the ACL. If you're working with a physical therapist, they may use blood flow restriction training and or neuromuscular electrical stimulation in conjunction with leg extensions or other exercises you are doing as a means of improving quad function. Goal number five is normalizing walking. If you've managed your pain and swelling, slowly weaned off your crutches, restored your knee extension range of motion, and have been actively working on your quadriceps function, normal walking should hopefully come naturally. There are exercises you can do to improve your tolerance to putting all of your weight on the affected leg though. To start, you can practice weight shifting onto that side. Then you can progress to single leg balance. You might start by looking at yourself in a mirror, but you want to eventually take away that visual feedback. When you're ready, you can perform single leg balance with your eyes closed, with head turns on an unstable surface, or while multitasking like brushing your teeth or juggling a ball. There's no limit to what you can do as long as it's safe and tolerable, but stick to the basics at first by building up to three sets of 60 seconds on a single leg comfortably. Marching over hurdles forward, backward, and sideways is another great option. Lastly, backward walking can help reinforce terminal knee extension and weight bearing. Like with everything else, you can begin with a few minutes and gradually add more time. I've provided a lot of information up to this point, and there's still more to discuss, but programming these exercises doesn't need to be overly complicated. You just need to do the basics well and often. Assuming no restrictions, here are the three movements you should be doing daily. 1. Heel prop for 10 to 15 minutes, 4 to 6 times per day to accumulate at least one hour of total time. At the end of each 10 to 15 minute duration of passive knee extension, you can perform a minute of patellar mobilizations. 2. Quad sets for 10 repetitions of 10 second holds. I cannot even provide an upper limit for this exercise. You should be doing it as often as possible. 3. Heel slides with a strap for 10 to 20 repetitions at least 3 to 4 times per day. If you have the range of motion, the exercise is tolerable, and you have the approval of your healthcare provider, you can also do the isometric leg extensions for 3 to 4 sets of 30 to 45 second holds. As you progress through your rehab, your routine might start to look more like this. 4. 10 minutes on a recumbent or upright bike. 5. Quad sets with a strap. 6. Heel slides through a larger range of motion. 6. Isometric leg extensions. 7. Straight leg raises for 3 sets of 10 to 20 repetitions. 8. Standing quad sets with external resistance. 8. Single leg balance for 3 sets of 30 to 60 seconds. 9. Backward walking or marching over hurdles for 3 to 5 minutes. 9. Heel prop with weight. 10. Keep in mind that doing more is not inherently better if you're not mastering the basics and applying the same effort and intentionality into every movement you do. I understand that everyone wants to be further along in their rehab, but there is no benefit to skipping steps. 10. Another component of phase 1 is the gradual reintroduction of resistance training to minimize losses in muscle, strength, and function, and to help prepare you for the next phase of rehab. The number 1 priority here is safety. Generally, that means using assistance as needed, reducing the range of motion initially, and starting with bodyweight exercises that are tolerable. I'll list out various exercises, potential starting points, and expected progressions, but your exact timeline will vary depending on your symptoms, function, stage of healing, surgery, and precautions from your physical therapist or surgeon. Most people will start with mini-squats and gradually increase the range of motion. A box, table, or chair is often used to limit the range of motion and normalize the depth of each repetition. As your strength, control, and tolerance improve, you'll likely move on to goblet squats, kickstand squats, single leg squats, and or split squats. Higher wall sits can be progressed to lower wall sits. Step ups are usually performed before step downs, and the range of motion of both are increased over time. The leg press machine becomes a popular option because you can easily control the load and range of motion. Double leg bridges, whether for repetitions or isometrics, are progressed to single leg bridges or weighted variations. For isolated hip exercises, common options are sideline hip abduction, sideline hip adduction, prone hip extension, and the straight leg raises I've already discussed. For hinging, you'll progress from body weight hip hinges, to weighted Romanian deadlifts, to single leg Romanian deadlifts, and weighted single leg Romanian deadlifts. Strengthening the hamstrings through resisted knee flexion is an extremely important component of ACL rehab. You might start with isometrics in which you're digging your heels into the ground, or standing hamstring curls with a cuff weight, and progress to hamstring curl machines, hamstring curls on a ball, and similar options. Remember, this will be delayed if you've had a hamstring graft. For the trunk, you might do planks and side planks. Lastly, double leg heel raises on the floor will be progressed to single leg heel raises, and then to single leg heel raises on a step. I want to be very clear that this is not an all-inclusive list or set of progressions. I wanted this video to focus on the basics while still providing other exercise options. When done in a safe and timely manner, these exercises shouldn't increase pain and swelling or take precedence over the Phase 1 goals. Comprehensive strength training will be the focus of Phase 2. A simple framework for programming is to think about doing exercises such as these every other day, assuming you're tolerating them well and recovering appropriately. Also, you don't need to do every exercise I've listed in every training session. You might do a squat variation, a hinge or bridge variation, knee extension, knee flexion, a trunk or hip exercise, and heel raises. Plus, you'll still be performing the daily exercises I suggested earlier. It ends up being quite a bit. And if that's not enough, there are additional strength and conditioning considerations. One, training the uninjured leg to maintain your strength and muscle mass. Some single leg exercise options include leg extensions, seated or prone hamstring curls, seated or standing calf raises, and the leg press. Just don't choose exercises that put your injured knee at risk. Two, upper body training for the same reasons, although it's less important. This also helps some athletes keep their sanity during the long rehab process. Once again, only select exercises that you can implement safely. Three, long duration cardio. After you've regained your knee flexion range of motion, you can start increasing the duration of your bike rides to improve your conditioning. One of the biggest challenges you'll face is dealing with doubt and uncertainty. There's no way to prepare for this, but I can tell you what you're experiencing is normal. You might worry that you injured your knee because you have an increase in pain or swelling. You might feel overwhelmed by the number of exercises you need to do. You might be discouraged if you don't accomplish your goals in the time that you expected or hoped. This is a long journey. It's tiring. It's tough. There will be ups and downs. Doubt and uncertainty are normal. Keep showing up, take it day by day, and express any concerns to your physical therapist, family members, or friends. I want to end the video by answering one last question. When does phase one end? The phases of rehab are somewhat arbitrary. You're not in phase one one day and suddenly in phase two the next day. There's going to be overlap because these phases exist on a continuum. However, as I stated at the start, there are five primary goals during phase one. Minimize increases in pain and swelling. Restore knee extension range of motion. Restore knee flexion range of motion. Improve quadriceps function. And normalize walking. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please hit that like button, subscribe, turn on notifications, and leave any comments down below. If you are looking for a rehab or performance program, or you are interested in working with us one-on-one, visit our website at e3rehab.com. Peace.

=== FILE: ACL Rehab： Phase 2 ｜ 8 To 16+ Weeks (Strength & Conditioning Exercises + Mistakes To Avoid) [0r4jJMxIKew].txt ===

 In this video, I'm going to teach you everything you need to know about phase 2 of ACL rehab, often also referred to as the mid-stage. As defined by Buckthorpe and Delavia, the three primary goals of phase 2 are muscle strengthening, movement training, and fitness reconditioning. The authors go on to state that this stage also considers knee factors such as joint range of motion, effusion slash swelling control, pain management and joint stability, pain management and joint stability, as well as considering the psychology of the athlete, such as motivation and apprehension. These additional considerations highlight the need for rehab to focus on function, not time. Accomplishing the goals of phase 1 significantly increases your likelihood of success in phase 2. Each phase prepares you for the next. This is not to say that you can't initiate phase 2 if you haven't fully completed the goals of phase 1, because, rather than being distinct entities, these phases exist on an overlapping continuum. However, if you're still struggling with restoring your knee extension range of motion, or managing your swelling, those previous goals should be your priority. In the title of this video, I suggested that phase 2 will last from roughly 8 to 16 weeks. Based on what I'm going to discuss, this timeline is actually somewhat conservative compared to some protocols you'll find online. It's important to recognize, though, that these protocols are often carried out by expert clinicians on high-level athletes in research settings with a lot of resources available. I say this to reiterate the importance of focusing on your function, not time. As long as you are doing the right things and giving your best effort, don't worry about comparing yourself to others. Plus, these phase 2 goals are consistent throughout all of rehab. If your strength isn't where you hoped or expected after 16 weeks, the plan might change or evolve, but the goal doesn't. I'm going to outline exercise options for each body region, explain the rationale for their selection, and provide a sample program, but I want you to keep these 4 things in mind. 1. Don't get overwhelmed by the number of exercises I'm going to demonstrate. You're not going to do them all in a single session, and you likely won't even do them all after 16 weeks. I'm simply providing options. 2. Don't get discouraged by the difficulty of the exercises. Many of the exercises will seem unrealistic at first, but your capabilities will drastically improve over the course of rehab. You can view some of these exercises as eventual goals. 3. Pain and swelling management are still key. Nothing will limit your strength and overall progress more than frequent flare-ups. In general, exercises should be challenging but tolerable. If an exercise doesn't feel tolerable, or you're experiencing lingering joint discomfort, you probably need to scale back your activity levels. Muscle soreness, on the other hand, is normal and expected. 4. The main priority here is still safety, especially as it relates to any precautions or restrictions provided to you by your surgeon. For example, if you had a hamstring graft, the introduction of hamstring strengthening will likely be delayed to allow for appropriate healing. For that reason, this information is not meant to replace a consultation with a physical therapist, or overrule any information provided to you by your physical therapist or surgeon. Okay, let's get into the exercises. If you want to improve your function and reduce your risk of re-injury, strengthening your quads needs to be a top priority. Here are three progressions that I like. Option number one, squat progression. Level one, bodyweight squat. Gently tap your butt to a bench, chair, or box and stand back up. If it's too challenging or painful, shorten the range of motion or use your hands for assistance. Increase the difficulty by removing the bench, chair, or box. Aim for three sets of 20 repetitions. Level two, goblet squat. Aim for three sets of 15 reps using a kettlebell or dumbbell. Level three, barbell back squat or front squat. Aim for three sets of 6 to 12 reps. Keep in mind that there are known limitations with squats. Research by Sigward et al. in 2018 found that three months after ACL reconstruction, individuals performed interlimb compensations during a squat. This means that if they had surgery on their right side, they loaded their left side more, which is often associated with an observable weight shift to that left side. However, the participants also demonstrated intralimb compensations. This means that in addition to favoring their non-surgical leg, they offloaded their affected knee by working harder at the ankle and hip on their surgical side. Five months after surgery, the participants no longer demonstrated interlimb compensations, but they continued to have intralimb compensations. So, what the researchers found was that even though the squats appeared symmetrical and normal, the individuals continued to redistribute the load from the surgical knee to the hip and ankle on that side. And this information isn't just relevant to squatting. It shows up in walking, hopping, and running. Our bodies are naturally going to take the path of least resistance. If you have pain, swelling, or significant weakness due to surgery, which is most people watching this video, you'll find a way to work around those issues whether it's a conscious decision or not. Here are four ways to combat this. One, evaluate and refine your technique over time. Maintaining an upright trunk, driving the knees forward, and striving for deep knee flexion when appropriate are strategies for shifting more of the demand to the quads in a squat. When appropriate is key here. If you have a bone patellar tendon bone graft, overemphasizing this technique might be uncomfortable at this phase of rehab if you're already experiencing patellofemoral pain. Deep knee flexion might also be inappropriate if you had a meniscus repair. Two, elevate your heels by using wedges, weight plates, or weightlifting shoes. Many of the same reasons and precautions apply. Three, use equipment that allows you to better control your technique, such as a Smith machine. It's not about what looks functional, it's about improving deficits in strength. Four, implement unilateral exercises that make it harder to hide your weaknesses, such as option number two, split squat progression. Level one, make sure you are comfortable with bodyweight squats or goblet squats. Level two, split squat. Start in a stride stance and lower yourself down so that your back knee taps an egg that you don't want to crack. If it's too difficult for your front or back leg, shorten the range of motion or use your hands for assistance. Aim for three sets of 15 reps. Level three, rear foot elevated split squat. The overall technique of the movement and position of your torso should be similar, so use an object to elevate your back foot that isn't too high. The majority of your weight should be through the front leg. Level four, deficit rear foot elevated split squat. You're going to elevate the front leg using a two to four inch object to start. Over time, you can progress the height. Aim for three sets of six to 12 controlled repetitions. Option number three, step down progression. Level one, step up. Use a stair or object stacked six to seven inches high. Don't push off with the back leg. Focus on putting all of your weight through the working leg and just gently tap up and down with your other heel. If it's too difficult, decrease the height or use your hands for assistance. Aim for three sets of 20 reps per leg. Level two, lateral step down. Same exact cues, except this movement will allow for a little more knee travel. Aim for three sets of 20 reps per leg. Level three, forward step down or elevated lateral step down. You can either step forward off the step or continue to perform the lateral step down while gradually increasing the height of the step. Aim for three sets of six to 12 controlled reps per leg. Technique, heel elevation, and equipment usage are considerations for these exercises as well. Other unilateral exercises include kickstand squats, single leg squats, lunge variations, and the leg press. Another simple strategy is adjusting the tempo of an exercise. Performing a slow tempo or paused repetitions, at least initially, allows you to be more mindful of your technique. You can even attempt long duration isometrics. For instance, set up a bodyweight split squat with the technique you're trying to reinforce, and then hold that bottom position for 30 to 60 seconds. This is extremely challenging. Even with all that being said, any compound or multi-joint exercise is still susceptible to unintentional compensations, especially at this phase of rehab. For that reason, I highly recommend including leg extensions. Since no other muscles extend the knee, leg extensions ensure that the quads are being trained adequately. Once again, it's not about what looks functional, it's about doing what is necessary to restore the strength and muscle mass of your quads. And no, leg extensions are not dangerous to the ACL. Researchers have implemented full range of motion leg extensions as early as four weeks, resulting in better long-term strength without increasing graft laxity. Like with any other exercise, you'd make sure they're tolerable and gradually add weight over time. However, the purpose of this video isn't to convince you of their safety or defy any precautions you might have. If you're really concerned, leg extensions between 90 and 60 degrees of knee flexion place zero strain on the ACL while providing the same strength and hypertrophy benefits. Therefore, partial range of motion repetitions or isometric holds for 30 to 45 seconds are suitable alternatives. For the isometrics between 90 and 60 degrees of knee flexion, a machine, strap, ball, or some other immovable object can be used. Another critical component of rehab is improving the function of the hamstrings as they help to decrease the strain on the ACL and reduce the risk of re-injury. Here are two body weight progressions. Option number one, slider progression. Level one, double leg eccentric slider. Bridge up, keep your glutes squeezed, slowly slide your legs out, drop down, bring your feet back to the starting position, and repeat. If it's too difficult, just shorten the range of motion. If you can work up to three sets of 12 reps, progress to the next level. Level two, double leg slider. Aim for three sets of 12 reps. Level three, single leg eccentric slider. Aim for three sets of 8 reps. Level four, single leg slider. Level four, single leg slider. Aim for three sets of 4 to 8 reps. If you don't have access to sliders, an exercise ball can be used. Option number two, feet elevated long lever bridge progression. Level one, double leg feet elevated. Long lever bridge isometric. Place both heels on a bench with a slight bend in your knees. Bridge up until your hips are straight and hold this position. Aim for three sets of 45 seconds. Level two, marching feet elevated long lever bridge isometric. Slowly alternate lifting and lowering each leg. Aim for three sets of 60 seconds total. Level three, single leg foot elevated long lever bridge isometric. Aim for three sets of 30 seconds per leg. Level four, single leg foot elevated long lever bridge. Aim for three sets of 6 to 12 repetitions per leg, with or without weight. Other body weight options include Nordic hamstring curls and hamstring curls on the GHD. If you have access to a gym, two of the best options are seated and prone hamstring curls. Not only do these machines allow you to carefully control the load and range of motion, they can be performed one leg at a time. The rationale is similar to leg extensions. Isolated knee flexion ensures that the hamstrings are being adequately trained. If you're limited by pain, range of motion precautions, or something else, these machines can be really useful for implementing long duration isometrics at tolerable or safe ranges of motion. The previous exercises focused on the knee flexion aspect of hamstring strengthening, but their hip extension action is important as well. Here are three exercise options. Option number one, Romanian deadlifts. Unlike conventional deadlifts that start from the ground, Romanian deadlifts, or RDLs, start from the upright position, which means you get to choose how far you lower the weight based on your flexibility and comfort. They can be performed with dumbbells, a barbell, or the Smith machine. Other RDL variations include a kickstand stance, in which one leg is in front of the other, and a single leg RDL. The kickstand RDL, also known as a B stance RDL, is a way to target one leg at a time without compromising your balance. A single leg RDL can be done with a barbell, dumbbells, or kettlebells, including using a weight in only one hand. However, if balance or fatigue in your ankle and foot compromise your ability to load the exercise, you can use a Smith machine or your free hand to help with stability. Option number two, Roman chair hip extension. Level one is double leg, level two is single leg, and level three is single leg with weight. Option number three, GHD hip extension. Once again, level one is double leg, level two is single leg, and level three is single leg with weight. Your calves are important for running, jumping, landing, etc. And similar to your hamstrings, your soleus, one of your primary calf muscles, also helps to unload the ACL. Here are two heel raise progressions. Option number one, bent knee heel raise progression. Level one, seated heel raises on flat ground. Level two, deficit seated heel raises. Aim for three sets of six to 12 reps. You can use a barbell, Smith machine, dumbbells, or seated heel raise machine. Most of these variations can be performed double leg or single leg. Option number two, straight knee heel raise progression. Level one, double leg heel raises on flat ground. Aim for three sets of 25 slow and controlled reps. Use your hands for balance as needed. Level two, single leg heel raises on flat ground. Level three, single leg heel raises on a step. Level four, single leg heel raises on a step with weight. Aim for three sets of six to 12 reps. There are other straight knee options as well. If you train at a gym, the two pieces of equipment specific to calf training that you might find are the standing calf raise machine and the donkey calf raise machine. You can also do calf raises on any leg press machine. They are all interchangeable. The Smith machine is one of the best options for calf training if you can stand on a step or plates to allow for a full range of motion. A lesser known option is performing calf raises in a staggered stance that still involves training one leg at a time. Recent research found that standing heel raises lead to similar growth of the soleus as seated heel raises. So if you had to choose between the two for some reason, standing heel raises are likely more beneficial overall. The strength and control of your trunk and hips can affect what happens at your knee. So here are three exercise progressions that train the hip extensors, abductors, and adductors, as well as the associated trunk muscles. Option number one, hip thrust progression. Level one, double leg bridge. Lie on your back, bridge up, squeeze your glutes, lower yourself down, and repeat. Aim for three sets of 20 reps. Level two, single leg bridge. Aim for three sets of 15 reps. Level three, single leg hip thrust. Aim for three sets of 8 to 15 reps. Add weight as needed. Option number two, side plank progression. Level one, short side plank. Start on your forearm and knees while keeping your trunk in a straight line. Hold this position. Level two, side plank. Straighten your legs. Stack your feet. And keep yourself in a straight line, both from a front view and top view. Level three, side plank hip abduction. Position yourself in the same way as the previous exercise, but slowly move that top leg up and down with good control. Aim for three sets of 60 seconds as you work through each exercise. Keep in mind that many of the exercises demonstrated earlier also train the hip extensors and abductors, such as split squats, step downs, and single leg RDLs. Option number three, adductor progression. Level one, lie on your back and squeeze a ball between your knees or ankles as hard as you comfortably can. Level two, short Copenhagen plank isometric. Keep your trunk in a straight line and thighs together. Level three, long Copenhagen plank isometric. Same as the previous exercise, but you're going to keep the knees straight. Level four, long Copenhagen plank. Aim for three sets of six to 12 slow and controlled repetitions. To progress to level four, aim for three sets of 60 seconds on levels one through three. There's also hip flexor exercises you can perform, such as standing hip flexion, dead bugs, leg raises, etc. Why include an adductor progression or hip flexor exercises? Well, I want to provide you with a comprehensive program that prepares you for all aspects of your desired sports or activities, not just as it relates to your ACL. Ideally, you don't re-injure your ACL, but you also don't sprain your MCL or strain your groin or sprain your ankle. For that reason, there's no limit to the number of hip and trunk exercises you can do. These are just some possibilities. The last category here is dynamic balance to help address some of the proprioceptive deficits associated with ACL injuries. Here are two options. Option number one, Y balance. Set up tape, cones, or imagine standing on an upside down Y. Stand on one leg and reach in each direction of the Y. Try not to put any weight through the foot that is tapping the ground. Start with small reaches and gradually increase the distance as your balance improves. Begin with three sets of 30 seconds each and work up to 60 seconds. Option number two, single leg RDL progression. Level one, single leg RDL. Stand on one leg while keeping a slight bend in both knees. Hinge at your hips until your trunk is almost parallel with the ground and then return to the starting position. Repeat this movement without touching your foot to the ground. If this is too challenging, use your hands to help with balance, shorten the range of motion, or tap your foot to the ground. Level two, three-way RDL. Reach your arms in three directions. To the left, middle, and then to the right. Then repeat. You can progress either movement by adding a knee drive. Two comments here. One, there's unlimited options for balance. You can incorporate head turns, eyes closed, unstable surfaces, ball tosses, bands, weights, perturbations, etc. Two, balance is part of everything you do in ACL rehab, so it doesn't necessarily have to be overly complicated or the main focus of training sessions. What I mean by that is if you're doing a comprehensive program that includes split squats, step downs, single leg RDLs, jumping and landing drills, plyometrics, etc., you are regularly challenging your balance. For cardiovascular conditioning, I'm going to keep it very straightforward. It shouldn't be an afterthought, so hopefully the simplicity increases the likelihood of it getting done. The easiest option is a stationary bike. Let's say, as part of phase one, you've been riding an upright bike for 10 to 15 minutes, at least two times per week. My recommendation would be to start gradually increasing the duration and frequency of your rides. For example, you could build up to 30 to 60 minute rides two to three times per week. Then, if that's tolerable and manageable, you could increase the intensity of those 30 to 60 minute rides. Just doing that consistently will go a long way. How do you put all of this information together to create a structured routine? Well, here is an example of a three-day program toward the end of 16 weeks. Monday, split squats, kickstand RDLs, single leg leg extensions, single leg prone hamstring curls, single leg heel raises with a dumbbell, side planks, Y balance. Wednesday, heel elevated goblet squats, single leg Roman chair hip extension, lateral step down, single leg seated hamstring curls, single leg hip thrust, seated heel raises, three-way RDL with knee drive. Friday, single leg leg press, single leg RDLs, single leg leg extension isometrics, double leg slider, short Copenhagen plank isometric, single leg heel raises with Smith machine, standing fire hydrant. Conditioning and upper body training sessions may be performed on Tuesdays, Thursdays, or Saturdays. Okay, there's a lot of nuance to this, so please bear with me. I cannot create a program that will work for every individual based on their unique circumstances at every moment in time. However, I can try to teach you principles because principles are more important than any singular program. From an organizational standpoint, this is loosely how I structured each day. Squat movement, hinge movement, knee extension, knee flexion, hip or trunk exercise, calf exercise, dynamic balance. This is not the only way to do it, and the number of exercises may be too many for some individuals at certain time points. More isn't necessarily better if you're unable to recover and your progress is stagnating. And aside from the general structure, here are five things you can change about this program to suit your specific needs. 1. Frequency If three days per week isn't feasible because of time constraints, your ability to recover, etc., train two days per week instead. 2. Volume If you're only training two days per week, you might increase the number of sets you perform for each exercise. 3. Exercise Selection As an example, if you're not prepared to do heel elevated goblet squats, just do regular goblet squats. 4. Range of Motion For instance, if you have restrictions from your surgeon regarding your hamstring training, perform isometrics or shorten the range of motion. 5. Intensity or Effort Don't push as heavy or hard on exercises that are less tolerable. There's no set rules for most of this. Truthfully, you shouldn't even get too caught up in the exact exercise progressions I provided earlier. It's helpful to have a framework when you're first starting out, but the progressions I provided are somewhat arbitrary. For example, a 100-pound goblet squat, which I labeled as level 2, is more difficult than a back squat with an empty barbell, which I labeled as level 3. However, I labeled the barbell back squat and front squat as level 3 because they typically have a greater potential for progressive overload compared to the goblet squat that is eventually limited by the strength of your upper body. Lastly, the intention of the exercises will fluctuate over time, so once again, don't get too caught up in the exact repetition ranges I provided. Early on, you're probably going to stick to higher repetition ranges as you improve your tolerance, endurance, and work capacity. As you progress, you'll likely transition to increasing hypertrophy, strength, and power by manipulating the repetition ranges, rest times, effort or intensity, and speed of the movements. Your parameters should likely range from 3 to 20 repetitions with minimal rest between sets or exercises up to 3 to 5 minutes of rest between sets or exercises depending on the goal. As you become less limited by pain or swelling, the more you should be trying to push exercises to failure or close to failure. Safely, of course. Here's a practical example of this. When you first try split squats, you're not going to perform a 3-rep max to failure. Instead, you'll probably do what's tolerable, which might be 5 or 10 reps depending on how well you prepared beforehand. When you become comfortable with the movement and you're not limited by any sort of symptoms, you might build up to 15 to 20 slow and controlled reps before gradually adding weight. You might even throw in some of the long duration isometrics I mentioned earlier. Then, you might start to add more weight and lower the rep range to 10 to 15 or 6 to 10 as you begin pushing each set to failure or close to it. Eventually, you may perform that 3-rep max to failure and push with maximal intent during each repetition. Over time, you'll probably mix up the repetition ranges, tempos, and split squat variations. The harder you can safely push yourself in training, the easier each step of rehab becomes. As a reminder, you might not be performing deficit rear foot elevated split squats or Nordic hamstring curls by the end of 16 weeks. You also might not be performing exercises for sets of 3-6 reps to failure because of joint discomfort or safety reasons. That's okay. These are goals you can strive to achieve at some point in your strength training routine. You should reference this video frequently throughout your rehab and make adjustments based on your continued progress. Here are four additional programming considerations. One, don't forget to train the uninjured leg hard early and often so it doesn't slowly lose strength and muscle mass. Two, you should be including upper body exercises as well, not just for the physical benefit but also the mental aspect of feeling like an athlete. Three, you should be performing warm-up sets before most exercises, but you can also include a dynamic warm-up prior to your training sessions. There's no shortage of options, whether you prefer sled pushes and pulls, dynamic stretches, band walks, general movement preparation, etc. Four, your flexibility should improve with a comprehensive strength training program, but you can incorporate stretching into your routine if you'd like. For example, you might have full knee flexion range of motion, but decide that you would benefit from a prone quad stretch. What about running and plyometrics? Historically, people were given permission to run after 12 to 16 weeks based on the healing of the graft after surgery. However, it is now highly recommended that the initiation of running is based on your objective function. You want to earn the ability to run through proper preparation. Part of the reason I didn't include running and plyometrics in this video is that it's just easier to split strength and conditioning into one video and running and plyometrics into another. This video is long enough as it is. I also didn't want the importance of a good strength and conditioning program to get overlooked. Without being able to individually assess everyone watching this video, here's my potentially controversial opinion. Let's say you were objectively ready to initiate running at 12 weeks, but waited until 16 weeks. If you were consistently performing and progressing your strength and conditioning program during that time, I don't really think you're going to be worse off. You still have another 8 months of rehab to go, and you took that time to build a better foundation that is setting you up for long-term success. On the other hand, initiating running before you're ready can be problematic if it contributes to cyclical increases in pain and swelling that lead to delays in progress. Additionally, developing the appropriate strength prior to running may help to reduce loading asymmetries that are common, as well as reduce the chance of compensatory movement patterns from emerging. If you don't want to wait for the next video, you can easily add short distances of forward jogging, backward jogging, or side-to-side shuffles into your dynamic warm-up. Similarly, if you're itching to start plyometrics, it's easy to add some pogos or drop landings from a low box into your program. And I will say that I think plyometrics should come before running, but that's a topic for the next video. Before wrapping up, it's important to list the objective criteria you should be trying to accomplish by the end of Phase 2. I'll use the recommendations from Buckthorpe and Delavia. Zero effusion with minimal activity-related effusion. This means your knee should no longer be swollen and have minimal reactivity to your regular training. Full knee flexion and extension range of motion. Limb symmetry index greater than 80% for your knee flexors and extensors. This means that your knee flexion and extension strength should be at least 80% of your non-surgical side. You can get a general sense of this with your single leg hamstring curls and seated leg extensions, but it's best to get this tested by a physical therapist who has access to an isokinetic dynamometer or inline dynamometer. Two other caveats here. One, the 80% doesn't matter as much if you haven't been keeping up with training your uninvolved leg. There's a difference between your ACL reconstructed knee catching up to your other leg and your other leg becoming weaker to match your ACL reconstructed knee. This can also be measured by your physical therapist. Two, how strong your leg is matters. This metric is known as peak force. How fast you can produce that strength, known as rate of force development, also matters. As I stated earlier, you'll train with a variety of rep ranges and tempos. However, you'll want to include lower repetition ranges with maximal intent at some point in your training to improve your power and rate of force development. At least 125% body mass for 8 reps using the leg press or roughly 150% body mass for 1 rep. This means if you weigh 150 pounds or 68 kilograms, you should be able to move 187.5 pounds or 85 kilograms for 8 reps with your involved leg using the leg press. If this sounds extremely difficult, it is. A lot of this is. It's meant to set a high standard for helping you return to sport safely. Keep in mind that there will be slightly more variability in this test based on the different types of leg press machines, the technique used, the range of motion, etc. Greater than 20 reps of single leg bridges and within 5 of the other side. Greater than 20 reps of single leg heel raises and within 5 of the other side. Good movement quality with a single leg squat. For the single leg bridges, single leg heel raises, single leg squats, and most other movements, you can think about trying to achieve at least 80% strength compared to your uninvolved leg. Don't get too discouraged if you don't meet this criteria by the end of 16 weeks. Remember, you're focusing on your function, not time. Keep trying to get a little better each week. When does phase 2 end? I could say phase 2 ends when you've met this criteria, but it never ends, really. The goals evolve as you progress, but the concepts of muscle strengthening, movement training, and fitness reconditioning remain constant throughout rehab, which is why this phase is so important. You should revisit this video time and time again. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please hit that like button, subscribe, turn on notifications, and leave any comments down below. If you are looking for a rehab or performance program, or you are interested in working with us one-on-one, visit our website at e3rehab.com. Peace.

=== FILE: ACL Rehab： Phase 3 ｜ 4 To 6+ Months (Jumping & Landing Exercises ｜ Plyometrics ｜ Running) [IvGwMEdBiY4].txt ===

 In this video, I'm going to teach you everything you need to know about Phase 3 of ACL rehab, also often referred to as the mid to late stage. Phase 3 will focus on running, jumping, landing, and plyometrics. The title of this video suggests that these movements will be initiated at 4 months, which is actually somewhat of a conservative estimate compared to many protocols you'll find online. I structured it this way for several reasons. 1. Couple of steps of training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training or training inadequate resources, and limited accessibility. However, if you're not doing so already and it's an option for you, I highly recommend working with a sports physical therapist who has access to a suitable training facility. If you're truly 16 weeks post-surgery and you met the objective criteria I provided in the previous video, you should be more than prepared to initiate the entry-level exercises in the next section. If not, a simple rule of thumb to begin bilateral landings from Buckthorpe at all is that you have attained at least 1x body mass and 2x body mass for a set of 8 repetitions on the leg press. This means if you weigh 150 lbs or 68 kg, you should be able to move that much weight for 8 reps with your involved leg using the leg press. Their rationale is that typical forces during bilateral landings can be around 1.5 to 2x body mass depending upon the height of the landing, which represents around 1x body mass per limb delivered at high rates of loading. This highlights the importance of a good strength training program. Before demonstrating the movements, I want to point out that there are an infinite number of possibilities and progressions. What I'm going to discuss is not an all-inclusive list or the only viable method. My recommendations will focus on simplicity, optionality, and safety. Simplicity and optionality relate to consistency. Regardless of the exercises you choose to do, regularly incorporating these movements into your routine will improve your likelihood of success.! Let's start with line-hop and pogo progressions. Line hops are an easy starting point because most of the work is coming from your feet and ankles, especially if you focus on quick hops with your hands and hips. Here is an 8-level progression. Double leg in place, double leg forward and backward, double leg side to side, double leg figure eight, single leg in place, single leg forward and backward, single leg side to side, single leg figure eight. I'm differentiating pogos from line hops because there is a bigger emphasis on technique for pogos within the sports performance world. For example, you might be told to attack the ground and lift your toes up with each repetition. Here is a five step pogo progression. Double leg, staggered stance, alternating, front foot elevated, single leg. Keep in mind that this progression is more variable because it is dependent on your effort or intent. For instance, higher intensity pogos at a slower cadence are more demanding than low intensity pogos at a faster cadence. As with the line hops, you can incorporate different directions. Also, your hands can be on your hips, at your side, or you can let them assist in driving each jump. Lastly, if you're a fan of jump roping, you can throw it under this category. Let's move on to a four step horizontal jumping progression. Submaximal broad jump, maximal broad jump, single leg submaximal broad jump, single leg broad jump. Between steps two and three, you can try one of these options if needed. One leg to two legs to practice jumping off one leg, or one leg to the other leg. Under step four, some options include single leg triple hop, single leg crossover hop, two legs to one leg to increase landing forces. All types of bounding can be used in this category as well. For vertical jumps, I'm going to provide five different options, starting with a counter movement jump progression. An advantage of counter movement jumps is that the landing forces required are dictated by how high you jump rather than an arbitrary box height. However, you can split counter movement jumps into separate landing and jumping exercises. For landing, start with a drop landing from a low box. Then you can gradually increase the height, switch to a single leg, or do both. For jumping, start with box jumps to a low box. You can gradually increase the height, switch to a single leg, or do both. Keep in mind that a higher box isn't necessarily better. The box is meant to decrease landing forces, so pick a box height that accomplishes this without significantly altering your technique. The next vertical jump option is a drop jump, which can be performed double leg or single leg at different heights. Drop jumps are meant to develop a specific adaptation known as reactive strength. To calculate the Reactive Strength Index, or RSI, divide jump height or flight time by the ground contact time. This means you want to be quick and explosive when you land while jumping as high as possible. This also means you want to try to build up to a box height that provides you with the best RSI. Heights might range from 8 to 24 inches. A similar looking exercise is a depth jump, except your ground contact time will be longer to maximize force output and allow for an even higher jump. Heights might range from 12 to 30 inches. Split squat jump variations are popularly used in this category as well. Let's move on to lateral movements. Here's a 5 level progression. Lateral squat. Lateral lunge. Lateral lunge with step back. Skater jump. Repeated skater jump. Add a light medicine ball for a different challenge. For forward deceleration, here's a 5 step progression. Forward lunge. Forward lunge with step back. Forward step and land. Step and land with step back. Jogging with step back. Other helpful exercises here include heel elevated forward step downs and band resisted backward walking. The next video will delve into sprinting and cutting, so deceleration will be a bigger focus. For all of these movements, how much does technique matter? A lot for the most part. Take the drop jumps for example. If you're not trying to minimize your ground contact time, you aren't improving your reactive strength which is the adaptation they're meant to develop. In terms of analyzing movements, you want to view them in the frontal and sagittal planes which refers to front and side views. Ideally, you should be able to control the position of your trunk, pelvis, and knee in the frontal plane. There is no cutoff for what's acceptable, but if you demonstrate significant dynamic knee valgus and trunk side bend while landing on your ACL reconstructed knee but not your other knee, that's probably an indication that the task is too difficult for your current level of strength. The sagittal plane can be a bit trickier, but you can compare side to side landing strategies to determine if you're loading your affected knee appropriately. Let's use the single leg drop landing as an example. If your preferred technique is to land on a straight stiff knee with your trunk hinged all the way forward, this means that your knee isn't handling its share of the load. In the presence of weakness, pain, or swelling, your body is going to try to protect the knee by offloading it whether it's a conscious decision or not. This is something you need to be aware of during any of the jumping or deceleration exercises. There are three strategies to overcome this. 1. Develop the adequate quadricep strength for the task. 2. Improve your confidence through consistent training and gradually use the progressions I provided to build up to the task. 3. Intentional practice. Sometimes a more constrained variation of the movement can be helpful. For instance, a heel elevated wall drop forces you to load through your knees if you strive to maintain your back against the wall. Some exercises inherently differ in their loading profiles. A study by Katsafaki et al. in 2021 found that both a vertical and horizontal jump will load the hip, knee, and ankle, but the relative contributions from each joint will be slightly different. For example, during a vertical jump, each joint contributes approximately one-third of the total work, both in takeoff and landing. In contrast, for a horizontal jump, the hip and ankle predominantly drive the movement, while the knee joint is primarily responsible for absorbing the landing. Therefore, variety in training is beneficial. To best understand programming, let's revisit the sample 3-day program I provided in the previous video. Monday, split squats, kickstand RDLs, single leg leg extensions, single leg prone hamstring curls, single leg heel raises with a dumbbell, side planks, Y balance. Wednesday, heel elevated goblet squats, single leg Roman chair hip extension, lateral step down, single leg seated hamstring curls, single leg hip thrust, seated heel raises, three-way RDL with knee drive. Friday, single leg leg press, single leg RDLs, single leg leg extension isometrics, double leg slider, short Copenhagen plank isometric, single leg heel raises with Smith machine, standing fire hydrant. An optional 5-10 minute dynamic warmup can be performed at the start of each session. Cardiovascular conditioning and upper body training sessions may be performed on Tuesdays, Thursdays, or Saturdays. As a reminder, this is loosely how I structured each day. Squat movement, hinge movement, knee extension, knee flexion, hip or trunk exercise, calf exercise, dynamic balance. There was a lot of nuance that I attached to the sample program, so please watch the previous video if you haven't already. Since one of my priorities is simplicity, I'm going to suggest adding 1-3 jumping, landing, or plyometric exercises at the beginning of each session after the dynamic warmup. As an example, you might add 2-3 sets of line hops and counter movement jumps on Monday, 2-3 sets of broad jumps and drop landings on Wednesday, and 2-3 sets of pogos and lateral jumps on Friday. This is not the only way to do it. If you need to change something about the program to suit your needs, such as training 2 days per week instead of 3, that's completely acceptable. Similarly, you might remove the dynamic balance exercises to save time, since the jumping, landing, and plyometric exercises challenge your balance. I haven't discussed parameters yet, so here are 4 guiding principles. 1. Always start with less volume. You can do as little as 1 set per exercise, and you probably don't need to do more than 4 sets per exercise. As far as the duration and reps go, you likely don't need to exceed 60 seconds for line hops, 30 seconds for pogos, or 10 repetitions for anything else. In general, 10-30 seconds and 4-6 reps are safe bets. For example, if you're just practicing the skill of stepping off a low box for a drop landing, 10 reps is probably fine. On the other hand, you wouldn't do 10 reps of a drop jump because of its demanding nature. Instead, you might do 5 reps. 2. There is a trade-off between volume and intensity. Since there is a ceiling for what you can tolerate, you don't necessarily need to push volume and intensity simultaneously or indefinitely. 3. You don't need to go max intensity every session, even if you built up to the last level of an exercise progression. You typically wouldn't perform your squat 1 rep max every training session, so you don't need to try to hit a personal record on your depth jumps 3 times per week. 4. Hopefully this goes without saying, but make sure you're prepared for each task. If you haven't even tried a double leg drop landing, don't test out a single leg drop jump. I should also mention that beginning phase 3 does not mean disregarding the primary goals and principles of phases 1 and 2. One of the main goals of phase 1 was managing pain and swelling. This is just as important now as it was then. There is no benefit to jumping on a swollen knee. Diligently track your exercises and activity levels and modify your training based on your ability to appropriately recover and adapt between sessions. With regard to phase 2, you can progress certain aspects of the program, such as exercise selection and intensity, if you're now better prepared to do so. For example, you might gradually progress from double leg sliders to single leg sliders, or split squats to deficit rear foot elevated split squats. Similarly, you might vary your exercise parameters to include lower rep ranges and higher efforts so you are addressing any deficits in strength and power. Lastly, if you've built a good foundation with your cardiovascular conditioning on a stationary bike, you can begin mixing it up with longer duration rides, high intensity interval training, etc. One aspect of rehab that I haven't discussed yet is running. Returning to straight line running is an important landmark and something that most people look forward to. Once again, if you're truly 16 weeks post-surgery and you met the objective criteria I provided in the previous video, you're likely more than prepared to initiate a walk-jog program. If you're viewing this at an earlier time point or haven't met that criteria, here's a few recommendations from well-trusted clinicians. In addition to having minimal pain, near or full knee range of motion, and minimal to no swelling, here are three recommendations from Buckthorpe and Delavia. 1. Display good quality single leg squats and bilateral landings. 2. Demonstrate isometric knee extensor strength greater than 70% of the uninvolved side. 3. Be able to perform a single leg exercise, such as a leg press, of at least 1.25 times your body weight. ACL specialists from Aspitar have slightly stricter guidelines. 1. Limb symmetry index greater than 80% for quadricep strength. Limb symmetry index just refers to the strength or performance of your involved side to your uninvolved side. 2. Limb symmetry index greater than 80% for eccentric impulse during a counter-movement jump. Which is essentially a measure of your ability to decelerate during landing. 3. Pain-free repeated single leg hopping. For the physical therapists watching who are using a dynamometer, Eric Mehta suggests 2Nm per kilogram of quadriceps torque to body weight as a reasonable bare minimum. All of this information highlights that your function is more important than an arbitrary time point as it relates to returning to running. If you think of running as repeatedly performing single leg landings, it hopefully makes sense why I discussed jumping, landing, and plyometrics first. Strength training and plyometrics prepare you for running, not the other way around. Running can be initiated on a treadmill or track, although the treadmill is often preferred for its control and ease of use. A typical running progression involves walking for 0.1 miles, jogging for 0.1 miles, and repeating this for 1-2 miles total based on your tolerance. The next progression is walking for 0.1 miles, jogging for 0.2 miles, and repeating this for 2 miles. As you might expect, this cycle repeats for 0.3 miles of jogging and 0.4 miles of jogging until you can run 2-3 miles continuously. Then you would alternate jogging and running every quarter mile for 3 miles. Arguments against this type of progression are that it is slow and doesn't mimic the demands of sport for many athletes, which often require short bursts of running. There's not going to be one strategy that works for everyone. Your specific plan might depend on your strength and conditioning program, your tolerance to running, your sport, your position in that sport, etc. Whatever you decide, I wouldn't start with more than two days of jogging per week. You want to make sure you can tolerate, recover, and adapt appropriately to everything you're doing. It's possible you have to scale back the frequency or volume of your strength and conditioning program. The aim is to find a suitable, sustainable, and steady approach to training for you. As an aside, if you're working with a physical therapist, they may recommend running sooner in the pool or using an Alter-G anti-gravity treadmill. What criteria should you be trying to achieve by the end of phase 3? In general, at 6 months and beyond, you're working towards symmetry. Symmetry in muscle mass. Symmetry in strength. Symmetry in power. Symmetry in movement quality. Symmetry in your confidence in each leg's ability to perform a task. However, to the untrained eye, symmetry can sometimes be deceiving because it doesn't always tell the whole story. For example, if your leg extension strength is symmetrical between sides because your uninvolved leg got weaker over the past 6 months, that's not ideal. But this happens. This also happens with jumping and hopping tests. Single leg hop tests can appear symmetrical because you unknowingly hop a shorter distance on your uninvolved side. Altered movement strategies that shift the demand to the hip and ankle are common as well. This highlights the importance of testing from a sports physical therapist or another expert. Not only can they objectively measure the difference between your legs, they can compare your numbers to expected values. Here are some things a clinician might examine. Maximal strength, known as peak force, of your knee extensors and flexors using an isokinetic or inline dynamometer. How fast you can achieve that peak force, known as rate of force development, of your knee extensors and flexors using an isokinetic or inline dynamometer. Single leg hop for distance, triple hop for distance, crossover hop for distance, side hop test, which assesses how many times you can jump back and forth over a distance of 40 centimeters in 30 seconds, drop vertical landing, drop vertical jump, and counter movement jump using force plates or my jump app to assess a variety of metrics including reactive strength. In the previous video, I recommended striving for 80% symmetry or greater for the strength tests. If you accomplish that, then the next goal would be to aim for 90%. The same goal applies to the movements I just listed. However, if you don't achieve 80 to 90% by the end of 6 months for most of these tests, don't stress too much. That's not unusual because this is a long and difficult process. For most people watching this video, you should likely expect rehab to take 12 months or longer so you have plenty of time to continue improving. For the physical therapists, if a patient has achieved 2 Nm per kg of quadriceps torque to body weight, start working toward 3 Nm per kg. Okay, so when does phase 3 end? It doesn't really because it's going to blend into the next phase of rehab. Realistically, it might take you 6 months to get proficient at many of the plyometric exercises. And regardless of where you're at in your rehab, you're going to keep striving for progress with everything I've discussed in this video. For that reason, you should frequently reference this video and make adjustments based on your continued progress. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please hit that like button, subscribe, turn on notifications, and leave any comments down below. If you are looking for a rehab or performance program, or you are interested in working with us one-on-one, visit our website at e3rehab.com. Peace. Thank you.

=== FILE: ACL Rehab： Phase 4 ｜ 6 To 12+ Months (Sprinting ｜ Cutting ｜ Return To Sport) [dAyfCvPpk4g].txt ===

 In this video, I'm going to teach you everything you need to know about Phase 4 of ACL rehab, also often referred to as the late stage. Phase 4 will focus on sprinting and change of direction drills as you prepare to return to sport. As with the previous videos, I want to highlight the importance of your function, not time. Whether you're 6, 8, or 10 months out from surgery, what matters most is that you're ready to perform the movements I'm going to present. How do you know if you're ready? Well, hopefully you're ready to prepare yourself by gradually progressing through the prior phases and striving to meet the objective criteria I recommended. This includes, but is not limited to, no pain or swelling, full range of motion, 80-90% symmetry on strength testing, strength training and plyometric exercises 2-3 times per week, completed a walk-jog progression. The symmetry on strength testing is a somewhat variable percentage because different drills in this phase require different levels of strength. 80% is a reasonable starting point, while 90% should be the goal before initiating the most challenging tasks. Your performance on the jumping, landing, and plyometric movements should also be approaching 80% symmetry or higher. I cannot overemphasize the importance of your strength and plyometric training, especially if you haven't achieved the symmetry percentages I just mentioned. Running, sprinting, change of direction drills are often viewed as the fun aspect of rehabilitation, and I promise you they are more fun when you feel confident in your capabilities because you didn't skip any steps along the way. If you haven't already, make sure you're working toward lower repetition, higher intensity sets in your strength training at least some of the time. For example, doing heel elevated front squats or deficit rear foot elevated split squats for sets of 3-5 reps with maximal intent to restore your strength and power. Similarly, if you haven't already, make sure you're working toward the single leg jumping, landing, and plyometric exercises from phase 3. Okay, let's start with sprinting. Most sports don't require sustained running for long periods of time. Instead, they require short, high-speed bursts. Think about basketball, American football, and soccer, or football for the rest of the world. For that reason, ACL rehab usually doesn't focus on long-distance running. Plus, long-distance running is additional load on a knee that is already struggling to recover from strength training, plyometrics, and soon-to-be sprinting and change-of-direction drills. If you're concerned about your aerobic fitness, you can improve that through other means such as cycling on a stationary bike, swimming, etc., as well as through the gradual reintroduction of playing your sport. For returning to maximal effort sprints, there is no universally accepted protocol because your function, sport, position, and even the space you have available will dictate how you implement this information. With that in mind, here is a useful criteria-based return to sprinting progression from Lorenz and Domzalski in 2020. As you can see, it is split into three stages, with each stage having four steps. Stage 1 begins at 50% intensity with a 1-to-3 work-to-rest ratio, while Stage 3 builds to 90-to-100% intensity with a 1-to-7 work-to-rest ratio. Although it appears fairly straightforward, this is a progression that may take you several months to achieve because, realistically, you might only be doing this 1-2 times per week. Keep in mind that you don't have to force yourself to progress to the next step or stage every single session. Sometimes repetition and training is beneficial to prove to yourself that you're able to tolerate and recover from a certain task, especially in the context of the rest of your program. And once again, you may need to adjust the volume or distances depending on your specific needs. Lastly, you can consider including acceleration and or deceleration phases to mimic sporting activity by ramping up to a desired speed for a set distance before slowing back down. Practicing deceleration is an important component of trying to reduce the risk of re-injury. For cutting, pivoting, and change of direction, there are three main principles for progressing exercises. One, speed. Like the previous recommendation, you can start at 50% intensity and gradually progress to 100% over the course of several months. Two, cutting angle. Start with softer angles, such as a wide curve, and progress to 45 degrees, 60 degrees, and then 90 degrees. 180 degrees is also a consideration. Three, sports specific. Initially, drills should be pre-planned. This means that all exercises are done in a predictable, controlled manner. However, in order to replicate sporting demands, it's important to eventually incorporate reactive movements that require effective decision making and more complex interactions with the environment. Here's a helpful visual representation by Buckthorpe in 2021. Exercises are plotted by their intensity and complexity, with a 90 degree reactive cut being shown as the most demanding movement on this graph. You can also just think of progressions in this category as following a continuum, with slower speeds, softer angles, and controlled and predictable movements on one end, and faster speeds, sharper angles, and chaotic and reactive sports specific movements on the other. Be aware that you aren't going to progress all three variables simultaneously. Instead, you will likely master the speed and cutting angles before including reactive movements. Let me show you an example of how to use these three principles using four cones set up in a Y shape as depicted. Start at the first cone, run forward to the second cone, and then cut toward your right at a 45 degree angle, or less if needed. Jog back and repeat, but this time cut toward your left. Start at slower speeds and gradually increases tolerated. As you might expect, you can also make the drill harder by increasing the angle up to 60 degrees and 90 degrees. Finally, once you can perform these pre-planned cuts at various angles and at full speed, progress to reactive movements. For instance, you can run toward the middle cone and then have someone point in the direction you should cut. There are unlimited options available, but here are two more drills commonly used as part of ACL rehab. Option 1, T-drill. Set up cones in a T-shaped pattern as shown, and then perform the following sequence. Sprint forward for 10 yards, shuffle to the left for 5 yards, then to the right for 10 yards, back to the left for 5 yards, and finally run backwards to the starting point. Rest and then repeat, but start by shuffling to the right first. This is a pre-planned drill that will expose you to a change of direction forward, backward, and side to side. Start with slower speeds and then build up to 100% effort over time. Option 2, 505 drill. Run forward 15 meters, cut 180 degrees, and run back 5 meters over the finish line. Repeat, but this time perform a 100 degree cut off your other leg. The goal of this drill improve your ability and confidence at performing a single 180 degree cut at gradually increasing speeds. Although I've provided guidelines for programming in the previous videos, it becomes more challenging at this stage of rehab for three reasons. One, some of this information might not be relevant to your goals. If you have no intention of ever doing a reactive 90 degree cut at maximum speed, it's probably an aspect of rehab you can disregard. Two, 6 to 12 plus months is in the title of this video. Six months from surgery is a long time, so there's going to be significant variability in the function and capabilities of each person watching this video. The more specific I try to make my recommendations, the more people I will end up excluding. Three, 6 to 12 plus months is also a long time and a lot can change over that time, which makes recommendations difficult for the same reason. Here are three recommendations I can confidently state. One, if you plan on returning to playing a sport that involves sprinting and change of direction movements, you need to be doing these drills. Two, do not discontinue or de-emphasize strength training, plyometric exercises, and cardiovascular conditioning. This is your foundation. Three, if you have the time, resources, and accessibility, please work with a sports physical therapist or someone else who is qualified to help you accomplish these higher level tasks. With regard to phase 4 objective criteria, here are recommendations from the Aspitar group that specializes in ACL rehab. Bear with me for a moment, don't get too caught up in the terminology. No pain or swelling. Full knee range of motion. Stable knee. Normalized subjective knee function and psychological readiness using patient-reported outcomes. Isokinetic quadriceps and hamstring peak torque at 60 degrees per second should display 100% symmetry for return to high-demand pivoting sports. Restore, as a minimum, preoperative absolute values, if available, and normative values according to the sport and level of activity. Counter movement jump and drop jump greater than 90% symmetry of height and concentric and eccentric impulse. Reactive strength index greater than 1.3 for double leg and 0.5 for single leg for field sport athletes. Higher for track and field. Jumping biomechanics. Normalize absolute and symmetry values for moment, angles, and work in vertical and horizontal jumps, especially in sagittal and frontal plane at hip, knee, and ankle. Running mechanics. Restoration of greater than 90% symmetry of vertical ground reaction forces and knee biomechanics during stance, during high-speed running, and change of direction. Complete a sports-specific training program. Essentially, you should be aiming to restore your strength, functional capabilities, and confidence. Your training over the past 6 to 12 months can give you a general understanding of how you're doing, but a sports physical therapist can conduct a more detailed assessment that better identifies your readiness to return to sport safely. I want to highlight their last bullet point. Complete a sports-specific training program. If there was a phase 5, this would be it. While phase 4, or the late stage of rehab, will help prepare you for your desired activity, it is important to understand that you are not performing rehab one day and playing your sport at your pre-injury level the next. Throughout all of these videos, I haven't even mentioned kicking and dribbling a ball, maneuvering around teammates, challenging someone for a header, or doing whatever is relevant to your sport. Return to sport follows a continuum that overlaps with the phases of rehabilitation. Here is a popular framework from Ardern et al. in 2016. 1. Return to participation. The athlete may be participating in rehabilitation, training, modified or unrestricted, or in sport, but at a lower level than his or her return to sport goal. The athlete is physically active, but not yet ready medically, physically, and or psychologically to return to sport. It is possible to train to perform, but this does not automatically mean return to sport. 2. Return to sport. The athlete has returned to his or her defined sport, but is not performing at his or her desired performance level. Some athletes may be satisfied with reaching the stage, and this can represent successful return to sport for that individual. 3. Return to performance. This extends the return to sport element. The athlete has gradually returned to his or her defined sport, and is performing at or above his or her pre-injury level. For some athletes, this stage may be characterized by personal best performance, or expected personal growth as it relates to performance. Here is a different diagram from Buckthorpe et al. in 2019. Rehab blends with on-field or on-court rehabilitation and progresses to return to training or practice, return to competition, and finally return to performance. The on-field or on-court rehabilitation may incorporate sports-specific technical slash skill work, sports-specific work with contact, and sports-specific work with fatigue. Here is one last return to competition progression from Brinley et al. in 2021. Non-contact practice. Small-sided contact practices. Full practice. Return to competition with restricted workload. Return to competition unrestricted. As you can see, this is a process that requires careful planning and consideration, particularly if you're a competitive athlete. Like with everything else, timelines will vary, but most people watching this video can likely expect the full rehab process to take 12 months or longer. However, as I've repeatedly said, focus on your function, not time. This is a long and difficult journey, so take it one day at a time and try not to get too discouraged along the way. I hope this series has been helpful. Be sure to check out our other resources, especially our video about the FIFA 11+, which is an injury prevention program that everyone should consider using as a dynamic warm-up prior to on-field training, practices, or competitions. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please hit that like button, subscribe, turn on notifications, and leave any comments down below. If you are looking for a rehab or performance program, or you are interested in working with us one-on-one, visit our website at e3rehab.com. Peace. Thank you.

=== FILE: Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) Rehab： Do This BEFORE Surgery! [SpXehhPPJbQ].txt ===

 In this video, I'm going to tell you why you should be performing rehabilitation before you get an ACL reconstruction, and provide you with step-by-step instructions on what to do. Many individuals are not given the option to start physical therapy before surgery, or they schedule the procedure as quickly as possible with the belief that there is no time to waste. However, here are three reasons why you should consider initiating rehab before undergoing an ACL reconstruction. One, research has demonstrated that of potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato potato throughout the rehab process. Three, successful preoperative rehabilitation may influence you to choose a completely non-operative approach because, believe it or not, not all individuals require surgery for their needs or goals. I'll discuss this in depth at the end of this video. As always, please consult with a medical professional before making a decision or initiating new exercises. This information needs to be tailored to your specific needs, since recommendations may vary based on your unique circumstances. For example, if you had a complex knee injury rather than an isolated ACL rupture. With that being said, preoperative rehab can be split into two phases. The primary goals of phase one are the same as the goals immediately after surgery. Manage pain and swelling, restore knee extension range of motion, restore knee flexion range of motion, improve quadriceps function, and normalize walking. Let's start with managing pain and swelling. This is the most important consideration after the injury because getting your pain and swelling under control will make it easier to regain your range of motion, improve your quadriceps function, et cetera. Here are five tips. One, if you're given crutches, use them as instructed by your surgeon or physical therapist. Crutches are extremely valuable for temporarily offloading the knee when pain and swelling are at their worst. Two, if you're given a brace, don't consider it as a replacement for crutches. A brace is meant to provide stability, protection, and limit unwanted motion, but it doesn't offload the knee the same way. Three, don't overdo it initially by spending too much time on your feet. Excessive activity can increase pain and swelling. Four, feel free to ice, compress, and elevate as often as you want. Five, exercise, when done appropriately, can contribute to reductions in pain and swelling. For example, ankle pumps and quad sets, an exercise I'm going to demonstrate shortly, can be performed any time you're sitting or lying down. A top priority before and after surgery is restoring your knee extension range of motion. There are two primary ways to do this. One, prop your heel for 10 to 15 minutes, four to six times per day, to accumulate at least one hour of total time. The position might be uncomfortable, but it should not be unbearable. If you're lying on your back or sitting up, it's preferable to be on a firm surface like the floor. You can also do this in a chair if you can prop your leg on another chair or object. Over time, you can add a light weight to increase the stretch if needed. Two, quad sets all day, every day. Straighten your leg as best you can, then squeeze your quads, the muscles on the front of your thigh, by trying to push the back of your knee into the floor. Hold for 10 seconds, relax, and repeat for 10 repetitions. Initially, if this is painful and difficult, you can place a small towel under your knee for comfort and feedback. However, your body's natural tendency is to keep the knee flexed, so you wouldn't want to rely on the strategy for an extended period of time. To progress the quad set, you can incorporate the heel prop I just discussed. To increase the range of motion even further, use a strap and pull up on your foot to add a calf and hamstring stretch. You can also do a similar variation while seated at your desk, at the dinner table, on the couch, et cetera. Straighten your leg, squeeze your quads for 10 seconds, relax, and repeat. The goal is to get your knee extension range of motion equal to your uninjured side, completely straight, or some degree of hyperextension. One thing you can look for is a heel pop, which refers to the heel slightly coming off the ground when performing a quad set. Restoring knee flexion range of motion is typically easier than restoring knee extension. There are a lot of ways to improve knee flexion, but these are my two favorite. One, heel slides. While lying on your back, slide your heel toward your butt, hold the end position for a few seconds, slowly straighten your knee, and repeat. To assist the movement, wrap a towel or strap around your foot and slowly slide your heel toward your butt while gently pulling on the towel or strap to help bend your knee further. Heel slides can be performed for 10 to 20 repetitions several times throughout the day. The second option, when it becomes tolerable, is a recumbent bike. Position the seat further back and begin with partial revolutions, moving your knee in and out of as much flexion as tolerable. Once you're able to complete full revolutions, gradually move the seat forward to expose the knee to more flexion. You can also follow a similar progression on an upright bike. Start with the seat at a higher level and do partial revolutions. As your mobility improves and you can complete full revolutions, move the seat down to further challenge and increase your knee flexion. For either option, you can start with five to 10 minutes and gradually do more over time. Once again, working on knee flexion might be uncomfortable, but it should never be unbearable. This is not something you have to force. The goal is to get your knee flexion range of motion equal to your uninjured side, which usually involves getting your heel to your butt or close to it. Next, improving quadriceps function. The quads effectively shut down after an ACL rupture, secondary to pain, swelling, and the nature of the injury itself. Two strategies to combat this are methods we've already discussed. One, managing pain and swelling, and two, quad sets as frequently as possible. When you've restored your knee extension range of motion and your function has improved, you can perform standing quad sets with external resistance by using a ball against a wall or a band anchored to an object. An important milestone is the ability to perform a straight leg raise without lag. Lag refers to a slight bend in the knee. Quad sets will help you achieve this milestone. Keep in mind that the primary action of the quadriceps is knee extension. Therefore, straight leg raises are not effective for improving quadriceps function beyond your very basic needs, since they become more of a hip flexor exercise. Squats can help, but compensations are common in the presence of pain and swelling as a way of offloading the knee. For this reason, I recommend leg extensions. Leg extensions might not look functional, but the quads are the only muscles capable of extending the knee, and restoring their function is vital to long-term success. If needed, you can start with an exercise known as short arc quads. Lie on your back with a bolster under your knee, while repeatedly straightening your leg for sets of 10 to 20 repetitions. If this is tolerable, you can sit up and do the same. Eventually, you can add weight or begin using a leg extension machine. You can also perform isometric leg extensions between 90 and 60 degrees of knee flexion, using a machine, strap, ball, or some other immovable object. These are just as effective, if not more effective in some instances, for improving quad strength, muscle mass, etc. Aim for sets of 30 to 45 second holds. As with everything else, they should be tolerable. You don't need to push all out. I recommend trying them on your unaffected side first to get a feel for the movement. I also recommend that you gradually ramp up and down your effort, so you don't accidentally get a spike in symptoms. If you're working with a physical therapist, they may use blood flow restriction training and or neuromuscular electrical stimulation in conjunction with leg extensions or other exercises you are doing as a means of improving quad function. If you've managed your pain and swelling, slowly weaned off your crutches, restored your knee extension range of motion, and have been actively working on your quadriceps function, normal walking should hopefully come naturally. There are exercises you can do to improve your tolerance to putting all of your weight on the affected leg though. To start, you can practice weight shifting onto that side. Then you can progress to single leg balance. You might start by looking at yourself in a mirror, but you want to eventually take away that visual feedback. When you're ready, you can perform single leg balance with your eyes closed, with head turns, on an unstable surface, or while multitasking like brushing your teeth, or juggling a ball. There's no limit to what you can do, as long as it's safe and tolerable, but stick to the basics at first by building up to 3 sets of 60 seconds on a single leg comfortably. Marching over hurdles forward, backward, and sideways is another great option. Lastly, backward walking can help reinforce terminal knee extension and weight bearing. Like with everything else, you can begin with a few minutes and gradually add more time. I've provided a lot of information up to this point, and there's still more to discuss, but programming these exercises doesn't need to be overly complicated. You just need to do the basics well and often. Assuming no restrictions, here are the four movements you should be doing daily. 1. Heel prop for 10-15 minutes, 4-6 times per day to accumulate at least 1 hour of total time. 2. Quad sets for 10 repetitions of 10 second holds. You should be doing these as often as possible. 3. Heel slides with a strap for 10-20 repetitions at least 3-4 times per day. 4. Short arc quads or leg extensions for multiple sets of 10-20 repetitions or 30-45 second holds. As you progress through your rehab, your routine might start to look more like this. 10 minutes on a recumbent or upright bike. 4. Quad sets with a strap. 5. Heel slides through a larger range of motion. 6. Seated leg extensions. 6. Straight leg raises for 3 sets of 10-20 repetitions. 7. Standing quad sets with external resistance. 8. Single leg balance for 3 sets of 30-60 seconds. 9. Backward walking or marching over hurdles for 3-5 minutes. 9. Heel prop with weight. Keep in mind that doing more is not inherently better if you aren't mastering the basics and applying the same effort and intentionality into every movement you do. I understand that everyone wants to be further along in their rehab, but there's no benefit to skipping steps. Phase 2 is similar to what should be done following Phase 1 after surgery, which includes muscle strengthening, movement training, and fitness reconditioning. 10. In 2010, Aitin et al. developed a progressive 5-week exercise therapy program that involved a minimum of 2 training sessions per week. 10. Sessions included a warm-up, such as using a stationary bike, treadmill, or elliptical for 10 minutes. 10. Quadriceps strengthening in the form of squats, seated leg extensions, and the leg press. 10. Hamstring strengthening, like hamstring curls on a ball, or using a machine. 11. Balance training with various devices. 11. And eventually, jumping, landing, and plyometric exercises. While comprehensive, I would suggest adding trunk exercises, additional hip exercises, and calf strengthening, as well as more exercise variety. Here's a general framework I recommend building up to 2-3 times per week. Optional 10-minute warm-up, squat movement, hinge movement, knee extension, knee flexion, hip or trunk exercise, heel raises, balance. Here's a practical example. Monday, optional 10-minute warm-up, split squats, kickstand RDLs, single leg leg extensions, hamstring curls on a ball, single leg heel raises with a dumbbell, side planks, Y balance. Thursday, optional 10-minute warm-up, heel elevated goblet squats, single leg Roman chair hip extension, single leg leg extension isometrics, single leg prone hamstring curls, single leg hip thrusts, single leg heel raises with Smith machine, 3-way RDL with knee drive. This is hard, and it's a lot, but you wouldn't start here. This is an eventual goal. You would modify the exercise selection, intensity, volume, range of motion, etc. as needed. For instance, you wouldn't start with split squats or heel elevated goblet squats. Instead, you would probably start with mini squats and gradually increase the range of motion, weight, etc. Similarly, you would perform bridges before attempting single leg hip thrusts or double leg heel raises before trying single leg heel raises with weight. When appropriate, add 1-2 jumping, landing, and plyometric exercises at the beginning of each training session. And if that's not enough, don't forget to train the uninjured leg to maintain your strength and muscle mass. Some single leg exercise options include leg extensions, seated or prone hamstring curls, seated or standing calf raises, and the leg press. I haven't provided a timeline yet, but everything I'm describing would take at least 2-3 months, if not longer. I understand this may sound unreasonable if you're a competitive athlete with a strict timeline for returning to sport, especially considering that you'll be repeating this entire process after surgery. However, some individuals may purposely delay surgery for the reasons I listed at the start of this video. For others, they might not have a choice due to surgical wait times, financial barriers, etc. At the very least, the majority of people should initiate, if not complete, phase 1 prior to surgery. As always, discuss the potential risks and benefits with your healthcare team and family while reflecting on what you think is best for you. There is not always a simple right or wrong decision. For some people, the most difficult decision is determining whether or not surgery is necessary for their goals or needs. The CANON trial and the COMPARE trial randomized individuals who tore their ACL into two groups. One group received early ACL reconstruction followed by rehabilitation, which is the usual standard of care. The other group was assigned to rehabilitation with the option of later ACL reconstruction if needed. What were the main takeaways from these two studies? In the group that was assigned to rehabilitation first, 50% ended up choosing to get surgery. The other 50% who didn't get surgery had outcomes that were similar to those who had the early ACL reconstruction. This research informs us that for some individuals, non-operative management is a viable option after an ACL tear. Similarly, a recent study by Juerhausen et al. in 2025 did a 10-year follow-up on patients who chose rehabilitation alone and concluded that despite being older and less active, participants had similar clinical, functional, sports participation, and osteoarthritis outcomes compared with those who chose early ACL reconstruction. Additionally, contrary to popular belief, research has shown that a fully ruptured ACL can spontaneously heal in some cases, including in many of the participants from the CANON trial. Recently, Phil Bay et al. reported on the evidence of the high rate of healing in patients who were managed using the CROSS-BRACING protocol, which is a specific protocol developed by Australian surgeons, Dr. Mervin Cross, and Dr. Tom Cross. A randomized controlled trial is currently underway to determine its long-term efficacy compared to surgery. Based on papers by Grindem et al. in 2018, Peterson et al. in 2021, Vander Graff et al. in 2022, and Juerhausen et al. in 2025, you may be more inclined to choose non-operative management if you're older, have good knee function without episodes of instability, are confident in your knee, had an isolated ACL rupture rather than a more complex injury, and weren't involved in level 1 sports prior to the injury such as soccer or football. Despite my short discussion about healing, it doesn't necessarily have to factor into your decision. For example, if you're a 35-year-old individual who wants to return to pickleball and your knee has been feeling great after 3 months of rehab, you might be more suitable for non-operative management. On the other hand, if you're a 20-year-old competitive college athlete who tore their ACL and injured their meniscus, you may be more inclined to choose an early ACL reconstruction. Regardless of your final decision, please don't base your choice only on this video. You should make an informed decision after discussing the options with your surgeon, physical therapist, and family members. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please hit that like button, subscribe, turn on notifications, and leave any comments down below. If you are looking for a rehab or performance program, or you are interested in working with us one-on-one, visit our website at ed3rehab.com. Peace.

=== FILE: How To Assess Your Knee Pain or Injury Like A Physical Therapist (Education ｜ Exercises ｜ Rehab) [Ccj9IIEeowQ].txt ===

 In this video, I'm going to show you how to assess your knee pain or injury like a physical therapist. Keep in mind that this video isn't meant to replace a consultation with a physical therapist or medical doctor, but the information I'm going to present can help you understand the why behind a healthcare provider's thought process and serve as a guide for your own rehab. Since it's beyond the scope of this video, I won't be reviewing certain aspects of the orthopedic examination, such as special tests, palpation, etc. If you, etc. If you have a, etc. If you have, if you have a particular. if you have a particular if, as if you have, or a! of this, as well.! as if you're. if you're going to have a 10-minute video titled, why your knee hurts and what to do about it. with that out of the way, let's get into it. An evaluation usually begins as soon as you walk in the door with what I'll describe as observation and movement analysis. I want to see how you move naturally before the official examination begins and you're aware that you have a pair of eyes on you. Are you in pain? Are you limping? How's your range of motion? Is there noticeable swelling or muscle atrophy? This will extend into the actual examination with daily activities like walking, squatting, and ascending and descending stairs. If appropriate, you might even be asked to perform a single leg squat. These movements are typically assessed from multiple angles. A misconception here is how much slight deviations from normal matter. For example, it's probably not a big deal if your single leg squat looks a little wonky. It might be your first time ever performing the movement. It might be painful. You might be fearful. I'm just interested in how you choose to perform the movement, gathering insight into what you're thinking and how you're feeling, and looking for major asymmetries or differences that may influence what I examine further in terms of strength, range of motion, etc. Perhaps unsurprisingly, one of the most important movements to look at here is the one that hurts the most or is the most bothersome to gain a better understanding of where it hurts, when it hurts, how much it hurts, and to determine if there are any simple modifications that can alleviate symptoms. Although it's not always necessary, examining your balance can be a component of this part of the assessment, even if it's just single leg balance for 30 to 60 seconds. For a more athletic individual, the Y balance test can be used to evaluate dynamic balance. Essentially, you're standing on one leg and reaching as far as you can in the three directions of a Y and measuring any side-to-side differences between legs. While the previous sections may vary between clinicians, examining knee range of motion is standard practice. Physical therapists use a tool called a goniometer to measure range of motion, but the phone in your hand can be used to measure the range of motion. The bone in your hand can accomplish the task equally well. For knee extension, lie on a flat, firm surface like the floor rather than your better couch. With your toes facing up toward the ceiling, squeeze your thigh muscles while aiming to press the back of your knee into the ground. If you take a picture or video at eye level from the side, you can draw a line from the middle of your hip, to your knee, to your ankle. If the knee is perfectly straight, that's considered full knee extension. Hyper extension can be visualized if your heel lifts off the floor when contracting your quads, or by adding a prop under your foot like a rolled up towel. Hyper extension is normal in most cases and nothing to worry about. For knee flexion, simply bend your knee as much as possible. You can use your hands or a strap to provide overpressure if tolerable and desired. Once again, you can draw a line from the middle of your hip, to your knee, to your ankle, or you can simply measure the distance between your heel and your butt. For both knee extension and knee flexion, you'd perform the measurements on both sides and compare. This is true for all of the recommendations in this video, and it's usually best to start with the uninjured side. Let's move on to strength. Physical therapists can assess knee extension strength with the use of an isokinetic dynamometer, handheld dynamometer, or inline dynamometer. Manual muscle testing, which is external resistance applied by the hands, is not a valid or reliable measure of strength unless extreme weakness is present, perhaps due to a neurological condition. The best way to measure knee extension strength on your own is with the use of a leg extension machine. There are two ways to do this. One, pick a weight and perform as many repetitions as possible on each leg. Then compare side to side. For example, maybe you can perform 100 pounds for 17 repetitions on your right leg, but only 11 repetitions at the same weight on your left leg. The second option is to test your 10 rep max, 5 rep max, or any rep max you want to choose. In this example, keep increasing the weight until you can just perform the number of repetitions you picked. For instance, maybe you can perform 150 pounds for 10 reps on your right leg, but only 105 pounds for 10 reps on your left leg. You can also do both on different days. There's not necessarily a best option. I know many individuals will argue that the leg extension machine is not functional, but it's actually the most functional way to test knee extension strength. Exercises like single leg squats, split squats, and lateral step downs are good, and I'll review them shortly, but there are more variables that may lead to noticeable asymmetries. Examples include balance, skill, confidence, and the strength and range of motion of multiple joints. Also, in the presence of pain or swelling, such as after an injury or surgery, the body becomes good at compensating. It's hard to cheat leg extensions, and if a deficit is present, it'll carry over to those other movements as well as running and jumping. Physical therapists can assess knee flexion strength with the use of an isokinetic dynamometer, handheld dynamometer, inline dynamometer, Nordboard, or similar device. The best way to test knee flexion strength on your own is with the use of a seated or prone hamstring curl machine. If you don't have access to these machines, that's okay. The next section discusses compound movements and alternatives, and there's no shortage of exercises to choose from. Examples include single leg squats, lateral step downs, split squats, single leg bridges, single leg RDLs, and single leg hamstring sliders. Depending on your strength, symptoms, and skill level, you can test these movements with or without weight. If you're just using your body weight, you would perform as many repetitions as possible. If you're using weight, you can choose either method I presented earlier. The most important thing when testing and retesting exercises is consistency. For that reason, you want to try to normalize the range of motion to the best of your ability. For instance, if you perform single leg squats, your range of motion might differ with each repetition, especially as you approach failure. To combat this, you can tap your butt to a box or bench so the range of motion is the same every time. You can also choose to perform isometrics for any of these movements. For example, you could hold a split squat with your knee hovering just above the ground for time until you fatigue. Once again, consistency between legs and between sessions is important, so it might be helpful to film yourself performing these exercises. Single leg focused exercises are beneficial for comparing side to side differences, but they might not be realistic for all individuals based on their symptoms or function. That's okay. You can literally choose any exercise. At the start of rehab, it's just helpful to have some sort of baseline. This means you can test sit to stands, body weight squats, wall sits, hamstring curls on a ball, etc. Nothing is off limits because your tests become your training and your training becomes your tests. If you start performing rehab three to five days per week, you gradually gain a better understanding of where you're still struggling, where you're improving and where you need to spend more time. To assess your jumping and landing abilities, physical therapists may use force plates or some other tracking system. However, there are less sophisticated ways for you to do this as well. The goal is always to be as objective as possible, but it's not always possible and oftentimes good enough is better than striving for perfection. To be honest, sometimes people get carried away with how much data they're tracking. It's data for the sake of data, but a lot of it might not even be relevant. So it's okay to keep things simple if necessary. Three commonly used horizontal hop tests are the single leg hop for distance, triple hop for distance, and crossover hop for distance. For the single leg hop, you're assessing how far you can jump in one go. For the triple hop, you're seeing how far you can get with three continuous hops. For the crossover hop, you're doing the same but leaping back and forth over a midline. There's also a six meter timed hop test that assesses how quickly you can hop across a fixed distance. For all of these tests, do you measure heel to heel, heel to toe, or toe to toe? It doesn't really matter as long as you're consistent. Should you keep your hands on your hips or not? You can do either or you can test both. It only matters if you're comparing yourself to reference standards from the research or data from a specific study. Otherwise, you're your own comparison over time. The side hop test assesses how many times you can jump back and forth over a distance of 40 centimeters in 30 seconds. For vertical tests, you can do a drop vertical landing, drop vertical jump, or counter movement jump. These can be completed double leg or single leg. And the drop vertical jump and landing tests can be done with boxes of varying heights. For all of these tests, I recommend filming yourself from the front and the side so you can evaluate side to side differences in technique, distance, height, etc. You'll also be able to get a subjective feel of how confident or powerful you are with each movement. Something that is drilled into the head of every physical therapist during their schooling is to assess the joints above and below the location of pain. In this case, the hip and ankle. For the ankle, you can test single leg heel raises on the floor or a step with or without weight. You can also use a heel raise machine with the knees bent or straight. The knee to wall test is commonly used to assess ankle dorsiflexion range of motion. For hip range of motion and strength, you can compare internal rotation, external rotation, flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction. The compound movements and jumping tests previously described will also assess aspects of the hips and ankles. With all of this information in mind, I need to be clear about several points. I didn't cover every possible test. Tests won't necessarily be performed in this order. All of these tests aren't performed in a single day. Not every test will be used for every single person. I didn't provide specific numbers because it's just too variable with a broad audience using different equipment. Rehab is an ever evolving process. As I mentioned earlier, your assessments become your training and your training becomes your assessments. There's a natural feedback loop built in. You're comparing your current self to your previous self with the intention of creating a better future self. Your goal is to improve deficits in strength, range of motion, power, etc. But also to improve aspects of yourself that are harder to quantify, such as your confidence and resilience. One of the most important yet frustrating facts of rehab to know is that there's rarely a perfect linear correlation between an improvement in function and an improvement in symptoms. It's an imperfect process. There might be days or weeks that you get stronger, but your symptoms remain the same. Similarly, there may be times when you don't see any objective measures of progress, but your symptoms improve. Unfortunately, rehab is complex and oftentimes unpredictable. It's part of the reason why you shouldn't major in the minors. What I mean by that is that you don't have to stress about every minor difference between your knees or your legs. Social media will have you thinking that your two degree difference in big toe extension is why your glutes are weak and your knee hurts. But in most cases, you're better off focusing on the basics and big picture items. Rehab is also often more than just considering what's happening at or around your knee. Your body is an entire ecosystem that is affected by your nutrition, alcohol intake, stress, sleep, smoking habits, and so on. Obviously, this is more important in certain scenarios than others, but it's almost always worth reflecting on for managing current problems and trying to prevent future ones. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please hit that like button, subscribe, turn on notifications, and leave any comments down below. If you're looking for a rehab or performance program or you're interested in working with us one on one, visit our website at e3rehab.com. Peace.

=== FILE: How to Set Up, Perform, & Program Leg Extensions (Strength ｜ Hypertrophy ｜ Rehab) [_95-vz83X4M].txt ===

zeugomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanomanoman four muscles insert on the tibial tuberosity via the patellar tendon and act to extend the knee. The three vasti muscles originate from the thigh, whereas the rectus femoris originates up at the hip. Therefore, the rectus femoris also flexes the hip. Most people are aware that if you want to increase the strength and size of your quads, you should incorporate exercises like squats, split squats, and the leg press because they involve knee extension, which is the primary action of the quads. However, research by Emma et al. in 2016 and Vygotsky and Bryanton in 2016 demonstrate that the rectus femoris provides little contribution to compound movements that require simultaneous knee and hip extension. For example, a paper by Kubo et al. in 2019 found no growth of the rectus femoris in untrained lifters after 10 weeks of squat training. On the other hand, studies by Mao et al. in 2018, Zabaleta Korda et al. in 2021, and Burke et al. in 2024 have shown that seated leg extensions cause preferential hypertrophy of the rectus femoris. Therefore, maximizing quad strength and muscle growth requires multi-joint exercises like squats in which the hips and knees are extending, as well as single joint exercises like seated leg extensions in which only the knees are extending. Leg extensions are also necessary for rehab. In the presence of pain or swelling, such as after an injury or surgery, the body becomes good at compensating. For instance, Sigward et al. in 2018 found that three months after ACL reconstruction, individuals performed inter-limb compensations during a squat. This means that if they had surgery on their right side, they loaded their left side more, which is often associated with an observable weight shift to that left side. However, the participants also demonstrated intra-limb compensations. This means that in addition to favoring their non-surgical leg, they offloaded their affected knee by working harder at the ankle and hip on their surgical side. Five months after surgery, the participants no longer demonstrated inter-limb compensations, but they continued to have intra-limb compensations. So, what the researchers found was that even though the squats appeared symmetrical and normal, the individuals continued to redistribute the load from the surgical knee to the hip and ankle on that side. And this information isn't just relevant to squatting. It shows up in walking, hopping, and running. Our bodies are naturally going to take the path of least resistance. If you have pain, swelling, or significant weakness due to an injury or surgery, you'll find a way to work around those issues whether it's a conscious decision or not. This can be true of other knee diagnoses such as patellofemoral pain and patellar tendinopathy, as well as conditions related to the hip or ankle in which the entire limb continues to be unintentionally offloaded. Now, I'm not suggesting that leg extensions replace squats or other compound exercises. This is not an either-or scenario. However, leg extensions are beneficial because they completely isolate the quads, are nearly impossible to cheat, and can easily be modified or scaled to the needs of the individual. I'll discuss how to perform and program leg extensions specifically for rehab purposes toward the end of this video. When it comes to setting up leg extensions, there are several considerations. The first is the position of the backrest. A recent study by Larson et al assessed how the angle of the hip, whether being in a more flexed or extended position, influences hypertrophy. The researchers found that rectus femoris muscle hypertrophy was greater with 40 degrees of hip flexion compared to 90 degrees of hip flexion with no differences between legs for vastus lateralis hypertrophy. They hypothesized that the greater hypertrophy seen in the rectus femoris at 40 degrees of hip flexion was due to training it in a more lengthened position. On the other hand, there was no significant difference in the vastus lateralis because changing the angle of the hip has no influence on the length of any of the vasti muscles. You don't necessarily have to take this finding to the extreme. Try moving the seat back and leaning back instead of leaning forward. The next consideration is your knee flexion angle. To emphasize the stretch position of the quads, adjust the machine so your knees are bent as much as possible. Some machines may limit you to only about 90 degrees of knee flexion, so if you want to increase that, you can place a foam pad, yoga blocks, or a folded up yoga mat between your shins and the padding of the machine. The third consideration is the position of the pad. The pad should be on the lowest portion of your shins just above your ankles. Lastly, your feet should be facing forward. You don't need to rotate your legs in either direction. To perform leg extensions, lean back, pull yourself down so your butt isn't lifting off the seat, and use a controlled tempo. The weight stack shouldn't be slamming down with each repetition. If your goal is muscle growth, you don't need to pause at the top when the knees are fully extended. In fact, I typically use a weight that's too heavy for me to completely lock out my knees as a way of training the quads harder in a more lengthened position. Most people will perform sets of 10 to 20 repetitions, myself included. However, there's no reason you can't perform more or less repetitions as long as you're pushing yourself to failure or close to it. If you're going to perform them one leg at a time, my preference is to put the opposite foot on the seat, but you can choose the strategy that works best for you. For people training at home without a leg extension machine, avoid performing banded leg extensions throughout the full range of motion. The issue is that the resistance of the band is greatest when the knee is completely straight and almost non-existent when the knee is bent. This isn't inherently bad, but you actually want the resistance to be greatest when the knee is bent. You also ideally want the band to remain fairly perpendicular to your shin. Instead, set up a long heavy resistance band in such a way that you're unable to fully straighten your knee due to the high tension and perform partial repetitions. Research by Pedrosa et al. in 2022 demonstrates that performing partial repetitions in this range of motion is superior for hypertrophy compared to the alternative, especially if you consider the other factors I just mentioned. If needed, put a towel in front of your shin for comfort and a pad under your distal thigh for better positioning. Keep in mind that you may need to perform more than 20 repetitions to approach failure. For this reason, myo reps can be a good choice here. For example, you can perform one set of 15 to 25 repetitions to failure, rest 10 to 15 seconds, perform five repetitions, and repeat this cycle of short rest and five repetitions for another two to three sets. If the long heavy resistance band is too difficult to set up, you can just perform isometric contractions using a belt, band, or some other object with minimal give to it. A systematic review by Orenchuk et al. in 2019 found that isometric training at longer muscle lengths produced greater muscular hypertrophy when compared to equal volumes of shorter muscle length training. The same systematic review also found that more volume and longer holds leads to more hypertrophy. Therefore, you can try to accumulate 30 to 60 seconds of total work for each set. All of these options are done unilaterally and if desired, can be performed flat on your back to put your hips in a more extended position. If you're looking for alternatives to leg extensions, consider exercises that primarily involve knee extension such as reverse nordics, sissy squats, and rear foot elevated split squats that focus on putting your weight through the back leg instead of the front leg. There are plenty of other exercises that emphasize the quads in general like hack squats, heel elevated squats, forward step downs, and split squats with purposeful forward knee travel, but leg extensions are unique and advantageous because of their simplicity, their ability to be easily progressed, and their ability to isolate the quads and target the rectus femoris. Adding leg extensions into your program can be pretty straightforward. If you train your legs two days per week, your routine might look something like this. Monday, three sets of hack squats, three sets of dumbbell RDLs, three sets of single leg seated leg extensions, three sets of single leg seated hamstring curls, and three sets of machine calf raises. Thursday, three sets of rear foot elevated split squats, three sets of prone hamstring curls, three sets of seated leg extensions, three sets of hip extension on the Roman chair, and three sets of single leg calf raises. Obviously, there are unlimited possibilities. How often you train, how many sets you do per week, and the number of exercises you choose to perform per session will depend on your training experience, goals, and other factors. You might choose to do more sets than this example, incorporate the seated hip abduction and adduction machines, modify the training frequency, or swap out the leg extensions one day for reverse Nordics instead. It's all fair game. Performing and programming leg extensions for rehab doesn't necessarily have to look any different than anything I've discussed up to this point. However, there may be times when modifications need to be made. I'll provide examples for patellofemoral pain, patellar tendinopathy, and ACL reconstructions, but this information can be applied to most issues. When it comes to patellofemoral pain, leg extensions are completely safe and cause no more stress on your knees than squats, especially when considering relative loads. If the lockout is uncomfortable, try using a partial range of motion. You can also use less weight and do more repetitions, or try the isometrics I mentioned earlier with a machine or band. Blood flow restriction training, or BFR, is another possibility. With regard to patellar tendinopathy, leg extension isometrics are beneficial for inducing positive tendon adaptations. Here's one example of how seated leg extensions are applied in research. Bend your knee to roughly 60 degrees. If you're using a machine, make sure it's too heavy for you to move. Push at your maximum tolerable effort for 3 seconds, relax for 3 seconds, and repeat for 4 total repetitions. Rest 1-2 minutes, repeat 4 more times for 5 sets total, perform this 3 times per week. Another example is doing 3-5 sets of 30-45 second holds with a 2 minute rest between sets. This can be done as a warmup prior to workouts, or as an independent stimulus 1-2 times per day. Even at most time points following an ACL reconstruction, leg extensions are safe and recommended. For those who are worried, isometrics between 90 and 60 degrees of knee flexion place zero strain on the ACL. Three things to note here about rehab. One, always perform leg extensions on your unaffected side first to get a feel for the movement. Two, ramp up and ramp down your effort the first few times you attempt isometrics so you don't accidentally get a spike in symptoms. Three, aim for the exercise to be challenging but tolerable. Adjust the weight, range of motion, etc. as needed. And hopefully this goes without saying, but you should always get clearance from your physical therapist or medical doctor before initiating a new exercise after an injury or surgery, especially if you have concerns about the safety of the exercise. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please hit that like button, subscribe, turn on notifications, and leave any comments down below. If you're looking for a rehab or performance program, or you're interested in working with us one-on-one, visit our website at e3rehab.com. Peace.

=== FILE: The Truth About Butt Wink [ohsByYZ-zpY].txt ===

 In this video, I'm going to teach you everything you need to know about buttwink. What is buttwink? There's no universally agreed upon definition. If I asked 100 different physical therapists, coaches, and gym goers, I'd likely receive a variety of answers. However, it's most often thought of and visualized at the bottom of a squat when there is a combination of posterior pelvic tilt and flexion of the lumbar spine. What causes buttwink while squatting? Well, there are several factors that may influence its presentation. One is anatomy. It's not uncommon to hear about tall lifters or individuals who describe themselves as having long femurs struggling with squats because they have a difficult time maintaining an upright torso. This ties in with another factor, which is range of motion, specifically of the hips and ankles. Less ankle-dorsiflexion range of motion typically requires more of a forward truncleing during a squat to stay balanced. Otherwise, you would fall backward. If you squat with a very forward truncleing, you may reach your end range of available hip motion before hitting your desired squat depth. This may require more movement from the pelvis and low back to achieve your desired squat depth, resulting in a noticeable buttwink. A third factor is squat depth. A deeper squat involves more range of motion and therefore is more prone to buttwink being observed. The last factor I'll mention is skill or technique. Sometimes a certain squat stance or lack of body awareness can contribute to buttwink. Is buttwink while squatting harmful? Despite popular belief, there's no research to suggest that buttwink during a squat is harmful. There's not even research indicating that flexion of the low back during a squat puts you at a greater risk of injury. The idea that it's harmful actually comes from research performed on cataviric pig spines in which the researchers flexed and extended the spines thousands of times under load until damage occurred. This has never been reproduced in humans, especially in a clinical setting. Now, before I completely lose some of you, hear me out. I'm not advocating or encouraging the purposeful demonstration of lumbar flexion and posterior pelvic tilt during a squat. However, rehab topics are usually presented in a very matter-of-fact way using black and white statements, so I'd like to introduce some nuance to help reduce some of the fear and demonization surrounding buttwink. What most people don't know is that even when the lumbar spine appears flat or neutral during a task, it is actively flexing and extending. This has been shown in squats, deadlifts, kettlebell swings, good mornings, and strongman lifts. For example, here is a description from a study by McGill and Marshall in 2012. The kettlebell swing to snatch was initiated with the participant in a squat position with a neutral spine. Surprisingly, the researchers found that what appeared to be neutral was actually up to 26 degrees of lumbar flexion. This information makes it difficult to simply dichotomize buttwink as either good or bad. Instead, it's helpful to consider when it might be worth intervening, but this is a challenge as well. Is one degree of visible posterior pelvic tilt problematic? If not, when does it become problematic? How much load is necessary for it to be problematic? If you asked those same 100 physical therapists, coaches, and gym goers these types of questions, the answers would be even more variable. I think a person's history and goals are important considerations here. If someone is consistently experiencing pain with lumbar flexion, particularly with a noticeable buttwink at the bottom of a squat, that seems like a reasonable and worthwhile thing to modify. If a new lifter lacks awareness of their body position and demonstrates inconsistencies in their technique with every repetition, that can be a coachable moment that doesn't require any sort of fear-mongering language or setting of negative expectations. If a person just wants to build their quad muscles, you could argue that the buttwink at the bottom of a squat isn't necessarily contributing to their goal. How about if a competitive power lifter or weight lifter consistently displays buttwink when attempting to hit new personal records? Is that something that needs to be changed? More context might be needed. What if this individual has been predictably squatting this way for 10 plus years, has had no major injuries associated with their technique, has progressively gotten stronger each year, and has performed well in competitions? In this example, it's possible that trying to alter their technique could worsen their performance because it's a predictable strategy that they use on a regular basis to successfully lift the most amount of weight. There is no crystal ball to predict who is going to get injured and when. There are individuals who squat with quote-unquote perfect technique, but still develop knee pain. However, we don't describe knee flexion as being bad or dangerous. Unlike dead pig spines, humans are adaptable and resilient. There are times when that ceiling of adaptability is reached, at least in the short term, and that's when the following modifications can be useful. If you have limitations in your ankle-dorsy flexion range of motion, four things come to mind. One, it might not matter as squat patterns vary between individuals based on anatomy, preference, etc. Two, if you've never squatted before, it's reasonable to expect your dorsi flexion to improve with repeated exposure to the movement. Three, you can use heel lifts, weightlifting shoes, or wedges as needed. Or four, you can incorporate exercises to improve your range of motion if desired. If it's a technique issue, consider these three options. One, you can limit your range of motion by performing a box squat or using some other form of external feedback. Two, you can try changing your setup by taking a slightly wider stance if you were previously using a narrow stance. Or three, you can attempt pause squats or tempo squats to improve your body awareness and positioning. Here's the other thing. If your goals don't directly relate to barbell back squatting to parallel, there's no reason you have to perform that movement. You can do front squats or goblet squats, which should allow you to remain more upright, especially if you use weightlifting shoes or wedges as I mentioned. Hack squats and Smith Machine squats are great alternatives as well. One of my favorite lower body exercises is the split squat, which allows you to completely control your trunk position. So if butt wink is something that you want to change, there are a lot of easy ways to make that happen. Just don't stress about it more than you need to. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please hit that like button, subscribe, turn on notifications, and leave any comments down below. If you're looking for a rehab or performance program, or you're interested in working with us one-on-one, visit our website at e3rehab.com. Peace.

=== FILE: Total Hip Replacement at 19 Years Old (16 Years Later) [6Le0gnf-d8w].txt ===

 despite having a right total hip replacement for the past 16 years, this is how I train, and these are my legs. But let me start from the beginning. When I was 15 years old, I was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a type of blood cancer. My treatment, which lasted nearly three years, involved chemotherapy and a variety of medications, among other things. One of those medications was a high dose of oral corticosteroids. A side effect of the corticosteroids was that I developed a condition known as avascular necrosis, which is essentially bone tissue death due to a lack of blood supply. This happened in both hips, but my right hip was significantly worse than my left and progressed at a much faster rate. At the age of 19, in the summer between my freshman and sophomore years of college, I had a right total hip replacement. The surgeon performed a posterior approach and used a metal-on-metal implant. These are not recommendations, as that should be left in the hands of an experienced surgeon. I only share this information because people will inevitably ask. If you want to hear more about my backstory, you can watch the original video I made about five years ago. So, I had a right total hip replacement when I was 19 years old, and I'm currently 35 years old. I've also been a doctor of physical therapy for the past 10 years, which means I'm sharing this information as someone with personal experience, as well as someone who frequently works with individuals who have had their hips replaced. I'm going to share my regular exercise routine to demonstrate what's possible, not necessarily what's required. And once again, I'll try to anticipate questions. I probably average around 12,000 steps per day as my wife and I walk our dogs around the neighborhood in nearby park, first thing in the morning and right after dinner. We also walk to the gym after our morning walk, so walking is just built into our lifestyle. I typically lift weights four days per week. Mondays and Thursdays are upper body days, while Tuesdays and Fridays are lower body days. Tuesdays look like this. Three sets of hack squats. Three sets of single-leg seated hamstring curls. Three sets of single-leg leg extensions. Two sets of single-leg hip extensions on the GHD. Four sets of calf raises. Fridays look like this. Three sets of rear foot elevated split squats. Two sets of single-leg RDLs. Three sets of prone hamstring curls. Three sets of leg extensions. Two sets of seated hip abduction. Four sets of single-leg calf raises. Everything is challenging but tolerable. On Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays, I try to at least do a short hike, where fortunate to live in an area with a lot of nearby mountains. Three points I want to discuss here. One, the specifics don't matter that much because I'm not recommending that anyone needs to do my individualized routine. What's more important if you've had a total hip replacement is that you do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle that's reasonable, tolerable, and sustainable for you. The benefit of regular physical activity outweighs any potential risks. Some combination of resistance training and cardiovascular exercise is important for bone health, muscle mass, heart and brain health, etc. Part of the reason I make these updates is to encourage people to exercise by showing them that my hip is still holding up strong and my recent x-rays look good despite having had the surgery 16 years ago. Two, this routine isn't set in stone. Things may change depending on the season, our mood, or whether we have visitors in town. Maybe we'll do yoga or play pickleball with my dad or rock climb with friends, but this is our weekly routine at the moment. Three, can I run? I do very short distances sometimes, but it's not a form of exercise I've ever enjoyed. I'd rather ride a bike or go for a hike, and if I'm being honest, it probably wouldn't feel great for my hip. However, there are examples of people with total hip replacements who run, play sports, perform jiu-jitsu, ski, etc. If you're looking for specific answers about whether or not you should be performing those types of activities, I previously made a Q&A video about the top 10 questions I get asked. Also, if you are looking for a specific exercise routine, I did make a video about the best exercises I think most people should be considering in the long run after a total hip replacement. What's next for me? I try to keep things pretty simple overall. I don't have any lofty goals for the gym. Sometimes I hit PRs, but often times I don't. My number one priority is maintaining an active and healthy lifestyle given my past medical history. Plus, I think it's beneficial for the longevity of my implants. If you're in a similar situation as me, but you don't know where to start, just start small. Something is always better than nothing. You're not competing against me or anyone else. This video is intended to provide motivation, encouragement, and hope. Thank you for watching!

=== FILE: You Don’t Have To Deadlift (But You Can If You Want To) [1f2WZ8hWfvI].txt ===

 In this video, I'm going to explain why you don't have to deadlift, and provide you with practical modifications and alternatives that will allow you to still achieve your rehab or training goals. Let me be very clear up front, I am not anti-deadlifts, and I am not saying you shouldn't perform deadlifts. However, there are times when temporary or permanent changes to your training routine can be helpful. Being flexible in your approach is likely beneficial for consistency, longevity, longevity, and long-term progress. For now, when I say deadlifts, I am referring to what most people think of, conventional and sumo deadlifts with a barbell. Conventional deadlifts typically involve a narrower stance, feet pointed forward, hands outside the feet, and more of a forward trunk lean. On the other hand, sumo deadlifts usually require a wider stance, feet rotated outward, hands inside the feet, and a more upright trunk, perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect perfect use a lower percentage of your one rep max. Two, volume. Decrease the number of daily or weekly sets. Three, frequency. Either spread out your weekly volume over more days to minimize the chance of overdoing it within a session or deadlift less often to allow for appropriate recovery between sessions. These first three considerations all have to do with load management, which is important for any exercise or program. Four, effort. Don't push as close to failure. This might tie in with intensity by using higher rep ranges with lighter weights. Five, range of motion. You can reduce the range of motion by lifting off of blocks or plates. Six, speed. You can lift with a slower tempo or incorporate pauses at different ranges of motion. This would likely go hand in hand with reducing the load. Seven, technique. You can reevaluate your technique or alternate between conventional and sumo deadlifts. Eight, exercise variation. If you need to take a temporary break from conventional or sumo deadlifts secondary to pain, you've decided that they aren't necessary for your goals, or you just feel like you can't get them to work for you, you can attempt other deadlift variations like trap bar deadlifts, kettlebell deadlifts, or dumbbell deadlifts. Personally, I'd highly recommend considering Romanian deadlifts or RDLs. Unlike conventional and sumo deadlifts that start from the ground, RDLs start from the standing position, which means you get to choose how far you lower the weight based on your body proportions, flexibility, and comfort. If you haven't seen our previous video on the topic, let me quickly take you through a five-step process beginning with the setup. Generally, when using a barbell, you would lift the bar from a height that requires a small bend in your hips and knees, take a few steps back, and then begin your first repetition. If you don't have a rack available to you, you would deadlift the bar from the ground and then start your first repetition. Your feet should be roughly hip-width apart, and they can be facing forward or slightly turned out. Your hand should be slightly wider than the position of your legs and the bar centered over the middle of your feet. Brace your trunk like you're preparing to get punched, and then imagine bending the ends of the bar toward you to contract your lats and upper back. There is no need to overarch during the setup, so you can maintain the natural lordosis of your low back. The next step is the descent or lowering portion of the exercise. Initiate at the hips by driving your butt back while keeping the shins fairly vertical. As you lower down, you will have a slight bend in your knees. You should not be actively reaching down with your arms. Instead, the bar is lowering as a result of the movement from your hips. Focus on keeping your trunk braced, your lats and shoulders engaged, and the bar close to your legs. While keeping the low back relatively flat and knees slightly bent, you are trying to tap into a stretching sensation of the hamstrings by increasing the distance between its attachments at the pelvis and knee. The easiest way to do this is by attempting to lift your butt up and back. This small anterior tilt of the pelvis should help you feel the hamstrings working more. The third step, which is the bottom of the movement, is more of the same. If you've lost tension or focus, you can go through your mental checklist of what you should be doing, such as bracing your trunk and keeping your back muscles engaged. More importantly, you may need to cue yourself to lift your butt up and back again to feel that stretch in your hamstrings. Since the goal is to keep the low back relatively flat while hinging at the hips, the bottom portion of the movement usually ends when this stretch is felt just before the low back begins to round. An expert lifter may try to maximize the stretching sensation while a novice just touches on it. Step four, the ascent, is just a reversal of the descent. Think about pushing the floor away from you with your feet and driving your hips forward while keeping the bar close and maintaining the rigidity of your trunk and shoulders. The last step is returning to the upright position. You can finish driving your hips forward by squeezing your glutes at the top. Once again, there is no need to overextend your low back. An advanced technique involves stopping the range of motion before you are fully upright to maintain constant tension on the glutes and hamstrings. With novices struggling to perform consistent technique and range of motion, external feedback in the form of plates or blocks can be used. You would just set the height appropriate for you and then tap those objects as if they were eggs you didn't want to crack. This can be really useful in rehab for people experiencing low back pain or nerve symptoms with bending forward because they can work within a tolerable range of motion and then gradually increase that range of motion over time as symptoms improve. Using a tempo can also reinforce technique. When you're first learning the movement, try descending over the course of 2-4 seconds and pausing at the bottom for 1-3 seconds. It's a long repetition but that time gives you the ability to practice all of the cues I mentioned earlier. If you're someone who is more flexible, you can perform deficit RDLs by standing on plates or blocks. This is not necessary for most people. If you have access to a Smith machine, the fixed track decreases the complexity of the exercise. If you'd prefer to use dumbbells, they are a great alternative as your arm position is more modifiable. I like to start with the dumbbells at my side, angle them in front of me as I lower down where the tension matters, and then return back to the starting position. If the dumbbells are directly at your side the entire time, they can bump or rub your thighs. Plus, you typically want the weight in front of you at the bottom of the movement. Likewise, I find that holding dumbbells directly in front of me through the entire exercise can feel a little clumsy at the start and when passing my knees. However, you can play with what feels best for you. Just know that your arm position can influence how light or heavy dumbbells feel compared to a similarly weighted barbell, and you may not feel like your strength transfers perfectly between the two variations. Other RDL variations include a kickstand stance in which one leg is in front of the other and a single leg RDL. The kickstand RDL, also known as a B stance RDL, is a way to target one leg at a time without compromising your balance. A single leg RDL can be done with a barbell, dumbbells, or kettlebells including using a weight in only one hand. I tend to feel single leg RDLs more in my glutes, especially when holding a weight in the opposite hand as it biases the gluteus medius. However, if balance or fatigue in your ankle and foot compromise your ability to load the exercise, you can use a smith machine or your free hand to help with stability. Recently, I've been performing RDLs on the belt squat machine once per week, which I have found to be quite effective and easy to progress. As I stated in the introduction of this video, you don't have to deadlift. Aside from power lifters who are competing in a specific sport, many people deadlift with the intention of increasing the strength and muscle mass of their hamstrings, adductors, glutes, and spinal erectors. If for some reason you can't perform any deadlift variation, or you simply don't want to, there are plenty of exercise alternatives to train for those adaptations. Two of the best devices or machines at the gym are the Roman chair and GHD. These can be performed double leg with or without weight, single leg with or without weight, and any variation can be done isometrically. Similarly, you can do reverse hyperextensions using the machine built for them or with the GHD, a box, a bench, etc. Other options include bridges, double leg or single leg, with or without weight, hip thrusts, double leg or single leg, with or without weight, long lever bridges, double leg or single leg, and hamstring sliders, double leg or single leg. Keep in mind that this is not an all-inclusive list, and I'm not suggesting that these exercises are perfect one-to-one alternatives for conventional or sumo deadlifts. What I'm suggesting is that you can build a program that improves the strength and muscle mass of your hamstrings, adductors, glutes, and spinal erectors without ever performing a deadlift variation if that's what you need or what you prefer. Here's a two-day per week lower body training program as an example. Monday, rear foot elevated split squats, seated leg extensions, Roman chair hip extension with weight, seated hamstring curls, seated hip abduction, seated hip adduction, single leg calf raises. Thursday, hack squat variation, single leg seated leg extensions, single leg hip extension on GHD, prone hamstring curls, standing hip abduction, standing hip adduction, standing calf raises. This is a random example. You'd have to tailor the program to your individual needs. You could incorporate bridges, hip thrusts, or even RDLs. The point is that you can be flexible with your training program and still accomplish most of your rehab or training goals without having to include a specific deadlift variation if needed or desired. This video can be summarized with the following. You don't have to deadlift, but you can if you want to. This is true of almost any exercise or activity. There are so many modifications and alternatives you can try, so discover what works best for you. And what works best for you right now might be different than what worked best for you in the past or what works best for you in the future. Training and rehab are all about never-ending learning and growth. Training and rehab are all about to be a part of your training program. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please hit that like button, subscribe, turn on notifications, and leave any comments down below. If you are looking for a rehab or performance program or you are interested in working with us one-on-one, visit our website at ed3rehab.com. Peace.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.337228Z ===
