 despite having a right total hip replacement for the past 16 years, this is how I train, and these are my legs. But let me start from the beginning. When I was 15 years old, I was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a type of blood cancer. My treatment, which lasted nearly three years, involved chemotherapy and a variety of medications, among other things. One of those medications was a high dose of oral corticosteroids. A side effect of the corticosteroids was that I developed a condition known as avascular necrosis, which is essentially bone tissue death due to a lack of blood supply. This happened in both hips, but my right hip was significantly worse than my left and progressed at a much faster rate. At the age of 19, in the summer between my freshman and sophomore years of college, I had a right total hip replacement. The surgeon performed a posterior approach and used a metal-on-metal implant. These are not recommendations, as that should be left in the hands of an experienced surgeon. I only share this information because people will inevitably ask. If you want to hear more about my backstory, you can watch the original video I made about five years ago. So, I had a right total hip replacement when I was 19 years old, and I'm currently 35 years old. I've also been a doctor of physical therapy for the past 10 years, which means I'm sharing this information as someone with personal experience, as well as someone who frequently works with individuals who have had their hips replaced. I'm going to share my regular exercise routine to demonstrate what's possible, not necessarily what's required. And once again, I'll try to anticipate questions. I probably average around 12,000 steps per day as my wife and I walk our dogs around the neighborhood in nearby park, first thing in the morning and right after dinner. We also walk to the gym after our morning walk, so walking is just built into our lifestyle. I typically lift weights four days per week. Mondays and Thursdays are upper body days, while Tuesdays and Fridays are lower body days. Tuesdays look like this. Three sets of hack squats. Three sets of single-leg seated hamstring curls. Three sets of single-leg leg extensions. Two sets of single-leg hip extensions on the GHD. Four sets of calf raises. Fridays look like this. Three sets of rear foot elevated split squats. Two sets of single-leg RDLs. Three sets of prone hamstring curls. Three sets of leg extensions. Two sets of seated hip abduction. Four sets of single-leg calf raises. Everything is challenging but tolerable. On Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Sundays, I try to at least do a short hike, where fortunate to live in an area with a lot of nearby mountains. Three points I want to discuss here. One, the specifics don't matter that much because I'm not recommending that anyone needs to do my individualized routine. What's more important if you've had a total hip replacement is that you do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle that's reasonable, tolerable, and sustainable for you. The benefit of regular physical activity outweighs any potential risks. Some combination of resistance training and cardiovascular exercise is important for bone health, muscle mass, heart and brain health, etc. Part of the reason I make these updates is to encourage people to exercise by showing them that my hip is still holding up strong and my recent x-rays look good despite having had the surgery 16 years ago. Two, this routine isn't set in stone. Things may change depending on the season, our mood, or whether we have visitors in town. Maybe we'll do yoga or play pickleball with my dad or rock climb with friends, but this is our weekly routine at the moment. Three, can I run? I do very short distances sometimes, but it's not a form of exercise I've ever enjoyed. I'd rather ride a bike or go for a hike, and if I'm being honest, it probably wouldn't feel great for my hip. However, there are examples of people with total hip replacements who run, play sports, perform jiu-jitsu, ski, etc. If you're looking for specific answers about whether or not you should be performing those types of activities, I previously made a Q&A video about the top 10 questions I get asked. Also, if you are looking for a specific exercise routine, I did make a video about the best exercises I think most people should be considering in the long run after a total hip replacement. What's next for me? I try to keep things pretty simple overall. I don't have any lofty goals for the gym. Sometimes I hit PRs, but often times I don't. My number one priority is maintaining an active and healthy lifestyle given my past medical history. Plus, I think it's beneficial for the longevity of my implants. If you're in a similar situation as me, but you don't know where to start, just start small. Something is always better than nothing. You're not competing against me or anyone else. This video is intended to provide motivation, encouragement, and hope. Thank you for watching!