 In this video, i'm going to tell you why your hip hurts, and what you can do about it. There are timestamps for each diagnosis, so you can jump to exactly what you're looking for if you'd like. There's also a timestamp toward the end of the video where I explain the general strategies I recommend for rehab. And as a heads up, we have videos that are 10 to 20 minutes long about most of the diagnoses I'm going to talk about, so please check those videos out if you want more in-depth information. Let's start by reviewing the basic anatomy of the hip. The hip is a ball and socket joint where the head of the femur, or thigh bone, meets the acetabulum of the pelvis. The labrum is a fibrocartilaginous ring that increases the depth of the socket and improves the stability of the hip. Lastly, the hip is surrounded by a connective tissue known as the joint capsule and reinforced by the ileo-femoral, pubo-femoral, and ischio-femoral ligaments. Diagnoses of the hip are often categorized as intraarticular or extraarticular. Anything within the capsule that affects the hip joint itself is known as intraarticular, such as osteoarthritis, femoroacetabular impingement, labral tears, dysplasia, and avascular necrosis. Everything that occurs outside of the hip joint is labeled extraarticular, like adductor strains, gluteal tendinopathy, proximal hamstring tendinopathy, piriformis syndrome, and the other diagnoses I'm going to discuss. The location of symptoms can be helpful for differentiating between potential diagnoses. For example, symptoms of proximal hamstring tendinopathy will always present toward the back of the hip or the hamstrings attached to the pelvis. On the other hand, intraarticular problems frequently have a component of groin pain and individuals may use the C sign to indicate their deep anterior hip pain. In anatomical terms, the front of the hip is anterior, the side of the hip is lateral, and the back of the hip is posterior. Let's begin with the intraarticular diagnoses. Symptoms associated with hip osteoarthritis include morning stiffness, pain with climbing stairs or walking down slopes, pain on initial steps after rest, pain on walking, and pain relieved by sitting. Groin pain is most common, but individuals may also report pain in the buttock region, thigh, or knee. Additional findings may include a limp with walking, hip muscle weakness when trying to stand on one leg, buttock pain while squatting, pain with resisted hip movements, and decreased hip range of motion compared to the uninvolved side. This is not an all-inclusive list, but if you're older, gradually start experiencing symptoms, and you're noticing an associated decline in strength, range of motion, or overall function, hip osteoarthritis becomes higher on the list of possible diagnoses. Although hip osteoarthritis is typically described as a degenerative joint disease related to wear and tear of the cartilage within the hip joint, it should be thought of as a systemic condition as other factors influence symptoms and the progression of the disease, such as genetics and metabolic health. Plus, many of the structural changes seen on imaging associated with hip osteoarthritis are often found in people with no symptoms. Therefore, imaging is only recommended if surgery is a consideration or if there's suspicion of an alternative diagnosis. Otherwise, a clinical examination by a medical doctor is sufficient. Since the severity of symptoms can vary over time, non-operative management is considered the first line of treatment, including a regular exercise routine. Let's move on to femoroacetabular impingement, or FAI. Femoroacetabular refers to the hip joint, so you may also hear it be called hip impingement. FAI was defined by Griffin et al. in 2016 as a motion-related clinical disorder of the hip with a triad of symptoms, clinical signs, and imaging findings. It represents symptomatic premature contact between the proximal femur and the acetabulum. Symptoms include pain in the hip or groin, and in some cases, also the back, butt, or thigh. Additionally, people may experience clicking, catching, locking, stiffness, or limited range of motion. Symptoms commonly occur at the end ranges of an individual's available hip range of motion, such as during a deep squat, deadlift, certain yoga poses, sitting for long durations, and various sporting activities. Clinical signs involve the test and measures that a physical therapist or medical doctor may perform during their examination. The most useful maneuver is bringing the hip into flexion, adduction, and internal rotation. If a person does not experience symptoms, it is unlikely that they have FAI. Flexion, abduction, and external rotation may also be used to evaluate symptoms and differences in side-to-side range of motion. Additionally, hip range of motion is independently assessed with an emphasis placed on hip internal rotation when the hip is flexed to 90 degrees. Along with symptoms and clinical findings, imaging is necessary to diagnose FAI. X-rays can be performed to assess changes in the shape of the hip bones. CAM morphology refers to changes of the femoral head, pincer morphology refers to changes of the acetabulum, and mixed morphology describes a combination of the two. Imaging findings, clinical signs, and symptoms are all required to make the diagnosis because it is possible to have changes on imaging without symptoms. Therefore, imaging is necessary to definitively diagnose FAI, especially if surgery is a consideration, but it is not required to initiate rehab because in most cases, three to six months of rehabilitation is recommended first since surgery doesn't guarantee a return to normalcy, the monetary cost is higher, and there are more risks involved. What about hip dysplasia? Hip dysplasia can be thought of as a shallow socket that does not provide sufficient coverage of the femoral head. As stated in a recent paper by Evans et al., developmental dysplasia of the hip refers to the condition in infancy, and acetabular hip dysplasia refers to an adolescent or young adult onset. In the same paper, the authors developed the alpha alert mnemonic to increase the diagnostic awareness of acetabular hip dysplasia. A stands for age of symptom onset as it is expected in adolescents or young adults, predominantly females. L stands for limp on examination or patient reported with the potential for a leg length discrepancy or hip weakness. P stands for pain that is progressive in nature with no known cause. Deep hip flexion is frequently problematic. H stands for history, such as any childhood hip concerns or a family history of hip issues. And A stands for articulation. Individuals will often report hypermobility, feelings of instability, hip joint sounds, and difficulty with sitting cross-legged. A combination of these features may warrant x-rays for further evaluation. Like the previous two diagnoses, imaging findings indicative of hip dysplasia may be present in individuals with little to no symptoms, so non-operative management is often the first line of care when it's detected early. Now let's quickly talk about tears of the labrum. Labral tears rarely occur in isolation. Instead, they frequently coincide with other conditions like hip dysplasia and FAI. As you may have guessed by now, labral tears are also often found in individuals without symptoms. For this reason, rehabilitation is usually the first step in management. Avascular necrosis or osteonecrosis of the femoral head is essentially bone tissue death due to a lack of blood supply. Traumatic causes involve fractures and dislocations, while the most common non-traumatic causes are corticosteroid use and excessive alcohol intake. Depending on symptoms and the stage of the condition, management may range from rehabilitation to pharmacological treatments to core decompression to a total hip replacement. Let's shift the focus toward the extra-articular issues of the hip. Aside from the hip-joint-related groin pain that I've already discussed, there are several extra-articular sources of groin pain, adductor-related, iliopsoas-related, inguinal-related, and pubic-related. Generally, pain or tenderness localized to one of these structures, in addition to a reproduction of pain through contracting or stretching that specific structure, can help determine the source of symptoms. Notably, the pain felt with resistance testing must be in the location of that structure being tested. Adductor-related groin pain is common in athletes who participate in sports that involve kicking and cutting. It is identified by the presence of pain or tenderness in the adductor area with palpation, as well as resistance testing that reproduces pain in the adductors. It is more likely the culprit of groin pain if symptoms are also present with stretching the adductors. The most commonly affected muscle is the adductor longus, and it's usually strained from kicking or changing direction. Iliopsoas-related groin pain refers to pain and tenderness at the front of the thigh along the iliopsoas that is reproduced with resisted hip flexion and or stretching of the hip flexors. The rectus femoris, which also falls under this category, is most commonly strained during sprinting and kicking, while the iliacus and psoas can become strained from change-of-direction movements. Two things I want to mention here. One, contrary to popular belief, the hip flexors are rarely the cause of or answer to all of your hip-related problems. Two, an irritated hip flexor is more commonly a symptom of an underlying intra-articular pathology as opposed to being the primary issue itself. Inguinal-related groin pain is characterized by pain in the inguinal area, which is between the lower abdominals, pubic bone, and the bone at the front of the hip called the anterior superior iliac spine or ASIS. Symptoms may be reproduced with coughing, sneezing, and resisted trunk flexion. Although it can initially be difficult to differentiate inguinal-related groin pain from adductor-related groin pain, adductor-related groin pain will typically improve with adductor-specific exercises. Inguinal-related groin pain, however, will not improve and may in fact worsen with adductor-specific exercises or with increases in activity in general. It's important to note that an inguinal hernia does not fall under this category of groin pain. Therefore, a palpable bulge should not be present. Pain at the pubic symphysis, which is where the left and right sides of the pelvis come together, and the bones next to it is the hallmark sign of pubic-related groin pain. There are no specific resistance tests for pubic-related groin pain, but it can be more likely if both resisted trunk flexion and resisted hip adduction reproduce symptoms in the pubic area. Imaging is usually unnecessary for these sources of groin pain and structured rehabilitation is typically the initial focus. If you put your hand on the side of your hip, you should feel a bony prominence known as the greater trochanter, which is part of your femur. The greater trochanter serves as an attachment site for the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus tendons. In a non-weight-bearing position, these two glute muscles act to abduct the hip. More importantly, though, they stabilize the pelvis when standing on a single leg, such as when walking, running, and going upstairs. There is also a trochanteric bursa, which is a fluid-filled sac that serves to cushion and reduce friction in this area. Over the top of these structures lies the iliotibial band. Hip bursitis, the diagnosis often provided to people experiencing pain in this region, generally refers to inflammation of the trochanteric bursa. However, research spanning across 20 years has determined that bursitis is actually unlikely to be the primary contributing factor to symptoms. In fact, MRIs often find bursitis in hips that are completely pain-free. Much of the same research found that the tendons of the gluteus medius and minimus are more often involved. Therefore, gluteal tendinopathy, which refers to pain and impaired function associated with loading of these tendons, has been proposed as the preferred diagnosis. Having said that, it's important to point out that tendon changes seen on MRI are also common in people without symptoms. Since these quote-unquote pathological findings are present in individuals with and without symptoms, imaging is unnecessary in most instances. The diagnosis is most common in older, less active perimenopausal women, but it can also occur in a younger, more active population like runners. In addition to reporting symptoms with sleeping on the affected side or with activities that load the gluteal tendons, such as walking, running, and climbing up stairs, a study by Grimaldi et al. in 2017, concluded that a patient who reports lateral hip pain within 30 seconds of single leg standing is very likely to have gluteal tendinopathy. Alternatively, if pain isn't elicited when pressing on the greater trochanter, gluteal tendinopathy is unlikely. With that information in mind, the naming of a diagnosis matters and how it informs management. Many people associate bursitis with the need for ice, complete rest, and anti-inflammatory medication, and that sometimes creates the idea that management of their symptoms is out of their control. Gluteal tendinopathy provides more options for self-management, including activity modifications and exercise therapy as needed. It's also been well documented that other lifestyle and metabolic factors influence the health of tendons, such as diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, adiposity, and some medication usage like certain antibiotics. Therefore, any lifestyle interventions to improve overall health can be considered a component of rehab. Snapping hip syndrome refers to a snapping sensation felt on the front or side of the hip that occurs with various motions. The snapping can be painful or painless and loud, quiet, or completely inaudible. There are two primary types, internal and external. Internal snapping, also sometimes called dancer's hip, refers to the iliopsoas tendon snapping over one of two locations, the head of the femur or a bony prominence on the front of the pelvis known as the iliopectinial eminence. It can be felt when the hip is moved from flexion, abduction, and external rotation to a more extended, adducted, and internally rotated position. It's somewhat confusing, but internal snapping is not intraarticular, although there are other causes of intraarticular joint noises and sensations such as labral tears and loose bodies. External snapping is usually attributed to the IT band or gluteus maximus moving back and forth over the greater trochanter. It can be felt during sideline flexion and extension of the hip or during different weight-bearing movements such as a single-leg deadlift. Whether someone notices the snapping develop randomly or shortly after an injury, it's typically nothing to worry about. Snapping is common, often happens in people without any pain, and does not mean that anything is wrong with the hip or that issues will arise in the future. I like this quote from world-renowned hip specialist Dr. Thomas Bird. For most patients, the treatment is little more than assurance that this is a normal variant and that the snapping is not indicative of future problems. For this reason, I prefer to drop the word syndrome because it makes snapping hip sound scarier than it is. With all that being said, I do understand that pain isn't the only concern for some people. For example, here's a top comment from our video about the subject. It just feels jarring, like nails on a chalkboard feeling in my body. I know my nails on the chalkboard aren't harming me, but it makes me feel like I'm going to be sick. Sometimes that snapping sensation goes away on its own, and sometimes activity modifications and a dedicated exercise plan can help. Since I've discussed symptoms toward the front of the hip and the side of the hip, let's shift the focus to the back of the hip. The hamstring muscles originate on the ischial tuberosity, also referred to as the sit bone, and consist of three muscles, the semimembranosus, semitendinosus, and the long head of the biceps femoris. They insert onto the lower leg and primarily contribute to knee flexion and hip extension. Similar to other tendinopathies, proximal hamstring tendinopathy is characterized by persistent tendon pain and loss of function related to mechanical loading. This pain is located around the lower gluteal region, which may or may not radiate down the back of the thigh and often occurs during activities and positions that place more stretch, load, and or compression through the proximal portion of the hamstring tendon. Examples include running uphill, sprinting, movements involving deeper hip flexion like squatting or lunging, stretching, and sitting for prolonged periods of time. A sudden increase in some of these activities may be a contributing factor as to why this condition developed in the first place. A simplified explanation is that the loads placed on the affected hamstring tendon through different positions and movements may have exceeded its capacity to recover and adapt appropriately. Think of it as doing too much too soon. This load is often associated with external factors such as the intensity, volume, and frequency of training. For example, recently incorporating uphill running and sprint intervals into training sessions or practicing yoga and including more stretching at the end range of hip flexion. For this reason, rehabilitation is the focus of management. Also, it is worth noting that since hamstring tendon pathology is common in people without pain, imaging is usually not required. Trying to neatly categorize other conditions contributing to posterior hip symptoms is, well, a pain in the butt. Oftentimes, symptoms in this region are quickly labeled as piriformis syndrome. However, except in very rare cases, piriformis syndrome probably doesn't exist in the way that most people think that it does. In most instances, it is more likely that irritation of a nerve or structure in the lower back is contributing to symptoms in your butt, thigh, or down the back of your leg. There are different medical terms for this, such as referred pain, radicular pain, and radiculopathy. The low back should be the top consideration for symptoms in this area until proven otherwise. And if not the lower back, the second most common culprit is frequently the hip joint itself. Buttock pain can be a symptom of the intra-articular diagnoses I mentioned earlier, such as osteoarthritis, FAI, and hip dysplasia. That doesn't mean that all posterior hip pain is stemming from the lumbar spine or hip joint, but if you read through the literature or speak to different clinicians, the definitions, explanations, and understanding of symptoms in this region can vary considerably. Deep gluteal syndrome was introduced in 1999 by Macquarie and Bell as a catch-all phrase to account for any structure contributing to symptoms in this area, including the piriformis, and it's become much more popular in recent years. As stated by Park et al. in 2020, deep gluteal syndrome is defined as compression of the sciatic or pudendal nerve by any anatomical structure in the deep gluteal space. If we could see through or pull back the gluteus maximus, that's essentially the deep gluteal space. Park and colleagues include the following diagnoses in deep gluteal syndrome. piriformis syndrome, gemelli obturator internus syndrome, named for the gemellus superior, gemellus inferior, and obturator internus muscles, proximal hamstring syndrome, in which irritation of the hamstrings and sciatic nerve coexist because of their close proximity, and ischiofemoral impingement syndrome, resulting from compression of the sciatic nerve and or quadratus femoris muscle between the ischial tuberosity and lesser trochanter of the femur when the hip is extended, such as during a long stride when walking or running. There is no universal consensus though. Some authors include different diagnoses and syndromes, while others don't include ischiofemoral impingement as a subset of deep gluteal syndrome at all. Having said that, I don't want to diminish your current experience or a previous experience you've had. I'm also not trying to neglect the role that nerves play in contributing to symptoms. There are a lot of nerves innervating the hip and pelvis and it's possible for an irritation of one of these nerves to contribute to tingling, burning, numbness, weakness, etc. However, I encourage clinicians to always perform a thorough examination of the lumbar spine and for patients to hold their providers accountable for examining their low back so the piriformis muscle isn't blamed too hastily. Sacroiliac joint pain is another entity that can be confused with posterior hip pain. Sacroiliac joint pain is typically characterized by one-sided pain below the level of the lumbar spine that may radiate into the buttock or thigh. It can follow a traumatic event such as a motor vehicle accident or fall into the buttock. It can also result from repetitive activities such as lifting or running. In some cases, the cause of symptoms is unknown. However, sacroiliac joint pain is most commonly related to pregnancy. Perhaps the most impactful issue I haven't mentioned yet is fall-related fractures in older adults as the consequences can be severe. Fortunately, many of these falls are preventable. I highly recommend watching our video on how to improve balance and prevent falls. Stress fractures can also be quite impactful. The following information is taken from a recent consensus statement by Honig et al. Stress fractures fall under the umbrella of bone stress injuries, which are overuse injuries to bone resulting from repetitive loading coupled with inadequate time for tissue recovery. These injuries are most frequent in military personnel and athletes, particularly runners. Bone stress injuries in athletes can be termed as low-risk or high-risk based on their anatomical location and risk for progression and or healing complications. With regards to the hip, the superior cortex of the femoral neck is considered high-risk whereas the femoral shaft is not. Some risk factors for developing a bone stress injury include increases in training volume or intensity, previous history of a bone stress injury, low body mass index, poor bone health, and insufficient caloric intake to meet energy demands. Treatment approaches include activity modification, protected weight bearing, immobilization, physical therapy, nutritional counseling, and in some cases, surgical fixation. The experts in this consensus statement largely agreed that most stress fractures should be initially managed non-surgically. Although I briefly mentioned developmental dysplasia of the hip, pediatric or childhood conditions are not the focus of this video. However, here are three diagnoses to be aware of. One, leg calf Perthes disease, which is basically a type of avascular necrosis that occurs in young children. Its name comes from the three surgeons who first described it. Two, slipped capital femoral epiphysis, often referred to by its acronym, SCIFI, most commonly happens in adolescents. According to Golvidal, SCIFI occurs when the capital femoral epiphysis, the femoral head, displaces posteriorly on the femoral neck at the level of the growth plate. However, SCIFI is a misnomer because it is actually the femoral neck metaphysis that displaces anteriorly and superiorly in relation to the capital femoral epiphysis. Three, apophysial avulsion fractures, which typically occur when a rapid and forceful contraction of a muscle pulls off part of the bone where it is attached. A study by Ferraro et al. in 2023 reported the following. The average patient age was 14.6 and 78% of the fractures occurred in male patients. The anterior inferior iliac spine, anterior superior iliac spine, and ischial tuberosity were the most common fracture sites. The most common injury mechanisms were running, kicking, and falls. The most common sports at the time of injury were soccer, football, and baseball. The list of diagnoses I have mentioned so far is not all inclusive and there are non-musculoskeletal causes of hip pain that must always be on the radar of healthcare providers such as cancer, infections, and organ-related issues. There can also be a link between pelvic floor problems and hip symptoms. We have a 30 minute video on the topic if you'd like to learn more. Hopefully, all of the information up to this point helps you appreciate the complexity of the hip and the importance of a thorough assessment from a licensed healthcare provider. Before I outline my general recommendations for rehab, I want you to keep in mind that not every problem can be solved with exercise alone. There are times when surgery is necessary for hip osteoarthritis or another diagnosis, and it can be life-changing. Similarly, sometimes bone stress injuries require a period of unloading or immobilization. For the most part though, rehab is going to have some overarching themes. Here are five things that most people should consider doing. One, modify aggravating activities, whether that's related to the gym, recreational and sporting pursuits, or day-to-day tasks. Some discomfort is usually acceptable during rehab, but if you're consistently pushing into unbearable pain and experiencing flare-ups, you probably need to temporarily scale back whatever it is that's giving you problems. Think of it as taking one step back so you can eventually take two steps forward. On the other hand, if you're a person who has restricted yourself from all exercise and activities for fear of worsening your condition, you might just need to give yourself permission to move. Two, identify if there's anything you can do that would positively influence your overall health. Sleep, stress, nutrition, alcohol intake, medication usage, and anything else that influences your health and well-being can also influence the onset and persistence of symptoms. My advice would be to reach for the lowest hanging fruit, start small, and write down your intentions so you can reflect on your progress each week. Three, implement targeted exercises to address any deficits in your strength, range of motion, confidence, etc. Exercise can also be used to improve your tolerance to specific activities such as walking, stair climbing, running, or playing sports. It doesn't have to be overly complicated. Oftentimes, one to three exercises performed a few times per week is a great starting point. Four, use feel-good treatments as needed, but you'll probably get the most benefit from the things that challenge you. Five, recognize that there's rarely a quick fix. Rehab often takes significant time, effort, and consistency. Before wrapping up, I want to remind you that we have full-length videos dedicated to most of these diagnoses, so check those out if you're looking for more in-depth information. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please hit that like button, subscribe, turn on notifications, and leave any comments down below. If you're looking for a rehab or performance program, or you're interested in working with us one-on-one, visit our website at e3rehab.com. Peace.