 In this video, i'm going to tell you why your knee hurts, and what you should do about it. There are timestamps for each diagnosis, so you can jump exactly to what you're looking for if you'd like. There are also timestamps toward the end of the video where I explain why knee pain happens in the first place, and the general strategies I recommend for rehab. And as a heads up, we have videos that are 15 to 30 minutes long about most of the diagnoses I'm going to talk about, so please check those videos out if you want more in-depth information. Let's start with the front of the knee by discussing patellofemoral pain, also known as runner's knee. Patello refers to your patella, or kneecap, while femoral refers to your femur, or thighbone. The patellofemoral joint is where these two bones meet. Therefore, patellofemoral pain is just a fancy way of saying that your knee hurts. It's usually non-traumatic in nature, with diffuse pain gradually presenting behind or around the patella, with squatting, jumping, running, or going up and down stairs. Symptoms may also be present with kneeling or prolonged periods of sitting, which has been labeled the movie theater sign. Imaging is not usually recommended. Rehab, consisting of exercise and education, is the focus of treatment. While joint noise is associated with patellofemoral pain and may be unpleasant or undesirable, it is not an indication that exercise is dangerous or harmful. Knee osteoarthritis is typically described as a degenerative joint disease associated with wear and tear of the cartilage within the knee joint. However, it should be thought of as a systemic condition as other factors influence symptoms and the progression of the disease, such as genetics and metabolic health. Plus, many of the structural changes seen on imaging that are associated with knee osteoarthritis are often found in people with no symptoms. Aside from pain that can present almost anywhere in the knee, common signs and symptoms include stiffness, swelling, reduced range of motion, and muscle weakness. Imaging is actually not required for the initial diagnosis, and non-operative management is considered the first line of treatment. Some options include education about prognosis and self-management strategies, aerobic and strengthening exercise, and weight loss. Depending on the severity of symptoms, these interventions may significantly delay or completely eliminate the need for surgery. Moving up, the quadriceps tendon attaches the muscles of the thigh, known as the quadriceps, to the top of the patella. Pain that is localized to this area is referred to as quadriceps tendinopathy. The term tendinopathy just means that there is persistent pain and a loss of function related to loading of the affected tendon, such as with jumping, squatting, kicking, etc. Tendinopathies usually occur as a result of relative overload or overuse. Think doing too much too soon. Tendinitis, used to indicate an inflammatory process, is not the preferred diagnostic term because acute inflammation is not believed to be the primary driver of the condition and may reflect the normal response to tendon loading and adaptation. Plus, people often associate inflammation with the need for ice, anti-inflammatory medication, and a complete rest, which are not the primary treatment strategies recommended. Tendinosis, used to indicate a degenerative process, is also not the most appropriate terminology as abnormalities on imaging can be found in people without symptoms and are not always predictive of future issues. Patellar tendinopathy, also frequently called jumper's knee, is similar except pain is localized just below the patella because the patellar tendon attaches from the bottom of the patella to the tibial tuberosity of the tibia or shin bone. Patellar tendinopathy is much more common than quadriceps tendinopathy. Imaging is not required for either diagnosis and the primary treatment strategies involve education and exercise. Oshkud-Slaughter disease is characterized by localized pain and swelling at the tibial tuberosity where the patellar tendon attaches. It is also painful to the touch. It is aggravated with exercises and activities that load the knee, which is why it's most prevalent in adolescent athletes, particularly those who specialize in a single sport. Infrapatellar fat pad syndrome, also known as Hoffa syndrome, refers to irritation or inflammation of the fat pad that sits behind the patellar tendon. Pain and swelling can occur along either side of the tendon. Causes can include surgery, a direct blow or fall to the area, a hyperextension injury, or activities that repetitively stress the structure. Symptoms may be felt with standing, walking, or activities that involve repetitive extension of the knee. Non-operatively, the primary treatment strategy is to try to offload the affected area to allow inflammation and symptoms to resolve. Let's start moving outward by discussing the medial meniscus toward the inside of the knee and the lateral meniscus toward the outside of the knee. Pain is typically described as being felt along the joint line. If you bend your knee, this is the space between the tibia and femur as you move away from either side of the patellar tendon. However, pain can also be present in the back of the knee. Traumatic injuries may need to be managed surgically in some cases, but degenerative meniscus tears, which are a natural feature of aging, should be treated non-operatively, as real surgery has proven to be no more effective than placebo surgery. On the outer portion of the knee, the iliotibial band, commonly referred to as the IT band, is named for its attachments to the ilium, or pelvis, and tibia. It is the lateral thickening of the fascia lata, which is the deep fascia that envelops the thigh like a sausage casing. The expansive nature of the IT band allows it to contribute to stability of the hip and knee, as well as store and release energy to make walking and running more economically efficient. Despite popular belief, IT band-related pain is not a friction syndrome due to tightness of the IT band that requires vigorous rolling or stretching. Although the exact mechanism isn't fully understood, it's thought that an error in workload, such as a large spike in running mileage or intensity, is a primary contributing factor. On the inner portion of the knee is the pesanserine. The pesanserine, which means goose's foot in Latin, is where the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles come together on the tibia. Pesanserine bursitis refers to inflammation of the bursa that sits underneath these tendons. A bursa is a small fluid-filled sac that helps reduce friction between structures. Tendinopathy of these tendons can also occur. Let's move on to the ligaments of the knee. Ligaments, which attach from bone to bone, provide passive stability to the knee joint. A sprain is an injury to one of these ligaments, such as the medial collateral ligament, lateral collateral ligament, anterior cruciate ligament, and posterior cruciate ligament. The medial collateral ligament, or MCL, is located on the inner part of the knee and consists of superficial and deep layers. The superficial portion is a long, flat band, while the deep portion is a continuation of the joint capsule with connections to the medial meniscus. Both have attachments on the femur and tibia. The MCL primarily acts to stabilize the knee against valgus and rotational forces. The most common mechanism of injury is a direct blow to the outside of the thigh or leg while the foot is planted, producing a valgus movement. An example is a player getting tackled in football. An injury can also occur when a valgus stress is coupled with tibial external rotation, such as during skiing or sports involving cutting and pivoting. In severe cases, other knee structures can be injured as well, including the medial meniscus, lateral meniscus, posterior cruciate ligament, and most commonly, the anterior cruciate ligament. Regardless of the severity of the injury, an isolated MCL injury can often be treated non-operatively due to its high intrinsic healing potential. The lateral collateral ligament, or LCL, is the analogous structure on the outer part of the knee. Like the MCL, the LCL helps to stabilize the knee against rotational forces. However, its primary function is to resist varus forces and it is less commonly injured. An injury to the LCL may occur from a direct blow to the inside of the knee while the foot is planted or from a non-contact mechanism during sport. The severity of the injury, the stability of the knee, and the involvement of other structures will influence whether or not surgery is needed. The anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, and its lesser-known counterpart, the posterior cruciate ligament, or PCL, are located within the knee and therefore cannot be palpated. Whether a suspected injury occurs while playing sport or during a motor vehicle accident, imaging is typically necessary. Newer research has demonstrated that surgery is not always required, but it's dependent on a variety of factors such as your goals and the stability of your knee. Regardless, rehabilitation is always recommended, including before and after surgery. Let's move on to the back of the knee. A Baker cyst is an accumulation of fluid that may be associated with swelling, pain, stiffness, and a sensation of tightness or fullness. For those experiencing symptoms, it is often secondary to an underlying issue such as knee osteoarthritis. Treatment can vary from doing nothing at all, to exercise and pain medication, to draining of the fluid and a steroid injection. Next is the popliteus. The popliteus is a small, deep muscle located on the back of the knee that contributes to stability of this region and is often described as the key to the knee for its role in unlocking or flexing the knee from a fully extended position. An isolated injury to the popliteus is rare, but if a strain or tendinopathy is suspected, modification of aggravating activities and a structured exercise program are recommended. The last diagnosis I'll touch on is distal hamstring tendinopathy. The hamstrings are the muscles on the back of the thigh that play a significant role in flexion or bending of the knee, and their tendons can be felt along either side of the knee. Although rare, localized discomfort of these tendons with flexion-based exercises or movements should be managed similarly to the other tendinopathies previously discussed. What about other diagnoses that I didn't mention? Well, here are three things to consider. One, I can't cover every possible diagnosis. For example, I didn't discuss fractures or other injuries that may require immediate medical attention. Two, a specific diagnosis or imaging finding doesn't always dictate management or rehabilitation. Two people may technically have the same diagnosis or imaging finding, but they might have significantly different symptoms, severity of symptoms, aggravating factors, functional capabilities, goals, lifestyles, etc. Oftentimes, the person dictates the rehabilitation process more than the diagnosis itself. Three, some diagnoses aren't always as useful as previously believed. For instance, a common concern for individuals with knee pain is chondromalacia patella. Chondro refers to cartilage, while malacia means softening. Therefore, chondromalacia patella refers to a softening or breakdown of the cartilage on the backside of the patella. However, a paper by van der Heiden et al in 2016 found no difference in composition of the patellofemoral cartilage between patients with patellofemoral pain and healthy control subjects. Some researchers and clinicians have actually suggested that we stop using the terminology. This information is important to know because sometimes a diagnosis or imaging finding can cause people to become fearful of certain movements, exercises, or activities. An example of this would be someone with knee osteoarthritis who stops exercising completely because they've read or heard that exercise wears out the joint faster. In reality, tolerable exercise is recommended for the knee and the overall health of the person. X-rays and MRIs have their place, but there are times when they can create unnecessary worry and lead to further medical tests or treatments that are unwarranted. It's also important for me to briefly point out that not all knee pain is related to the knee. Sometimes hip and low back issues can masquerade as knee pain. For example, a person with hip osteoarthritis may experience pain down the front of their thigh or in their knee. Now that I've reviewed the various diagnoses, you might be wondering why you developed knee pain in the first place. In the case of a traumatic injury, like a sudden ACL tear during sport, the ligament is unable to withstand the forces experienced in that moment. For non-traumatic cases, a simplified framework for why most injuries occur is that the volume, frequency, and intensity of loading over the course of days, weeks, or months exceeds your current capacity or your ability to recover and adapt appropriately. If you're an active individual, such as a regular runner, it might come down to doing too much too soon. For instance, if you normally run half marathons, but suddenly increase your total running mileage in preparation for a marathon that you want to do next month, that spike in training load may exceed your current capacity. As a result, perhaps you developed patellofemoral pain. But this process of doing too much too soon can also occur in less active individuals. For example, you might have decided to try a couch to 5K running program, or maybe you just went on a vacation that required a lot more walking and stairs than you're used to. As I said though, this is a simplified framework, and it's not always easy or possible to identify the exact cause of your symptoms. Plus, pain is complex and multifactorial. More than just physical load must be considered. Sleep, stress, nutrition, alcohol intake, medication usage, and anything else that influences your overall health and wellbeing can also influence the onset and persistence of symptoms. As I alluded to in the knee osteoarthritis section, there's been increasing research into how chronic systemic low-grade inflammation can impact different musculoskeletal diagnoses and symptoms. In some ways, this could be thought of as a good thing because it gives you more options for trying to address whatever issue you're dealing with. Before I outline my recommendations for rehab, I want you to keep these four things in mind. One, unfortunately, there's not always a quick fix. Rehab often takes significant time and effort. Two, there's usually nothing inherently wrong with you, meaning the shape of your feet or your knees or the way that you walk or whatever it may be probably isn't the reason for your symptoms. Rehab shouldn't make you feel bad about yourself or overly self-conscious about a part of your body. Three, if it sounds overly complicated, it probably is. Contrary to popular opinion, worrying about how your patella tracks or trying to isolate the activation of certain muscles like the VMO is unnecessary. Four, you rarely need anything fancy or expensive for recovery. The basics that I'm going to list work well. To avoid making this video any longer than it needs to be, here's a quick general blueprint for rehab. One, modify aggravating factors, whether that's related to the gym, recreational and sporting pursuits, or day-to-day tasks. Some discomfort is usually acceptable during rehab, but if you're consistently pushing into unbearable pain and experiencing flare-ups, you probably need to temporarily scale back whatever it is that's giving you problems. Think of it as taking one step back so you can eventually take two steps forward. However, if you're a person who has restricted yourself from all exercise and activities for fear of worsening your condition, you might just need to give yourself permission to move. Two, identify if there's anything you can do that would positively influence your overall health. My advice would be to reach for the lowest hanging fruit, start small, and write down your intentions so you can reflect on your progress each week. Three, implement targeted exercises to address any deficits in power, strength, range of motion, etc. Exercise can also be used to improve your tolerance to specific activities, such as walking, stair climbing, running, or playing sports. If you do incorporate an exercise routine, be sure to include exercises for your quads and hamstrings. Feel free to train your glutes, calves, and other muscles as well. Just don't exclude the muscles that actually cross your knee joint. Four, use feel-good treatments as needed, such as tape and massage, but you'll probably get the most benefit from the things that challenge you. Before wrapping up, I want to remind you that we have full-length videos dedicated to most of these diagnoses, so check those out if you're looking for more in-depth information. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video, please hit that like button, subscribe, turn on notifications, and leave any comments down below. If you're looking for a rehab or performance program, or you're interested in working with us one-on-one, visit our website at e3rehab.com. Peace. Peace. Peace.