Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, Big Paul here today with another episode of Contest Prep Files with Kevin Boudreaux. This week, we have Drew Donaldson, Kevin's coach in the gym coach who works with him on his programming with his weightlifting routine on the episode with us so we can talk about how the nutrition and that aspect of it fits in with the in-the-gym trening. Drew handles Kevin's in-the-gym trening. I handle his nutrition and supplementation so we will go through that part of his trening and see how it all fits together and this is a very good episode. We're 10 weeks out now from Kevin's show. Kevin's coming along. Still have a ways to go to get in ripped condition for the show. Before we get into that, I want to remind you folks about the science of... Before we get into that, I want to remind you folks about the Ultimate Cycle Cheat Sheet. It is a super simple, easy to follow programming of super supplementation with the Blast and Cruise methodology. It is 30 pages long with profiles, side effect mitigation, and suggested or sample cycles that are used on the pro level. It's very easy to understand, very easy to follow. You can grab it for 30 bucks, which is a super great price, really good value. If you want to head over there, it is on the Anabolic Bodybuilding website. The link is in the video description below. Only 30 bucks. Enough of that. Let's dig into Kevin's contest prep files. We're going to go through his diet and trening today in just one second. Let's watch some footage of Kevin's episode of Mr. Kevin B. All right, folks, back with another episode with Mr. Kevin B. What's up? What's up, guys? We got you guys. 10 weeks out, man. Yeah, and we got Drew Donaldson with us also. Drew is Kevin's, he handles Kevin's in the gym trening and does all Kevin's programming for his lifts and. Dream team. Dream team, right. So, honestly, really my focus is primarily diet. Like, that's my passion, that's what I love. We were talking about it a little bit before coming in and how, like, I think, like, the stuff that a lot of coaches and a lot of competitors forget is that at the end of the day, this is a bodybuilding contest. They're judging you on how you look on stage. Really, ultimately, that's what it really matter. Like, guys get obsessed with body fat percentages and macros and all this shit. And really, it's about, at the end of the day, where you look best in the pictures. So, that's really the ultimate guide for bringing people in on stage. And this is always kinda like the battle I fight internally. It's like, I used to be like, let's just get, let's just push the body fat as low as we possibly can. But sometimes that results in a worse look on stage is what I've seen. So, we have to sort of gauge where your best look is and what the judges are gonna like. So, I've seen guys sacrifice size to get shredded and then sometimes it's not always a good result. And then some dudes, it is a good result. It just depends on your body and we have to sort of have some nuance and use that as a guideline for where we're at. Ultimately, it's about where you look best and that's just kind of an objective thing. So, how was this week, Kevin? How did everything go this week? It was great. This week was, I had some really good workouts. I was super busy with work. So, Drew and I didn't get to connect as much as we wanted, but I was really busy with work and family, but I had great workouts, made progress, as far as a little bit of weight loss, fat loss. But overall, feeling good, slept well. This week was good. Yeah, I see your low weight was 220.6 this week. Low weight last week was 221.8. So, we're down about 1.2 pounds. So, we'll probably need to press things a little bit more. I like to track about two pounds a week until we're in show condition and then we can ratchet the food back up once we get all the body fat off. And that's kind of the direction I've been leaning this year, is just getting, and last year too, is just trying to get guys ready a couple of weeks early and then we can just sort of coast into the show and have you looking fresh, freshen up going into the show. Drew, can you go into detail a little bit about what you guys are doing with his programming right now and how you guys are handling that? Yeah, absolutely. So, I love to dive into the trening and trening from both an execution standpoint, what movements are being done in which way, why are we doing them that way, and then overall programming, not just an exercise selection, but what's the overall stimulus, what's the overall volume, what does the frequency look like? Because these are all the different levers that we can pull to just leverage different aspects of prep. And people, in my opinion, don't pay enough attention to that because the trening is gonna be synergetic with the diet. When we decided to kind of start going about this direction with Kevin's prep, we had a discussion where it was basically like, there needs to be one captain to the ship. So, the captain of the ship is gonna be the most crucial person for landing things where they need to land, and that's gonna be you dictating diet, supplements, et cetera, et cetera. So, it's my job to take the trening and get out of it what we need to get out of it with what we have going in, because a lot of what we have is food input, we have the fuel coming in, and then we have energy output, we have what we're actually expending. And there's certain times where we're not gonna focus directly on hypertrophy, and most of that is prep in general. You're not really gonna grow much in prep, except for that small kind of in-between where supplements come into play and we have that kind of magic in a bottle moment where we can gain some lean tissue while dropping some body fat. And some people will debate that, some people will swear it happens, some people will swear it doesn't happen. The fact of the matter is we've all seen people improve body parts in the early end of a prep when energy's a little bit higher, because the input, the food coming in is still there. So, it's kind of my job to look at things and go, what are we gonna do trening-wise to get the most bang for our buck with the fuel sourcing that we have coming in, while not runninGHim into the ground, while keepinGHis recovery where it needs to be in order for him to make the progressions that you need to see work to work. Because if I tank his recovery, if I just run him into the ground and just beat the living shit out of him, he's not gonna recover adequately. There's gonna accumulate a ton of oxidative stress. When there's oxidative stress, your body shuts down in a fat loss aspect. And then he's not gonna be maintaining any sort of rate of drop. Inflammation's gonna spike up. He's gonna get watery. He's gonna stop responding to everything, includinGHis supplements. So, that's one thing, not to be overdramatic about it, that we need to be careful of. We can't just go balls to the wall. At the same token, I'm very much not in this camp of incredibly low fatigue, incredibly low volume, low frequency, one set to failure per body part every six months or whatever. There's merit to high intensity, low volume. There really is, but there's a time and a place for it. So, right now, we look at it and we have, supplements are where they're at. We have supplements that are facilitating rapid recovery. That's part of bodybuilding. Those will potentially come up as we go. Now, at the same token, we have nutrition at a place where we haven't pulled in to an incredibly, incredibly low intake yet. So, we're not in competitive starvation at this point in time. We're in a deficit, but we also have the advantage of high days at certain points in time. And we have the advantage of, the food is at the highest point where it's likely going to be until we're not talking about carb ups or anything like that. And we have the introduction of supplements, which will likely titrate up. So, we have the ability to recover from a pharmacological aspect titrating up. We have food at a higher baseline than it's gonna be for most likely the rest of prep, give or take a few days where it might be higher just to facilitate glycogen reuptake and whatnot. So, in my opinion, that's the time where we have the most glycogen that we should be utilizing. We don't just have it to have it. We don't just have it so it's chilling there. So, right now is a time where we're gonna start titrating volume up. So, if anybody wants to argue that, IMean, comment and put your thoughts in by all means. IMean, it just, it creates good discussions as long as people aren't assholes about it. But even if they are, it makes funny conversations. But nonetheless, if you're gonna come in here and cite a bunch of studies that volume has to be incredibly low, let's call a spade a spade. How many of those studies are being done with drugs in the equation? None of them. So, that would be incredibly cool, but incredibly unethical. So, we know from practical experience that these things happen in these different settings. So, we have this ability to titrate volume up until food starts coming down. So, my game plan is to take the body parts that he needs to focus on the most in terms of that little bit of a window that we have to improve things right now, and most likely looking at it from a scenario of what do we need to maintain the most? What do we need to not lose? And then what do we need to perform better on? And starting there, but then going all the way down to the body parts that we just need to maintain. We're increasing volume steadily as we go. We're increasing intensity a bit, but we're utilizing things like incomplete rest. We're utilizing things like adding of supersets, utilizing things going back to incomplete rest, like cluster sets and different ways to really tax a muscle without necessarily going as hard and heavy as humanly possible, because the other thing to consider is, introducing PEDs, he's gonna get stronger. Getting stronger doesn't necessarily mean that we have to perform expressing all of that strength. In a purely off-season hypergraphy setting, maybe. In a contest prep setting, we need to be mindful that we don't rip all of his shit off the bone. We don't wanna beat the crap out of him. We don't wanna cause any injuries. So in my opinion, it's better in this situation, especially for a guy like Kevin that already tolerates fairly high volume, to first back off on the volume, create a baseline, create a frequency pattern, and create a baseline of movement patterns, and then express more volume through there as we go, and drive that volume up until the food comes down so much that we need to start driving the volume back, at which point maybe we switch the movements around and give him some novel stimulus to adapt to, give him some new motor patterns to adapt to. That in and of itself will cause a different stimulus to the muscle, and then from there, only ride volume up to what he can handle. So it's about building up right now, driving some really gnarly trening sessions while the food's high and while the PEDs are kicking in, and then just managing volume from there to be the maximum volume that he can recover from, knowing that that ability to recover is gonna be going down as he has to focus more on output and just burning fatty tissue and keeping lean tissue. Yeah, that makes a ton of sense, man. I love hearing you say that. I always looked at it that there's a couple knobs you can turn on the amplifier. There's food, there's trening, there's rest recovery, there's supplements. So you have all these that you can have. And kind of like my thought process with the food and the cardio has always been just enough to get the job done. We don't wanna mount up fatigue. I would rather him have the extra energy to work and hit the weights harder. That's kind of like my thought process is I don't know how you feel about it too, but like the volume too, and this is another thing that people don't consider when they're on contest prep, that's also burning calories too. 100%. So even if we look at, not to turn this into like a deep dive into cellular respiration, but if we look at how your body creates energy, if we're driving glycolysis, if we're driving through energy and creating a demand faster than we can technically recover that ATP phosphocreatine system from. Basically, if we're doing supersets, if we're doing incomplete rest sets, cluster sets, if we're keeping rest periods fairly low, will we be able to generate as much intensity set to set? No, not necessarily, but that's driving up AMP. So again, keeping it simple, we need to make ATP, ATP from ADP, ADP from AMP. So if we're driving AMP really high, that's creating an incredible need for energy expenditure, and we're burning through more substratEQuicker. We're burning through more glycogen quicker. We burn through more glycogen quicker, we create the need to store more glycogen intramuscularly, then we can handle more carbohydrates. And from there, overall, more caloric expenditure, just like you said, so that tapping into the overall calorie intake is happening at a much higher rate than if we're resting, going, resting, going. And again, I'm not damning that style of trening. I'm just saying, well, food is really high in an offseason or contest prep, or just you wanna call it like a shred phase for somebody that might not be competing, but doing the same things. This is gonna be, in my opinion, the best way to tren while those are the current settings that you're in. So there's always gonna be the consideration of current settings, what's going on everywhere else, food intake, lifestyle, PEDs, general supplements, recoverability of the individual, that stuff all has to be taken into consideration. Yeah, I 100% agree. And like I said at the beginning, it ultimately boils down to what the look is on the stage. And what I've seen, this style of trening, along with keeping the food, or at least the carbs in as where we can, results in the best look at the end on stage, a full, hard look on stage. And that's ultimately what we want. Yeah, and that's just what I've seen. IMean, really, if you look at it, like every top pro, essentially the kind of the trening, the supplements, the food, the style of dieting is very similar. All the guys are, IMean, there's some nuance between different, how different guys are doing it, but it's all pretty much the same shit, ultimately. Yeah, 100%, 100%. And again, back to that cellular process. If we're just drivinGHard, high volume trening with relatively low rest, the higher we activate AMP, the more AMP activates AMPK. So we all know that we have mTOR and we have AMPK. mTOR, that's anabolism, basically, that's building muscle. That's great for your offseason. We're not trying to build muscle right now. We're trying to nail conditioning. We're trying to drop body fat. We're trying to maintain the tissue that we have. So we should be chasing AMP at this level. Like we should be chasing after that to drive AMPK. So adenosine monophosphate is the ticket to driving AMPK, which is the ticket to driving fat loss. Yep, 100%, I agree with you, 100%. All right, Kevin, let's take a look at the pictures this week. Have you, just a quick question for you, have you started working with a opposing coach yet or no? I'm going to be this upcoming week, actually. That's another one of my pet peeves, man. It's like, guys, you gotta get the posing nailed down. There's definitely some stuff I would correct on the posing. Yeah, you're looking leaner than you were last week. Like I can kind of see the lower abs are starting to come in a little bit. I think you're kind of like me, man. Like the back is the last place we lose fat. You got that shoulder up again, man. You gotta work on that. I see that one shoulder is cocked up. I'm having some ongoing body work done. Yeah, a lot of guys have that. I have that problem too. And I have to like mentally remind myself to keep the shoulder down. That's something I have to do. And what it does is you can see like your left lat, it makes your left lat look smaller when you do that. So you want to think about pulling your scapula apart and keeping that shoulder down a bit. Cause like when you pull it up like that, you're almost like shrugging, like you're doing a shrug on that left-hand side. So just kind of relax, but yeah, some body work will help with that. But that's just something to mentally keep in mind when you're doing that pose. And I know we talked about it before. Like I think, you know, this is another thing I think guys get a little confused about. Like you do need to lean back just a little bit, but it's more so tilting your rib cage up than it is actually leaning back. When you shift that rib cage back, think about keeping your chest high when you do your back poses. And that, what that'll do is present your back at a better angle for the judges and make your back look bigger. I think, you know, and too, like with the controlling the midsection, this is the time when you're on these back poses to let your, to get your breath and let your midsection relax a bit and then keep it tight on the trensitions. So it's just kind of a thought process there. Yeah, you gotta keep control of that stomach and be a little bit up forward. With this outside arm, rather than bowing it like that, I would keep it back just a little bit. And then you wanna get a little bit more of a turn up top. You're actually making yourself look smaller by doing that. So I'm trying to think, you wanna think about turning your chest towards the stage. I think we talked about this before, but this, what this will do is make you look bigger wider, we went width from the side. So think, you almost want to be uncomfortable. You want yourself turned so far that you're uncomfortable. You should be able to see that side lateral belt from the front pose on the back shoulder. And the same thinGHere, like you're, this is another thing that too, like guys will make themselves look small on the side chest pose. I can see you're kind of ducking down and leaning down a little bit. Rather than leaning down, think about keeping that back leg tall and standing tall. And you want to twist. Once again, you wanna twist to make yourself look wider. So that's just some thoughts on the posing there. And that's another aspect that people forget. Not only is this diet conditioning, this is also a presentation when you're on stage. I've seen guys literally lose places because of opposing mistakes. So I would stay on top of it. I'm not saying I'm the posing expert, but those are just some things. I don't know why guys, like they kind of like crouch up when they're on stage sometimes. And I noticed you're doing that. Like they make themselves look small. You want to look big. You want to look wide. So these side poses really, like you think about twisting and getting that V taper and making yourself look wide. Chris Bumstead is so fucking good at it. He just like, I always use him as the example, but he's just really good at makinGHimself look big. Cause like when you, I don't know if you guys, have you met him before? When you see him up close, you're like, wow, he's not that big. I'm not sayinGHe's small by any means, but I think IMight be bigger than he is. He just is so good at presentinGHis physique. He just, you know, and he gets shredded. He just, he's just so, he's just brilliant at presentinGHis physique. I'm going to see if I can find a picture of him here. Here's a really good picture of him doing a side chest and you'll see what I'm saying. I'm going to bring this one up. So, and this is what I'm talking about here. See how he gets the twist where he's twisted and he keeps this. This is another thing too, with the grip, you want to grab your wrist, not your hand on the side. And you want that arm tucked right up under your rib cage and see how he's pulling that back shoulder towards his pec to make his pec flex and bigger. And then twisting around where you can actually see that lateral delt from the real shoulder from the front and makinGHimself look wide. You can see how tiny his waist looks. And then we go back to where you are. See how you're kind of making yourself look small here. But IMean, you got a big chest. So this is just, you know, just some little stuff. This is some little nuance stuff. Yeah, 100%. Posing is, it's, I think it's very hard and I always have to get a coach. I worked with one even in the offseason for a little bit, but yeah, it's something that I always have to work on. You know, just some core principles. Just think about making yourself look big. Balance, making sure that things are balanced. I like filming myself when I pose. I'm the guy in the posing room with my tripod, but it's not because, you know, I'm trying to be a social media superstar or anything. It's like, I can go back in and look at it with a critical eye. Because a lot of times you don't realize you're making mistakes. No, it's great practice. And also the trensitions, like that's, that's where recording, it really helps me is work out the trensitions from pose to pose. And I was a musician in college when I first degree was in music. And there was always a thing in music we talked about constantly. It's not practice that makes perfect. It's perfect practice that makes perfect. So if you're practicing the wronGHabits over and over, those wronGHabits are going to appear when you get on stage. So you need to think about that too. So like, you want to make sure that you're practicing the right things. Because if you continue to rehearse and do repetition at the wrong way of doing it, you're going to do the way when, when your brain's on autopilot and muscle memory kicks in on stage, you're just going to revert to those bad habits. So you really have to be conscious of how you're practicing stuff. So that's why I think having the game tape, going back and looking at the video is helpful. You can go back and see, see where your, where your cues are. Just some, some cues. Like I always tell people build from the leg up, legs up, set your legs first. Think about controlling your midsection, blowing all the air out, controlling your midsection. Be always aware of your midsection. I know for you, like from having the hernia and stuff, that's probably going to be something you need to be mindful of. Yeah, I actually had diastasis. So I had the separation. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. So your abs are pulled apart. Yeah, and then I had to get them stitched back together. I actually went to the same surgeon as Chris Bumstead, but he, the surgeon told me, he's like, you didn't have a hernia, you had diastasis, which is worse. So yeah, that's something, it's, it's, it's something I'm probably going to have to get redone eventually. If you look at like almost every top open pro, like 90% of them have diastasis, probably from all the food. I think, you know, I don't know how you feel about it, Drew, but I see a lot of guys, bodybuilders, they wear the bodybuilding belts. This is one of my buddies who's an exercise physiologist. So they're narrow on the front and they pull them down tight over the waist. And where do you see the diastasis happen? It rips apart at the top. So you have all this abdominal pressure from doing deadlifts and squats that just is getting pushed out from the top. Sometimes I think for bodybuilding, that belts might actually be worse. And cause problems. Or if you're going to wear a belt, I would wear a wide one, like a power lifter belt to cover up that waist to keep the core tight. I don't wear one anymore. I just, I just think it's, you know, I've seen too many guys blow their weight. Like I also think that's, cause you think about it, you're creating pressure and you're pushing all your organs up when you're doing that, man, with that low bodybuilding narrow style belt on the front. Whereas like the big power lifting belts are probably going to help keep, it's really the whole idea with the belt is to have something to brace against. Anyway. I think that's one of those things where people want to wager their opinion on generalities as far as belts. And then that goes into the entire conversation of waist treners and all that stuff as well. And the fact of the matter is it's like, there's no, you need to do this to do that. And there's no, this is how you do this. These are all tools and they all do different things. So situationally, like the in bodybuilder style belts or the, one of the ones you just got, like the exporting goods that have the really thick back and then really tiny in the front. Like it's like the, my first belt kit, kit for weightlifting. To me, I feel like those have less of a place. I think if you're going to wear a belt, like you were saying, the big thick power lifting belt that you can actually brace against is going to be ideal, but that's something you should use when you need it. So when you see guys wearing those belts, when they're doing like bicep curls, to me, that's like, well, we have somewhat of a stability issue where you're just trying to look cool. If you're doinGHeavy deadlifts, and I'm not sayinGHeavy deadlifts don't belong in any sort of bodybuilding program. I think case specifically they do in some cases, or if you need them for anything with an axial load pushing down your spine, by all means, but know how to use them. IMean, you're not just putting it on super tight. Like it's like a knee sleeve. You're trying to, like you said, brace into it. There's other situations where if you have really poor control over your core, there's a belt, I'm not affiliated with the company. So it's not a plug called the breath belt, where it's kind of like a, it's like a thicker material neoprene looks like a waist trener, but it's there specifically to cue your breathing. So you can breathe into something that's not gonna give you an artificial amount of support to a huge degree. So there's always these different situations. What do you need it for? Do you need it because you need to do these movements and you can't do it without it because of injury history or because of a weak core? Do you need to do it because you need to work on your breathing? There's all these specific situations that might call for them, but the fact that, oh, I'm in prep. So I need to put on a waist trener because it's gonna shrink my waist, which it doesn't. You can't just do that to expect a given result. Tools are tools for a reason. I don't just go to build a house and just take a hammer. Cause I'm like, okay, I'm gonna use the hammer for everything. I'm gonna use a hammer when I need a hammer. Yeah, you got a good point on the waist treners. The thing with the waist treners, I think what they do is they make you aware of keeping your core tight. Yes, 1000%. It's not that it shrinks your waist. It makes you aware of keeping that core tight. I'm not a huge fan of them, but you're cutting circulation off to the area where you probably need to burn fat and people forget the blood flow is part of the oxidative process. If anything, I would wear a neoprene wrap or something around my waist to help bring some heat to the areas and blood flows increased, but yeah. No, I agree. Yeah, and that's another thing like I was gonna ask you about, Drew. I think a lot of people forget to, and this is the kind of the hectic and bipolar style of trening that most bodybuilders do. Like I see like power lifters, I see CrossFit guys, they were very specifically trened for their sport. Football player, they all have programming that's made to optimize their results in their sport. And like, it's funny to me, like a lot of dudes that are bodybuilders they have no direction in their trening. It's like, they forget that like our primary job is hypertrophy, right? We want to get bigger. They forget about that. And then they can't decide if they're a power lifter or if they're a CrossFitter. And they tren with this just crazy methodology that just makes no sense whatsoever for our sport. I see very few people that actually tren with any sort of purpose for bodybuilding that are bodybuilders. Now the problem is that the water's getting muddied based on the fact that it's one of the few endeavors where you could really fuck it up and still do okay. And in some cases you can really fuck it up and still do really good. And that's what- Genetics are good. 100%. We see that in the coaching industry a lot. And I know you guys know exactly what I'm talking about because sometimes you'll have coaches of different levels and they might be unknown local guys. They might be very prominent coaches where you'll read through a trening split that they might write. And then you literally just go, I, what the fuck is this? But then you look at the guys that they're producing and there's a lot of good guys and girls that they're getting great shape. They look good. The problem is, and we see this a lot of it on the more of the local level, like newer coaches. Like you go to a regional show in the middle of whatever, Idaho. And there's two or three local teams. You never heard of them, but they got 80 clients. And it's like, Oh, these guys are doing really good. And then you see what they're actually applying. And it's like, Oh, geez, like what's going on here? And the fact of the matter is what's going on here. And the reason why you see it more like the local or the regional level is that local regional shows, they get a lot of people that if a specific town area region County has a big bodybuilding season, a lot of shows pop up, especially now where Instagram fitness and the gym industry, they're driving fitness as a very treny thing. More and more people are getting into these regional level shows, which is awesome. It's great for the MPC. It's great for the sport in general. It's generating more interest. When people get involved, what's the thing that everybody does now? And I'm not gonna damn it because I'd be out of a job. I do more lifestyle, but it would just be a shot to the industry where people go and hire a coach, which is why there's such a prominent just amount of jobs in the coaching industry. When somebody hires a coach, they're usually coming from a place where they've either had limited experience or no experience with PEDs or super supplements before. And most likely they're coming into a situation where they're either copying workouts randomly that they saw on like YouTube or on Instagram, or they're just going in on arm day and doing arm movements and they're changing that week by week. They start working with somebody that's giving them some sort of structure. And now for the first time ever, they're trening with consistency. It might be a terrible program, but they're doing similar movement patterns week by week by week by week and progressing on them. And they have elevated levels of androgens in their body. And they might have growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in their body. They might have X, Y, Z peptide in their body. So now what you have is for the first time ever, they have this elevated hormone level that's gonna drive faster results. They're in a caloric deficit, which is gonna show increase in definition because energy in versus energy out. And they're doing a plan, be it a good plan or a bad plan with consistency. So what happens? They get relatively lean and they show their muscles more and they feel the progress. They get a little bit stronger. They see the movements going up because they're doing them in a linear fashion for the first time ever. And they go, oh my God, this works awesome. But they'recomparing it to following no program whatsoever. So the long winded point is any program in what we do works. It's gotta be really bad to not work at all. Like it's gotta be really bad to not work at all. Any program works, but what a lot of people do is they see, they get a D minus on the exam that they've done nothing but fail before. And they think D minus is the best score humanly possible. They don't know that if you do things differently, you can get a C plus or a B plus or even an A plus because they only know what they know because anything works to an extent. So that's why we need to kind of fight against the grain of that and be a little bit more hyper-specific than just going in and winging it. Cause you can go in muscle confusion, the weeders, you can go in and do a different workout every single day and just get really, really sore. And at the end of like six months, you'll still look fairly muscular assuming that your eating is relatively in line and that you're taking PEDs. But there's relatively muscular for the individual, which like you said, genetically could be very muscular for a normal person. And there's the potential that that can increase too. So people are just, they're leaving a lot on the table by thinking that what they get from crap is the best that they can do as opposed to an actual elite level trening program. And if you want to step forward, like if you want to actually up your level, like when you go from a local show, like if you want to compete for the overall at a local show, you got to take your game up a notch. If you want to step on that national stage, you got to take your game up even further. You want to be on the pro stage, it's even more attention to detail, especially if you don't have super high-end genetics. Like the guy like Ronnie Coleman will be the worst example of, the people that are the super freaks, the guys with the high-end genetics are in, it's funny, cause I laugh, cause guys will model themselves, try to model their programs, their protocols, their diet after the super freak. And I'm like, that's the absolute wrong kind of copy. Cause you know, it's like the analogy I like to use is it's like modeling your basketball game after a seven foot tall guy. You don't have to be that fucking good at basketball if you're seven feet tall, right? You know, if you're five nine, you got to have your shit buttoned up. You know, you got to be on point with everything. And so like, and not, you know, like I'd say like I have mid-level, slightly above average genetics, I don't know. But it's so, you know, it's like every time I've advanced a level, I've had to tighten things up and be even more detailed with shit. And that's just kind of, you know, it just blows my mind that most guys don't get that. They see the formula in front of them and they just don't get it. Well, I think at this day and age, for some reason, despite the fact that we can all acknowledge that there are actual things that are meaningful, we still underestimate the livinGHell out of genetics and out of drugs. And it's crazy. There's this whole other, you know, in the optimal movement movement on the internet right now. And I very much consider myself a science guy, but I hate most of the science guys cause they're part of my language, fucking dorks. And they're pretentious, but not at all. I'm with you. You ever noticed that none of them were ever big either? No, never. Cause the fact of the matter is, you have these guys that they'll read a few studies and they'll get a decent comprehension of them. And they'll go, okay, I kind of understand this now. They'll read a few more studies. They understand some like biological patterns and they go, okay, cool. This is how we do it. This is perfect. And then I always say, it's like, yeah, what you're saying works. There's a bunch of studies that prove it. Yeah, it absolutely works. But they haven't studied absolutely every fucking way to possibly do something to prove that that's the best. You're looking at a very limited like sect of studies here. And now you're swearing up and down and going back to like the undermining of genetics and everything like that. You know, there's the one kid that said that, you know, Jay Cutler would have been 20 times better if he didn't tren like a buffoon. And it's like, all right, dude, that is the dumbest shit I've ever heard in my life, especially coming from like a 23-year-old kid that's been trening for like two years. That's a specific guy I'm thinking of. I actually, I don't know him at all. I blocked him on Instagram despite never speaking to him because I was sick of the shit popping up. I saw recently, Phil Viz eviscerated him in a debate or something like that. I didn't like it. I saw Phil annihilate him. That was hilarious. It's funny because they always justify themselves, you know, like, well, you know, just because I'm not big doesn't mean I don't know what I'm talking about. I'm like, well, that is true, but, you know, if your shit works so well, you'd probably be a little bit better developed. Slightly. Just a little bit. It would be somewhat impressive, or you would have a track record of guys that you've produced that prove that your method's the best ever. So it's just one of those things where I don't like anybody that will motherfuck any system other than their own, unless that system is somebody claiming that you can eat nothing but, like, Doritos and get shredded or some dumb shit like that. Technically, you can if you're in a caloric deficit, so you can't even say that. I do love bodybuilding. IMean, it's just something I'm passionate about, but that's one of the reasons why I wanted to compete, too. I just wanted to prove that my words weren't empty, that there is, you know, I actually practice what I preach, and I've gotten out there and done it, and I'm not asking anybody to do something that I haven't done myself. Right, and I think too many people are missing the buck on that now just because there's so much money to be made. Like, I've followed bodybuilding since I was a teenager, since like the late 90s is when I kind of fell in love with it, and I loved comic books. I loved pro wrestling. I was a pro wrestler for a little while. I worked for WWE for a little while, and I was just impressed by the dudes that looked like superheroes. So that's what got me into bodybuilding. Now, I never, ever had any desire to compete in bodybuilding, never. Like, I thought it was super cool. I had no desire to get on stage. By the time I wrapped up with WWE, I was done with the look at me stuff. I didn't want to be the center of attention anymore. But when I started working with Ben at MI40 and started finding myself coaching more bodybuilders, I didn't want to be the guy that did it just because I got it. So I did a few shows. Like, I did full preps. I coached myself. I worked with a few people, and I learned the ins and outs from the firsthand experience to do it. Now, I got completely fucking murdered. I have the worst structure on the planet. I couldn't fill out my frame. Like, I got destroyed every time that I did it. It's not for me. I can get pretty big. I can get pretty lean, but I have the least pretty physique in the history of physique. It's not for me, and I'm realistic. But I did it because I wanted to know what it felt like because I wanted to be able to tell people what it feels like. So I pushed myself quite a few times, and I did it. And, you know, now I'm done with it. And does it mean I'm done doing bodybuilding things? I'm trying to get down to 6% body fat right now just for the fuck of it, just because, you know, most of it's a write-off for me, so not as well. But, you know, you gotta walk the walk at some point. I really think you have to. And if you're 22 years old and you've been trening for two years, you haven't walked the walk. You need to be learning. You need to be working with coaches. You need to be reading shit other than just the latest study and claiming you're an expert. You need to get that practical experience. But that's a lot of hiring. I've been doing this for 30 years. I'm still learning from people. I'm constantly paying for memberships, checking out other people's stuff, learning from people. IMean, I, you know, what do they say? The more you know, the less you knew is the saying. IMean, you should always be learning. All right, Kevin, let's take a look at the diet. Let's see. I'm thinking I wanna be a little more aggressive this year with getting you ready earlier. I don't have to do anything crazy, but I'm gonna lower the food just a tad. If we have you ready earlier, we can push the food back up, but I'm just gonna drop the carbs by 10 grams per meal for the firsT4 meals. Nothing crazy. Yeah, I was thinking of the exact same type of adjustment. Yeah, so that's a small one. You know, it's funny. Sometimes these small changes, you would, on paper, it doesn't seem like it would move you forward. This is another one of these areas where the science doesn't always match up. So we're talking about 40 grams of carbs. What is that, 160 calories? That, on paper, doesn't seem like it should do much, but watch what happens. Yeah, it always does. Yep, I bet your weight comes back down. Yeah. And then sometimes what I like to do is I'll yank carbs out of some of the other days, and then we'll fill them back in on the high day when we get towards the end, or we'll add in, if we need to put in extra refeed days, we'll put in extra refeed days as you get depleted. And I really like using that. One of the things I like doing, you know, so like the, if we go back to the low day. Sorry about that. The low day is actually, if we look at it, the low day is no carbs. I like using that day for my fat-burning day. We talked about it before. But the high day, really, to me, that is a recovery day. I don't like guys doing cardio on that day. I usually say skip the fat burners. Early in the prep, it's not as important because fatigue is not so high. But I would say, you know, that day, to me, is a recovery day. I want you to sleep. I want you to replenish glycogen. I want you to have a good workout, all those things. And we use the other days for fat-burning. And really, the low day is kind of like the day I like to push the fat-burning. That's kind of my thought processes. And that way, we can limit the amount of days like where you're in a deep deficit. And I find that sort of helps manage fatigue long-term when we do it like that. That's just kind of what I've seen in Drew. And then, something I'll count on you for as we get deeper into the prep is just to keep me posted on where fatigue is at and how the performance in the gym is going. And we can balance that with the nutrition and supplements and stuff. And that all comes down to basically like where are we at in terms of how he's feeling and how he's recovering? How is he looking? Is he looking more just drawn out and just beaten up? And at that point in time, it's gonna be. So one of those things where it's really, and then we'll work a little bit more in tandem at that point in time so I can be more on the fly based on what needs to happen with the food. But at that point in time, it's basically really becoming a matter of getting the absolute most out of the absolute least and just lettinGHis movement, lettinGHis generALCARdio, his low intensity, steady state, eat everything up. One thing I wanna backtrack and give you a little bit of extra props for, because you mentioned it on my podcast too. And it was just one of those things where I was like, why doesn't everybody fucking do this? This is great. Is pulling the fat burners on the high days. Because in my experience, most people I've talked to just kind of keep them in or are just chasing saturation goes on everything. On that high day, that's boosting and spiking everything anyways. So why wouldn't you wanna just pull out the extra stuff, if not for any other reason than if they're stims, to give your CNS a little bit of a break from the stims on the day that they're gonna do the least anyways. And if anything, they're gonna just facilitate a less appropriate loading of muscle glycogen. So pulling those out, it's such a simple thing. But I feel like I glanced over it a little bit when you mentioned it on my podcast. But it was like, dude, that's so huge. And so many people don't even consider that. They're just saturation dose, saturation dose, saturation dose. Nah, man, like there's an acute thing that, drugs have acute effects and we can leverage those and we can leverage them in a good way or we can leverage them a bad way if we're not paying attention. That little attention to detail, dude, so underrated. I hope somebody is listening to this or watching this right now that they've never thought of that before. They just start doing it because that's a potential game changer, as crazy as that sounds. Yeah, that was a little trick I picked up from AJ Sims. AJ was like, why are you taking fat burners on a high day? You're not burning fat on that day. That's a recovery day. Let that be. And then, yeah, you think about it. Like if I recall correctly, I don't wanna get into too much into the details, but some of the stuff we do could, like you said, could impact glycogen synthesis. Some of the fat burning agents that we use could hinder glycogen synthesis. And look, we're gonna deplete the glycogen over the next couple of days anyway. You'll probably be back down. And that's another thing too, like I've seen with performance, why you can push a little harder at the beginning because you do have energy substrate you can tap into. You still have fat you can burn. Glycogen should still be in a place. As you get leaner though, that gets to be more of a problem and we have to manage that and be conscious of that because when we get down to where you're in single-digit body fat, there isn't a lot of body fat for you to tap into. Glycogen gets depleted and then there's only one place left to pull energy from and that's converting amino acids into glucose through gluconeogenesis, which is not what we want. And I think that's another area where guys get themselves twisted up in the knots. I remember the old diets back in the day where guys would eat a shit ton of protein and no carbs. Essentially what that was doing is they were filling in the gap for the no carbs through the protein and that excess protein was probably just being converted to glucose through gluconeogenesis. And then you end up in a situation where you have, it's a very hard to digest carbohydrate is essentially what you're doing. You're eating a shit ton of protein causing gut distension, all kinds of other issues. So pull the protein back a little bit and just eat some fucking carbs. At the end of the day, you're probably gonna have a better result with your glycogen synthesis, your gut's gonna feel better, all of these other things. People aren't realizing the multitude of effects that that has because when you're going through that gluconeogenesis process, that's a stressful process. That takes a lot of effort from your body. That's creating a lot of oxidative stress just to be able to create that means to get energy that way. And then on top of that, it's all the extra digestive load, like you were saying to break down the protein, which is also driving up inflammation and oxidative stress. So now we have this multitude of different things that are driving up stress response. That's more stuff you have to recover from. That's not preserving muscle tissue and losing body fat. That's more systems doing other things and managing the mess that you're making as opposed to what you need to get done. So yeah, that's spot on. So gluconeogenesis is basically a survival mechanism. It's not a simple repress. It's a starvation protection, right at the end of the day. And so that's just something that we have to keep mindful of. So we have to be, and that's why I think when you get towards the end of prep, you have to be a little more judicious with these refeeds and stuff. You might need to do a high day every fifth day. You might need to sprinkle in a half high day, which we've done before. Yep. There are times. So we have to be really, really careful. And you can, I've talked about it before, you can smell the odor off your body when you're in gluconeogenesis. You'll smell like ammonia. Part of the byproduct of breaking down the amino acids into glucose, the waste product is ammonia, which is terrible for you too. I can't remember what it was. Dr. Dean was telling me, Dean St. Mark was telling me about a supplement that you can use to help with clearance of ammonia. But you can smell it. You can smell it in your breath. You can smell it in your body odor. You've been around, like anybody that's played sports, you've been through a hard practice where you come out and your clothes smell like ammonia. That's a sign that you've been in gluconeogenesis. Ammonia is a waste product from that process. Okay, so I think we're good there. I think I'm just gonna leave the cardio alone, Kevin. What I'd really like you to do, if you can, is to try to get in posing sessions every day. I like doing them post-workout, but it's up to you. Sometimes I'll do them post-cardio. I like post-workout because I've already got a pump. I can kind of feel my, I have a better connection with my muscles then. I think that's a good time to do it. But I just, usually I start off with one round of everything. Then I go to two. Get with the posing coach, probably like once a week, I would say. And then start filming yourself posing so you can go through a critique. Just remember to make yourself look big. I think that's the big thing. Control that waste. I know that's always gonna be an issue with you, but I really would like to polish up the presentation this year so you can present yourself best on stage. All right, anything else, guys? Anything you want, any questions you had, Kevin? Anything you wanted to touch on, Drew? No, not here. No, full steam ahead on my end, man. Yep, I think this is, I think we're in a good spot right now. We'll, I probably, in the next couple weeks, we might take a week where we do a hard push, depending on how you're feeling. I would like to have you ready early this year. Maybe we can play around with that a little bit, but maybe we do a week where we just do a big calorie drop. Just for one week, put the food back in the next week, put a little extra cardio in and see if we can just get a bunch of fat off of you in that week, if you're feeling good. I like that idea, because when you said that, it makes more sense to me to do that earlier on or midway through, because it's usually by six weeks out, four weeks out, three weeks out, when you really start feeling things catch up. And that's when you don't wanna drop food dramatically, because you're probably already low at that point. I like the idea. I'm completely down for some experimentation. Yeah, I played around with that on my prep last year. We did a week where we yanked everything, but the pre and post-workout carbs, pulled the fat down really just for one week, because I had stubborn back fat that just wouldn't come off. And it's like that one week of doing that, it completely changed my physique. And then we pushed the food back up and it got in there. So these are some things that we can play around with. Yeah, I like that idea. All right, folks, that's all we got for you today. Drew, where can people find you on social media? So I'm at DDTMethod on Instagram and on YouTube. So if you need somebody to help you with your program, programming, get with Drew. Kevin, where can people find you? Yeah, I'm most active on Instagram as well. So Kevin M. Boudreau is my handle. Kevin's in Instagram prison right now, but hopefully he's free soon. I got two more days. What did you do? And we'll talk about it off here. We gotta be careful. Nothing as bad as you think. All right, folks, we'll see you on the next episode. Take care.