warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, Big Paul here today with another contest prep update video from my client, Kevin Boudreaux. This one is from 11 weeks out for Kevin's show. We talk about his diet, his current trening, and other things. I give some critique on his posing and some other stuff that we talked about during this video. And pull back the curtain so you can see the behind the scenes relationship with Kevin and I and how we adjust things on contest prep to get him shredded for his show. And you can follow along. I have another series up too with my client, Mike Horner. We're gonna do a live stream with Mike with a Q&A for that one as well. I hope you enjoy both of these. I think this is some good insight on how contest prep works and how we go through getting guys lean for shows. Before we get into that, I wanna let you guys know about the sale that I'm having on the Science of Antibiotics and PEDZ course. This is the cheapest that you're gonna find it. It is 30% off currently, $105 off the price. This is the cheapest that it's going to be all year outside of Black Friday. So if you've been waiting to pick up the Science of Antibiotics and PEDZ course, now is the time to do it. Link is in the video description below. Use code MEMORIAL30 to get 30% off for the Memorial Day sale. This is the biggest sale of the year. The course has over 100 modules and 60 or so hours of content, science-based content on PEDZ and anabolics. I think you're gonna love the course. Go check it out at my website, anabolicbodybuilding.com. Link is in the description below. All right, enough of that, folks. We're gonna dig into Kevin's contest prep update in just one second. All right, folks, Big Paul back here with my client, Kevin Boudreau again, and we are doing another update on his contest prep. We are, what, 11 weeks out now? That should be correct, yeah. Yeah, so we are getting closer. I usually, kind of like this first part of prep is just, to me, it's just getting thEQuick, cheap, easy fat loss. A lot of times you don't have to really do anything. You don't even have to use any fat burners. Just tighten the diet up a little bit and doing some cardio, and you'll get fat loss. And as long as the scale's moving, I usually just don't even change anything. And it looked like your new low weight this week was 221.8. I usually go by the low weights. I compare the low weights from week to week, and you were 224.1 was the low weight last check-in. So we're down two pounds. It's one of the low weight. So overall, you're tracking two pounds in the past week, and that's kind of what my goal is, usually one to two pounds per week on contest prep. So I'd say we're in a perfect spot. I don't think we need to make really, we can review where the diet's at. I don't know that we really need to make any changes. I do like to incrementally add in a little bit of cardio just to kind of keep things moving. And in the initial part of that prep, some of it's fat, some of it's water that you're dropping off to, because just from the compound changes, so there's things that are going on. But a lot of it's just from clening the diet up and doing a little bit of cardio. You're going to pull some water off at the beginning. Right now you're doing 25 minutes of cardio, right? Correct. All right, let me pull this up. I just want to, I always like to confirm, just to be sure. So we're at 25 minutes of cardio right now. So we'll go ahead and yank that up to 30. I just make these little five minute jumps. We'll leave, right now with the diet, we're doing 50 grams of protein total. I always reiterate this. This is only direct macros. I'm not counting the trace protein from the carbs. I know there's a couple of grams of protein in the rice. We're not counting that. And we're not counting the trace fats and the protein. Proteins stay as lean as you possibly can get them. Usually chicken breast, cod, protein shakes, things like that. And carbs are mostly rice-based or potato-based stuff. We're at 315 grams of carbs on the medium days and 28 grams of added fat from EFAs, predominantly on the medium days. The medium days are any lifting day that's a non-high day. And we do one high day a week. Usually I like to time my high days up with the weekend just so I can do a cheat meal at the end of that high day and go out and have dinner with my partner and things like that. So that's kind of how I do it. High days right now, you'll see here, they're a little bit less protein and that's because we are pushing the food volume higher with the carbohydrates. And it can be really hard to get down 950 grams of carbohydrates if we keep the protein higher. And not only that, the carbohydrates you'll hear are protein-sparing. When carbs are, you know, probably at 315 grams of carbs on the medium days, you don't have to worry about any gluconeogenesis. But you do not need as much protein when carbohydrates are in play because there's no risk of gluconeogenesis. There's also, you know, you're gonna have increased insulin and IGF-1 production and all these other downstream. It increased mTOR and lowered AMPK and all these other things that happen with higher carbohydrates on that high day. So long story short, you don't need as much protein. And just from a practical sense, you don't wanna be jamming down all that food too and bloating yourself up. So we just pull protein down on the high day just to make it easier. That's your rest and refeed day. I usually like to keep the cardio out on the high day since you're not gonna be burning fat and then no over-the-counter fat burners, which you're not using any fat burners anyway. So that's not an issue right now. And then the low day, we use that day as kind of a fat-burning day. It's also an off day from the gym. We leverage that. I like to do cardio on the low day when you're not lifting. And so we are at 60 grams of fat and 50 grams of protein per meal for a total of 300. So that day should be a pretty steep deficit. Your medium day, I'm gonna suspect right now is probably just a slight deficit. And your high day is definitely a surplus. Are you still doing, you're still doing your cheat meals on high? Some guys don't do the cheat meals. It's up to individuals. I do, but I, so starting last year and so far this year, I keep them pretty clen. So last year, one of my favorite go-tos was doing like a lean steak, sirloin steak. I think I did do a couple of New York strips. I would grill them at home. I'd have a baked potato. I'd have some corn and maybe a small dessert, like some frozen yogurt, but the fat content was still low. It basically was just another high carb meal and more protein from the steak or whatever. And last night IMade some homemade cheeseburgers with 96% ground beef, low fat buns. We get these fries from Walmart that are low in fat. They're like just a few grams of fat per serving and you get quite a bit. So that's kind of my idea of a cheat meal. I don't really do pizza or anything really nasty or greasy. It's just, it's basically another high carb meal with a little bit more fat and just more protein than the other. Yeah, the way, IMean, kind of the way I describe it for people when you're on prep, I think sometimes there are some people they just psychologically need to go eat something, but really like the kind of the way I look at it, it's a unmeasured clenish meal. That's kind of the way, fat might be a little bit higher. I usually will go out because my partner likes to go out and have dinner and then I'll cut it towards the end of prep, like the last month or so. I just cut that cheat out completely, but it makes her happy. So we'll go out. What I'll do a lot of times is I just get a steak and a fucking plain baked potato and a salad. Probably the worst thing in that meal as crazy as it sounds is the salad because the salad dressing. Yeah, I hit the Texas Roadhouse a lot, man. Us too. Us too. I'll get the 12 ounce sirloin. I think it's 12 or 11 ounce. I don't remember what it is. Yeah, it's the 11, yeah. Yeah, 11 ounce sirloin. I'll get a plain baked potato and then I get a Caesar salad with it. So that's usually what I have when I go to Texas Roadhouse. And there might be a roll or two in there too. Yeah, IMean, I've noticed. I don't put the butter on it. I've noticed no negatives from having the cheat meal. If anything, it gets me through the first two or three workouts of the week. Then it's kind of a weird layout. And I don't know if it's the best, but I do my high day on Saturday and then Sunday's my rest day. That's usually what I do. Yeah, and so today's my rest day. And then on Monday and Tuesday, I'll have really good workouts. And as I get deeper into the diet, sometimes it's just Monday. And then like Tuesday, I'm like, oh, I'm barely getting a pump. Yeah, I do like to set my schedule up. IMean, it's really doesn't matter. It's all about net energy balances into the day. But I just for performance and just for psychological reasons, I only rest one day a week. Me too. I tren six days a week and I'll set my high day up to be the day after my low day. Because if I'm not having any carbs, I'm losing my fucking mind, Kevin. Yeah. And then I know I just need to make it through today and then tomorrow I can have a bunch of food. You don't have to do it that way, but that's just kind of the way I like to line it up. So we need to get your guy that's doing your trening programming on here too. Yes, yeah, we do. Yeah, let me know. Next week, let's coordinate with him and make sure we get him on here. And so we, because I'm not, don't really know what's going on with your trening. Let's talk about your trening a little bit right now. What are you doing with your trening? Yeah, so, and he accommodated what I like. And I, it's funny because I call it a bro split, but it kind of is a push pull legs routine. So Monday I like to do mostly it's chest. It's just pushing it's chest. And then Tuesday I do back. And then Wednesday is hamstrings and glutes, which is legs. And then shoulders on Thursday, which is push. And then arms on Friday. And I don't care what anyone says. I think prioritizing an arm day has value. IMean, it's brought my arms up a little bit. Oh yeah, it definitely works. You know, I see, you know, like Mike Gisertel always denouncing it. And I'm like, IMean, I have brought my shoulders up and my arms up by having dedicated days. And then Saturday, which is my high day, is my quad focus day. And yeah, you kind of do it the same way I do. I do a modified PPL the way I, it's very similar to, except I don't have a dedicated arm day. I feel like my arms are pretty good. I don't know. But I do, yeah, same thing. I'll do chest. And then I do a quad focus leg workout. Then I'll do a back workout. That's vertical pulling for width. Then my next workout will be a push that's a shoulder and tricep focused day. And then I'll do another, a leg day that's glute and hams, same deal. And then I do another back day because I needed to bring up my back and my hams is what the judge wanted me to bring up. So judges wanted me to bring up. So, and then I do another back day that's horizontal pulling for density, you know, leg rows. It's just a row based workout. And so that's kind of how I split my workout up. And I didn't have a dedicated, if I were going to do a dedicated arm day, I would drop that second back day. That's how I would set it up. But I put a little more volume in my back because my back was kind of, it needed to be brought up. So, but IMean, the way you're doing yours makes perfect sense. That makes, and how about volume? What is your volume in your trening sets look like? Volume, rep ranges, things like that. Exercise selection. Yeah, so I've been doing this for a while and Drew's working with me on it. A lot of it is working up to one top set. Okay. You know, that's typical old school bro bodybuilding way of trening. Work up to one good top set, some back offsets. I really enjoy drop sets and super sets, you know, but my general rep range is really in the eight to 15 rep range, which is kind of broad, but you know, like if I'm doing medial delts, probably be doing 12 to 15. If I'm doing chest pressing, it's going to be more of that eight to 10, maybe some 12. That's exactly how I do it. It's not, it's not super complicated. And Drew and I were talking about the, this, that, you know, there's an element of enjoyinGHow you tren and being consistent with it is what yields results. Yep. Yep. If you hate the way you tren, like, like I, you know, I get guys all the time knocking my balls about, you know, you should be doing less volume and be in the gym less, you would recover and be so much better. And I'm like, dude, I fucking love being in the gym. Going to the gym three days a week and doing one set per body part does not sound fun to me. It just doesn't. I can't get, I can't get excited about that. Yeah. I would, I would hate the excessive rest days. And IMean, yeah, a lot of it was just, it's mental for me. I enjoy being in the gym. I enjoy trening. Even if it did work for me, I couldn't do it psychologically because I just like this way of trening better. Yeah. So that's kind of, that's kind of my, my attack on it. But yeah, you are a hundred percent right. You got to love what you're doing. And if you don't love what you're doing, you're not going to be excited about the tren, trening. And if you're not excited about the trening, you're not going to make progress. Yeah. So there is that aspect of it too. Yeah. No, IMean, it's very similar to how I tren. And I kind of flop back and forth between doing straight sets. And then sometimes I used to do a lot of top back offsets when I was younger, but with my shoulder having been beat up this last year, I couldn't really push a top set safely. You know, it just felt like there was too much risk for injury. So I just kind of went with just straight sets and stuff, but that's another thing too. You know, it's just, you got to listen to your body too. Yeah. Now, as far as exercise choices, what are you, what are you, are you doing, you still doing a lot of barbell, dumbbell, compound movements, or are you using more machines now? How is that looking? So I, it depends on the muscle group. IMean, I, so I try to approach every workout. So like chest, for example, I like to start with kind of like a compound movement. So it might be like a low incline dumbbell press or the only barbell I'll use is the Smith machine. So like, let's say I start with one of those, which is like, you know, a typical kind of like flat or slight incline press. And then I like to go to a machine and then depending on the day, this is where like, I don't get overly complicated or scientific about it. You know, I'll do like a machine. I like to throw dips in and I always like to finish with flies. So kind of a combination of free weights. And I like to do like a free weight, a machine and a cable. That's, that's, that sounds perfect, man. Yeah, I usually do. I'll usually do some sort of incline pressing movement and then I go to a fly. I kind of like cable flies. If I can actually get on a fucking cable machine in my gym, which is always a challenge. Say half the time I end up on the peck deck machine, I would prefer a cable fly. And I used to do dips, but dips are just hell on your shoulders. I can't do them anymore. So that we have a machine that's sort of, it's like this, it's, it's this gym leco machine. I have to see if I can find, find it. It almost looks like a low fly. Okay. It's kind of simulates a combination of a dip in a fly. Let's see if I can find it. It's, it's a really cool machine. So that's sort of my substitute for dips. And that's, and that's just what I kind of apply to all my workouts. Same with back. Like I like to do a cable, a plate loaded machine, and then, you know, maybe like a dumbbell row and, you know, something to that effect. I just like variation. I'm trying to find this machine. This is, it's a very, yeah. I used to like that combo of a press, fly, and then dips. Cause the dips are good for lower chest, triceps. I get a crazy pump off dips. I, I, I felt a great pump and dips from my, from my, I can't find this machine, but I don't know. They, they, you've got, you got equipment galore, but yeah, every gym it's, you probably got some 16 year old on the, on the cables. All right. Let me pull this thing up. Here's, here's the machine. I'm going to share my screen. And this thing, this thing's pretty wild. Let me, and you could, I guess you could do lateral raises with it too, if you want it. But this thing is. Oh, is it where it's got the handles? Yeah. It's this guy. Dude, I've seen this before. Yeah. You can raise them up. You can raise them up where you can, you can squeeze down like you're doing almost like a low fly or a dip. Yeah. And it's like, it's like simulating what it's like to do a most muscular foot push. Yeah. I've only seen this used in videos. I've never used it on myself. Yeah. We just got one this year. I love this fucking thing. I, I like when I first started using it, I'm like, man, this thing sucks. And, and you know, you know how it is with a new machine. I got to, you kind of got to figure it out. Yep. All right. Let me bring the progress picks up. We'll take a look at those. At this point, it's really hard to see progress from week to week. We almost have to use the scale. When we get later in the prep, what I, in kind of my technique that I use for comparison, when I'm looking at pictures, I'll look at what you look like this week compared to the beginning of your prep and what you look like this week compared to last week. But when you're early on in the fat loss, it's really hard to tell. So I kind of use the scales more of a guide in the beginning, but then as you get later in the prep, it shifts the other way. And you've seen this man where the weight loss seems to stop and you just get harder. Yep. So that's when you rely on the pictures more. Like I, a lot of guys get up, get obsessed with the scale. They're like, man, I'm not losing weight. I'm not losing weight. I'm like, dude, don't worry about it. There's nothing left to lose. You don't have two pounds of fat a week to lose at this point. Yeah. I always get really curious because even like this past week that I've been weighing myself daily, it's like, you know, I'll get down to 221 and then it's back to like 222. And, but you, you know, I'm curious to see how my weight does change over the course of the prep. Well, IMean, but if we look at the, we look at the weight overall, IMean, it was, it was lower on every day this week, even after your high day was lower than your previous high day, everything was lower because I think you were 227 after the previous high day. And you were like 224 this week. Yes. That was 224 this morning after the high day. Yeah. Yeah. So everything was, everything was down and you can see it in your legs. Like your legs is usually where I'd notice at first, like you can start to see some lines there in your legs. And then like the stomach comes in from the top to the bottom. Usually you'll see, like, you'll start to see a little bit of detail coming in on the serratus area. And then like usually the lower stomach's the last place to come in. And the same thing with the back, the lower back is usually the last place that it comes in. Like you, you're definitely like me. If you're fat in your lower back, that'll probably be the last thing to come in. I know we talked about it before, but just, you know, lean back a little bit on those. I didn't want to get, go ahead. You're about, you're more balanced this week though. So yeah. I'm working on that and I'm getting body work done tomorrow by a really easy. He's an expert. He actually works out. I have, I have BB pros. So I'm going to, yeah, I would tell him your scapula looks really tight. Yep. Probably needs to work on that. Yeah. I would, I would talk to a lot of guys have a hard time spreading their scapula. You can see, if you look here in the middle, see how you're pinched, like your rhomboids are all pinched. That's usually what I see when guys are not spreading their scapula, they kind of pinch in their shoulders, the shoulder blades together. You want to pull them apart. It's the exact opposite of what you think it would be. And not that I'm a posing expert, but there are some things there, but you're, you're getting lean. You're leaner this week than you were last week. On the side post, a couple little critiques here on this one. I want to point out, and this is a mistake that IMake a lot of times is keeping that hand, that outside hand a little further back. You're hiding your glutes. Sometimes you want to hide your glutes, but you're, you, when you get lean, you have good glutes. Glutes are one of your strengths. So you want to make sure they can see them from the side. So I would kick that hand back a little bit more and make sure you're controlling your stomach. I know you've had the hernia issue, so it might be a little bit harder for you, but make sure you're keeping that stomach, you're blowing all the air out and keeping your stomach tucked in. And you want to think about twisting more from the top. So you show more with, I'm going to show you an example. I'm going to go to Daniel's page, but here's an example of what I'm talking about. You should be able to see that front or that lateral delt from the other side. See how you can see his lateral delt from the other side. You can't, you can't on yours. And that's because you're not twisting far enough. And sometimes if you work that arm up just a little bit and, and flex the pack, that backpack, it makes the pack look bigger. You see how he's kind of like pullinGHis arm into his pack to make that pack, that backpack bigger. And then he's got his arm twisted a little bit, or he's got more of a twist on the post where the, you can actually see his lateral delt. But what that does, you can see here, it creates more of a V taper from the side. And you can tell he's, he's helping it to control that gut. Cause we know that gut doesn't look like that. Yeah. Yeah. He's keeping it locked in, probably ready to pass out, but you can see here, he's not hiding the, he's kicking this forearm or this hand back a little bit further. Now I did, I, I've heard different opinions on it. Some people say that you're supposed to turn the wrist up. Some people say, turn it towards you. I like turning it up because I think it makes the bicep look bigger, but this way you're actually get your arm flared out a little bit more. So it makes it look wider. So I don't know which is the better. I see you're doing it where you're, you're hooking your hand, which is how I do it because I think that makes your bicep flex, but I've had different coaches tell me different things. I don't know. I think you just have to play around with it and see which one looks the best. Yeah. And I'm, I'm about to work with a posing coach just as I do every year because posing posing is hard. It is, it's like as if, as if dieting and trening is that hard enough and getting, you know, peeled for a contest and then you throw a posing on top. It's, it's hard. It's exhausting. Yeah. You have to have the posing buttoned up. IMean, you have to, you know, it's like, I say this on, I'll say this every time. And there's two things that are entirely under your control as far as the prep goes. And there's, there's some other things that aren't, but you have control over your posing. You have control over your presentation. You have control over your conditioning, who shows up, what the judges think of you, you have no control over. So you, there's nothing you can do there. There's no reason to worry about it. Button up and worry about the, like I get guys all the time that are hyper-focused and trying to figure out who's going to be in the show, who they'recompeting. And I'm like, dude, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Just wind up, be the best you, you can be in whatever fuckinGHappens, happens, you know? So that's sort of my little lecture on that, but yeah, make sure the posing's buttoned up is the long story here. The side posts, this one kills, makes or breaks people. A lot of times, because like, you're, you're a wide guy, Kevin, you have a lot of muscle mass, but like, like the way it's positioned right here, actually makes you look smaller than what you really are. And you can see here, when you get that twist, you pull that arm across, that it creates more of an illusion of width. And that's what wins, width and density. That's what wins bodybuilding, width, symmetry, and density. It creates all the, you can see here, it's almost like he has turned, I saw Daniel had a thing where he just turned his hips and stayed in the front pose. You almost want to think about that. You want to contort your, it should be almost painful that you've twisted so far. Yeah, no, and I've, I've seen guys who are 20, 30 pounds smaller than me. And on stage, they just look, they look insane. Well, a lot of that's presentation. Yeah, exactly. It's all, it's, IMean, well, it's not all an illusion, but it is, the presentation is. Well, IMean, an old school example would be Frank Zane. IMean, guy was competing with, IMean, today he probably wouldn't even be a men's physique guy. Cause I think dude was like 175, 180 pounds when he was on stage and he was hanging with guys that were 50, 60, 70 pounds higher, you know, bigger than him. But the guy just got ripped in the, he was, he was at his time. He was the best poser. Nobody posed better than that dude at the time. And he also had the best conditioning. So those were, those were his two things that he could lean on his conditioning and posing. So he, and a lot of times that's what you're, if you're a mass monster, if you're 250 pounds, you're probably just going to turn pro no matter what, you know, cause we were just talking about the, the, the New York pro and the Pittsburgh pro today, how there's just dudes that can't even fucking pose at the pro level. But if you're big enough, I guess it doesn't matter. So you got to control those variables. Those are, those are, those are the important things, everything else going good. You feeling good, everything, your body responded. Well, yeah, yeah, it does seem to be asleep. Always. Yeah. Sleep has been pretty good overall. Oh yeah. I woke up a couple of times this week and I've been waking up late to, to pee in the middle of the night, which is not super common for me, but, but you know, that just kind of ebbs and flows during prep, you know, your body is adjusting and you know, when you're burning fat and you know, with the other manipulations going on, there is going to be some diuresis where you're flushing fluids out. Yep. I, you know, I'll go from not peeing at all at night to getting up and peeing three or four times towards the end of prep. And you also drink more water too, as you, as you, I, I find that I drink when I'm, when I'm gettinGHungry. Yes. I was, I was actually going to say the exact same thing. I'm like, I inherently, I've been drinking more water between meals because yeah, IMean, the gastric emptying is starting to speed up. Yeah. Appetite starting to creep up. And I'm like, yeah. When you asked me, I'm like, I've been drinking a lot more water and that's, yeah. So, and, and like the, the diet, diet sodas, you know, the zero, zero, you're like, ah, yeah, I'm probably taking in more fluid. Digestion's been okay. Yeah. Great. Yeah. Actually that's, that's one of my favorite things about the early parts of dieting is my energy will actually go up and yeah, the gastric emptying speeds up a little bit and it's, it actually feels good to me. And it's much easier on the high carb day to, to eat. It's almost like you're healthier. Yeah. Almost. It's almost like dieting improves your health. Yeah. Well, that's good news. I think we're right on track, man. I, I really don't have anything else to add this week unless you, you havEQuestions or whatever, but I really just, you know, the moral of the story right now, and I know this is kind of boring, you're tracking in the right direction. We've upped the cardio just a little bit just to keep some momentum going. IMean, but really like, I don't think we need to make any changes to the diet right now. Just keep the diet the same in it. I know last year on your prep, we pretty much rode the same diet through the whole fucking thing. Really? We did, which was super surprising. Yeah. I feel like I'm still eating plenty. So, you know, just got to see how the body response. Yeah. I was eating more on my prep than I am right now. I'm also 15 pounds lighter. So there is that. I'm, I'm going the opposite of you, Kevin. I'm losing weight and getting fatter at the same time. It'll all come back. It'll all come back. Yeah. This is what happens when you, when you get away from bodybuilding, have a shoulder injury. All right, folks. It's in there. Kevin, where can I get a hold of you? Yeah. Instagram is where I'm most active. Hi, it's Kevin M. And I'm, I've been posting a lot. I've been sharing. I'll put the link in the video description. I'm sure bros are going to struggle with spelling your last name. Yeah. It is the French spelling. It is. It is the French spelling. And yeah, I've been posting a lot, sharing what I'm doing every day. You know, I'm trying, trying some new things to help with cognition and, and energy. So yeah, come check me out and, you know, message me if you're, if you're interested in learning more. All right, thanks. Thank you. And we'll see you on the next episode, folks. Take care. All right. Thanks Paul.