warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, Big Paul here today with another episode of Contest Prep Files with my client, Kevin Bedroll. This is his most recent update. I am going to share with you his diet changes and whatnot that we worked on with his protocol. And this is an inside track on what it's like doing a contest prep with me as your coach. Kevin was gracious enough to volunteer to share information. We're gonna go through his entire contest prep together and monitor the changes and try to get this guy ripped in on stage. This is his fourth show with me. Kevin is a hard worker. He always does exactly what he's supposed to do with his program. I never have to worry about Kevin cheating or goofing up anything. Kevin is an awesome client, so he's a good example of how the coach-client relationship works. I'm also going to do another series with my client, Mike Horner. The Mike Horner Project, if you want to follow him on Instagram, Mike also is in contest prep for Masters National. So I give you two different perspectives. I have Kevin, who is a younger competitor. Kevin's in his 30s, and Mike is an old dude like me. So you can see how we do the old guy contest preps as well. And I sort of thought this would be a fun thing to do that maybe people would enjoy seeing what it looks like doing a contest prep from a coach's perspective and give you some insight on how contest preps work. Anyway, folks, that's all I got for you right now. Let's dig into Kevin's contest prep update in just one second. cut Alright folks, back with Kevin again. Mr. Kevin B, we are 12 weeks out now from The Show. Kevin always comes to me late. We don't do a full 16 week prep for his shows. He gets in shapEQuickly. It's not a problem. Honestly, once you have yourself in a good position, you can get in shape for shows pretty much. I can be ready in 10-12 weeks, no problem. A lot of times I feel like if I do a full 16 week prep, I just end up coasting at the end and I'm just like in this limbo state. You can be ready too early sometimes. I don't know. I feel like I talked to Justin about it. He said it's like landing an airplane on an aircraft carrier. You kind of want to time it and line it up just right because I feel like last year I peaked too early. Like I looked better three or four weeks out from my show than I did at my show, but that happens. But it's better to be ready early than to be rolling into the show the last day wondering if you're going to make it. How are things going, man? How did this week go with everything? Yeah, really good. And to your point, this offseason I've stayed leaner than prior years. I've been keeping the cardio in. We didn't push food up and that's why we weren't talking a whole lot. I wasn't making any diet changes. I wasn't chasing the scale. I was just seeing continuous improvements. But this week's been really good. Still feeling good. It's early. There were a couple days where I felt like I was just a little bit flat in the gym, but that's to be expected. But yeah, real good. Well, you know, the old bodybuilding saying you got to get flat to lose fat. Yeah, and I think it's true. You're going to have those days where you're just like, honestly, today I had a really good workout, felt really strong. It's my high carb day, but I didn't feel as pumped as I expected to. And I think it's just my body adjusting to the changes. Yeah, and a lot of times, you know, we saw that with you this week. We really didn't do anything radical and you're down a couple pounds. Your low weight was down three, four pounds already. And you'll get that when you clen up your diet. Initially, you'll have the water loss. It's mainly just glycogen depletion. And then you'll see it slow down. Like usually what I'll see is that first week or two weeks, we dump a bunch of water off. You'll have rapid weight loss and then everything slows down. Everybody panics like, oh my God, I'm not losing weight like I was. It's just the water coming off. IMean, realistically, when we look at it, you can only metabolize about a pound to two pounds of fat per week. IMean, you could, IMean, in theory, you can push it harder. I'm not saying that's not possible, but that's not ideal for bodybuilding purposes. I like to have people live in that one to two pounds a week of fat loss when we're on prep. I feel like that's sort of the safe zone of not losing muscle tissue. Now, and earlier in the prep, you can have bigger weight loss and it's not a big deal. Like, you know, guys panic sometimes when they see the scale. Some, I have opposite, like some dudes panic when they see the scale come down. Some guys, some guys don't. You freak out when it's not moving fast enough. But the guys that panic when it, when it first comes off, like if you don't see any major loss in strength in the gym, I'm not worried. When I do get worried about big, big drops in weight is when we get down into single digit body fat. Because there shouldn't be a lot of water on you to lose at that point. Or if we see any rapid drop off of strength, like if you see significant, like rep strength, you're going to lose some rep strength just from the glycogen depletion. But like if, let's say if you're just usinGHypothetical numbers, if you're doing 100 pounds on bench press for eight reps and it goes down to six, I'm not that worried about that. That's just glycogen depletion. But if all of a sudden you're going from 100 pounds down to 80, then we got a problem. So we need, we need to make some adjustments. And I do, you know, while there is that old saying, you got to get flat to lose fat. I try to keep guys, that's what we try to keep the high day in. We fill people back out. And as we get closer to the contest and you get leaner, we may need to put food back in to keep you from getting super glycogen depleted. My big worry when we get super lean is that, and I just was talking to another one of my clients about this today, is if there's no carbohydrates present and you've burned off all your body fat, there really isn't any body fat left and your glycogen stores are depleted. What is there left to burn at that point? Your body's going to shift into gluconeogenesis and start breaking down protein structures for glucose as fuel. And I think that's what people don't understand. And that's the problem with some of these high protein, lower fat diets, is that you run into issues where you shift into gluconeogenesis. And that's why I think like you look at the old school bodybuilders when they were eating five, 700 grams of protein on contest prep, the reason why they were doing that and they didn't understand it then is because the body was shifting into gluconeogenesis and breaking down those protein structures for carbohydrates. Whereas you could have probably just eaten 300 grams of protein and put in 100 or 150 grams of carbs and had much better digestion, less gut distention, and you wouldn't have been in gluconeogenesis. So that's a big problem I see with sort of the old school, let's just eat 12 ounces of meat or 10 ounces of meat and asparagus and get ready for a show. Yeah, yeah. And I know guys personally, and that's such a great point because I was going to bring that up about, I've been thinking about it this week when I'm making my meals. And like I do, essentially I do about six ounces of meat per meal. Yeah, that's what I do. It's about six, six to seven. It doesn't take that much protein to build or maintain as long as you have the other macros in place. And timing plays a role too, you know, the pre and post-workout carbs. But I know guys personally who have dieted off, you know, a lot of protein, veggies, the last, IMean, they'll do it six weeks out. And not only do they feel terrible, but they start to look pretty bad. Yeah, they get stringy, they look bad, they look fatigued. Yeah, yeah. And ultimately, you know, while there is some suffering, there is some pain on contest prep. But sometimes we're guilty of our own work ethic. I think there's this belief that if you're not suffering, I've had to convince a few of my guys, where they believe if they're not suffering, they're not. And I've done this myself before where I just push myself to the grinder and end up looking like shit. Absolutely, fatigue is a real thing. And you can't out-sleep or out-drug fatigue. It's going to hit you. It's going to sneak up on you. I had a situation where I over-dieted for a contest prep one time, and I had complete central nervous system shutdown. I remember going into the gym, and I'll, you know, I'll do leg presses. You know, I'll work up to like eight plates per side or nine plates, whatever. I remember putting two on for my warm-up, Kevin, and I couldn't even move two plates. I guess the neurons or the neurological connection with the muscle, nothing would work. Yeah. And I'm like, that's how bad it was. Were your carbs really low too? Yep. Yeah, I was low carbs. I was doing too much cardio. I was taking too many fat burners. I wasn't sleeping. Like everything you could possibly do wrong. And you've talked about it before. IMean, our brains need glucose for function. Yeah, minimal amount. You know, I get these guys, these keto guys that say that they'll run on ketones, which is true, but they're about 60. I think it's, I don't remember the exact number, but something like 50 to 60% of neurological function can be supported by ketones, and you still need some glucose for that. And what happens is if there's no glucose present, your body starts breaking down protein structures for things like, you know, there's, you know, for neurological function, the brain is fat, so it can't burn fat. Otherwise, it would burn itself. That's why you have to make ketones. But you still need some glucose for kidney function, for the kidney uses glucose. There's, you know, some of ATP production can shift to more of a lipid-based metabolism, but it is better with glucose. And the brain and central nervous system still need some glucose. So I've seen numbers somewhere, depending on how big you are, between 100 to 150 grams of carbohydrates a day just to support that. And if you're active, you may be burning that off in your activity as well, so you might need a little bit. But, like, what I've found is, like, kind of 100 to 150 grams a day is sort of the bare minimum for not feeling like shit. You're better off just going to zero at that point, so your body at least does try to shift into ketosis. But, like, if, like, 125, 150 is sort of, like, my bare minimum for people. And then if we go below that, we just yank all the carbs out completely. And whereas, like, the low day, sometimes I'll go zero carbs. And if that's the case, you still have liver glycogen and other things from the other days of eating carbohydrates that you're going to burn through. And I like to have people a little bit depleted going into their high day anyway, but that's sort of the concept there. Yeah, one day of zero carbs is not going to dramatically affect anything. It also depends on – there's so many factors. Like, two or 300 grams of carbs could be very, very low carb for a large muscular individual. IMean, that could just be to maintain when you're walking, you know, let's say they walk a mile or two a day. IMean, they could be burning that off just through muscle contractions and just basal metabolism. Yeah, IMean, like I said, your central nervous system, when it's using glucose for fuel, will use somewhere between – I've read between 100 to 150 grams just by itself. Absolutely. There's so many things that come into play, like just – yeah, just, like, thinking, moving, just everyday things that we do require energy. This is why also I don't like guys doinGHIIT cardio on contest prep. This is a debate I've had with Justin. I know Justin's a big fan of HIIT cardio. I'll have – I think he's kind of shifted. It's okay at the beginning of prep. I do like HIIT for cardiovascular health, and I get that you're burning more calories in a short period of time, but it's more of a matter of where those calories are coming from because when you're doinGHIIT cardio, you're shifting more towards anaerobic activity, and anaerobic activity is largely going to be glucose-dependent. And so, like, I – low and slow, where you can talk, have a conversation, where you're – if you're walking on the treadmill, it's probably better for fat burning and for not burning up glucose and muscle tissue. So that's part of the consideration with the cardiovascular exercise. I see guys pounding themselves into the dirt on the stepper. I just – we talked about it on the last one, but I just have never seen that be productive. Me neither. I honestly don't know how people do it and maintain any level of performance, and I – again, IMean, I've been around a lot of bodybuilders, especially in the – I'm in the greater Tampa area of Florida, so, like, the sport is huge down here, and I see different methods and observe, and it's like, number one, the stepper is – you're talking about so much systemic fatigue. I don't care what anyone says. You do that for 20 or 30 minutes, that's exhausting, and it's going to impact your trening, which impacts everything else. It's just – ultimately, I think cardio is a great adjunct for burning calories, health benefits, and some fat burning, but it's calories, calories in, calories out. And I do –  Carb cycling is just – there is something – there's something magical about carb cycling for fat loss. Yeah, IMean, when you think about it, where it's – and look, there are situations where maybe low carb would be beneficial. You know, if you have somebody that's sedentary, doesn't lift, is not engaging in an activity that's glycolytic. Yeah, but, you know, we think about, like, glucose is the primary – it's the preferred fuel source for muscle contraction, so it would make sense to keep some glucose if we can. You know, sometimes you're – it's unavoidable. If you just need to lose body fat, you have to yank it. Yeah. But if we can keep some in place – and then with the cardio, like, you know, I like doing intense cardio. I do intense cardio here and there for heart health, but the time to really do it is when you're in a calorie deficit or you have some extra body fat. You're loaded with glycogen because if you get – once again, we look at it. If you get in a situation where you'recompletely – your glycogen stores arecompletely drained, you're down to, like, the low body fat percentage, where do you think that that's going to come from? Yeah. So, like, the time to do the stepper or to do HIIT cardio to me is the beginning of prep or off-season when you're in a caloric surplus. That's when you can support that. And I was talking to someone recently about cardio and, you know, the topic of, like, CrossFitters came up. And, you know, their diet, their trening and all that. But, like, specific to bodybuilding, like, if we talk about bodybuilders and bodybuilding in the gym, like, that style of trening versus, you know, CrossFit or any other form of trening, even any other sport, like, you can't compare it to going in and doing a bodybuilding workout and, you know, holding that muscle mass or, you know, holding that fullness. Like, it's just, it's hard. Like, yeah, CrossFitters have crazy endurance. They do crazy workouts, crazy cardio. And I respect them for it through and through. But, like, they don't look like bodybuilders. They don't, like, they're not going to go on stage. Like, yeah, some of their upper bodies are pretty jacked. But, like, if you put them on stage and had them posing, like, they're not bodybuilders. And most of them don't have super, you know, muscular legs either. So it's just, it's just different. Yeah, and we have to remember we're not an athletic performance sport. We're in a physique sport. Exactly, exactly. That's not to say that athletic performance isn't something you want just to stay healthy. But, really, contest prep is the time. Really, I have three objectives for my clients when we're on contest prep. Guys always are worried about gaining muscle and whatnot. I'm like, once in a rare blue moon, you might gain muscle on contest prep. But, really, you know, this is why we don't tren like a CrossFitter or a Powerlifter when we're on contest prep. We have three goals on contest prep. We want to get all the fat off. We don't want to get hurt. And then we also don't want you to get fucking ragged out and super fatigued and end up looking like shit. So we have to balance that. IMean, there's going to be some balancing there. You are going to have moments where you're grinding. But we want to keep you as fresh as we can. We want to get the fat off of you. And we don't want you to get hurt. So you're not losing muscle, really. I should put that in with the fatigue. So it's not lose muscle and get fatigued. Don't get hurt and burn off fat. So if we do those three things, you're going to get up on stage and look pretty good. All right, so let's take a look at your check-in pics, Kevin. You were down. I think your low weight was down. What was the low weight this week? I always look at the low weight, 224.1. We start off at 227.8. So you had a pretty big drop. All right, so let's take a look at your check-in pics here, Kevin. Let's see what we've got this week. All right, so it looks like I looked at your low weight from the previous week. You dropped abouT3 pounds this week. So like I said earlier, at the beginning, there's usually just a big weight drop just from tightening the diet up. We didn't do anything extreme with the diet. We'll dig into that in just a second. But how did things go this week? Yeah, great. IMean, there's still plenty of food in. Appetite and digestion is good. Sleep is still good. trening was still good. Yeah, IMean, everything is pretty good. And even last year, I never really felt, like, horrible. Maybe until just towards the end, just tired and whatnot. Yeah. All the cardio and, you know, food does eventually get low. But, yeah, you know, still good. A couple little tweaks I would make on the pose, man. And this is some issues that I have. I notice you like to keep that left shoulder. It looks funky. Yep. You can see here it's kind of raised up. And the lat's not popping out over here on your left. It would be the right to the viewers. And then you're, like, crunched. I don't know if you need a massage. I do. I do. I need some body work. It looks like you're tight. Yep. Tightness, some lat tightness. Yeah, I need to schedule some body work. Yeah, so work on keeping those level. That will make you look symmetrical. Also, on the back, and this is a little technique I picked up, and I am getting better at it. But a lot of guys will lean back. And you want a little bit of lean on the back post. But the issue that guys have is they're not rotating their rib cage up. It's more of that than it is leaning back. You should be able to see your side delts from the back post. Like, see how you can't see your side delts? You can only see your rear delts. What it does is make you look smaller. I'm going to use John Jewett as my model here. Yep. See here how you can see there's his rear delts, and then there's his lateral delts. See how you can see them on the rear post? So how you do that is by you want to think about tilting your rib cage up. It's not so much leaning back. You want to think about picking your rib cage up. And if you pick up your rib cage and rotate your rib cage back, not just lean back, what that will do is make your lats pop a little bit more, and it will make your shoulders look bigger. You won't just see the rear delts. You'll see the side delts and the rear delts. So that presents your – and then see how he's level? Yes. We got you crooked here, man. We'll get that fixed. But this is one of the things I've been trying to focus on a little bit more this year with the posing. Like, guys, forget this is a physique contest, and posing is very important as well. And it's just little things like that that – I think probably the best bodybuilder I've seen presenting themselves and making themselves look really bigger than what they are is Chris Balmstead. Chris is really fucking good at it, man. Like, when you meet Chris and you're, like, near him, he's like, I think IMight be bigger than him. Right? So I don't know. We're about the same size. I'm not trying to say I'm Mr. Olympia by any means. But, like, you see him up close, and you're like, damn, that guy's not as big as I thought he was. But he's so good at presentinGHis physique, man. I just don't think there's anybody better than that dude by presentinGHis physique on stage. He's just perfect. Yeah, it's not – that's the hard – the tough thing about bodybuilding, especially for those who have not competed, is, like, the trening is part of it. It's hard. The diet is hard. It's a real hard part. But then getting the posing down and doing that on stage, under the lights, in front of hundreds of people, potentially, it's – posing requires a lot of practice. It's my biggest weakness. So that's why I generally hire a posing coach. Yeah, make sure you're practicing a lot. That's something – I was a performing arts major in college. I went to a conservatory. And one of the big things you learn in performing arts is how you perform on stage is from repetition. The more you repeat something, then you're going to be nervous when you get on stage. I performed a lot when I was in public when I was younger. There's always some butterflies, and the way you get over those butterflies or just get past them is to have everything so rehearsed that you're just on autopilot. Your brain just – it's just muscle memory at that point. But, you know, here's the thing, though. You can practice bad habits and keep those bad habits. So you need to make sure that you're practicing good habits. I do the exact same thing with my shoulders, dude. Now that I know that my shoulder was fucked up, that's why I had one that was like probably I was doing that with where I would have one pulled up and one not. And I really had to make a conscious effort last year. And even still, I didn't have it 100% ironed out, but IMade sure I focused on keeping those shoulders level. And it's hard to see when you're doing it. But I would say for your pose – I'm going to pull this back up again. Get that – you can see it from the side. See how your ribcage – and it'll make your upper pecs look bigger. You want to kind of think about getting a little bit of a lean, just a little bit. And not so much leaning back, but tilting your ribcage up. I remember Arnold used to talk about it a lot. And that was one of the big things he talked about was getting your ribcage up. And that will – even on the front. So the front, you want your ribcage up and you want to lean just a little bit towards – not too much, just a little bit towards the judges. The back, you want your ribcage up and then lean back just a little bit. Daniel Coffin has a really good picture on his profile that shows it. I know some people like Daniel, some people don't. I think Daniel's stuff is great. I think it's good. He works with John, so you can see how John does it. John's pretty flawless with his posing too. He's – and another thing I think guys make a mistake too is they pick their arms up on the front double bicep. See how his elbows are level? Yep. When you pick them up, it actually – it might make your arms look a little bigger, but it stretches your lats out, makes your lats look small. If you look at Chris Bumstead, let me see if I can find a picture of him. But Chris keeps his – Chris does it perfect. Let me find his rear double bicep. He's the perfect example of keeping the ribcage high and getting a little bit of a lean. See how his elbows are low? Let me find a better picture. That one's shitty. I'm trying to find a good one. Are there no high-quality pictures of Chris Bumstead on the Internet? How is that possible? Let me see. Okay. See how he keeps his elbows low? Yeah. That allows your back to have more width. When you pull your elbows up, that actually stretches your lats out and makes your lats look smaller. And notice how you can see his front. He gets such a tilt on his chest that you can actually see his front delts from the rear. But you can see – it's hard to see here, but you can see how he's tiltinGHis chest up, and he's leaned back just a little bit. Nothing crazy. But notice how he keeps – he's almost biting down on his elbows. And then he pulls forward just a little bit, just enough to do a lat spread. And that's another thing I think, another posing mistake. This is just my opinion. I'm not the posing expert by any means. But I think guys forget the rear double bicep is actually, in my opinion, is a back pose. It's all about showing your back width. And most guys screw that up. So if you're not – so long story short, what I'm sayinGHere, see how your angle, you're not angled like he is. So you want to make sure – we want to make sure we present that physique in the most desirable fashion possible. So, all right, enough of that. Let's move on to the diet. I think you made pretty good progress this week. I'm really happy with how that's going. I'm going to bring your diet up here. So let me get a new screen share up. And we'll talk about that. But I don't know that we need – we might add a little more. So there's – to keep things moving, I like to incrementally move up diet and cardio throughout the week or throughout the weeks as we progress. So I don't – there's different philosophies on this. I like to leave as much food in as we possibly can get away with. And if we're not making progress, then we'll yank some food out. But I – you know, it just really depends. Like I would – me personally, some – everybody's different. Some people would rather do more cardio. Some people would rather do less food. I'd rather eat less food. But most people aren't that way. So we'll rehash where the diet's at right now. We are at 50 grams of protein per meal, 35 grams of carbs. This is the medium day. So just to rehash how the diet works, medium days are lifting days that are not high day. We do one high day per week. And any day that you're off the gym, we do a low day for you, which is just protein, veggies, and fat at this point. So we are doing 50 grams of protein, 35 grams of carbs. You see meals 1 through 4 here. With the added fat, we're doing 7 grams of added fat. Those come from EFAs. We talked about it in the last episode. Right now we're not using any fat burners. And we're just letting the cardio and the diet do the work right now. And then pre- and post-workout, we put a little more carbs in, 75 and 75, and then 25 intra. That comes from some sort of complex carb. Sorry, not complex carb, some sort of, you know, either branched to click dextren or something like that, something that's going to get converted directly to glucose. So I think the medium days are pretty good. I don't know that we need to make any adjustments right now. Low days, we'll leave the same. High days, you're doing 950 grams of carbs. This is another area where I think guys make mistakes. They do not eat enough carbohydrates on the high day to actually do anything. There are rare occasions where I've had to yank the high day on contest prep for people, and that fucking sucks. But usually the reason I've had to yank it is because guys are too fat coming into their contest prep, and we just need to create more of a calorie deficit somewhere. That's another compelling reason why, in your offseason, why you don't want to get super fat, because you can leave more food in on contest prep. 100%. Justin, my coach, Justin Harris, always, he tells me, like, I'd be like, I remember, like, hey, man, is it okay if I, you know, I'm going on vacation this week if I'm off plan? And he's like, yeah, sure, man, that's totally fine. It's just more cardio and less food on contest prep. You're going to have to pay it back at some point. Yeah, that's why I was really conscious of my body fat in this offseason, because it's no fun having to diet hard and do a ton of cardio. Yeah, that fucking sucks. I've done it before. You have too. Yeah. Yep, I have. And, honestly, my physique didn't come in too well. Yeah, my previous contest, not my most recent, but the one before that, I didn't come in that great. And I think it was because of just too much body fat in the offseason, and then you're pushing really hard. And, there again, fatigue accumulates, and that just carries over into everything. It's, yeah, it sucks. Yeah, the dirty balk doesn't work. No, but it doesn't have to be. But it doesn't have to be. That's the biggest misconception is you can get fat off of too much oatmeal and too many potatoes and too much lean ground beef. Excess calories are excess calories. Too many whole eggs. That stuff adds up. And I've gotten fat before many times just eating too many good foods. I think the mistake that most dudes do is they end up eating too much fat in their protein. Yep. Really, that's what I've seen is what gets guys fat in the offseason. They think if they use ghee, ribeyes, eat a dozen whole eggs, that that's going to help them grow muscle. And I'm like, really, all that saturated fat is just, honestly, is just fuel, really. So if there's carbohydrates present, there's really no reason to eat any saturated fat. That drives me nuts. So when you're in a caloric surplus in the offseason and you're eating carbs and saturated fat, what do you think is going to happen to that saturated fat? Yes, it's going to get stored. And that's like the biggest thing. Not only is it going to get stored, it's prepackaged as a lipid and ready to go. Like with carbohydrates, literally your body has to fill up glycogen. Once glycogen and central nervous system needs are met, then it has to go through the process of liponeogenesis through the liver and get converted into a lipid and then stored. So it's multiple steps. And protein, it's almost impossible to turn protein. IMean, I'm not saying it can't be done, but protein has to go through even more steps. It has to get converted into glucose, then get converted into lipids before it gets stored as fat. So that's why there's a thermic effect of protein because it's… It requires a lot of energy to go through all those steps. All those steps, right. And that's like you don't need as much fat as the Internet is telling you. Whether you're natural or not, you don't need a ton of saturated fat every day to maintain a hormonal balance. And that's, you know… The only situation I can see is like if you are on a zero-carb diet, then you're going to need that for an energy substrate. But I… You know, it's funny because the body will prioritize glucose, but like these guys… I get guys all the time like, well, don't you need fat to… All that extra fat to build muscle? I'm like, how… IMean, what does it do in the muscle-building process? Yeah, the intramuscular triglycerides are a pretty small… Like 2%, 3%? Yeah, it's a very small portion. And IMean, look, they taste good. And I know that we want to come up with excuses, but to your point, yeah. IMean, we're talking in the context of what I'd call like a balanced diet. So you're eating enough carbohydrates to do what you need to do, including gym performance. And if you have enough carbohydrates, the arbitrary number like, you know, 200 or 300 grams a day, you don't need to be eating a bunch of fatty meat or eggs. You know, a little bit here and there is fine, but it's not required. You'll be… Yeah, it's funny how many guys don't understand this and then they never get in shape. Yeah. IMean, the formula is out there. So what I'm going to do, Kevin, I'm going to leave the diet alone this week, you know, get off my soapbox here. Let's crank the cardio up to 25. Yeah. And usually that's sort of my… You've worked with me before. That's sort of my methodology. Man, I'll add five minutes of cardio. You know, that's not a big jump each week. You know, when you go from 20 to 40, that's a big jump. But that's usually what I do. I just add five minutes of cardio or I'll make a small carbohydrate drop on the medium days. Usually that's where I start yanking food first, is on the medium days. Sometimes on the medium days, we'll get down to where we go to… Well, the meals one through four here, we'll go down to just veggies only, sometimes towards the end of prep or I'll yank one meal and then I'll yank this one and just so people understand how the diet structure work with these meals. So the way I work it is those one through four are movable. You can move those around. The pre and post-workout meals always stay the same. It's not that we're working out in the… I like to work out in the evening, but everybody's different. So these, the pre and post-workout meals really are just slide around. So if you work out at 6 a.m., you would have your pre-workout meal in the morning, post-workout afterwards, and then meals one through four after. If you work out in the afternoon, you might have meals one through two, then your pre, intra, pre and post, and then meals three and four later in the day. So those just kind of move around. And the diet is sort of self-regulating, so any day you're not lifting. And I learned this methodology from Justin Harris, so I definitely want to give some credit to him for this. But anyway, that's just so people understand how it works. That's how it works. All right, so I'd say we're in a pretty good place now, man. We'll bump the cardio up to 25. I would expect the weight loss is probably going to slow a little bit. We'll see what you look like next week. We may need to crank up cardio more or start yanking a little bit of calories, although last year I don't think we really had to. I think you just rode through the whole prep pretty much the same food. Yeah, we didn't change food at all. I was up to doing, I think we were doing about 50 minutes of cardio. In the morning it was walking. It wasn't that bad. But I'm also like a step counter, so I like to try to keep my activity pretty consistent if possible, and so it's easier to track. And then we end up adding food in. We started pulling cardio down. It was like two or three weeks out we started easing up on things. Yeah, and you had your best look. I saw that. I think it was, was it this week you put it up on Instagram where you had all three years? Yeah, the importance of picking a coach and sticking with them because you know my body now, and we communicate really, really well together. And, yeah, I want people to see like, you know, there's a lot that goes on in between competing, but, you know, you've dialed me in better and better each year. Yeah, and then part of that, you know, it's, yeah, let me pull this up. Let me share this screen again. Yeah, part of that, you know, I do learn your body, and then part of that is just, you know, what I've seen where people make the big leap forward is when I get a, if it were my preference, if I could get people to commit to two years, that's when I see the best progress. But, like, if I can get people to do a bulk, a cut, and then another bulk where we have a good rebound, like if I can get them really lean, then we have that good rebound, and then we do another cut. That's when you really start to see the big differences. That second cut is when you see the dramatic changes. All right, I'm going to add this to the screen. I'm going to show people this. It's kind of funny. This is pretty impressive. This is, you know, so you can see here, this was your first show, second show, third show. You can see the differences. Like, Jesus Christ, man, you majorly upgraded the physique. Yeah. We're even leaner and bigger by the third time we got you up there. And I think the takeaway message, like, if I can go back in time, because I'm 35, I'll be 36 in July, so if I can go back 10 years or even longer, because I started lifting when I was 15, is the importance of doing that cut. Do not permabulk, because I was a permabulker. There's also a picture on your Instagram of when I was a permabulker, too. Oh, I'm going to find that one. There is a point in which you get to a body fat, and you are really not putting more muscle on. insulin sensitivity is lost. You're not putting on more muscle. You can't see the muscle you're putting on because body fat is too high. Yeah, that was back in my powerlifting days. IMean, I was strong. I would say I was gym strong. I did compete in powerlifting a few times, but you got to cut. Your face doesn't even look the same. No, no, it doesn't. I think I look younger now than I was. No, you definitely do look younger. Yeah, that was probably about, gosh, at least eight or nine years ago. So, yeah, cutting, you'll fall in love with the process because when you cut and then you do go to maintain or bulk, it's like the results are so much fun. I'm going to get on my soapbox again, Kevin, and talk about one of my pet peeves. It drives me nuts when these guys think they can extend their bulk by doing a six-week mini cut, and I'm like, that shit. Look, I get it. One, if you have to do a mini cut, you probably are just too fat. And this is where most people just end up not making progress. They do these half-baked, just half measures, and they never fully commit to anything. And what ends up happening is you just get stuck in the middle, man. You stay the same. You look the same every fucking year, man. You don't change. You don't get any bigger. You don't get any leaner. So I would say, look, I have employed mini cuts here and there for people once in a while. If we just need to get somebody tightened up a little bit, if they've gotten a little sloppy in the offseason, we need to tighten them up a little bit. But my preference would be stay relatively lean in your offseason, and then when we do a cut, just fucking go for it, man. Don't fuck around. Don't get to 12% body fat. Get down to eight. Get down to seven. You don't have to be stage lean, but get below 10% body fat for once in your life. And I promise you, I promise you, I was a perma balker too, man. I know this thing. I promise you if you get that lean, you're going to come back up. And then what happens when you go into your offseason again, Kevin? What happens to your body composition? Dude, it's so much better. You stay leaner, right? Yeah, you stay leaner. insulin sensitivity is through the roof. Strength, you get strength gains, size gains. You're more vascular. I love this process of dieting because it's a challenge. I love a lot of parts about it, but when it does get really tough towards the end, you can look forward to what comes after because it's almost like newbie gains all over again. Yeah, it is. And then also, I want people to hear from you, man. Also, when you do your next diet, isn't it a lot easier? You rang a bell with me several minutes ago when we were talking. I know that there's probably scientists out there, and I can think of a few that dispute this type of stuff, but your metabolism changes. It 100% changes. It absolutely changes. And yeah, you can eat more. Your body changes completely. I can't put my finger on all the science behind it, but it's a lot easier to diet. Well, I think what it is, a lot of guys are metabolically disordered. They have poor insulin sensitivity. They probably have some sort of pancreatic insufficiency. Their digestion's all fucked up. And if you do a really hard diet, you're going to reset your digestion. Digastic emptying is going to be improved. insulin sensitivity is going to be improved. You're driving down your statin while you're in a deficit. That's another thing that people don't realize. And then it's funny because when we come into the rebound, you just set yourself up for this situation where your body's just ready to grow, and it's easy. Yeah, it's 100% true. And to your point, I always tell people I look forward to dieting because my energy starts to go up. Digestion gets better. To your point, gastric emptying starts speeding up. IMean, every part of it. And I'll tell you, when you need to pull back on the bulk is when your digestion starts going to crap. And literally, bathroom habits are not going well. Your body starts telling you, hey, you're giving me too much food, and I'm not digesting all this. You've got to listen to your body. Yep. Anyway, I think that's it for this week, man. Really good progress so far. I'm happy with where we're at. We're off to a good start. And we're going to come into the show even better than last year. You've improved each year. People can see the three years we've worked together. And we're going to get your guy that does your – I kind of forgot his name already. Drew. Yeah, Drew. DDT. We're going to get Drew. And Drew does your in-the-gym trening. Drew is your programming guy, so we'll get him on. That's not my wheelhouse, folks. I just go to the gym and pull it out of my ass. Yeah, he and I trening, and also he's helping me, kind of mentoring me on the mitochondrial support and health. Yeah. He's got some really good information on that. IMight get with him on the trening stuff too. Yeah, he's awesome. And he worked at MI40, right? Yeah, I actually remember going to MI40 back in the day. And he was even at Swiss with us, but I didn't know him well enough at the time. Oh, interesting. Yeah, he went to Swiss. And, yeah, he's very well established in the greater Tampa and Sarasota area. So it's going to be awesome. Awesome. Yeah, we'll get him on here. He was telling me about how he wanted to work with me on making sure we had the diet and the trening synced up. And I'm like, why don't we just do this together? So it would be fun. Anyway, folks, that's all we got on this one. You can find Kevin on Instagram. What's your handle on Instagram, Kevin? Yeah, I put it in my little name here. So it's just Kevin M. Boudreaux. Oh, I see it. And feel free To, yeah, if you guys are interested in any consultations or coaching, I offer that. So shoot me a message, and I'd love to hear from everyone. Kevin, thank you for doing this, man. I appreciate it. Yeah, thank you, Paul.