warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, Big Paul here today, and I got a new one for you. I am doing a series with my client, Kevin Boudreaux, on contest prep. We're gonna follow along with Kevin durinGHis contest prep and talk about his diet adjustments as we go and what contest prep looks like. I believe this is Kevin's fourth contest prep with me, and Kevin has made some pretty significant progress over the years that he has worked with me, and you can see the lasT3 shows that he did with me up here, and you can see the progress that he made. Kevin also started off as a power lifter many years ago, was a perma-bulker in his 20s, and had that perma-bulker look, and has made a lot of progress since those days. He has switched from a perma-bulking power lifter to a bodybuilder, but we're gonna follow along with Kevin on this contest prep. This is starting at 13 weeks out. Generally with Kevin, I only need 12 weeks to get him ready for shows. At this point, he stays relatively lean in the off-season. It's one of the advantages of staying lean in off-season. You can get prep done in 12 weeks if you are in shape. I can generally get myself in shape for a show in 12 weeks, no problem. The more fat you have to lose, the longer the prep is going to take, but we're gonna follow along with Kevin. This is gonna be exciting. This is the starting point at 13 weeks out. I'm about a week behind on these videos, so I will probably press two of these out this week, and so that way we can get back on track, and then you can see where Kevin's at. We can stay on top of his contest prep as it goes along for the Tampa Pro weekend. He is competing in the amateur division at the Tampa Pro, and hopefully Kevin does pretty well this year. I think he's in position to have a good showing. He's improved every year that we've worked together, and I think you're gonna like this one. We're gonna get started in just one second. This is a behind-the-scenes look here with my client, Kevin Boudreau. We are going to document his contest prep this year. What is this, your third show? Yeah, this is your third show with me, right, Kevin? Actually, this is gonna be my fourth show. Fourth show, okay. Jesus, I don't even remember the, shows you how feeble my brain is, so fourth show. So we have some experience working together. Kevin disappears in the off-season, and then he shows back up on contest prep, but he's never fat, so that's a good place to start off with. You were, before you got to me, you were pretty, pretty chunky when I, so there's some old pictures that you had. It's pretty impressive for you. So you're an old power lifter, right? Yes, yep. A reformed power lifter, now a bodybuilder. So we're 13 weeks out from the show. You are going to do the amateur show as part of the Tampa Pro Festival. Exactly 13 weeks out today when we're filming this, May 3rd, so this'll probably be up a couple of days afterwards. I wanna take a look at pictures from last year, and we can talk about where we need to improve and some areas that we're going to potentially change this year. All right, so this was from last year's show. That one was in September, right? Yeah, it was late September, I wanna say the 29th, last year. And just so you guys know, Kevin did have hernia surgery, if you see the scar on his stomach, that's what's going on there. But I think we were pretty shredded last year. I don't know how much, feathered quads, maybe we could've been a little bit drier. I think, if anything, you were probably a little flat on the show day. Lines in the glutes, when your check-in pics, they were more apparent on the check-in pics, but you definitely were, Christmas tree in the lower back. So I think a little bit drier, we're waiting for a little bit drier this year, and a little more fullness. If we, Kevin usually, you usually are ready quick. You're not the kind of guy that it takes a lot to get ready. You come along very quickly. So I assume that you're gonna be ready early, and we can fill you back out. That's ideally the goal, to have you ready about two weeks out. I think we were ready early last year, if I remember right. Yeah, yeah, I think even, it was around two or three weeks, is when it was like, we went out of cruise control. We didn't really make any changes. Yeah. We even experimented with some going a little extra high, a little high-carb day. Yeah, and I'll start, that's one of the things I'll do at the end, is I'll start putting food back in. This was last year. We need to get you on a national stage at some point. Yep, that's the goal. But yeah, this was last year. All right, so let's take a look at your current check, check and picks, where we're at right now. This is where you're at right now. What's your weight at currently? Last, I'm really bad about weighing in regularly. Right around 225 pounds, fast. We were on stage last year, I'm trying to remember, what? The lowest we got to was maybe a day or two, or it was 206 or 207, but I weighed in at the show, it was like around 212, two or so. Yeah, so we're, and this is the thing I want to reiterate, people, and this is something that I can't stress enough. You're within 12 to 15 pounds of your show weight. That makes contest prep so much fucking easier when you don't have to, guys get in the offseason and they get up where they're 20, 30, 40 pounds over contest weight, and then prep is absolute hell. Most people are fatter than what they think they are. I think you've probably been there before. Oh yeah, oh yeah. What was the heaviest you've ever been? Ever? I've been between 250 to 260 back in the powerlifting days where I wanted to look big in a shirt and look terrible at the beach. And just so everybody knows how tall you are, everybody's going to ask that in the comments section, they always want to know how tall everybody is. Yeah, I'm about 5'10 on a good day. 5'10 on a good day, so we'll just say 5'9. It works, it works. IMean, you're a big boy. All right, let's take a look at the current diet. This is the current offseason macros and we're going to adjust these. I usually start off with, IMean, kind of like my thing with people is I start off with just, usually I'll remove carbs from the low day and then I'll bring the medium day down a little bit. IMean, we scale down to one high day per week. That's kind of the shift that we make from going to, from offseason to contest prep. So if you can see this right now, we have, on Kevin's medium days, we have 310 grams of protein, 375 carbs, and 28 grams of added fat. Now keep in mind, these are direct macros. These are not, these are not, I'm not counting trace macros, like, you know, the, a little bit of fat that's going to be in the protein sources or the little bit of protein that's going to be in the carb sources. Fat's just going to be fat at the end of the day, for the most part. Avocado, I think, has a little bit of carbohydrates in it if you're eating avocado, but I don't bother counting that stuff. It's just not worth the extra effort counting that stuff. It just makes it simpler to do it this way. I know people's heads explode when I do that, but it's, you've gotten into the habit of it now. It works pretty well, doesn't it? Oh yeah, 100%. IMean, I think what matters most is just being consistent and keeping protein sources lean, adding in a little fat here and there, but it just is, I tell people who I work with, I'm like, this is, I eat this way because it's easy. If you start eating granola bars and stuff like that, it just complicates trying to add things up. So it's like, you stick to the rice or potatoes, you stick to the chicken or the fish or like, you know, occasional lean beef. And then I get these avocado cups that are seven grams, seven or eight grams of fat, and they're perfect. Yeah, I get those too, the holy guacamole ones. They fit perfectly into the macros. I think there's seven grams of fat in one of those, exactly. That's perfect. So that's usually what I do. Consistency is everything. And then, folks, as you can see, I do a macro-based diet. I do have an improved foods list that I give people. If we can get this up, let me see if I can find your, IMay not have it on, you're on one of the older sheets, but I do have an improved foods list. It's usually a low FODMAP food list, but I give people the flexibility to choose the foods they want. On the last couple of weeks going into the show, then we'll tighten things up. I give people specific foods I want them eating. But for right now, as long as the weight's tracking, there is a bit of trust that goes in there. I'm doing a mentorship with AJ Sims right now, and I know he likes to control everything and tell people exactly what to eat. And probably from a coach's perspective, that's easier. But I like to give people some flexibility so they can keep their sanity. But typically, what are your food choices? What are you eating for your protein, fat, and carbs for the most part? A lot of chicken breast, 96% lean beef. I love shrimp, but I don't eat a ton of it just because of the potential for some mercury and whatnot. But lean fish, cod, egg whites, and I will do like a whole egg or two occasionally, and that'll count as my fat. And then a little bit of whey isolate here and there. And those are my main protein sources, a lot of chicken. And what about for your carbs? What are you doing for carbs? For the most part, cream of rice or rice. I have been doing protein pancakes. On occasion, they fit perfectly into the macros, incidentally, which probably I'll phase out because of thEQuantities of eating. But occasionally, I'll do those. And on a high-carb day, I'll throw in a little bit of white bread or English muffins, things like that, or the sugary sources. But for the most part, rice or even rice cakes. Yeah, rice seems to digest the best. I know some guys will use potatoes and whatnot. We just have to be careful with potatoes and sweet potatoes because, especially if you're on an ARB because of the potassium retention, you can end up hyperkalemic, which is not as big of a deal earlier on. But when you get later in prep, when you're super lean, it can create problems at the end. Yeah, they don't seem to digest as well for me. I'll do steak and potato, lean sirloin steak, especially in the off-season with a potato. But rice is just so cheap, easy. I like it, tastes good, digests. Yeah, when food volume's high, potatoes, you're not gonna be able to eat enough potatoes to get the carbs up where you need to. A lot of people don't know this, but potatoes are the, if you don't put fat on them, if there's no butter, they aren't fried, potatoes are the highest food on the satiety index. They're the most filling food by themselves per gram. Okay, so let's talk initial changes to the diet. So I think where I am going to go is we'll, I don't know, you get lean quick. And here's the thing, this is what I tell people, we can always put food back in if we need to. Usually do. Yep, and the worst case scenario if we're too aggressive with the diet at the beginning is that you're ready early. Now, I think this is a mistake that a lot of coaches make and a lot of guys make is they have this mentality where if they aren't suffering, they're not ready for the show. And look, contest prep is hard. I'm not saying it should be easy, but you can also be a victim of your own work ethic. I've seen that happen with so many guys where they just drive themselves into the dirt at the end of the show and they over diet and they end up looking like absolute trash on stage. They look like they just came out of a forced labor camp. And I think we all have had that experience before. I know I have. Yeah, I've had several buddies, especially I was just having this conversation about cardio, which I have a whole philosophy on. And it's like, you know, yeah, guy dig deep, guy use the StairMaster. It's like one guy I know specifically, he's a big guy too, when he competed, his legs were stringing, he lost size. I really think the era of suffering, like you have to suffer to get lean, you have to suffer to compete. I think we're getting away from that era and I think we're getting better at this. Yeah, yeah, I do too. And you know, look, contest prep is still hard. It's not easy, but you don't, there's, when you're fat free, the only thing left to burn at a certain point, when you get to a point where there's no body fat left, your glycogen depleted, you tell me what's left to burn. Muscle. Muscle, right? Yeah, your body gets into a state of gluconeogenesis where it will start converting. If there's no fat stores to dip into for energy, if you have depleted glycogen, your body will start converting protein structures into glucose through gluconeogenesis to prevent you from fucking dying. And then when you get super lean and you're super insulin sensitive, which I currently still am in the offseason, which my blood work reflects, even after one super high carb days, IMean, there were carb days until last year where I actually ate more than I think you may, well, you knew I was pushing up to like 1200 or so a day with a cheat meal. And the next day, sometimes I would look like I didn't even sell out. Like, I would just, I'd be back at like baseline. Yeah, and that's the beauty of the carb cycling. As you get bigger, you have more potential to synthesize glycogen. That's a thing that a lot of guys don't realize. It's a very, very, very, very, very interesting effect that happens with it. But yeah, the ability to synthesize glycogen depletes as you, or it gets increased as you get bigger. And it seems like there's a super compensation effect that happens as you're depleted. I will have to sprinkle in more carbs on the high days as we get closer to the show. IMean, you've experienced that. IMean, hell, I was doing 2000 grams of carbs going into my show last year. I could need 2000 grams of carbs right now. I am definitely not glycogen depleted. That would be a bad result. Okay, so let's bring this guy back up. So yeah, we'll drop down to veggies only. The protein never changes. I like to leave the fat in until the absolute last. That's like the last thing I pull. The fats that you see here, the added fats are essential fatty acids, mostly from essential fatty acids, olive oil, flax oil, avocados, nuts, things like that. Kevin likes the guacamole, which is fine. So we'll leave that in. We'll scale down to one high day per week. Yeah, which IMean, yeah, I've already been doing just one high-carb day, which is too, it's actually too much for me. Yeah, okay, so you're kind of in pre-prep mode then anyway. And then cardio. Cardio, usually I just start people out with 20 minutes, six times a week. Which is exactly what I've already been doing. Yep, so we're already there. And generally for cardio, I like steady state cardio, moderate intensity, 120 to 130 beats per minute on your pulse. Stairs, walking, the elliptical, bike seem to be the best. And as Kevin mentioned, this is a debate I've had with Justin Harris. He seems, and Justin's my coach, but Justin likes the stair, the stair mill. But I just, in my experience, my legs just go completely away when I do the stairs. I think it's too taxing on the body, honestly. Yeah. Especially when you're in a caloric deficit. And I think what ends up happening is you burn all the glycogen off in your quads and you lose all your fullness. And once thEQuads are flat, it's really hard to get them back unless you just do a couple of weeks of just big eating. They just don't fill back out. And when we're, and we think about it, like if we think about this critically, when we're burning fat, fat is an oxidative process. We're oxidizing fat. If you're in such an intense state on your cardio where you're huffing and puffing and your pulse is at 148, it is, you have gone from anaerobic exercise to more of an aerobic exercise. And at that point, you're probably not burning fat as effectively as you would if you just did steady state. And I also worry about fatigue accumulation with an extremely intense cardio. That is another issue that you can run into where guys just dig themselves into a fatigue hole. I think you can, and I'd like your opinion on this, Paul. I think you can also tailor your cardio depending on some of your blood work markers. And if you really want to build up endurance and you really want to build up the potential to partition nutrients better, like do that in the offseason or do it when you're maintaining. Don't do it when you're already driving yourself into the ground with, you know, figuratively with dieting and hard trening. And it also depends on like the individual. I don't hold a lot of fat in my legs. Maybe there's an argument for guys who their legs don't get as lean or don't stay as lean. Maybe doing some of that once or twice a week could work, help, but I've gotten really lean by walking. Yeah, IMean, I just walk the fat off. Yeah. It's funny, I go back to my first coach in bodybuilding was Dante Trudeau back in shit, 2003, 2002. And I remember Dante was like, just walk the fat off. That was Dante's thing, just start walking. And you hit a good point too with like the super intense HIIT cardio. I like to do, the offseason is the time to do that when you're in a caloric surplus and keep your heart condition, you know, and people also, I think that's another thing where they get confused with cardio. They're really, the way I look at it, there's really two different purposes for cardio. There is fat burning and there's cardiovascular conditioning. And on contest prep, we're using cardio as a tool to increase energy expenditure and burn fat. You can also do other things like I, like last year, I don't think my cardio got over, honestly, 25, maybe 30 minutes, but I was doing 30 minute posing sessions at the end of each workout. Anybody who's ever done a posing session, you're burning through some fucking calories doing a posing session. Yeah, and you don't have to do your cardio. So I do enjoy fasting cardio. I like- I like fasting, yeah. I like getting up first thing and taking my caffeine, my fat burners. It's, I like that. It's a great way to start the day. I feel great. That's just my preference. I do think that there is some merit to potentially burning more fat then, but at the end of the day, it's energy expenditure. And I also think there's a big component on nutrient utilization that comes from that too. Yeah. Shuttling nutrients to the right places when you're eating more, you know, increasing insulin sensitivity and you don't have to do your cardio at one time. So I'll do fasting cardio in the morning, but I'm still walking during the day. I'm still counting my steps. I'm still getting 14, 15,000 steps a day. Yeah. If I have somebody that has an extremely physical job, like guys that are manual laborers and stuff, I'm very careful with the cardio. And I'll have, I'll have those dudes do a step count. If it's somebody that's sitting on their ass all day long, like me in an office, then I'll do prescribed cardio. Mm-hmm. Okay, so back to the diet here. I am going to make one more little change here. I'm going to lower the carbs a bit on the medium day, just in meals one through four. I like to leave the carbs in place around the workout window. So the first place I would start yanking food, if we need to yank food, it's going to be from, and you've seen me do it before. I usually start with meal four on the medium day, then meal three, then meal two, then meal one. And last resort would be lowering the fats on the low day. And on the, sometimes I do have to pull fats out. And on occasion, I do have some clients I have to go zero carb. I will avoid that, like you are not that guy. You would flatten out, but everybody's a little bit different. So it really just depends on the person. So we're going to make a small reduction to the carbohydrates. Yeah, it looks good to me. So we're still at 315 grams of carbs on your medium days. And I would suspect that these two small changes that you are going to see some fat loss. And here's another thing, like I think another thing too, like guys will get impatient. Sometimes coaches will get impatient and I get it. Look, clients want to feel like you're doing something. Like I think clients get upset when I tell them to just keep everything the same. And I'll admit it, sometimes I'll make small little changes just for psychological reasons. But most of the time, like if things are rolling, you're losing fat, you're getting in shape, you're looking better. Don't change a damn thing. Don't change your PEDs. Don't change your... We didn't change anything last year until like the last two weeks. Yeah. And I did nothing different in the offseason. That's why we weren't talking regularly is because I kept the diet the same and I was still feeling great. I was getting bigger, staying full, getting stronger. And IMessaged you a couple of times and it was like, there's no need to change anything. Yeah, and if I remember right, we were adding food back in at the end. We were putting food back in, not taking out. So, and if this level of cardio and these level of macros keep you losing fat through the whole thing, then I wouldn't change a damn thing. I think that's a mistake that a lot of people make and then they try to throw Hail Mary passes at the end with the peak week. But in the ideal situation, like IMentioned before, hopefully we're ready two weeks out. We start putting some food back in. We pull the cardio back a bit, let you rest up, have you fresh going into the show. And then really peak week is just going to be about making sure glycogen is semi topped off and we get you dry. IMean, that's really all peak week should be. You should be done with your fat burning. All of your cardio, all of your hard trening should be done and over with. That should be a week to rest, recover. And then the last two days, just pull the water off. That's really it. Yeah, that's what we did. And I'm always very ready for that week. The light workouts and having it a little bit of food and then you feel so good going into the show. Like I bet it shows, I'm not super experienced. I've only done three so far, but there's always a few guys there. They're just like exhausted. I hear them talk about what their coaches have them doing. They're trying to make changes, like literally like the day before when you're checking in. And I'm like, man, you should be ready. Like, and if you're not ready, just do another show, especially at the amateur level, just push it out. Well, if you're not fat free, there's no amount of water manipulation you can do at the end to make yourself look good. IMean, there just doesn't. Yeah, and there's so much to be said for the fatigue, the cortisol, which I know AJ has talked about. You know, that affects everything. You need to just control everything you can control and really just chill out. Yeah, he calls it rest and digest in the last two weeks. That's accurate. That's 100% accurate. Yeah, I like to essentially treat the peak week as a deload with the trening. Just light pump workouts, you can do some posing and then we pull the cardio back down. Sometimes I'll even pull cardio out completely. But you think about it, like when do most people say they always look the best? The week after the show, right? Oh yeah, when they start filling out, yeah. Yeah, when they start, when they're sleeping better, they're- Yeah, exactly. It's always the following week or two. And you do, IMean, I've got pictures of myself a week or two after, and I look insane in my opinion. Now, keep in mind what looks good in the gym doesn't always look good under the bright lights, but like we said with your pictures, you could have been a little bit fuller. We could have pushed the fullness a little bit more. But I think we'll play around with that this year. So we have some past history. We know what you can handle. You can eat quite a bit of food. Okay, so I don't, people always ask me about trening. I'm not like a huge stickler on trening. I just tell people to tren however they, I have my opinions on trening, on what works, but I usually just let people do their own trening. What are you, how's your trening split structured? What are you doing for trening right now? So what I have been doing, and I joke about this, I've been doing a pretty traditional bro split. And- Bro split's work. Much like you, I enjoy being in the gym often. So I tren six days a week. It's nothing too scientific right now. It's, you know, International Chest Day on Monday, because chest is my weak point. So I do like to come in fresh and as strong as possible. Back on Tuesday, Wednesday, hamstrings and calves. The shoulders, which I've made a lot of progress doing, having a shoulder day, Thursday, and arm day, Friday. And then Saturday's my main leg day, which is mostly quad focused. But I am gonna be revamping my trening a little bit here soon. I am working with somebody else. It's actually someone that we have in common to work on a few of those things. But I agree. Like, if you tren, it's just like the diet. tren the way you enjoy, and you'll be consistent with it, and you'll make progress. Yeah, I think there's some fundamental principles with trening, with bodybuilding. IMean, one is just, we know that mechanical tension is what's the primary driver of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And I think guys get hung up on setting PRs. I'm not saying that advancing your weights aren't important, but making your exercise selection in your form as such that you're getting maximum mechanical tension on the muscle that you're trying to grow. I think that's really the primary objective. Volume is a bit subjective. You know, the way I look at it, you got two knobs. You got volume and intensity. And if you're pushing volume up, you need to pull the intensity back a little bit. If volume goes down, you need to ratchet the intensity up. But that's really it at the end of the day. And I do, really, when you look at the top guys in pro bodybuilding, they really, there's really only two trening splits they do. There's push-pull legs, or there's a bro split. And I'd say probably 70% of them are doing a bro split. And make no mistake about it. Like, I really liked some John Meadows-style trening. So that's probably what I, I kind of gravitate. So I really enjoy drop sets, super sets. I do stay kind of on the higher intensity side of things. You know, and I also use my workouts as an opportunity to get additional steps in. And, you know, I don't just like sit down and get on my phone between every set. I'll usually like make trips to the water fountain. I'll just kind of like casually walk around, which probably isn't that casual, probably weird. But yeah, I like, I'd say John Meadows-style trening is what I gravitate towards. And, you know, intense, hard trening. Well, that's also important too, the psychological aspect of it. If you aren't excited to go into the gym and tren, then you're not going to make any progress anyway. So I, a lot of times your trening really should just fit your personality. And how you are. I do like that intense style of trening, but my body doesn't like it anymore, because I'm in my fifties. So that was a real mindfuck for me, having to dial things back a little bit and do a little more volume. But I continued to grow, so it was a sacrifice I had to make. But, you know, my natural way of being, it's funny because people think I'm not, I'm anti high-intensity workouts. That's the only way I trened when I was younger, man. High-intensity, progressive overload, style of trening I loved. I just can't do it anymore. But yeah, it's whatever gets you excited, gets you in the gym, produces growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, and keeps you from gettinGHurt. That's another thing too. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah, I'm not in there like being reckless, but I'm also not, you know, I'm not a big fan of the, you know, that I call like Instagram workouts, where it's like, you know, you're over-complicating and a tricep push down, you know, and having you at this exact angle with this exact tension, with this exact attachment, like just go, you know, grab water and use good form and go heavy and tren in the typical, you know, eight to 20 rep range, wherever that lands. And, you know, don't waste time between sets. And it's just the fundamentals. Like guys haven't gettinGHuge without being overly scientific for a long time. All right, folks, that's all I got for you. Kevin, if people want to get ahold of you, how do they find you? Probably the best way right now would be Instagram, which is just my name, Kevin M, and last name, Boudreaux, Kevin M Boudreaux. Awesome, I'll have your link in the video description. Yeah, perfect. All right, folks, take care. Thank you for all your support. We'll be back on again with Kevin in a week. All right, thank you.