WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up everybody? Big Paul here. Today, I have not done one of these in a while but I have my video vlog and my update on my progress or lack thereof where things have been at this offseason. It's been a crazy, stupid, weird, wacky offseason. A lot of physical shit that's happened and sickness and injuries and just life and I've been unenthusiastic about trening and whatnot so I'm going to give you an update on all that. Before we get started though, I want to let everybody know that I am working on a new e-course. I hope to have it out this month. It's going to be fat loss made simple. It's going to be basically the bodybuilding way of getting ripped. I'm going to try to keep the price down on this one. Keep your eye out. If you're not on my email subscriber list, go over to my antibody bodybuilding website and sign up for the email notifications and I will send out A-50% off sale when I launch it. I think it's going to be around 100 bucks or something like that. I'm putting a lot of work into it. I am working on it right now. I'm such a perfectionist with this stuff. It's probably ready to go but I just keep working on it and I want to make sure that it's good to go when it comes up. I'm going to have diet protocols, PED protocols, treninGHow to get ripped and I'll lay it out in a systematic format so where you can kind of just coach yourself. Anyway, folks, we'll dig into my progress update in just one second. So, sort of my stats where I'm at right now. I am at 247 pounds fasted. I ended the or the contest prep I weighed in at the show. I think it was 249.3 something. So, my weight hasn't really changed a whole lot. I've lost a little bit of weight since the show. It's just some fullness from I really have not been running a ton of gear and eating a ton of food. I backed off the food and I've still been trening as much as I can. I love trening even though there's people that say that I'm not about trening. I'm all about the PEDs. Actually, the gym is my favorite part. I do love nutrition too. I'm passionate about nutrition. Honestly, I find the PED part of it pretty boring but that's the stuff that people want to talk about all the time. So, I just try to be trensparent about it and show people what the intelligent way to use. But anyway, I'm 247 right now. I am kind of skinny fat. I don't know what you call it but I have this great genetic ability to lose weight and get fatter at the same time. So, I actually weigh less than I did at my show but I'm a bit softer. I don't know where my body fat is at right now but you can see in the picture I have over here what I look like. It's, you know, not terrible body composition. If I had to guess, I would say my body fat is somewhere in the 10%-ish range, I would say. Maybe a little bit higher. I tend to carry my fat on my back. My lower back is where I tend to carry it but I don't have a picture of it. This is just sort of a bathroom selfie. This is not a really official check-in pic. Diet has been kind of screwball through this off-season. Honestly, I have not followed a structured diet since my show. I've just been kind of eating whatever. I'd say I eat mostly clen. 90% clen, 80% clen. I don't know. There's been a few extra McDoubles and some McFlurries in there. But all in all, I think I've held up pretty well body composition-wise. I was shocked when I went into the doctor to get my blood work done. My blood work was pretty much perfect. I had a slight elevation in my hematocrit. It was 51. Hemoglobin was in the 17. So it's, you know, look, for being on gear, it's not bad. But I, you know, all things considered, my blood work came back great. I was kind of shocked. I did crash my estrogen really bad post-show. It was such a hot mess post-show. I felt like dog shit. My joints hurt. I couldn't get my estrogen to come back up. I ran tests. And looking back on it, it was just a whole comedy of errors. I just did some stupid shit. Look, I can admit when I'm wrong and I goofed up coming out of the show. I really did not handle the rebound properly. Basically, everything I tell my clients to do, I didn't do that. And really kind of where I goofed up post-show and going in, I ran Exemastain at the end of the show. And I did not consider the ramifications of Exemastain and the long-term effect that it would have on crushing estrogen. It's a suicide inhibitor. And post-show, I came completely off. It wasn't a plan to come completely off. I had just been on gear pretty much seven years straight. There was blasting cruise in here. It's not like I was blastinGHigh doses year round. I like to run my higher doses in spots. I pick my spots. And then I'll do TRT for probably, I don't know, 12 weeks out of the year, something like that, 16 weeks out of the year. And then I'll try to get two good blasts in during the year if I can. That's sort of how I run out. I have like two eight-week cruises and then I'll get a blast. And sometimes they're just one really long cruise, which I think is essentially what this fall is going to turn out to be. You can see here, I'm going to show you my cycle coming out of the show where I was at. I got up to as high as around three grams of total gear during the show, maybe a little bit over three grams. It's the most I've ever run. I only ran that for 10 weeks. I've never pushed that high before. Once again, there's people that'll say that all I do is run high gear to get results for an okay physique. That okay physique won Masters Nationals Open and the super heavyweights. Anyway, I digress. The interesting thing was, I've never gone that high before. I was a little scared to push that high in my blood work. It's fantastic. I don't understand it. Maybe some of it's just genetics. But this whole thing, I ran a ton of wind straw going into the show. I talked to AJ Simms. I'm not going to say that this is what he told me to do, but he talked about runninGHigher doses of wind straw going into the show. I ran 200 milligrams of wind straw the last 10 days on top of the eczema stain. Then I came off completely post-show. You can see here. I was off for abouT4 weeks. I did a bunch of traveling. I had vacation and stuff in there. I just didn't want to take the gear with me on the plane. I didn't want to deal with all that BS. I had my estrogen completely crash. It was on the single digits for three months. I went back on ... Let's see. Show was 7-18. I stayed off until mid ... Actually, this is incorrect here. Let me fix this. I went back on the third week of August. Around the 18th, I went back on. I just ran three ... This was my quasi-rebound. Just 300 tests, 200 masteron, nothing crazy, and nine units of GH. There are going to be people that say it's a high amount of GH. I'll get into it in a second. Anyway, I ran that from mid-August, like the second half of August, up through October. I did that for about six, seven weeks. Six weeks. I was completely off. That was sort of a cruise plus. I don't know what you would want to call it. Rebound. Then I started my offseason after basically 11 weeks of being off and then doing a cruise plus, I would call it. I decided I was going to run EQ. Here's the thing with EQ. EQ further suppresses estrogen. My estrogen was already buried. I didn't know at the time that it was already buried. I got blood work done a couple weeks after I started the EQ and I found out that it was completely buried. I felt awful. Mainly just no energy in the gym. My joints felt terrible. I got blood panels done a couple times. Blood panels were okay except for the estrogen being crushed, so it was clearly just something going on there. I decided to use a little bit of D-Ball. I hate my own words because IMake fun of D-Ball all the time. Look, here's my thing on D-Ball. It does have a time and a place that it is applicable. I think for most people, D-Ball is a poor choice if you're a high estrogen converter. If you're someone who struggles with symptoms such as gyno, bloating, which leads to high blood pressure, acne, prostate inflammation, any of those, probably D-Ball is not a good choice because D-Ball converts to methyl estradiol and it is instant gyno if you're somebody that's prone to gyno. Here's the cool thing with it. If you have crushed your estrogen, if you're a dude that doesn't convert much test to estrogen, then D-Ball can be a lifesaver. There are those out there that say that D-Ball is the greatest thing they've ever used. There's a small percentage of people, probably I'd say 15%, something like that. Maybe like one out of 10, one out of eight people that take PEDs, you'll hear them say that D-Ball is the greatest thing and then you hear other dudes say it's just terrible. It's nothing but side effects for me. If you're a lean guy, if you're a low estrogen converter, which I will say from looking at blood panels from people that I've worked with over the years, it's usually about one out of 10 people that are low estrogen converters. They're not the norm. Most dudes tend to convert more heavily, especially if your body fat is north of 12%, 15%, 20. It gets worse as you go up. Then you have to be really careful with estrogen conversion. D-Ball is a lightning rod for estrogen related side effects. If you are prone to estrogen related side effects, D-Ball is probably not a good choice. But if you fucked up like I did and completely buried your estrogen, then D-Ball can be a tool to pull you out of the basement. I ran what I would consider low dose. I don't know, 25 milligrams. I ran that for four weeks and within the first week I instantly felt better. My symptoms of low estrogen went away. My appetite came back. I have a feeling that my appetite was absolutely crushed post-show. I had no appetite whatsoever. I was forcing myself to eaT3, four meals a day. That's why I dropped weight. I just didn't want to eat. I thought maybe something was wrong, but it was just the crushed estrogen. As soon as my estrogen came back up, my appetite came back up. That's the reason. Honestly, it was the reason I chose to run Equipoise. I normally run Primobolan or Masteron in the offseason and I went with Equipoise because I hoped that it would get my appetite back up, but I didn't consider the ramifications when it came to crushing my estrogen. Usually for me in the offseason, usually my estrogen gets too high and I have to take action to mitigate high estradiol, so I didn't really think that the Equipoise would be the problem. It's funny because Equipoise and D-Ball are essentially the same molecule. One of them is methylated, but one crushes your estrogen and the other one blows your estrogen up. It's wild how chemistry works. Anyway, I ran my offseason cycle. I got seven weeks in it, which we know with the Equipoise was probably just starting to peak at that time. I dropped the Equipoise because it just made me feel miserable with the crushed estrogen. Then post Thanksgiving, me and my kids got some kind of yuck. We were all sick for two fucking weeks. I don't know what the hell it was. I've had a bunch of my clients get the same bug. I've probably had a dozen or so of my clients reportinGHaving the same bug where it's some sort of upper respiratory thing where they were sick for two weeks. I had that shit happen and then finally I was starting to feel better. It was like at this point I'm like, all right, trening's not going the greatest because I was also struggling with a shoulder issue too. My joints were hurting. I have a torn labrum in my shoulder. My shoulder was really bothering me and I had a mild sprain in my elbow. According to the doctor, I felt a tendon pop when I was doing shoulder presses. I'm missing my UCL in my right elbow. This is called being old and fucking beat up. This is why I can't do heavy duty style trening where you tren until you die because I'm all beat up. I'm 50 years old. 50 year old guys can't do that shit. Really, most guys can't. I can't. I have to tren with a little more nuance. I have to get the more out of less. I think I've done a pretty good job of that. Believe me, I would love to sling around some heavy weights and go until I bleed. I like that bro way of trening and just go until you're on the verge of death, but that doesn't work for me at 50 years old anymore. I don't think many 50 year olds are trening that way or you'd be a goddamn cripple. Yes, I do lean a little more on the PEDs sometimes rather than trening the nutrition, but I think it all works together if you're smart about it. It's getting the most out of everything. Anyway, I popped my fucking elbow. My elbow was a wreck for about six weeks. I couldn't do any pushdowns. I try to push through everything. I try to figure a way around. All right, if I can't do whatever exercises I can squeeze in there with injuries, I'll work those in and work around things the best I can. That on my right side and then torn labrum on my left side, everything was fucked up. I really couldn't tren shoulders or chest. Thank God those are my strong body parts that hard for about six weeks while that this was going on. Back is sort of my weakness. Legs have been my weakness. I really just hit back and legs hard. I was able to tren those hard, but I just got to a point I'm like, this is just, it's not worth being on all these PEDs right now, even though evidently I only rely on drugs to get my results. I decided just to pull back. You know, it just didn't make any sense. Sometimes you got to know when to cut your losses. Might as well just cruise, let my body get healthy, get ready for contest prep. My goal is to do the 2025 Tampa Pro. That's going to be my first pro show. I just want to go out there and have fun. I don't really care how I place. So I just told myself, let's just chill. We'll run, run bodybuilding TRT. And you're going to get people to tell me that 300 milligrams isn't TRT. You're going to get dudes arguing with me about that. Okay. Whatever. Uh, that's why I call it bodybuilding TRT. I'm on 300 milligrams of test right now. Six units of GH. That's what I've been running since the end of November. So I'm about seven weeks in it, six weeks in it, something like that. Six and a half weeks into it. I'm going to run it for probably another two weeks. I'm, I'm going on vacation mid January, and then I'll start a small push when I look a little bit better going into the Arnold, nothing crazy. And then I kind of do a soft start to my contest prep at 20 weeks out, which is mid March. I'll start pushing things up a little bit. I usually hit my peak doses on contest prep, like 10 weeks out, 12 weeks out. And that's sort of how the way my year is laid out. IMean, you can go back here and look at my year for those that say I rely heavily on drugs. Uh, this, you know, let's, let's go back. Let's look at the beginning of 20, 20, four. I started off January on 250 milligrams of tests and I ran that all the way up to March. So 12 weeks on two 50 tests. Uh, and you can see here, I started around 20 weeks out for my show right here on two 29. I went to 500 tests, then seven 50, then a thousand. Then I slowly started cranking it up and peak doses were about, let's see here, 3,200. So yeah, peak doses were around 12 weeks out from the show. And I ran for 12 weeks. I ran three grams out of the 52 weeks in the year. And if we look at the rest of the year, so I had, I had eight, let's see, let's see, almost eight weeks. Yeah. Eight weeks on TRT, another eight weeks. So 16, exactly what I was saying out of the last 12, 12 months, something like that. Actually more than that. Um, I don't know. Yeah. Something like that. 16 weeks, 20 weeks were spent on basically TRT, TRT plus doses, really low, moderate doses. So nothing, nothing crazy. You, I, I pick my spots and that's where, where I push. But anyway, that's kind of where things are at right now. I would like to have myself looking a little bit better for the Arnold, fill back out a little bit, get on a structured diet. I just have not been following a structured diet. IMean, I've been posting my food up on Instagram. I eat decent stuff. Most of the time I've been having a few extra cheap meals here and there, but I really don't eat a lot during the day. Like literally I just don't want to eat in the morning. A lot of times I have no appetite in the morning. So I've been eating three, four, sometimes five times a day, buT3 or four times a day. That's where I've been out for like the last, since the show. And I will get back on a structured diet where I've start weighing and measuring everything. Some of it is just, God damn it, man. I pushed hard for the last five years. I've been a warrior. I've weighed and measured every single thing I've eaten. I've been diligent with everything. I had this quest of getting the most out of my physique. In the back of my mind, I thought maybe I could get a pro car, but I didn't want to build myself up. I didn't really believe it until I did my first national qualifier and I did pretty well at that one. Then it sparked in me that it was a possibility. But you know, I honestly, when I go into shows, I don't go, I try not to go in them with any expectations. The only thing that I want from a show is I want to be a better version of what I was in my last show. I want to put my all in it. I want to work my hardest. I want to do my best. And if I did better than I did on the previous attempt, then that's a win for me. And then whatever happens, whatever placings are, so be it. Don't care. IMean, it's nice, but it's been sort of anticlimactic since I've won the pro car. Like it's just, this has been like a big exhale. I don't know of a better way to describe it. I'm like, well, fuck, where do I go from here? It's not like I'm going to be competitive as a pro at 50 years old. That's not happening. I'll do some master shows or a master show. I only, I take it one show at a time. We'll see how it goes, but it's not like I'm winning the Mr. Olympia contest or anything. That ship set sail 30 years ago or 25 years ago, whatever. This is probably the peak for me. So I don't know where I go from here. So it was just sort of like anticlimactic. Honestly, a lot of it now is just focusing on my clients. I have some young people, talented people that I'm working with right now that I would like to see succeed. And I've been trying to put more of my effort into helping a couple of the young guys that I've been working with make the most out of their physiques. I would really like to see them get their pro cards. A couple of my clients, I think have a shot. I'm trying to work with them. And honestly, I like working with just people that want to get in shape. That it's very rewarding. And my focus has sort of been there recently, trying to help people. And that's a lesson, this is getting off on a side reign, a lesson I learned a long time ago. People ask me about making money from coaching. I've been fortunate in my life where I've made a decent amount of money. I was CEO of an IT company for years and in a fairly respectable financial position. Not saying that to brag or anything. But if you follow your passions and you do a great job at it, you do an exemplary job at it, money tends to follow. So anyway, that's all I got on this one. Let me know if you got any questions in the comments section below. Appreciate each and every one of your support. Take care. trenscribed by https://otter.AI