Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, Big Paul here today with you with another video in the prep series that I put together. My client, Mike Horner, has volunteered to share his prep for the 2025 Masters Nationals with everybody else. We're gonna talk through his cycle, his diet, and everything that goes into his prep. Mike just competed in the Emerald Cup Classic out west, out in, I believe it was in Seattle. And Mike's been with me for a while. I've been coachinGHim for a period of time. Mike's just an old guy bodybuilder like me that's just loving the process, enjoying the lifestyle of bodybuilding, and just having fun. And I'm gonna share with you what Mike and I are doing for his prep. And this one's a little bit different because he is doing a second show. We took a brief break between the shows just to let his body recover, and then we're kind of getting back into it now. We're gonna go through this cycle with Mike while he gets ready. We'll talk about his diet, his PED protocols, fat burners, et cetera, and see how things go with him getting ready for the Masters Nationals, which is in late July. I think it's around July 17th, July 18th, or something like that. Something like nine weeks out right now at the time of the recording of this video. Before we get into all that, I want to remind you folks about the cycle cheat sheet that I have out on my anabolic bodybuilding website. You can pick it up. It's only 30 bucks. It's a quick reference guide on how to build a blast and cruise style cycle. I go through the various PEDs that bodybuilders use, how to structure those cycles, how to structure the phases, how to mitigate side effects when they do come up, and it's pretty simple. It's about 30 pages long, 30 bucks. It is the Cliff Notes version of the anabolics PED course, the science of anabolics and PEDC course that I have out as well. If you want a deeper dive, that one is also available. Anyway, folks, enough of that. We are going to dig into Mike's prep in just one second. All right, I got Mike Horner with me today, another one of my clients. Mike just competed in the Emerald Cup and he is getting geared up, no pun intended, to do the Masters Nationals in nine weeks. So I'm going to be there. I'm going to have a whole crew of people at Masters Nationals. Mike, it's going to be you and like seven or eight other people. Depends on who makes it to the finish line. I always have some people that seem to drop off, but we're going to have a whole contingent of people there. So I'm spending four or five days up there at Masters Nationals, but that's exciting. And you did well at the Emerald Cup and we're going to talk about your prep. You have graciously volunteered to talk about it as well. I got my other client, Kevin, that's sharinGHis prep too. I thought it'd be good to pull the curtain back and so people could see what preps actually look like and how the coaching relationship is. I don't think I've seen anybody else do this. So this was kind of an idea I had that I wanted to get a couple of my clients and do kind of these live check-ins and share with people with kind of the process of what prep looks like. Yeah, no, I think it's a great idea to give some people some insight. And that's kind of the way I teased it on my YouTube channel too, is that just to get some insight to the coachee relationship and how that works. Well, I appreciate you opening up and sharing it. I know like a lot of people don't, this is sort of a private thing, if you know what I'm saying, but there's a lot of stuff that people don't want out there, but you're ballsy enough to put it out there and open yourself up to criticism. Believe me, when I did my contest prep last year, it was fucking insane, man. The amount of people that came out of the woodwork to tell me how awful it was. I went, well, that awful won a pro card. So. Yeah, yeah, I'm ready for it. I'm braced for it. I've been pretty- Be prepared, man. It's funny though. I think most of it's just, it's overwhelmingly positive. It's just that, you know, of course the naysayers are gonna stick out in your head more than the positive people. Well, I got a job on Kurt Haven's private group and I posted some things from my labs just to kind of have a discussion around some things. And I thought it would be a vibrant discussion with some intelligent people, but it turned into like, oh dude, you're crazy and you should see a doctor. Your cycle design is shit. Who the hell's coaching you? Calm down guys, I'm good. Trust me. Yeah, IMean, everybody's got their opinions and it's funny, always the people with the strongest opinions are the ones that never really have done anything with themselves. That's always, that's the hilarious part. You don't get criticism from the people that are awesome. Like I have, like, you know, I get some of the top guys in the sport reach out to me and talk about things, you know, in private and then, you know, and it's Joe Blow in Oklahoma, that's 50 pounds overweight in his basement telling me how much I suck and how stupid my information is. But that's just how it goes. It's just part of the territory. All right, so let's talk about, what was your show? Two weeks ago, three weeks ago? Yeah, three weeks. Three weeks. And we kind of just did a little mini rebound, just give yourself a break. IMean, there's a, shows are far enough apart where I kind of want to let your body breathe a little bit. And I know we took a food break, but you really, like your pictures look pretty solid right now. Mike, just so people know, Mike's a Masters competitor. We are in the over 50 division, you know, so we're, right, I'm not slaughtering that, right? You're in the over 50 division. No, I also competed in the open at the Emerald Cup, just to kind of see how it stack up against the whole lineup. And I placed eighth in the open, so it's not bad on a big show like that. But you'll be doing over 50 at Masters Nationals, correct? Yes. Yeah, okay. Bodybuilding. Yeah, bodybuilding. But anyway, you know, this is where we're at right now. And this was three weeks after having some food. IMean, you look pretty, you look filled back out. Your weight was what, 215? Yeah, I was a little lighter this morning than it's been most of the week. I've been like 218, 220. There's nothing that happens to me where I kind of like dump all my water at the end of the week, it seems like. And I always like pee a lot on Friday nights for the reason that is. Friday night pee fest. But no, IMean, you look pretty good right now. Well, you know, obviously there's a little bit of water and stuff on there, but that's, I want it to fill you back out, give your body a break from the show. And then we'll kind of spin back up into prep mode now and kind of get going back there with the diet. I'm not even a hundred percent sure what you've been doing with your diet since the show. Are you still running, what, three high days? You're doing right now? Yeah, 300 high days and 900 grams of carbs. Yeah, that's what I thought. But yeah, IMean, for running all that, it seems like you've held up well. And what we'll do, we'll scale back down to the, I'm gonna pull up your sheet here, but we'll scale back down to two high, or just one high day a week. We'll go back down to that for now and then kind of go back into prep mode. It's not gonna take you much to get ready. So this is always like the, when you have these shows that are, it's almost easier to have a show that's like two or three weeks apart than it is to have one that's like 12 weeks apart. Because it's like, what do you do? You're already in shape. And it's not long enough to do a full-blown rebound, but I also wanna give the body a break and not, because you need, I think a lot of it, honestly, when prep, when people come out of prep and blood work is skewed and shit, I think a lot of times it just has to do with more so than the PEDs, it has to do with how hard you pushed your body. It's the food, it's the cardio, it's all this stuff that negatively affects the blood work. Because I see power lifters do all kinds of crazy shit, they run into meats and their blood work's usually fine. Well, I've got to say, this was probably the least stressful prep that I've ever had. Good. I did a pretty good job of just pushing all the stress out of my life. Like I really, I delegated everything in my company to other people the last few weeks. Like I really was able to sort of disconnect and do nothing but eat, sleep, and tren, and rest. And I didn't have a lot of fatigue going into the show. And watching you and your content and some of these other people who have been, made a point out of just not havinGHigh fatigue scenarios in a prep, I figured that was a good place to focus my attention. And even like not taking some of the PEDs that were contributing to that, like Glen Buterol as an example, I think overall it helped me more than anything. Yeah, IMean, that's always the game you got to play. Like you definitely, you need to get the. prolactin defects, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, reconstulants synapse, reconstulants synapse protection, reconstulants dismantling,bottom I've never understood why, why do you need to keep runninGHigh doses of fat burners, why do you need to keep hammering the cardio, why do you need to keep doing things that are going to prevent you from sleeping and causing more fatigue if you're already fat free, to me that never made any fucking sense, IMean that's just what I think a lot of guys do, and I'm working with AJ Sims right now, I'm doing a mentorship with him and that is a point that he talks about constantly. It's like get the fat off, get you fresh and back up going into the show and almost rebound into the show and that's sort of the ideal scenario. Yeah. And like with getting the fat off like and you know here's the thing like and I know this sometimes can be a mindfuck with people but like if I see the weight progressing down and you're improving from week to week, why do more cardio, why cut the food more? Yeah. You know I… We've had the same food and cardio for a long time during this last prep. Right and you kept progressing and you kept getting leaner, so why change anything? Yeah, IMean I did you know at hindsight being what it is now looking at all the pictures and stuff from the show afterwards, like the last little bit of fat on my ass and my connectors really has cost me a placing, right? Like I wasn't going to beat the super heavy that was standing next to me in any scenario but the guy who placed ahead of me, I could have beat him if my glutes had been shredded as his, right? Yeah, IMean there's always that game you play too and that's another thing you know and I knew you were going to do another show too, so I didn't want to push you too hard for this one. You just needed to qualify for the next show and you know that's always the game you play too like if you know and this is something I've talked about with judges and it's like the judges tell you that like when you talk to judges like they don't seem to care too much about shredded glutes as much as other people do. I've been told by a friend that's an IFBB judge that shredded glutes aren't worth chasing if you're going to sacrifice all of your size, that's what I was told. So you know that's the thing that and you got to remember when they're judging these shows they judge it's not there's multiple, there's only really two rear shots and you know so if you're sacrificing your other what five shots or whatever it is for those two rear shots, is that worth it? I don't know you know so you got to you know and they judge per shot so if you can win four out of seven or whatever it is and then you've got a shot at you know if you beat a guy out of four out of seven or whatever you know so that's another thing to consider too. So but yeah so you know we could probably push conditioning a little bit more I thought you were a little flat at the show too yeah we can probably get you a little leaner and then push up the size a little bit more but these are adjustments we can make going into the next the next show. For sure and IMean and I don't I try not to get too mired in that like post post show revelry right where I'm looking at pictures and seeing where I could have done better or you know comparing the next show but I've done all that right I looked at the Pacific Coast I'm like yeah I could have won the Pacific Coast if I would have done that show instead but I wanted to get on a stage where there was going to be a lot of competitors you know that's a big show that I did so. Well you will be on the stage with a lot of competitors at semesters nationals they were last year when I was there there were about 60 guys in the over 50 class. Right but then you have weight divisions in that. Yeah yeah you have weight yeah you have weight divisions yeah yeah I think it was the heavyweights last year there were about 20 dudes in the heavyweights they were they were only five in my class so I just had to beaT4 other dudes. I'll be stoked with a top 10 finish honestly like I'll be over the moon. I got to show people this picture by the way I want to embarrass you a little bit Mike but this is a go ahead this is what Mike used to look like folks. Well Mike you come a little little way since then. Yeah complete with inverted nipples and yeah you've come a little way since then but anyway yeah so let's talk about your the plan with the diet moving forward so obviously if you've been doing the three high days any any reduction and that's going to change you so let's say let's go down to one high day. Per week I want to put in some carbs back around your medium day just a little bit so I'm going to spread the carbs around a little bit more and then lower the carbs in the pre and post-workout window so we'll start here at 300 grams of carbs 270 grams of protein and then 28 grams of added fat and just so people I repeat this over and over just so people understand how IMeasure food. You know and this is something I learned from Justin Harris is I don't measure direct or I'm sorry trace macro so like the one gram of fat that's in your chicken breast or two grams of fat in your chicken breast it's just not worth chasing after and I know it makes people's heads explode but the thing is is like if you think about a chicken breast it's not engineered in a lab so you honestly have no clue what the fat content is. It could be one gram it could be four gram it's just guesswork it's not like the other stuff and there's this thing in in statistics called precision versus accuracy and when you try to try to precisely measure something that is an inaccurate value you end up with actually more inaccuracy so there's just no point in measuring it so we you know they are trying to track it so the important thing is is weighing everything so if you eat six ounces of chicken every time you know that you're going to lose weight. You know that it's going to be six ounces of chicken where you know something with the fat you know like if you do half a tablespoon of oil and you measure that accurately every time you if you reduce that to a quarter tablespoon you know there's going to be a corresponding drop in calories so it's just you know trying to track down in chase all these trace macros is just not it's just a waste of time to be honest with you so we only do direct macros. Yes there is a little bit of protein in the carbohydrates you eat yes there is a little bit of fat in the protein we eat but it's just not worth tracking if you want to track it it doesn't hurt anything it's just more work but I wouldn't spend time obsessing over I got people plenty shredded without without doing it so just something like for me like on a on a medium day and this is something I talk about when I do my my check-ins Paul is you know what I what I actually eat. So you know 45 grams of proteins about 144 grams of chicken it's about 160 grams of 96% lean ground beef. Yep. And if I'm doing 25 grams of carbs in a meal a lot of times I'll just do a serving of the instant mashed potatoes the kind that are just plain don't have anything else in them. That's a good idea I never thought about that one. Yeah the more filling the more filling than 25 grams of rice and then and then like 7 grams of fat would be like a half of a small avocado I get these real small avocados from and I've weighed them so I know that half one is about 7 grams and or I'll do 14 grams of almonds and and that's what a meal looks like for me. Yeah the reason why I do 7 or 14 when it comes to the fat is because 7 is a half a tablespoon of oil if you wanted to do if you wanted to measure it out it's also you know 14 grams of nuts typically roughly you know it works out to be that so it's just easy math to do people ask me why I do 7 or 14 like that's why you know I usually do olive oil or flax oil I just dump it on my rice it's easy. I kind of alternate between the two flax has a better EPA DHA profile but yeah IMean that's kind of how I do it for cardio what are you doing for cardio right now I just want to make sure we're on the same page there. Okay so let's just start back up with we'll do I like having people do fast it walks and then post-workout cardio so we'll just start off with 20 and 20 of both. DIDBEURER, בדBE Officer's point, it really depends on a person how obsessed with the intersection platform. So some people will say tell me more about this where we get How is the number of accident cases or needed attention attended therapy? And I, you know, I have like my iPhone and I set up a live player. You know, it's just really great izing, and I can mementos trade the screen can even where there's really not much fat left and your glycogen depleted. There's really only one substrate left for energy. And we have to be really careful with high intensity cardio. And at that point it's turning protein structures into glucose, through gluconeogenesis. And guys will tell me like, man, I smell like ammonia after my cardio. And I'm like, yeah, that's, that's your body. It's the by-product of gluconeogenesis when your body's stripping, the nitrogen away from the, from the, from the, from the car, from the protein structures to make glucose. And then you end up with ammonia as a by-product. So that's, that's a good way. That we're, and that's not what we want. So we, we have to walk that line. So here's how it's all going to play out yet. But I would say now would be the time to get a little more intense with the cardio. So like I, what I, what I would say is like, as you get more depleted, you have to be more conservative with the cardio as far as intensity goes, because you're already going to be glycogen depleted. And sometimes what I've seen is like we get towards the, especially older guys we get towards the end of prep. And if you go too intense with the cardio, what I see is guys legs flatten out and then it's impossible to get their legs back until we were in like a steep caloric surplus. I've had that happen to me where my legs just, and everybody's different though. It seems to be some guys are just resilient. Like there's some guys I can just beat the fuck out of with cardio and a calorie dips and they don't flatten out. And then other dudes tend to flatten out in I'm, you know, I'm just speculating, but I'm guessing that some guys have more potential for glycogen synthesis than others and others have more protein structures potentially. It's just, you know, me guessing, but I tend to be a guy that synthesizes a lot of glycogen so I can retain a lot of glycogen. So I have to be really careful, but that's, yeah, I would say, you know, if you want to, long story short, if you want to do some more intense cardio, now would be the time to do it. I think that's a similarity that you and I have is the glycogen synthesis. I'm going to up the fats a little bit on your low day to bring those up to 10. Let me pull this back up here. That's what they're at now is 10, right? I think we're at seven. If you're eating 10, good on you. We're, we're going to 10. So, and we are, how many weeks out was it from the show again? I know we talked nine. And the show is 7-16, right? Yeah. Well, 7-16 is actually the Wednesday that this. Oh, so it's 7-17, it's Thursday. Yeah. When do the bodybuilders actually take the stage at that show? Thursday. Thursday. So I really need to arrive there on the, uh, 15th at least, huh? I would get there. Yeah. On the 15th. Especially if you're flying, you don't want to be rolling in. You don't want to be rolling in the day before because there's always potential for actually we're eight weeks out, right? No, I'm sorry. Seven and eight and a half because it's on a Thursday or eight and a couple days. Yeah. Should we start doing check-ins on Thursday for that reason or? When we get closer, we can, but it doesn't really matter right now. IMean, you know how it is at the end, man. We just, we start talking every day. Yeah. That that's another thing folks like when I get towards the last 10 days or so the show, we kind of, we really communicate daily. As we get to the end, I'll, I'll share my peaking protocols with everybody so you can see what the peaking protocols look like for the show. IMean, it's really not rocket scientist, rocket science at the end. We kind of pull back the cardio a bit. We pull back the trening. We start doing the carb up. I do the carb up process over a couple of days. Sometimes some people need a depletion day, just depends. And then a little bit of water manipulation the day before the show, but some of it's subjective on how people are looking. IMean, that's kind of the kind of the process. Well, I was saying, I think that the science is in putting the protocol together. The art is in everything you do after every check-in. Yeah. IMean, that's definitely something I am been learning a little bit more from AJ is he is a, he is very much a guy and it's, that's funny. The top coaches in bodybuilding, when you, you look at the guys that are at the top, like him, Chris Asito, some of these guys, you know, Honey Rambod, a lot of these guys are really good at the stuff, the nuance that's not the science at looking at pictures and saying, all right, we need to do this little tweak to make this look a little bit better. And that's something that I've been really trying to improve on is using the combination of the scale and the pictures. And ideally what you should do is find if you can find it early enough, like if you look great at 210 pounds, five days out from the show, ideally you want to step on stage at 210 pounds and, you know, and then you can just manipulate food and water to maintain that food, water, sodium. Yeah. Cart rips specifically carbohydrates of what we would be manipulating at the end to put additional weight on. You're not going to be synthesizing muscle tissue going into the last week of the show. The way the way we did it this time was unlike any, anything that I've ever experienced. And, you know, I've always done that sort of like pump and dump, like eat a bunch of carbs right at the end and drop the water and get on stage. And that's definitely a much better approach. Yeah. It's, you know, and when you think about it, I think most people do the carb up wrong. And you know, when you think about the physiology of it, IMean, it takes 24 to $48 for glycogen to fully synthesize. Yeah. I see a lot of guys shoving carbs down the day before the show and the day of the show and you can't synthesize glycogen without water. So if you're depleting water and you're not, you know, you also need sodium present too for glycogen synthesis. IMean, how the fuck are you going to like, so all that food that you eat just ends up sitting in your gut and you end up bloated. Like if you'd been backstage at a bodybuilding show, everybody's fucking farting. It smells like a rancid fart backstage, farting tan. And it's because, and then all these guys are back there hammering down food before they get on the stage. I'm like, I'm like, dude, that, that, that bag of potato chips you're eating three minutes before you get on stage, ain't gonna do shit for you when you get on stage. Maybe it makes, you know, it's psychological. You know, you can get a little bit of a pump from, from sodium and some fluids, you know, an hour or so before you get on stage, but it's very nuanced, but really, really the work is set up beforehand. So you should have that look. And then you can make little tweaks and changes at the end to kind of just dial it in. But it really like the Hail Mary past stuff at the end just doesn't fucking work. And it, a lot of times it ends up making you look worse. Well, that last bit of peanut butter, honey, and sodium that you had me do before prejudging that really, uh, IMean, I didn't expect it to do what it did, but a lot of my veins just popped. Well, IMean, you think about it, it's, it's sodium and then I'll usually have people drink a Gatorade or something, some fat just to kind of slow the absorption down a little bit. But what it is, is, you know, water follows sodium. And so if you get fluids in and you have some sodium, you want enough to volumize your blood and not to spill over. And that's a fine line to walk. But I found like a small Gatorade and some salt on some once. Um, and then the carbohydrates have, you know, a response as well, you know, guys that if you can drink alcohol, you can do a little bit of alcohol for, you know, maybe just a shot of vodka for vasodilation before you get on stage, but you, or you could, you know, if you want to do like some citrulline or something, you probably could, but I've heard of guys using Viagra, but then they end up popping Woody's on stage. Uh, you know, you see the guys with the half chubby on stage. I stay on five grams a day anyway. So, um, but you know, those are some things that you can volumize your blood a little bit and, and have a pump. But I, I honestly, I would rather err on the side of dry and flat on stage than full and watery dry. And unless you're just a guy that's winning on size only, which most people at local shows aren't. So really the, the two variables that we can control is getting your dry, um, getting you, you're opposing nailed down when we get on stage. And if you do that, you have a good chance of winning. And then if we need to, you know, do a little bit of magic, sprinkle a little bit of salt and fluid on it at the end, we can get, you know, some of the veins and vascular, a little pop back. So you just feel and look better getting on stage. Yeah. So I'm going to be in Vegas. So Dan and I are planning some. in person coaching sessions. Oh, awesome. I didn't know he was he's in Vegas now. Yeah, he's in Vegas. I didn't realize I used to be in Texas. I didn't realize he moved. Yeah, yeah. So you're working with Daniel Cuffein. Yeah, yeah, I think he moved to Vegas because, you know, this is for the same reason I'm going there for eight weeks to tren, you know. All right. The juicy stuff that everybody wants to wants to hear about. We'll see if YouTube likes this. But you want to talk about your cycle? Yeah. All right. Where are you at right now? What are we doing? You've got me on 250 of tests, but I'm actually taking three because that's just how my. Yeah, that's fine. Bottles dose and figure it didn't matter. Three hundred Primo slash Masteron and six IU of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. OK. All right. Yeah. So we're kind of essentially on rebound protocol. So we'll start tapering that back up. We can kind of talk about the cycle and where we're going to do usually what I like to do. And we have it when we pull it back up, you're going to make this a little bit smaller. So I'm doing this with one hand. I guess I could take my arm out of the sling. I'm one arm pole right now. So we have the plan. We were going to kind of spin it back up and we can hear in the next week or two. I wanted to give your body a break from the PDs. And let you kind of just, you know, we were just kind of using this as a that's probably too small for people to see. So we'll make this a little bit bigger. Let me pull this up. I'm softening up a little bit. So I'm all for spinning things back up. Yeah. Let's go ahead and fire fire. I think it's I think it's psychological. Why is this a nine to what the fuck? So so I don't think I did. I think, you know, I was I told you I was feeling like just IMean, I know that the that the windstall drives you out quite a bit, too. But I when I've totally every time I've ever totally killed my estrogen, I always get like these sort of dull aches on my bones, like my I have to do this disease. So my back hurts extra and and all that stuff. And so I switched from the aromas into the anastrozole and went to every other day instead of every day. And that seemed to mitigate things a little bit. But I for a couple of days there, I took an antidrall in the morning and knowing that that makes me hold some water. Generally, and that's kind of spun my libido back up, too, so. Well, it's DHT. IMean, any DHT is going to get your libido gone. IMean, you can use the antidrall. You could use even even Mastron's good. Proviron is good for for sex drive, you know, but, you know, DHT, you know, DHT drives. Sexual response and and and and it was a very potent androgen, so. Well, and the point I was making was that it sort of resolved that issue I had about just being super dry to the point of being achy, you know? Yeah. And it'll pull some water into that. It's funny because they don't even from what I understand, it's everything with antidrall is non-genomic, so they don't even 100 percent know why it works. I don't know either, but it does the trick and it does. It does. I could be botching this. This would be one to discuss with Kurt, but I've heard anecdotally that they think that it maybe somehow interacts with the progesterone receptor, but or estrogen receptor. I don't recall. Maybe both. The kind of thEQuick tricks I found, if you get too dried out, I had issues last year and this is I've kind of come full circle and examistain like everybody kind of has gone on the thing because examistain is safer. But I don't know if I entirely buy into that yet. Yes, it does not crush your estrogen like a natural does initially, but it is permanent. It's a suicide inhibitor. And I what I've seen people have and I had the same fucking thinGHappen post show. I crashed my estrogen for like six months. I couldn't get my estrogen back up for like six months post show, and it was miserable. I had to run a low dose dbol like 10, 20 milligrams a day to just to get some extra dial. And that was on examistain examistain because it is a suicide inhibitor. And so like you end up permanently killing that aromatase enzyme. And there it seems to be that there can be a long term effect of that if you crash it too hard. Yeah. Whereas with aromadex, it is it just binds to the enzyme and releases after a period of time. So like you can you can more carefully control your home. Yeah. Your aromatase level. So I don't know. I'm kind of leaning away from examistain. I think it's an astrozole sort of the gold standard for TRT to talk in a way. But, you know, there's some studies out there, too, that they've linked it to blood clots. And I'm always a little wary of taking a lot of it for that reason. Yeah. Why people think examistain is safer because it doesn't have the same clotting risk as an astrozole does. IMean, there's always pluses and minuses to both, you know, so but yeah, we we ideally, you know, we there's people out there that say that you you don't need to crush estrogen to get fat free. But that's just not what I've seen. And like not what every professional bodybuilder does. I know the science probably would line up, but I have not seen that be the case. But what we can do is hold off and save it until the last 10 to 12 days where we dry you out. And I was looking into it. I was talking with AJ about it when we looked into it a little bit, too. It seems to be there. It seems to be some secondary effects from from smashing the estrogen with the aromatase inhibitor that the aromatase inhibitor also seems to have an effect on ADH and aldosterone as well. But so it's it sort of seems to have a diuretic effect for two. So that drying out that comes from the. Aromatase inhibitor could could be partially from that, too, from the the diuretic like effect, but a lot of the stuff is pseudoscience, man. We don't know 100 percent know why it works. It just does. But the anecdotal evidence is definitely strong. IMean, my experience would support that hypothesis. IMean, it's what every pro bodybuilder does. It has for decades. So, you know, it's part of part of the process. Yeah, I'm not taking any because I don't I don't necessarily need one if I'm on Primo or Masteron or whatever. No, I would say right now, don't don't use one. Yeah, but if I but then I when I start taking one, I immediately start dropping water and have that diuretic effect like right away. Yeah. And, you know, and estrogen is going to cause water retention by itself. That is the other thing I like about anastrozole versus eczema stain. Aromadex anastrozole seems to work quickly, like you'll know within a day or two. And it also you can yank it and pretty and bring your estrogen back up pretty quickly. You have a better ability to titrate your estradiol levels up and down with it than you'd say, like once the eczema stain hits, it's you kind of stop for a while and it can be miserable. So, yeah, I don't know. All right. So we have we're going to start you off at 500 test. You can hold off on the tren if you want. I don't think you need it. And then a thousand. Are you doing a combo masteron a primo? I am now. Yeah. OK, so thousand both. We might even push the test up a little bit more. It's up to you. I don't know if I can stay on both, though, because the master is gettinGHard to find right this second. You run. You can run pretty well. It's fine. Yeah. I don't even know if it goes to get through the contest prep if I decide to run on primo, but. And you probably don't even need to run a thousand. You could probably get away with 700 if you want it. I don't know. It seemed to work last time. You know, I did push up a little bit for a few months or sorry, a few weeks there at twelve hundred. But a thousand and a thousand seems to be the the number that I do the best at. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I what I've seen, too. And then, you know, people always ask me about the testosterone, the ratio of testosterone to the DHT. And it's kind of this nuanced thing you play, like if you need to get harder, if you need to lose weight, if you need to kind of have that crisp look for a show, you pull down the testosterone and up. It's just a knob that you're you have knobs that you're turning on the amplifier. If you need more full, if you need more dryness, if you need more hardness, you increase the DHT or the tren. If you need more fullness and you need to look a little bit better than you have GH and and testosterone you can play with. So, you know, and then some guys look better with a little more fullness. And, you know, I kept my testosterone pretty high right up until the end last year. But then there's some guys I'll I'll take the testosterone down to nothing or will you completely yank it out at the end? So it's really just kind of a nuanced thing. We just have to see what you look like. Well, it seemed to work all right this time. I don't know if we I probably could have left it in a little longer, but yeah, I probably wouldn't change much of anything from the plan the last time. And then we ran the one straw hard and fast at the end, which is usually what I do. That was a great. Yeah, the one that was another trick I learned for me. glandular cytoretin a little more volume, and I find people always worry about losing size. With that many anabolics in place, you're not gonna lose size. Well, and I grew, and the last two cuts that we've done together over the last two years, I've grown both times. So I feel like- Yeah, I think your DEXA scan showed that, correct? Yeah. Yeah, your DEXA showed that you actually gained some muscle. IMean, one would hope so with running that much anabolics. By using GH? And using GH, you know, you would hope so. With the GH, usually how I run it, guys, when we're on prep, off-season, it's the entire dose before bed, because if you're splitting it up during the day, you end up with high glucose levels eventually. But on contest prep, we're leveraging it for lipolysis more so than for the IGF-1 effect. So usually what I'll do is, since we have the carbs stacked in such a way where the firsT4 meals are lower, assuming that you work out in the evening, but you may not, but I like to split up the dose of the GH so we get the lipotic effect and we're not eating as many carbs. We don't have to worry about high glucose levels as much on contest prep. Although it can be a problem with running GH during the day. It does tend to make your glucose levels run higher. So this last prep, I did not, I still did my whole bolus at night. Yeah, and I know you've had some blood glucose control issues, right? So- Right there at the end, yeah. But that, you know, that snapped back pretty quick as soon as we put some insulin. Yeah, and that's usually, that's usually at the end, it's usually an electrolyte imbalance is what I've seen. A lot of people end up hyponatremic at the end. I've had really bad hyponatremia before at the end of contest prep or the point where I've had to go to a fuckinGHospital and get an IV. Yeah. You know, guys, some of it's just, you're drinking a shit ton of water, you're not eating enough salt, and you end up flushing out all the, wherever water goes, sodium follows, and you end up flushing out all the fucking salt. You know, that's the thing. Let's talk about fat burners. If you wanted to play around with some of the metabolic fat burners, the metabolic aids, we could this time. I don't think we did the last time, did we? I didn't have them on the sheet. What would you define as a metabolic aid? Like a metformin? No, SLU, PP332, maybe retitutide. Yeah, so that's what I did this last prep. We did 500 micrograms. Yeah, I didn't put it on the, okay. And then I did the SLU, PP332, any, what is it? No, MOTC. MOTC, okay. And methylene blue stack, which is a great mitochondrial health stack, which probably helped for me not to be carrying a lot of fatigue there at the end, so. Yeah, and I've found that people have looked better and felt better doing it that way. The running too many stems, I don't know. I kind of go back and forth on the ephedrine. I know Justin loves to run it. I ended up dropping it on my prep last year because it was just negatively affecting my sleep and my fatigue levels. I seem to tolerate CLEN better. I still think CLEN is ultimately the best fat burner, at least in my experience, it has been. So here's what I figured out. Cause you know, at the end, we talked about helios and I had that, I was worried about the fat on my ass. So I was spot injecting the helios. And going a little bit deeper on my study on the compound, I guess when you're injecting it like that, it's, you can take lower doses. Yeah. Cause your body uses. Bioavailability, yeah. Availability, and so I was taking, I think four, what is it? Trying to think of what it's dosed at. But anyway, I was taking like basically four units of it a day and I didn't really have the response. Cause when I take Clenbuterol orally, you know, it just wrecks my CNS, my parasympathetic or sympathetic state. And I get really, really antsy and I'm already kind of a high energy, fidgety sort of dude anyway. So I really, it just doesn't make, and I get a little brain fog on it too, which is kind of weird, right? Like you think you'd be more focused on a stimulant, but for me it makes me just kind of like a pseudofed almost the way it makes my brain feel. So. Yeah, I kind of get foggy. Although I tolerate Clen better than most people do. I definitely do not tolerate the ECY stack. The Eohimbine is a no fucking go for me. Yeah. It makes me feel like I have the flu. The ephedrine just doesn't sit well with me either. Yeah, so I would agree with all of that, but with the Eohimbine, it was similar too. So with the Helios, you have Eohimbine and Clenbuterol and injecting in the smaller doses, I really didn't have any of those CN. Yeah, no, I don't get the side effects from it when I use the Helios, which is what I prefer. That's usually what I do on prep is use the Helios. FuckinGHell. Yeah, that shit is like injecting flames. Yeah, it's like, it's worse than getting stung by a bee. Yeah, it burns like motherfucker. Yeah. It's probably a lot of alcohol in there, I'm guessing. But that's what I'll do this time. Okay. Just stay on that, and then that way, I can not have the other side effects and still have all the fat burning benefits. Well, this is one of those scenarios where you just listen to your body. And this is another thing, like with the fat burners, like guys want a plan mapped out for 16 weeks. And it's like, I just kind of see how the body's responding. If you feel good, you keep doing it. But if you're running in the fat burners and they're affecting your sleep, if you feel like dog shit, you're not gonna look good on stage. So that's just kind of been my thing. And I also have been yanking fat burners on the high days too. It's just like, you're not burning fat on the high days anyway. And you're gonna have some residual effects from the Clenbuterol anyway on the high days because it has a 36 hour half-life. IMean, there's just no, just give your CNS a break on the high day. Use that day as a day to recover. Honestly, I've been having guys not do cardio on the high day too and just try to get a good night's sleep, get some extra food in, let your body recover, and then go back and start digging again afterwards. Yeah. That's kind of been the process here. But all in all, I would say, did you feel better with the metabolic stack? Yeah, I did. Yeah, I definitely felt like it all worked to burn fat. And as far as just my overall health seemed to be better. Yeah, nothing big. I didn't have just a lot of the things. And that's the wild thing with the Reta-Trutide too. Even when guys are pressing the gas pedal down, what I've seen is it improves blood work. Yeah. It's crazy. So I thought about taking a break, right? I said, I didn't do Reta like the week of the show. I didn't take another shot of Reta to like the Wednesday after the show. And I think the last, it was the Monday before the show was the last shot I took. But I don't know if it's good to stay on it for that long. Because I was on it for 16 weeks of contest prep. And now I'm gonna be on it for another eight weeks. I don't know, it's 24 weeks too long to. When they did the clinical trials, people were on for a fucking year. Yeah. The simple answer is we just don't know right now. It's a brand new drug, man. We have no idea. But people have been on GLP-1s long-term. IMean, there are some potential risks with anything. The GLP-1s in rats have shown to increase risk of thyroid cancer. But although I don't think that has manifested in humans, at least not yet. IMean, we don't know fucking long-term. But it's been a very small subsect. But it seems to be a genetic thing in rats. That is a potential risk. I do worry about it at the end of contest prep. There is some, if I recall correctly, from the clinical study, it did show that when you're in a state of dehydration, it can put extra stress on your kidney. So one of the reasons why I would probably yank it going into the peak week. prolactin insole I would only affect liver glycogen anyway and it could be the reason why people flatten out or what I've seen people flatten out on is they're just eating less it could be just that simple yeah they're just not getting all their food down um it really it really could be that simple but I would say if you wanted to the conservative approach would be to drop it the week going into peak week and then put it back in play and then also I would say especially in the rebound phase I I I would probably because that's when guys fuck up I would probably leave it in place during the rebound phase and then maybe taper off of it going into your offseason or just run a maintenance dose I had significant results on my blood panels with running just one milligram yeah one milligram a week or every fifth day is what I was doing so whatever that works out to be one and a quarter milligrams per week dropped my LDL in half and you know brought my triglycerides down by 50 points dropped my A1c in half my liver enzymes were the lowest they've ever been IMean they were down in the fucking 20s yeah so IMean you know just from a health perspective um seeing what you said about the kidneys and dehydration IMean because when I did my labs in the middle of the contest prep my eight-week labs my cystatin c was elevated and that's never happened before but and the only thing I've done differently than I have in the past is that retrotide yeah there was there was some evidence in the clinical trials that there may be some some kidney stress I don't know IMean we just don't know no you know it's it's it's it's it's in it's in phase three clinical trials it's still an experimental drug so you know that's that's the thing we got to keep in mind now on paper it seems like it would be the benefits outweigh the risk but we just don't know yeah I know I and I know Kurt is not a fan of this class of drugs because most of them are designed by AI but that's you know we're seeing this sort of rapid advancement and this drug well I don't think it said he's not a fan it's like it's the exact same thing I was talking about it's like he just said we just don't have enough information yeah you know it's just we don't know what the long-term effects are on this like you know clenbuterol it's been used for 40 years or whatever 30 years it's been around forever testosterone's been around for 60-75 years IMean all the other drugs we know what the risk it's pretty well established what the long-term risk are of some of the other stuff that we use in the performance enhancement around but some of the newer stuff like the SLU the the methylene blue the red trutide the MOTC all this stuff we just don't know what the long-term risk are well I think we do with it's been used for a lot of things yeah but I don't think people have been using it daily like guys are doing now so that's true you know that that's a you know it was you know I don't know we'll see yeah we'll see all right anything else you want to touch on I think we've pretty much hit everythinGHere just that what did you put the the cycle design up up did we finish that yeah let's let's bring it back up and we'll hang on I got a sneeze sorry okay blew everybody's eardrums out let's bring it back up so we'll just play the fat burners by ear but this is kind of where we're at right now I would say start off with 500 tests if you want to throw 25 milligrams of tren in a day you can I always put tren in as an optional thing I here's my thing with tren if you can sleep on it it definitely provides a benefit for how your physique looks but if it's detrimental to your sleep your rest and your recovery then it's probably not worth it and sometimes like I'll have guys sprinkle it in for a few weeks and then yank it out if it starts really negatively affecting them to get some of the the body composition effect I would say if you needed a quick recall like if you said you're starting to get a little softer if you want to harden up quickly running the tren for a couple weeks is probably going to do that I seem to tolerate it okay at the low doses if I'm doing 25 milligrams a day it doesn't fuck with my sleep too much and I feel like that's plenty to get the benefits from it maybe it might even be you might even be able to get away with less I know I've heard Steve talk about using the super tiny doses well the last time I started I started out at like 15 or even 20 I tried the super low doses like he had suggested last year even at like what was it 10 milligrams a day I don't remember even at that I couldn't fucking sleep yeah still wrecked your sleep it still wrecked my sleep that's how sensitive I am to that shit so I just got to the point I'm like fuck it I'm just not going to run it well I have to use a sleep aid right and if I start splitting the the dose of HGH between morning and night there'll be like some long afternoon naps that comes with that so I would say you know start off with this if you want you know if you have the metabolic aids and leave them and we'll just kind of play the the helios and clin by whatever but you're yeah so I'll make the official announcement on this show here because I'm not going to do my update I'm just going to repost this on the channel that I am because we it's been a discussion point on on my channel is whether or not I'm going to Vegas so it's it is official I am awesome gets to tren for eight weeks I'm driving my coach down I'm staying in a in a park that's right across from um Flex Lewis's gym and I'll be trening there and then trening at Colt Fitness on some days as well and just sort of immerse myself in around a bunch of high-level athletes and IFBB pros and I'm jealous and have access to equipment that I think was really it's really been hauling me back here in Grants Pass it's just not having a good gym and and having to travel so much to get to anything decent so you're living the body the old guy bodybuilder dream yeah yeah well I've got a good sponsor in my other company so it's like I'm being you know sponsored like a pro athlete and my my kids can hold everything down here at the within the other business and and I can kind of detach myself and put put a hundred percent into this thing so I'm gonna do it and I was worried a little bit about maybe some of the stress of being away from my wife for a long period of time or whatever and you know she's a nursing student right now so it's she's a widow school widow anyway so I wish I wish I wasn't beat up man I come I come I would come to Vegas man and tren with you and get ready for a pro show that would be fun that would be that would be awesome well we'll have to hold that plan for another time then yeah go stay in Vegas for like a month or two with Mike and hopefully I can compete next year we'll see I part of me man IMight I just go back and forth I'm like is there anything left to prove at this point but then and then like I worry about running the drugs you know with longevity and I want to be around for my kids a little bit older but then like I think your physique is comparable to the guy who just won the emerald cup and got his uh his olympia masters olympia qualification so he's on his way you know you could be too you know yeah Dan yeah he's he man he's fucking fantastic dude gets fucking shredded man he's I need to get him on for an interview he's Justin's Justin said he's super nice guy but yeah IMean that that's my goal man to hang with guys like him we'll see I'm not going to do it at 230 pounds though I keep losing I'm going the I'm going the wrong direction my genetic I've told people this my genetic gift is uh is uh the ability to lose weight and get fat at the same time that's my genetic gift and my body fat has gone up and I've lost weight so that's where I'm at right now all right folks that's all I got for you on this one Mike people want to follow you where can they find you yeah Mike Horner muscle project on Instagram my YouTube channel is Mike Horner project and Mike Horner project on Facebook I have a Facebook community as well so awesome man thank you for sharing this with us great thanks for having me