 un abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract abstract I'm going to talk about some training. We're going to talk about PEDs, of course. That's always in our wheelhouse and a bunch of other stuff. We're going to dig into all of it in just one second. All right, first question I've got here is from DannyDS6885. Danny asks, talk more about GH and tests for longevity for someone not into competing. Just for general health, good looks, and longevity. What dose to start taking tests in GH for longevity? Cheers from Indonesia. All right, so some thoughts on this. There is what I call the Hollywood cycle. People that are celebrities, actors, whatnot, they have sort of a cycle that they run, that I've seen a lot of these guys run, for longevity, for basically staying young, keeping youthful. Now, keep in mind, longevity is such a subjective term. You're likely not going to extend your life by taking GH and testosterone, possibly shorten your lifespan by a year or two, but maybe, maybe not. Who knows? Being healthier probably is beneficial. So I don't know if I like the term longevity. If you want to preserve your youth, you can absolutely do that with taking tests in GH. Now, keep in mind that GH is going to speed up, from what I understand, cellular reproduction. So, in a sense, you are probably taking years off your life by doing so. But overall, what I've seen with GH and testosterone, people that run it, a person that comes to mind off the top of my head, a prime example would be somebody like Sylvester Stallone. Who, I, you know, it's no secret that Sylvester Stallone runs GH and insulin, or not GH and testosterone and probably Anovar, stuff that can be prescribed by a doctor, I would assume. And dude's in his mid-70s and looks fantastic. Who wouldn't want to look like Sylvester Stallone in their mid-70s? I want to. But what I've heard is that a lot of these guys are running testosterone, GH maybe sprinkling in a little bit of Anovar or something in there. And it's TRT plus. So, my guess would be somebody like Sylvester Stallone. He's probably running something like 200 to 250 milligrams of testosterone per day. You know, maybe 10 to 20 milligrams of Anovar on spot duty. Probably doing it. I think like a lot of clinics I've seen prescribe it. We'll do it for like six to eight week runs. And then running probably something like two to four units of GH per day. That's a typical youthful protocol that, you know, you'll see people in Hollywood, celebrities and whatnot run. And Dr. Todd once told me, I told him that I didn't know if I had the budget for GH. And he's like, do you want to be 35 forever? So, that's sort of my take on GH. I personally, what I have noticed is my skin looks better. I mean, I don't think I look like your average 50-year-old. I have noticed that, you know, my fingernails and stuff are, like before they were sort of brittle. Before I took them, now they seem to be more youthful. I don't grow hair, but I'm bald. But I've heard people say that it makes their hair look younger. You know how like sometimes when people get old, they have that fried, frizzled hair look. That it can make your hair look more youthful. I definitely have noticed that the people that take GH seem not to wrinkle and show aging in their skin as fast as maybe somebody who doesn't. Tom Cruise would be an example. Sylvester Stallone. I'm sure those guys are getting plastic surgery too or using cosmetic surgeons. You know, things like, you know, I'm sure they're having chemical peels and other stuff done to keep themselves looking youthful. But GH certainly doesn't hurt that. So if you just want to look young, if you just want to feel great, probably something like TRT plus 200 milligrams to 250 milligrams of testosterone. Something like two to four units of GH and sprinkle in some manovar here and there. Eat a healthy diet, work out. I would probably eat, if I wasn't bodybuilding, I probably would do something like a Mediterranean diet. Maybe some intermittent fasting in there. And I would sprinkle in more cardiovascular activity with some weight training to keep myself looking youthful. All right. Matt Garrard, 96. Thoughts on daily subcutaneous pinning for not only TRT but for cycles as a whole. I think daily pinning is the way to go. I have shown people, and I'll bring up an example here, multiple times of what daily pinning looks like versus weekly pinning or twice weekly pinning with the steroid plotter. And you can see how much more stable your hormone levels are. You can look up here. Here's a weekly pinning of testosterone enanthate. There's twice weekly pinning of testosterone enanthate. And there is daily pinning of testosterone enanthate. All right. You tell me which looks better. The daily. Now, as far as sub-Q pinning goes, I had a hard time wrapping my head around the sub-Q thing. But I've looked at the data, and it seems to be no difference as far as absorption goes. I think what the differentiator is, whether you're doing sub-Q or intramuscular, is the volume of oil that you're injecting. If you're doing, like, a cc, a cc and a half, I just don't think it's possible to do that sub-Q. You're going to have all kinds of problems. I tried it one time, and I literally had a rash down the entire side of my body. I think that oil just ran down. It was really weird, man. I had this burning all the way down. But if you're doing something like 20 units a day, you know, just for TRT, yeah, sub-Q is fine. You can get away with it. But when I'm doing a higher volume shot, I'll do shallow IM. I use a 5-8 inch 25 gauge insulin needle, and I will do shallow IM ejections. That's how I do it. And I find those are easy to do. They don't hurt. I don't use the giant 22 gauge needles much anymore. Maybe if I'm doing a quad shot or something. But if I'm doing shoulders or whatnot, I'll just, or even sub-Q, that's what I'll do. But I think a lot of it just depends on the volume. So daily shots are always going to be better. Theo610, rationale for using halotestin in the last three weeks or so of contest prep. How it influences vascularity. So a lot of people now are using halotestin in the last three weeks. I switched to it last year. That's what I did the last three weeks. And here's my take on running Halo at the end. I don't think it gives you any additional cosmetic effect that you wouldn't get out of something like Windstraw at the end of contest prep. What I think it does, and what is great about Halo is at the end of contest prep, anybody who's done contest prep knows when you get down to those last few weeks, your motivation to work out in your neural drive is shit. Shit. It's impossible to get good workouts in. And as soon as I threw Halo testing in, it was almost like instantly hitting the turbo button. My workouts went right back to normal. My weights went right back up to almost my pre-cut weights. And it was fantastic. And I think that is the benefit of Halo testing. It's not really so much a cosmetic effect. It's the effect that it has on your ability to continue to push through. I know some people say they feel angry or grumpy on Halo. That has not been my experience with Halo. I feel euphoric. I feel great. It gives me motivation to train and to push through those last couple hard weeks on contest prep. I think that's the real benefit of Halo testing at the end of contest prep. It's not cosmetic. All right. Next up, I have a question here from The Squirrel. Thoughts on mass blasting, i.e. Tony huge, and how effective do you think it really is? I've talked about this before. It's just a bunch of BS. Tony is a fantastic marketer, really good at getting attention over to himself. People, this is a story as old as time, people love a shortcut. They love to think that there's some way that they can shortcut or circumvent hard work to get progress faster than somebody else without having to put the time in. And, you know, certainly more gear works to a certain extent. But at the end of the day, bodybuilding progress, if you want to make progress in bodybuilding, if you want to be a good bodybuilder, it really just boils down to doing the boring crap day in, day out. That's eating a crap ton of food, working out hard, working out progressively, taking gear, and just doing it day after day, month after month, year after year, for, you know, seven to ten years if you want to get big. You're not going to do a three-week mass blast and get anything appreciable out of it. You're probably going to have some, you know, the weight, any of the weight that you put on is likely systemic inflammation. I don't know. I mean, if you understand the process of how muscle protein synthesis works, there's no way you can really lay down any sort of serious muscle protein synthesis in a few weeks of pushing stuff really hard. All you're doing is making yourself sick and not really getting a whole lot out of it. All you have to do is look at the guys that did the mass blast and did they really retain much from it? I don't know. And this is something that baffles me over and over and over again is guys looking for a shortcut, looking for some new way to do it when the formula is right in front of you. All you have to do is look at all the guys that are pro bodybuilders. There's been thousands of them. And what they do, and they all do the same damn thing. They all pretty much train the same way. Most of the guys train with higher volume, do a bro split. There are a few that do HIIT training, but they train hard. They train progressively. They eat a bunch of meat and rice five to six times a day. They take basic crap like testosterone, an anabolic or two that they like, probably Aquapoise, Primo, or NPP, Nangelone, Deca, whatever. That's really it. Take some GH and insulin with it and they do it year after year to get big. That's the formula. There is no real way to circumvent or shortcut it. That is it. You just do that for years on end and you get big eventually. Most people just don't have the patience or the discipline or the determination to stick it out long enough to get there. That's the key differentiator. So something like the Mass Blast is just a complete waste of time. Good marketing, waste of time if you want to get any progress. Alright, next question is from ClayW1996. How much volume do you do for back in the run of a week and how does it compare to other body parts? Volume is really a unique thing. You have to figure out what your maximum recoverable volume is. I run a Renaissance periodization style of program if you want to check out Dr. Mike Israelitell's stuff. He has a great book called The Scientific Principles of Hyperotrophy. I don't run a program exactly like his but it's pretty similar. It's the same type of principles. But what I will do is I will try to adjust my volume. I will go from my minimum effective volume up to maximum recoverable volume or just below maximum recoverable volume over a 5 to 6 week block. Or sometimes I just hang out at somewhere in between there. And it varies from body part to body part. And you have to figure out what that is. If your intensity is higher, your maximum recoverable volume is going to be lower. If your intensity is a little less, like let's say if you're holding a few reps back, keeping a few reps in reserve, you can push the volume higher. So that is really the difference between what I would consider a hit program and a high volume program. High volume people aren't going to absolute failure and beyond on things. There's no way you can do that and do a bunch of high volume. And high volume guys are holding a little bit back. So that's really the difference between the two. As far as back goes, what I have found, I split my back workouts in half. I have a horizontal pulling back thickness workout. So things like rows. And that workout is what I'll do. And then I have another one that's a back width workout, which is a vertical pulling, which would be pull downs, pull ups, crap like that. But I do somewhere between 16 to 20 sets per week for my total volume for my back. Somewhere in that range. I can probably push it a little bit higher. But I found operating in that range is a good place for me. 16 is, I can probably go a little lower if I push my intensity up. But 16 to 20 sets during the period of a week seems to be optimal for me. Now you all have to figure that out for yourself, what works for you. Kyle tries Fitness 500. Ask, is it really worth starting your cycle off on a lower dosage and increasing them over the weeks? Or does going directly to your max dose for that cycle more optimal? Why? If you use a slower release of gastors like SIP, it takes weeks for it to reach maximum concentration. Isn't this automatic pyramiding? So I'm going to go back in here to the steroid plotter again. My good old friend, the steroid plotter, puts things in plain view for people. I titrate up. I know there are people that go straight into blast doses, which is fine if that works for you. I don't know that there is a right or a wrong way to do it. But my thought process is if I can get more out of less and then wait to increase my dose when I need it, why wouldn't I do that? It's more efficient. It's less stress on my body. I don't have to go to peak doses right out of the gate. And what I have found is if I slowly titrate up, usually I'll titrate up over probably an 8 to 10 week period of time. I find that I don't get all the nasty side effects that I do if I just come straight out of the gate. Like a lot of times I will have issues with estrogen. I'll have issues with my blood pressure going through the roof. Sometimes I will get insomnia. There's other things that happen. So I'll show you here. So this is an example of testosterone cypionate. We're dosing it daily and weeks through, weeks 1 through 16. So it does sort of titrate up itself, but it's a lot quicker than what you think. If you look at it, it's actually not that long of an ester as most people think. So we're somewhere like, so here at day 12, day 14, you're at all probably over 90% of peak blood concentration at that point in two weeks. So let's say somebody like me who's running really high doses, like right now I'm on 1500 milligrams a test. I would be at 90% of that peak within two weeks. That is a lot coming out of the gate as compared to me titrating up over an eight to nine week period of time. That's going to be spread out more in less stress on my system. I'm going to have less issues with side effects, at least in my experience. That's what I've seen. So that's my approach to it. I think that's a better approach, but everybody has their own way of doing it. That's how I would do it. I would titrate up over a period of time. If you're, you know, like if you're a beginner and you're only going up to something like 500 milligrams per week, I don't know. I mean, you could probably come out of the gate and just go for it. But as you get more advanced and you're going up to the big boy doses, the pro doses, then yes, titrating up probably makes a lot more sense. You're going to have less side effects, less stress on your system, probably better results. All right. Next question here is from Nick7247. Paul, thoughts on macros currently doing 60% carb, 25% protein, 15% fat. Also thoughts on using sugars throughout the day, such as Gatorade to get more carbs in during the day without overdoing fats. Yeah, so I don't get too hung up on the percentages. I, you know, I don't know what my workout to, but I have a baseline of protein that I use for all my diets. I have a full video up on my channel if you want to search it up on how to build a carb cycling diet. I pull back the curtain and show you how I go about doing it. It's my way of doing it. But for protein, I'll usually run protein somewhere between one and one and a quarter grams per pound of body weight. I find that you don't really need much more than that. Most people vastly overdo protein. And it just ends up impacting digestion. It makes it really hard to get food down. As far as the carbs go, I do a carb cycling diet. Yep. I rotate by carbs. I'll typically do in the offseason. I'll do two high carb days per week. Those high carb days are generally going to be somewhere around three times my body weight in carbohydrates. Maybe a little bit more, maybe a little bit less, depending on how my body responds to it. Medium days are somewhere around two times my body weight in carbohydrates. And low days, it just depends. If I have somebody that holds fat easily, I may pull them all the way down to zero carbs on the low days. If I have a hard gainer, I may have them around a gram per pound of body weight or slightly more. So a lot of it is subjective and depends on how the person responds. When it comes to fats, I keep the saturated fats as low as humanly possible. You don't really need saturated fats when you're taking PEDs. In fact, it's probably a bad idea because you are going to have lipids skewing from taking the PEDs. And you don't need further elevation of your LDL from saturated fats. So I would keep the LDL or keep the saturated fats to a minimum. I do supplement in some EFAs. You don't need a ton. It just really depends. Somewhere around 0.3 grams per pound of body weight. Maybe even less. I don't know. It depends on the persons in the offseason. They'll end up somewhere between 40 to 50 grams of EFAs per day. Maybe less, maybe more. It just depends. I'll play around with it. But I tend to run lower fat, higher carbohydrate diets, moderate protein. I find that this keeps your body composition in a better place, especially if you're running insulin. And it pairs really well with high volume training in my experience. As far as simple carbs, there's only so much, especially when you push high. So like me, if I'm having 1,000 grams of carbs on my high day, if I were to eat all that from rice, that is 20 cups of rice. There is no damn way, especially right now with where my appetite is, that I could eat 20 cups of rice in a day. I just can't get that much rice down. I would vomit. So I do get up to half my carbohydrates on my high carb day from sugary sources. I'll usually mix up some fruit. I'll use some fat-free candy, things like gummy bears. I'll do some breakfast cereal, fruit juice, things like that. That's usually what I do on my high days. All right, folks. That's all I got for you today. Hopefully you found this helpful. If you want to support me, please support my sponsor, First Detachment. They are quality supplements formulated by the man himself, Justin Harris. Link to their supplements are in my video description below. Use discount code AB10 for 10% off. Thank you for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.