 This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A, it's been a couple weeks since I've done one of these, so I figure we'll dig into some questions that came out of the question that came out of the question. From you folks, from you folks, my viewers, my viewers, my viewers, and I appreciate each and every one of you. Questions we got on deck today, optimal estrogen ranges, what are the sweet spot? What are your thoughts on injectable D-ball? Your thoughts on contest dieting with carbs, when to manipulate carbs, how much leaner should you be getting on each week during contest prep? A deep dive into macro timing, 191 amino acid, HGH versus 192, is it okay to bulk with a higher body fat? And we are going to dig into all those in just one second. Alright, first question here is from Eric Wolf 520. What range should estrogen E2 would be the optimal sweet spot? Well, it depends. The higher your testosterone is, the higher you can let your estrogen ride. It's really a ratio of testosterone to estrogen. And it varies from person to person. I do think you want, in the off-season, to let your estrogen ride a little bit higher for the cognitive protection, neuroprotection, cardiovascular protection, overall just wellness. When your estrogen is crushed, anyone's done that knows how that feels, and you don't feel very good at all. Your joints hurt, your energy is low, can't get a boner. Sex drive sucks. It's also the same when it's too high. Sex drive sucks, you get very emotional, you might have gyno flare-ups, you get bloated. So there is a sweet spot. I have found for me, personally, that in the off-season, I can let it get up to around 50 or 60 before I start having side effects. Before I lose sex drive. That's usually the first thing I notice. My sex drive declines. My ability to maintain a firm erection declines. That's the first thing that I know. During contest prep, we're going to deliberately crush it. That's just part of contest prep and getting lean. Usually, I try to hold off on crushing my estrogen as long as I possibly can, because you do feel like absolute dog shit when you bury your estrogen towards the end of a contest prep. It sucks. I wait a bit before I do it, and then I just ride it out until the contest prep is over, and then we'll slowly taper down the anti-estrogens. But for me, the majority of the year, I try to keep it somewhere in that 50 to 60 range. That seems to be the optimal sweet spot that keeps my lipids in line. It's sort of the top end of what I can get away with before I start having sexual dysfunction and emotional issues. Crying at television commercials with puppies in them. All right, Jim Bros, I'm going to interrupt this regularly scheduled broadcast to tell you about the new Science of HGH e-book by Kurt Havens. It is available on the Anabolic Bodybuilding website for download right now. There is a link in the video description below for the e-book if you want to pick it up. It is probably the most comprehensive e-book about performance enhancement use with HGH, over 100 pages of information with references, and it's awesome. Go check it out. Daryl Ogilino, I think I'm saying this right, asks, what are your thoughts on injectable D-ball versus oral D-ball? From what I understand, the injectable D-ball misses the first pass of the liver, so it is less liver toxic, but you still have all of the other issues that D-ball has. Liver toxicity with D-ball is probably the least of my concerns. It's the methyl estradiol. That's the part that's nasty for me and for a lot of guys. It's what makes you bloated up like a tick. It makes your blood pressure go through the roof. It's what, you know, guys will blow up with acne. I'm not a fan of D-ball. I know some people do like it, but I have found the D-ball, in my experience, whether it's oral or injectable, seems to be the most side effect-ridden PED there is. You'll find very few pro bodybuilders that run D-ball. There are some. I've heard Doreen Yates say that it was his favorite. We all know that Arnold Schwarzenegger and those guys love D-ball, but they also weren't running testosterone. They were using D-ball as their testosterone base instead of testosterone. They were running fairly low doses. They weren't running the crazy doses that dudes do now. When I run a lot of D-ball, I get horrible muscle cramps. I literally remember playing basketball. I played a lot of basketball when I was younger, and I had so much bloating and edema. When I would run up and down the basketball court, I would get these insane calf pumps so bad that I couldn't even make it up the court one time. It was horrible. Lower back pumps were horrible. The only thing I can say with D-ball, there might be an argument to use it as a pre-workout on weak body part days, but I just think D-ball is the trashiest of trash steroids. It's the bro steroid. There are so many better options that you could use. I don't know why guys go to orals and trashier steroids first. Why wouldn't you want to use stuff that you can actually push the doses higher without side effects and the stuff that's going to yield high results without a lot of problems? I think it would make more sense to do things that way. If I were going to use injectable D-ball or D-ball period, it would be just maybe as a pre-workout once or twice a week on a weak body part for an extra pump or extra drive in the workout. But I just think there are other things that can do the job so much better. There are some dudes, I will say this is one exception, there are some guys I've seen and they're very uncommon that basically have no estrogen. And in that situation, I have seen D-ball be somewhat helpful for those dudes. The dudes that don't seem to convert testosterone to estrogen, they seem to benefit the most from D-ball. But for pretty much everybody else, it's just a recipe to grow titties, get zits, get bloated, make your blood pressure go through the roof. And then I've also found that none of the gains that you get from D-ball actually stick. It's just a bunch of bloated mess. You come off of it, you lose all the weight. There's no real tissue there. Eric James7819 asked me about your thoughts on contest prep diet where you're eating a small number of carbs prior to each workout versus staying low carbs, basically keto all week and then having a loading day at the end of the week. There are people that do that. I know Skipp Hill does his skip-loading diet. There's the shit-loading diet. There's a bunch of other programs. A lot of the guys that I've seen out there that claim to run keto diets, they actually have a loading day with carbs at the end of the week. It's not really keto. I wouldn't call it keto. I think it's keto in name only, but it's not really a keto diet. It's just really a carb-loading diet or a cycling diet. Yes, I have seen where you lower your carbs and you're going to burn fat. But what I have found, when you're in the gym and you're not running any carbs, your workouts absolutely suck balls. They stink. They stink. And if you can't work out hard, I don't think you're going to look that great on stage. That's just my humble opinion. I've tried low-carb diets. They don't work for me. I end up looking stringy and shitty and flat. Now, with that said, there are no essential carbs. There are essential fats. There are essential amino acids. You don't have to have carbs in your diet. So if we're going to take a macro out to lose weight, to create a caloric deficit, which is ultimately what leads to fat loss, carbs are probably the first place where you're going to pull calories from. Typically, with my clients, what I do is try to keep the carbs in place pre and post-workout. Those seem to be the most important. And then we'll pull carbs from the rest of the day. And then we will do one high-carb day per week, one to two low-carb days per week, where we basically are on zero carbs. And those are usually your off days from the gym. So if you're doing a five-day bro split, so to speak, what I typically run on my diets on contest prep with people is your two off days would be essentially a keto-style day where it's just fats, protein, vegetables. Your workout days, with the exception of your leg day, would be a medium day where you're eating carbs pre and post-workout. No carbs, just the rest of the meals throughout the day would be no carbs with fats and protein. And then we also do an intro workout shake as well with some carbs in it, usually a highly branched cyclic dextrin, something that's going to be easy. ationation, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, actually, pre, post, and intra-workout. And that's going to lead to the best results. You're going to maintain fullness. You're going to be able to keep your workout intensity up. And I find that that yields the best results. The next question is from Noah Richard Berger. Another contest prep diet question. I love these contest prep diet questions. I get tired of steroid questions. How lean should you be each week during prep? I am nine and a half weeks out and I'm worried that I might be too lean too early. Being too lean too early is a good problem to have. I love it when my guys are ready early because what I'll start doing is pushing up food towards the end. Everybody always says, or think about it, what does everybody always say the week after the show? I wish I looked like this on stage. And the reason why they say that is because they are driving themselves into the dirt all the way up to the last minute before show in a calorie deficit. They look like shit. They're exhausted. Their body's flat. They don't look that great on stage. I can't tell you how many guys I see at local shows that are stringy and look like they just came out of a forced labor camp on stage. I've been there myself. I've made that mistake myself. If you're lean early, let's say you're lean two to three weeks out, usually what I'll start doing is pulling the cardio back and I'll start cranking up the food a little bit and seeing what we can get away with. And we try to maintain that conditioning, even fill back out a little bit, even maybe put a little bit of weight back on going into the show. I would not be stressed at all if you're ready early. Now, what I aim for for fat loss during contest prep with my clients, it's really a percentage of body weight somewhere between a half a percent to one percent fat loss per week. One percent would be ideal. So a 200 pound man, we're shooting for about two pounds per week of fat loss. And I try to have people ready two weeks out from the show. So we really have 14 weeks essentially to get ready. So if we're aiming for two pounds per week, we have 28 pounds of runway for fat to lose. Now, if you're 30 percent body fat and you need to lose 40 or 50 pounds, we may have to push that a little bit harder, cut food a little bit harder. Maybe even do a longer prep. What I have seen in my experience, when you get up in that one and a half percent of your body weight. So for a 200 pound man, three pounds per week, that's sort of the upper limit of what you should be losing in a week. Once you get past that, I find that people are losing muscle tissue a lot of times. And you can do the math on it. One pound of fat is 3,500 calories. So we're talking about a 500 calorie per day deficit that you have to run to lose one pound of fat per week. If we're going to lose two pounds of fat per week, that is a 1,000 calorie per day deficit. If we are going to lose three pounds a week, that is a 1,500 calorie per day deficit. Now you can do the math and figure that out. If you're a 130 pound bikini competitor, a female, you're probably not even eating 1,500 calories to begin with. And there's only so much cardio you can do. That means that's likely not going to happen. For a bigger dude, a 270, a 280, a 290 pound guy, somebody like me, who my off-season calories are 6,000 calories, I have that sort of runway. It's not a big deal cutting my calories down from 6,000, say, to 4,500. Or from 5,000 down to 2,500, that is doable. But the smaller you are, the less runway you have to lose fat. So that's generally my rule of thumb for contest prep. All right, next question here is from AREX6538. AREX asks, I would like a deep dive into macros and timing. How about certain macros that should or shouldn't be eaten together or at certain times? For instance, if I work out Monday and Tuesday, Wednesday would be a day off for me. I would plan zero carbs all day and just do cardio. But Thursday would be my leg day. I would think carving out the night before leg day would be a good idea. But I'm not sure if that's a good plan or not, since I had a zero to low carb all day before. Well, AREX, it sounds like you're a candidate for carb cycling or you're already sort of doing some sort of hybrid of it. With carb cycling, it depends on what your goals are, what outcomes you are desiring from your training. If you're a physique athlete, what I found is that you want to load the carbs, usually with some insulin, the day that you're working the body part. That's probably going to get you the maximum hypertrophy. If you're trying to increase athletic performance, let's say strength, or you're some sort of performance athlete like a football player or track athlete or whatever, you're likely going to want to do your high carb day the day before so you're fully loaded out. So for bodybuilding, high carbs, the day of the body part that you want to maximize would be optimal. For strength and performance athletes, the day before is typically when you want to load. I wouldn't imagine that you would want to go into a powerlifting meet or into a football game doing a high carb day that day. That's probably not going to be fun. Plus, you don't want to risk running insulin during that time period. Your low days are typically your off days because your caloric needs are going to be lower. And it depends on the phase of the year you're in. If you're in an offseason where you're trying to increase hypertrophy or increase strength, you're going to probably have carbs on your off days. If you're on a contest prep where you're trying to lose fat, you're likely going to have no carbs on your off days. Now, sometimes with some people that accumulate body fat quickly and easily, I'll pull them down to zero carbs on the off days. Just to keep insulin sensitivity in check. Keep the digestion moving. Keep the water weight off. It just depends. Everybody responds differently. I have some people that I push carbs high on every day. I typically eat carbs every day of the week in the offseason. Some people don't. Some people you can't get away with that. So you really have to figure out what works for your body and adjust accordingly. So David Hernandez asked about the difference between 192 and 191 AA HDH. Is there a difference? Why are people scared of the 192? He said, I've heard some horrible stories about the 192. It's really simple. 191 is bioidentical. It's a human analog. It's an analog of the HGH that's naturally made in your body. 192 is one chain link heavier. And it was the older style HGH, synthetic HGH. What I have heard, and I'll probably have to ask Kurt about this and we can dig into it a little bit more. But what I've heard is that some people have immune responses to 192. Severe immune responses in some cases. Inflammation, allergic reactions, rashes. I really don't see 192 out there anymore. I don't know if I am. I don't even see it on the on the black market. I've heard. That some of the cheaper UGL. HGH is actually 192 and not 191. But I don't know why there would be a compelling reason not to just run 191. Pretty much all synthetic HGH now is 191. So I would say run 191. Don't risk it. There's no reason to run 192 and have an allergic reaction or have some sort of issue with it. Run the bioidentical hormone and call it a day. Rob the Viking asks, I want to get huge, up to 300 pounds, and I'm about 190 at the moment. I'm probably 22 to 25% body fat right now. Is it alright for a guy like me to just bulk up and then cut that fat off later? Or do you have to start lean? Personally, I'd rather gain a bunch of muscle and just get big and cut the fat off later. What are your thoughts? So here's the issue. Rob the Viking. And what I have found out is that when you're already fat and you push the food up and try to get bigger, you're just going to get fatter. A disproportionate amount of your body weight gain is going to be body fat. And I know there's going to be a lot of people that aren't going to want to hear this. And they always argue it. They always get angry with me on social media when I call out the permabalkers. Permabalkers.  Permanbalking does not work. I've seen it over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. Now, unless you're trying to be like a strongman or a power lifter or a power lifter or something like that, the whole permabalking methodology is horrible. The fatter you get disproportionately the more amount of your weight gain goes to fat gain. It's just what I have seen. There is this theory called the P-RATIO that validates this to a certain degree. Some people say that the P-RATIO is a lot of the P-RATIO is a lot of the P-RATIO. The P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RATIO say that the P-RAT You are, the aromatase is made in the fat cell in a man's body. So thusly, more of your testosterone is actually going to get converted to estrogen. You're going to have a horrible time dealing with estrogen management. What I found, the leaner that you are, the less that estrogen management is an issue. So, if you're 5% body fat and you don't have to take an AI and you can push your test really high versus being 25% body fat and having to push your test very high and having a bunch of it convert to estrogen and having to pound AIs, it's probably healthier being leaner, not having to run that AI. Also, if you think about it too, let's say that you got yourself, how much runway are you going to have? So, if you're at 25% body fat already, what are you going to be at when you get up to your target weight? Are you going to be 40% body fat? Can you imagine trying to cut down, let's say you're at 300 pounds and you want to get down to 10% body fat and you're at 40% body fat. If you have to cut 30% body fat off to get down to 10%, you're only 210. You weigh 210 pounds at that point. What is the point of getting up to 300 pounds if you have to lose 90 pounds to get down to that? Let's say you go up to 30% body fat. That only allows you a runway of 5% fat increase if you're already at 25%. And there's no way that that's going to happen if you push up to 300. You're not going to gain that much. But let's just assume that you're at 30% body fat and you want to get down to 10%. That's still 60 pounds of fat that you have to lose. So, that would put you at 240. There's no way that you're going to lose 60 pounds of fat without suffering and losing some muscle with it. There's just no way. On the other hand, let's say you get yourself super lean down to 5% body fat. You have runway to gain 10% body fat. So, if you, let's say you went from your 190 up to let's say 240 or 250. Let's just do some nice even math. And you went up to 15% body fat at 240 or 250. And you wanted to get back down. So, we're back down to 10% body fat. We're talking about a 5% drop. So, essentially 12 pounds, 13 pounds. So, you're down to like 235. So, you're actually netted out more muscle as a result even though you had the same body fat percentage gain. It's just dumb to get fat in my opinion. You're making your job a lot harder. And I've had to lose that much. I've done the dirty bulk before and I've gotten up over 300 pounds. And I had to cut down to 220 to just even look reasonable. And it was awful. It was fucking awful, man. Never again. And anybody who's ever done it will tell you the same. So, what I would suggest, man. Right now, if you're at 25% body fat and you're at 190. I would get down to at least 10%. And then start from there. I do not like to let my body fat get much above 15% in the offseason. I think 15% is sort of the upper limit. Maybe 20% at the most. And if you're up at that, you've got to cut down and then give yourself some runway to push back up again. Alright, folks. That's all I've got for you today. If you want to support me, please support my sponsor, First Detachment Nutrition. Quality supplements formulated by the man himself, Justin Harris. Use the discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Link to their products is in the video description below. Also, Kurt Havens has his new HGH e-book out. It is awesome. It's 100 pages of information on HGH written for performance enhancement. He goes into all the science of it. Link is in the video description as well. Thank you for watching, guys. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.