 zcscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscscs you would want to do it. We're going to talk about if you need to take PEDs from day one to be a good bodybuilder and how to transition from being a strongman to being a bodybuilder. And we're going to dig into all that in just one second. All right. First question here from Bobby Wall, 7942. Bobby asked, how long were you able to start working out again after the tummy tuck procedure you had? And when you rebounded, did it affect the area? Thanks big guy, because I'm running into the same situation. So for those of you that don't know, I did have a tummy tuck procedure done, a procedure called a mini tummy tuck where they do not cut the abdominal wall. They just remove the excess skin and tighten up the skin at your lower stomach. I got very fat in my late thirties. It was pretty embarrassing. I didn't lift for probably 10 years. I ate like shit. I, well, I, I lifted occasionally. I get into the gym occasionally. I did jujitsu. I played basketball, but I definitely got fat and out of shape. And I had, when I lost a bunch of weight initially after I got divorced and I got back into the gym, I had a ton of loose skin and some stretch marks. So I went in for gyno surgery. I had some pretty bad gyno, uh, that I wanted to get fixed. And we talked, I talked with the surgeon about a tummy tuck, mini tummy tuck surgery. And so we went ahead and did that with the, uh, with the gyno surgery. I had the gyno fix and the tummy fix at the same time. And in hindsight, I probably wouldn't have done that surgery again. It was brutal. I had a bunch of problems afterwards. I ended up having a bleed afterwards and having to go back through and having that bleed drained and having a second surgery done to repair that. It was probably my fault. I think it was from taking fish oil. Who knows, but I had a bleed. I don't think it was the surgeon's fault. So he did a very nice job. Um, was very helpful, did a great job on my gyno. I had had gyno surgery done when I was in my twenties in by a general surgeon, which was a huge mistake. The guy completely screwed it up and actually made things worse. So I had to have some reconstructive surgery done on my chest to repair my chest to make it look normal again. So that guy fixed, fixed, fixed that. And I also did the tummy tuck surgery. As for the recovery afterwards, uh, I believe it was about 30 days before I got back into the gym, something like that. It was really probably two to three months before I was back full bore lifting. And for the area to look right again, it took a solid year, maybe even a year and a half before the area started, the swelling settled down. The area looked better from the surgery. I honestly, if I had it to go back and do it again, I probably wouldn't have a giant scar at the bottom of my stomach. Now it bothers me. Probably most people don't notice it, but it bothers me. I would have just dealt with a little bit of loose skin. And what I, from what I've seen is when people run GH and diet down that the loose skin tends to tighten up, mine probably would have too, but I was impatient and I wanted to get it done. I was self-conscious about it. I had it done. Um, so I don't know. I probably wouldn't have done it again, but it's done now. It, it looks decent. Now I do have the giant scar at the bottom of my stomach, which probably isn't the best thing for bodybuilding, but Hey, whatever. All right. Next question from Jay Junkin one strongest cycle for building a mass, but safest for the hairline. Uh, honestly, I would just keep it simple. So, uh, probably testosterone with a five AR inhibitor and then run some HGH, which is not going to affect your test, your, your hairline and some insulin with it. And that's going to be a simple safe for your hairline cycle that will put size on you. Now, in theory, I I've heard other, I've heard other so-called experts say that DHT derived steroids, since they are already five alpha reduced and they selectively bind with the androgen receptor should not cause hair loss. Now, anybody that's run one straw may tell you otherwise. I don't know. I I've, I've, I've looked and I've looked and I can't find definitive information either way, but practical experience tells me that yes, they may be contribute to hair loss. Maybe it has some effect on the testosterone, um, in how testosterone reduces to DHT. Maybe, maybe it affects the, um, five alpha reductase and enzyme. I don't know. Um, in, in, but, um, or, or maybe it I've heard, you know, Dr. Todd, I think speculated that because, uh, DHT derived steroids cause lower estrogen conversion, that maybe more of the testosterone actually converts to DHT. And that is what causes hairline loss. But, uh, androgenic alopecia is primarily caused by DHT. So we want to limit DHT conversion. So testosterone with a five alpha reductase inhibitor, HGH does not convert to DHT. So hairline safe. insulin does not convert to DHT. So hairline safe. Um, if you wanted to throw a second compound in there, an androgenic compound, potentially, um, equipoise, I don't know, but one of the benefits of equipoise is that it reduces to DHB, you would be inhibiting that pathway, which probably takes away the benefits of using equipoise. So I would just keep it simple. Testosterone, five alpha reductase inhibitor, HGH, insulin, maybe using some topical minoxidil if you want to be extra safe. All right. Next question here from Cruz Mario. We, TRT plus cycle suggestions. What would be a good second compound to add to TRT? If I were going to add one thing to TRT, it would probably be HGH. Um, HGH makes the most sense to me. Um, HGH is non-androgenic and most of the side effects that we get from, you know, the nastier side effects are from the androgen induced side effects. So, um, uh, HGH would make a lot of sense to me. Uh, another option would be masteron or primobolin, uh, masteron or primobolin make your testosterone work better. Um, it's going to lower SHBG and cause more of the testosterone to convert to free testosterone. It's also going to lower, um, uh, estrogen conversion as well. Uh, so your testosterone is going to work better. So primobolin or masteron, uh, I prefer primobolin. I think primobolin, at least in my experience, I like primobolin a bit better could be a complete placebo. There may be no difference between primobolin and masteron a practicality who knows, but it's just been my experience. I feel like I get more out of primobolin. So that would be my suggestion. Probably HGH or primobolin and masteron would be potential second compound choices. All right. Next question we have here is from all things fit two, four, four. What's the best testosterone to use on a cycle? Is it test sip and anathate propionate? Uh, so this is something that people get themselves completely twisted up in knots there. There is no better testosterone. Um, uh, testosterone is testosterone is testosterone. It's an anthate, sepionate, propionate. The only thing the ester changes is the half-life of the compound, how long it takes to get into your system and to eliminate. So the only reason we would want to use a shorter or a longer acting, uh, ester is for, for, so for example, shorter ester, if we want to get something in and out of our system quickly, I know a lot of guys use propionate on contest prep. The reason they do propionate is because they drop the testosterone at the end to prevent estrogen conversion and they stick to compounds that do not convert to estrogen to help promote a drier look at the end of contest prep. That is sort of the old school way of doing it. I do not drop my testosterone at the end of contest prep. So I just use an anthate year round. Why an anthate? I don't know. It's what I've always used. Enanthate and sepionate are essentially the same thing. I hear a lot of guys think there's some magic about, um, uh, sustenon, that sustenon is the best type of test. It's, it's no different. It's just a blend of esters that are going to hit you at different times. So if you are going to be on testosterone year round and you're not going to cycle on and off of it, probably a medium to longer acting ester would be a better choice. Blue STI 7065. What's up, Paul? What's your usual cycle length? Um, if blood work is good, is it four months or do you keep going? Uh, or do you take a break? I, you know, I don't go into a cycle with a, unless it's contest prep with something in a cycle length in mind. I slowly titrate up. I know a lot of people used to use the old school way of just blasting straight out of the gate. I've been titrating up shit. I don't know, four or five years now. Um, when, when I go on, I initially learned that trick from Dr. Todd, Dr. Todd Lee. Uh, we would slowly titrate up. I think Todd just stays on year round and runs moderate doses year round. He does not blast or cruise. Um, so my thought process is I'll slowly titrate up until I hit a saturation point that I feel good with. I try to make changes with food first. If I don't feel like I'm making progress, uh, um, I will push my food up. And if that's not working, then I'll push gear up. And there is a point where you get to, to with the gear that it just isn't productive anymore. I titrated up the spring. I got up as high as 2.7 grams total, which was 1500 milligrams of tests and 1.2 grams of primavulin. And I decided quickly that that was not for me back to back down. I started feeling sick, felt like I had the flu. I felt feverish. So I backed down to a thousand milligrams of testosterone and 700 milligrams or 800 milligrams, sorry, of primavulin. And I felt that was a good spot for me to be in. Uh, and as for links, I just go as long as I feel like things are being productive. I had to cut my fall cycle short because I got injured. I felt like there was no reason for blasting large amounts of, of androgens when my shoulder was hurt and I couldn't train a hundred percent. So I pulled back to TRT for about four months and gave my body a break. And I really didn't lose anything. I kept most of my size. I did lose some body composition. Uh, but I lit, I lit how my body is responding, dictate that if I feel good, if my blood work looks good, my health markers are good, then I'll keep going. If I don't feel good, if blood markers are off, whatever, I'll, I'll pull back and hit the reset button. Sean Gardner, 2904. If you were to train in the morning facet, will having some of your daily carbs be good before bed? Or would it be beneficial to wake up earlier and have a shake and protein powder and some cream of rice and then go back to sleep before you go to the gym? Um, I would do neither. Uh, training fasted. If you're trying to be a body builder, to me, it's just, it doesn't make any sense. And if you take a step back, think about it logically, what are we trying to do? We're trying to grow and promote hypertrophy. And if you have zero fuel, it's, it's like, it's like going to the construction site and not having any gas for the trucks, which would be your carbohydrates, the tools, no electricity and no materials to build a house with, which is your protein. So no wood, no bricks, nothing makes zero sense. So I would think ideally you want to get some food into you, some protein and some carbohydrates, maybe a little bit of fat before you go to the gym, run an intro workout shake, have a post-workout meal. If you're crunched for time, this is a trick I'll do. Sometimes I'll have some cereal. I usually like to do rice checks or crispics with a banana and you can slam a protein shake and you can literally do that while you're driving to the gym and have it all down. It's easy, easily digestible. And then that way you have some amino acids present and some carbohydrates that are going to be in your bloodstream. Um, when you hit the gym and you're probably going to have a more productive workout and you're going to more likely, uh, be able to promote some hypertrophy. Joshua Kevin Perry asked, how would you progress someone from strongman into bodybuilding? Any positives or negatives in that change of lifestyle? I mean, it's going to be completely different going from strongman to bodybuilding. Everything changes. Your training changes, your diet train changes. Um, your PEDs probably will be different. Um, everything is different. Uh, assuming you're taking PEDs. Um, you know, you're going for strongman, you're training to get the weight from point A to point B, whether that's, you know, tossing a kettle, you know, pressing something over your head, whatever it is that strongman do. Um, you want to get weights from point A to point B in the most efficient pattern way possible with no consideration of joint or connective tissue integrity or health. Um, with bodybuilding, it's the exact opposite with training. We want to place as much load on the muscle without placing load on the joint and connective tissue. So it's probably the less efficient way to train as far as strength goes, but the more efficient way to train for hypertrophy. Diet's going to completely change as well for bodybuilding. Uh, we probably, we're more concerned about body composition and how we look on a stage. Whereas for strongman powerlifting, you're likely trying to maximize leverage and maximize strength, which means carrying more body fat, having more bloat. That's not good for bodybuilding. That's good for powerlifting and strongman. So diet is going to be completely different. The positives for switching to bodybuilding, you're going to look better. I don't think there's many girls asking for dates from strongman. Maybe, I don't know, but, uh, women, women like the bodybuilding look better. Um, you're, you're going to probably have improved, uh, blood markers from eating cleaner. Your lipids are probably going to be better. Now, granted, PEDs play a factor into that. I have seen that bodybuilders tend to use more PEDs than strongman or powerlifters do. So that's just what I've seen. Um, your joints are definitely going to thank you. Uh, you're not going to be blowing your joints and connective tissue up all the time. You're probably going to feel better. You're not going to be sore and hurting all the time like you were with strongman, but being strong is cool as shit. I miss being strong. So that is a downside. I was a lot stronger when I was in my twenties. It was a lot more athletic and I missed that. Now I just look pretty. So strong, bigger now, more, look more like a bodybuilder now, not as strong, not as athletic as I was when I was younger. So that's the trade-off. All right. Next question here is from Shrek Seaboy1850. Can I train legs three times a week with low volume if legs are a priority? So when it comes to training, we have some variables that we modulate. We have intensity, we have frequency, and we have volume. If intensity goes up, volume and frequency goes down. If frequency or volume go up, intensity goes down. So you're trying to do both at the same time and you're probably not going to do either very well. So if you're doing low volume three times a week, you're going to have to lower your intensity because you have more frequency in there. And you're likely not going to provide adequate stimulus because you don't have enough volume to do anything. So you're probably just going to spin your wheels and do absolutely nothing. I also don't know of any bodybuilders, at least that I can think of, that train body parts three times a week, especially legs. Maybe there is. I remember hearing Lee Parise used to train his arms every day. I don't know if that was true or not, but it's something I heard. But I have not seen it. Most bodybuilders are doing either a bro split where they train everything once a week or a push-pull legs routine. Training everything twice a week or maybe if they're doing high intensity once a week, just depends. But I think twice a week is probably the most frequency you can realistically do with enough recovery and enough intensity to promote hypertrophy. So no, I don't think training legs three times a week to bring them up is a good idea. I don't think you're going to get anything out of it. I think it's probably going to actually stifle your progress. All right, last question here is from my good friend, Mr. X, 1270. Mr. X likes to disagree with everything I say, but he supports my channel and he watches every video as far as I know. I see him commenting on just about everything. I love you, Mr. X. Thank you for your support. I appreciate it. So Mr. X asks, do you believe natural training is a waste of time? Is there any results from it in glory? A legacy that has always been in bodybuilding as a drug sport from day one? Do you think you need to take drugs from day one to be a good bodybuilder? Essentially is what he's saying. I paraphrase here. Well, being honest and pragmatic about it, the guys that are at the top of the sport, the young guys, I would speculate probably started taking PEDs pretty early on. Nick Walker, Hunter Labrata. I don't mean to call names out, but I would speculate that they probably started off pretty early. Who knows? Only they know when they started. And I'm not here to judge. It's whatever floats your boat. As far as natural training, here's what I have some prerequisites before you start using PEDs. And this is my thought on using PEDs. First and foremost, you need to know how to train. And it takes a good solid year or two in the gym just to get the basic movement patterns down to even know what you're doing, to even know how to lift. And hell, I've been lifting off and on for 30 years, probably longer. And there are some things I feel like that just clicked with me in the last couple years after that long of lifting as far as for bodybuilding training. So I would say at a bare minimum, you need to have the basics of training under your belt. You need to understand how to train effectively. I would eke out the newbie gains. You don't need to be on PEDs when you get the newbie gains. Why waste the newbie gains on taking PEDs? You're going to gain a bunch of strength and muscle in the first six months you're going to be in the gym anyway. And you're just still figuring shit out and learning what you're doing. You also need to figure out how to eat. I see tons of dudes that take PEDs. They have no clue how to eat and they don't even look like they take gear. And boom, when you put them on a structured diet, then all of a sudden they look like they're using PEDs. So learning how to eat, learning how to train, in getting all that under your belt before you consider PEDs, you probably should understand the basics of PED use, how the drugs work, basics of human physiology and how the drugs are going to affect that. So I would say at a bare minimum, you're probably going to need at least two years to figure all that out. Maybe three. I don't know. But not my place to tell you how long you need. If I had it to do over again to go tell the young Paul, I would say train natural for probably two to four years. Figure things out, learn how to eat, learn how to train, be structured, be disciplined, have all that down. And then when it's time to use the PEDs, you're going to maximize your results from it because you already have that stuff figured out. All right, folks, that's all I got for you today. If you want to support me, you can support my sponsor, First Detachment, quality supplements formulated by the man himself, Justin Harris, famous bodybuilding coach and nutritionist. Justin Harris has made supplements for us, the bodybuilding community that are high quality and will help keep you healthy and help you grow. I have a link to their products in my video description below. Use my discount code AB10 to get 10% off. Thank you for watching. I appreciate your support. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.