WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right bros, another anabolic Q&A. I've got some good ones on deck for you today. How long does HGH last once reconstituted? Should I start taking gear? Carb cycling tips. What's the difference between high and low days and why do you vary your carb intake? Peak, weak water manipulation and clen bulking and there's a bunch of other questions we'll get into as well, in just one second. So all right, before we get started, I want to let everybody know about the team anabolic bodybuilding team AB website that just launched. It's a member website community that I have launched and it's going to be awesome. I'm going to be putting exclusive content up there. Stuff that we probably can't talk about on YouTube and there's going to be member Q&A's weekly. I'm going to have special content on there about cycles, how to get big, other stuff, answer your questions, everything's uncensored, unfiltered. If you want to go join, there's a special introductory sale. I'm going to raise the prices here in a couple weeks but it is 40% off right now. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. I'd love to have you over there. I am going to be checking things daily, answering questions over there, putting exclusive content up. The first member Q&A is next Tuesday. We're going to do that so you get a chance to communicate with me one-on-one. IMight even bring some people on thEQ&A with me and now let's get to thEQuestions. All right, so the first question I have got here is from Nick Noche79. I think I said that correctly. How long does GH last in the fridge once reconstituted? Is it bad once it gets cloudy? How do you know? All right, so I went directly to the Serastem manual. This is what it says in the Serastem manual. So take this for what it's worth. I would assume that it probably applies to the generic HDH as well. It says with bacteria static water, which I think is what it comes packaged with, and it has the benzoyl alcohol content of it and the preservative. The shelf life of Serastem can last for up to 14 days when stored at 39 degrees Fahrenheit. So there you go. Up to two weeks. I usually would burn it up before two weeks. I've seen it last longer. I would say if it's cloudy, you probably shouldn't use it. I don't know if it's really going to cause any harm. I guess you do have to worry about bacteria buildup in it over time, but I would just assume that it degrades over a period of time. The longer you let it set, the less effective it's going to be. Probably it's a simple peptide amino acid structure and I'm sure it probably degrades over time and becomes less effective. So more than likely it's not going to kill you if it's degraded, but it's probably not going to do anything. Now with that said, there is always risk of infection, so you don't want to play around with old stuff. Just keep that in mind. But if you're like me, you're shoving a whole bottle every day or half a bottle every day, you don't have to worry about the 14 day thing with going bad. Now I will say this, I wouldn't let it sit around in needles. I see a lot of guys that ask if they can preload their needles and leave them sitting in the refrigerator for a week. That's probably a bad idea. Same thing with gear. I see guys that preload needles with gear. I've actually seen gear dissolve needles. I just had this discussion with one of my clients. I have seen gear actually melt needles, which is probably to do with the solvents that they're using in it or maybe ethyl oleate. I don't know the chemistry behind all that stuff that well, but I have seen gear dissolve needles. So preloading needles for a long period of time is probably a bad idea. Anyway, use it up within 14 days or sooner. Keep it stored in the refrigerator and you'll be good to go. All right. Next question is from Hans Kazan. This is kind of a personal question, but I can't really give you specific advice on, but I'll give you my general thoughts. Is using gear without competing a bad idea? I'm in my thirties and I'm curious to do it. IMay just even blast and cruise for the rest of my life, but what if I get on it and I don't like it? If I come off, am I going to be permanently shut down for the rest of my life? Am I going to screw myself up by doing one cycle? All right, here's my thing. This is what I tell everybody. And I even made a video about it. Should I take steroids? There's a video up about it. This is what I tell everybody. This is the lecture that I give people. There's a personal decision and I would say you need to think it through thoroughly. It's not to be taken lightly, but I will tell you this, steroids are fucking awesome. And once you start them, you're probably not going to stop. I've never heard of anybody taking one cycle and saying, damn, this sucked. I don't want to ever do this again. I've never heard of that happening. Maybe it does in some places. I know I'm laughing and probably not taking this as seriously as I should, but it's like getting bitten by the vampire. I tell people this, once you're a vampire, you're going to be a vampire for life. That's just how it goes when you start a cycle. Once you're a vampire, you're going to be a vampire forever. So I would say if you're concerned about being shut down, if you're concerned about having kids, if all these things matter to you, if you're concerned about losing your hair, all the things that come along with PEDs, if you're concerned about the side effects that go with them, the rest that go with them, then don't even try them. Just stay away. Save yourself the effort. Don't even try. You're going to get yourself in trouble. You're never going to want to come off. Steroids are freaking awesome and you're never going to want to stop. You'll get addicted to them. Now with that said, let's say you do do one test only cycle. Usually I would, what I think, I'm not going to say what I'm telling you to do. I'm not telling you to do anything, but typically what I see people do is start with a test only cycle, see how it goes, and then if they don't like it, they come off. You're going to recover just fine. I've never seen anybody do 16 weeks of TRT or test replacement therapy and never recover. I'm not saying that that's impossible, but I've never seen it happen personally. I was on for four or five years. I came off, I don't know, maybe even longer. I was on off and on since I was a teenager up to about 30, 32, something like that. I don't remember exactly, but then I came off for a decade, cold turkey, had kids. I actually had one of my kids while I was still on. Everything recovered just fine. I didn't even do PCT. So I'm not saying that I'm an example of what typically happens, but take what you will from that. I would, once again, what I would say, you're going to get bit by the vampire. You're probably going to love it. You're probably never going to want to stop. So if that's a problem, then don't do it. All right. The next question is from Vigilis Fusteris. I think I said that or Fusteris. It sounds very Greek. Should you do cardio on high days or try to minimize glycogen burn and stay off the cardio to let your glycogen refill? I used to stay off the cardio on the high days, but I have actually found that a little bit of light cardio and just do a little bit of walking between my meals or a couple of times a day, a 10 minute walk actually helps me with digestion and hunger. And I have a hard time pounding down the food sometimes on the high day and adding in a little bit of cardio, adding in just a little bit in there, just kind of keeps my glucose sensitivity high. It's not really burning up any glycogen. It's walking is not intense enough to burn up any glycogen really. It just keeps me feeling good, keeps my hunger going, helps with digestion and make sure that my insulin sensitivity is good at each, I said glucose sensitivity, insulin sensitivity at each meal is in a good place and I'm ready to eat again. So I have completely changed my perspective on that. I say this and I say this every offseason, this offseason, I am going to make an effort to do more cardio. I've always sucked at it in the past and I ended up just starting it up on contest prep and I think I benefit from it. I always feel better when I do cardio, but I hate it. It's boring. It sucks. It's time consuming. I don't like it, but this year I think I'm going to try to keep some cardio in place. So yes, cardio probably can be beneficial if it's a very light, low intensity low intensity cardio, such as walking or light cycling, or just getting some steps in somehow on your high day could be beneficial for digestion, insulin sensitivity and making it easier to get all that food down. All right. The next question is from Gavin Colts about peak week water manipulation strategies. He's like, what is your fluid intake like on peak week? And how do you manipulate fluids during peak week? It's pretty simple. And this is what I do. And this is how it's structured with my clients. Typically we'll start a water load about 10 to 12 days out, something like that, maybe two weeks. I'll get my fluid intake up to something like six to seven liters per day. And then I will drop the fluid down to something like a liter or two liters, probably two liters the day before the show. Really simple. Drink six liters, drop down to two, your body, your aldosterone levels have regulated to the six liters. When you drop down to the two, I don't remember the exact numbers, but there's like a 48 hour, 36 to 48 hour window where your, before your body catches up and aldosterone will regulate to the new sodium or the new, sorry, water intake. So when you drop down to that two liters, in theory, you're still peeing like you would drinking six liters. So you're flushing out that much fluid and you dry yourself out. That should be enough to dry yourself out. I needed a diuretic this year to flush out. Additionally, I really pushed carbs hard going into the show to fill up. So I needed a little extra push to get it up. But a lot of times in the past, I haven't run a diuretic. I would say it also depends on the type of show you're on. If you're just doing a local show, you've never competed before, I wouldn't fuck around with diuretics. Just some water manipulation is more than adequate for what you need. Don't mess around with diuretics. Going into a national show, a little bit different of a game. When you're trying to vie for a pro card, a little bit different of a game, but play it conservative, be safe. Water manipulation is more than fine for plenty of people. I do say this. I keep my sodium, potassium, magnesium, my electrolyte intake the same. IMake sure everything is locked in. Going into that peak week, I don't fuck with any of that. So there's no variables there. I know there are some strategies that you can use where you manipulate some of that stuff, but that's getting more advanced. For 95% of people, that's unnecessary. You don't need to do that. Maybe if you're on the stage for competing for the Olympia, you can get in some advanced electrolyte manipulation. But I would say most of the time when I've seen people do that, they just end up looking worse. Just keep things simple, less variables, less chances of there being a fuck up. Just a simple water cut the day before the show. It's a tried and true method. I know some people will disagree with it. There are different ways of doing it. I know some people that leave water in place, and I have left water in place with some clients. I have some people that are just dry. I've been dry in the past and I've been able to leave water in place. This year I was not dry, probably because I was sick the week before the show, had some water retention. We did an aggressive carb up this year. There's some various reasons for it, but that's pretty much it. Very simple, very straightforward water manipulation going into peak week. Scat Daddy asks, for somebody with a sedentary desk job, what would your carb cycling meals look like during your workday? The way I structure my diets for my clients is very simple. I give them meals one through four, which can be placed at any time during the day, where the carbohydrates are lower, fats are a little bit higher, protein is static throughout the day. Whatever our protein intake is, let's just say for math purposes, just for simplicity, that it's 50 grams per meal. That stays the same throughout the day. And maybe I'll do something like 25 to 50 grams of carbohydrates per meal through meals one through four. And then your workout window meals is where you're going to stack the majority of your carbs. Probably half to two thirds of your carb intake for the day are going to be stacked around your pre-workout. Intra and post-workout meal. That's the way I do it. And then you just slot the pre-intra and post-workout meals into whenever you work out. So if you work out first thing in the morning, you would have the carbs stacked around your workout window first thing in the morning. If you work out in the middle of the day, you do the same thing there. If you work out at night, you do the same thing there, and then you fit your other meals around it. So if you can fit in, if your pre and post-workout meals, your higher carbohydrate meals are meal one and two for the day, you slot the rest of those meals in around it. That would be the rest of the day. So those would be your one through four that I'm talking about would actually be three through six for your six meals. If you stack it in the middle of the day, so it would be meal one, meal two, pre-workout, post-workout, meal three, meal four. That's the way I structure it. I learned that from Justin Harris. It works really well. You want to stack your carbs predominantly around your workout window. Like I said, something like up to half your carbs, maybe even a little bit more can be around your workout window. That's generally the way I do it. I find that works out well. You have glute four trensport that's going to be increased during the workout window. So it makes sense to have increased carbohydrates. During that time, we keep the fats low, as low as we possibly can during the workout window, zero if we can. And in the other meals, there's some, the meals one through four that I talk about. Those would potentially have some EFAs mixed in with them, supplemented EFAs. And we keep the protein sources as lean as we possibly can and keep the saturated fats as close to zero as we possibly can. And that's it. All right. Forrest O'Neill asked me, and this one I get commonly, what are the basic health markers you look for on blood panels when somebody is on PEDs? All right, let's reverse engineer this one just a little bit. I feel like I've said this one a million times. We'll go through it again. What is the things that commonly kill bodybuilders? Those are the things that we want to look for in our diagnostic testing and blood panels. The number one thing that most bodybuilders die from is cardiovascular events. So we want to look at anything that's going to potentially increase the risk of cardiovascular events. The number two thing that we have to be concerned about is kidney health. You see a lot of bodybuilders over the lifetime of PED use or abuse or educated abuse, whatever you want to call it, they end up frying their kidneys. Very rarely do you hear of anybody frying their liver. The liver is pretty resilient, but we do want to pay attention to liver health. And then just the other various health markers that are in there, things such as electrolytes and various blood cell markers and things like that we need to pay attention to. So for cardiovascular health, lipids are very important. We want to pay attention to lipids. PED users, we know that are prone to having lipids skewing depending on the type of PEDs that they are using. When your estrogen is crushed, your lipids are going to be skewed further. When you're using DHT derivatives, lipids tend to be skewed further. Orals seem to be the worst at crushing lipids, making lipids worse. So we need to pay further attention to that. So we want to pay the various lipoprotein A and B, and we want to pay attention to HDL and LDL and triglycerides and things like that. Triglycerides can be an indicator that there's an issue with glucose sensitivity. That's another thing that we want to pay attention to is glucose sensitivity. So you want to get an A1c test done. You should also be tracking fasting glucose periodically. Grab a glucose meter. They're cheap. They're 20, 30 bucks at your pharmacy. Check it a couple times a week when we're running. GH, we want to make sure that we're not building up insulin resistance when we're running. High carbohydrate diets, we want to make sure that insulin sensitivity is not going to shit. It's another thing to pay attention to, which is also going to affect cardiovascular health. Getting a blood pressure meter, that's something that can be checked daily. That is going to probably be the single biggest risk factor when it comes to cardiovascular health is making sure that you control your blood pressure. Keeping an eye on things such as hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell count. They are going to be elevated when you run PEDs. It's just the cost of doing business. There's a certain limit that we want to keep an eye on. Personally, I don't like to see hematocrit above 55, hemoglobin above 18. If we do, we need to take corrective action. We know that certain PEDs cause more elevation of those markers than others. I generally avoid those. Things like Anadrol, things like equipoise are probably going to make that worse. We also want to be paying attention to clotting factors. If clotting factors are high, you're going to have an increased risk, especially with increased blood pressure and hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell count, potentially throwing a clot, having a pulmonary embolism, stroke, heart attack, things like that that we don't want. Occasionally getting a calcium CT test done to make sure you don't have any plaque buildup in your arteries. It's another important thing to pay attention to. Getting checked periodically to make sure that you don't have declining cardio functions, such as ejection fraction getting lower. Get your heart checked once a year. These are things that are important. As far as kidney markers go, everybody seems to be that's on PEDs and Lipsart is probably going to have some elevation of blood urea, nitrogen just from eating a high protein diet and creatinine. But if you see creatinine consistently going up, that is a problem. I would suggest throwing in a cystatin C test. That is probably a more accurate measurement of our kidney health. It's a little more expensive. Most doctors don't run it because it is expensive. Things to pay attention to. Keep in mind also that if you're taking creatine, that's going to falsely elevate your creatinine levels. I am less concerned about liver enzymes because typically ALT and AST are going to be somewhat elevated from lifting weights. But if you see them over 100, then there's a problem. You might want to get GGT checked as well. And those are the primary ones we want to keep an eye on. I'm sure there's others that I've missed here, but those are the important ones. I usually get blood work done every three to four months just to see where I'm at. Those are the ones that you want to pay attention to. And of course, you need to consult with your doctor. If there is a problem, be knowledgeable. Explain to your doctor why some of these things might be elevated. Discuss that with them. I am not a doctor. I'm not giving you medical advice here, but these are important things that you can discuss with your doctor so you can be informed and help your doctor make an informed decision about your health. All right, next one is from Paul Shortall. And he asked, can you elaborate a bit on why you do high-carb days and low-carb days and what's the difference between the two and why you do them? I have some really good videos up on carb cycling if you want to check those out, but it's pretty simple and straightforward. With carb cycling, it's essentially caloric cycling. We know that carbohydrates can be stored in multiple ways. They can be stored as liver glycogen. They can be used as fuel, which glycogen, glucose. Glucose is your body's preferred fuel source. The crazy keto guys and carnivore guys will say that's not true, but it is true. Your body prefers glucose first. That's why it only makes ketones when you're in a starvation state. That's why it only converts proteins to glucose through gluconeogenesis. So it gets so desperate for glucose, it starts breaking down proteins to make glucose out of it, which we don't want, right? We don't want to be breaking down our protein to make carbohydrates out of it. One would assume, right? It seems like a silly thing to eat all that expensive steak and then have your body burn it up and use it as glucose. Seems a little dumb to me, but you know, I can see there are some arguments for doing a carnivore diet. I'm not completely poo-pooing it. I understand the reasons why some people are attracted to it and why they use it. There are some health benefits, potential health benefits that it may provide that you, you know, that you can't get from eating a ton of carbs. Now, we're talking about purely optimizing for body composition and being a big jack, 270 pound, super heavyweight bodybuilder. We're not talking about health and longevity and what's great for you. We're talking about being big, full and jacked. So we know that it can be stored. Glucose can be stored as liver glycogen and muscle glycogen primarily burns fuel. We know that fats, one of two things happens to fats. Well, saturated fats primarily, but you know, EFAs get used in vitamin Trensport and some cellular repair and things like that. But the amount of EFAs that you need is very small, 20 to 30 grams a day should probably more than cover your needs. But any other fats that you use are one of two things are either going to happen to them. They're going to be used as fuel or they're going to be stored as body fat. For carbohydrates to be stored as body fat, it goes through multiple steps. Your glycogen has to be topped off. And then it goes through gluconeogenesis, I'm sorry, not gluconeogenesis, liponeogenesis. Sorry, I got that backwards. Liponeogenesis and then it can be turned into lipids. And generally you have to be in some sort of state of metabolic disorder for that to happen or eating in an excessive surplus. If you're a healthy adult bodybuilder, you're not going to have that issue for the most part. Not insulin resistant, you're not going to have that issue. So what we do with the low days is we get ourselves depleted of carbohydrates and then we use the high days to fill back up. And you can actually eat in a surplus on the high days. You can be in a caloric surplus and not, in theory, not store fat because your body has this potential to store and synthesize glycogen from the excess glucose that you've eaten. Now, I will say that there seems to be some bit of supercompensation that happens, especially when guys are taking PEDs and using insulin and things like that, where you can actually force more glycogen synthesis. But that seems to only happen when you have some sort of depletion. So you need the low days in there to get yourself in a depleted state. And then you have some bit of supercompensation on those high days. I have, on contest prep, there were times that I was eating 2,000 grams of carbs on my high days and getting leaner. Now, in theory, you think about that. I was eating close to 10,000 calories on some days. How in the world am I getting leaner eating that much? That is impossible. But keep in mind that that excess calories from glucose, for the most part, is not being stored as body fat. It's being stored as muscle glycogen, giving our muscles a big, full, filled out look, increasing performance in the gym. We get metabolic benefit from it. Some people say that the metabolic benefit's not that much. My body disagrees when I'm sweating and have to have a fan on when it's 35 degrees outside in the middle of the night. So that's sort of the theory of it. Now, does it work for everybody? No. I will say that you need to be metabolically healthy. Your insulin sensitivity needs to be good. If you're really going to push carbs hard, I'm not encouraging you to do this, but insulin does seem to help. You also need to be heavily muscled. If you're not heavily muscled, you're not going to be able to store that much glycogen. You're just going to get fat. If you're somebody that doesn't have a lot of muscle tissue, you probably need to keep the carbs lower. Okada asks, is there any way to fix or tighten loose skin after big fat loss? It depends. If you have stretch marks, if the skin has lost its elasticity, you can see it, like if the skin just hangs and sags, there's probably nothing you can do at that point. Really, the only thing you can do to resolve it at that point is to have a skin excision done. I had one done. I have a video up about my abdominoplasty, my tummy tuck that I had done. I have mixed feelings about it. Ultimately, I got my ProCard and bodybuilding, but I have large scars. I had other things going on with my stomach. I wasn't crazy obese like some people, but I did have a bit of loose skin on my stomach from constantly losing and gaining weight, losing and gaining weight. I don't know. IMean, I never got like 100 pounds overweight or anything like that. I never was that big, but I would get 30, 40, 50 pounds over where I should be. And you know, just doing that over time, I have sucky skin, elasticity. Some people do, some people don't. I've seen guys lose 100 pounds and they just bounce right back. And then I've seen other dudes lose 100 pounds and they look like a balloon that somebody let all the air out of. GH seems to help a bit. It's not going to work miracles, but I will say GH does seem to help a bit. But ultimately, if you have a lot of loose skin, like I said, if you look like somebody, a balloon that somebody let all the air out of, you're probably going to need to see a plastic surgeon and have some sort of revision surgery done. Amy Killian that's on our podcast on Saturday, she works for a plastic surgeon. She's very knowledgeable. Amy's channel, I wish I had the name of their channel up, but you can search out their channel or reach out to Amy. I'm sure she can help you out with some of that stuff. All right, I have another one from Makata. He got a double banger in. If I'd known that, I wouldn't have put two in. How do you keep lean on a balk? Well, if you've got loose skin, probably don't want to be balking, right? Get that fixed. So simple answer to this is the big mistakes that I see people make when they balk, and I've made it myself a million times, is doing the dirty balk. Just eating what the fuck ever, trying to put on weight, not chasing the scale. If you're gaining more than a pound or two a week, even a pound or two a week, most likely the weight you're gaining is going to be water or fat. Now you can see a difference. I've had guys come out of shows or big cuts and they panic when they see the scale go up, and it's really just water retention. It's not fat. You can see a difference. It's hard to tell that with the scale, but you can see it in pictures. That's why I like keeping logs of before and after pictures. You can go back and look at the pictures and see whether or not somebody is progressing properly or gaining fat or just putting water on. There's a big difference between the two. You can see off-season pro bodybuilders like somebody like Derek Lunsford or somebody like that that's up 20, 30 pounds when they're show weight. They're not fat. It's just a bunch of water. He doesn't have fat rolls on him when he's up 20, 30 pounds. It's just a bunch of water retention, and that comes off when you get ready for a show. But for me, the simple and easy approach to staying lean when you're getting bigger is to keep your fats lower. I know this is going to hurt some feelings. Keep the fats lower. Keep the saturated fats low. Keep the cheap meals out once or twice a week. I know it sucks. I know it sucks bad that you want to eat cheap meals more frequently and stick to good clen foods. Chicken and rice, beef and rice. Keep that beef as low fat as you possibly can keep it. Have a cheap meal here and there once or twice a week is adequate, and just eat meat and carbs. And if you do that, you keep things lean. You run a carb cycling diet. For the most part, I see guys stay pretty lean. I stay pretty lean this past offseason, and if you start to get fat, you just pull back a little bit. That simple. Keep some cardio in in your offseason. You don't have to do a ton, but just keep a little bit in and be mindful of your body composition. I have a rule of thumb. If I can't see my abs anymore, it's gone too far and you need to pull back. You want to maintain a place where you can see your abs at all time. If I had to place a body fat percentage on it, I would say it's somewhere around 15%. I don't get it measured in the offseason, but I would I would guess that that's probably about the max that you want to go as far as body fat percentage. All right folks, that's all I got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. Go check out the Team Anabolic Bodybuilding membership site, our community. It's going to be awesome. I'm going to be really workinGHard. The content, there's not a ton of content up there right now, but I am going to be doing the livEQ&As weekly, privatEQ&As with my clients. I'll be working through some stuff as well, probably doing some critiquing of plans, you know, cycles and trening programs up there as well. Go check it out. It is discounted right now. Right now you can catch it before we raise the price. Anyway, I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for watching. We'll see you on the next episode. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at BigP3rd at gmail.com