 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. WARNING, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, folks, big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A, we've got some good stuff up today. We're going to talk about making gains in your 40% of the year. We're going to talk about making gains in your 40s and 50s and if you can do it natty. Also, do you need a DHT derivative with every cycle? We have a bunch of other questions too that are pretty awesome. We're going to dig into all those in just one second. All right here's full dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish dish tell you, it's going to be difficult as a natty if you're trying to add size. Let me back up here a second. Let me think about this critically. trening in our joints, connective tissue, and muscles are not going to be able to handle the same beating that you could when you are in your 20s and 30s. So you're going to need to structure your trening in such a manner that your body will be able to withstand what you're doing to it and not get hurt. If you're constantly hurt and out of the gym all the time, you're not going to be able to make progress. I see a lot of old dudes get real stubborn and want to hang on to the way that they trened when they were 25 years old, doinGHeavy, high-intensity style trening when your body can't sustain or keep up with that anymore and they just end up getting injured all the time and they wear it like a badge of pride. Like, look at me, I'm tough. I got to have another shoulder surgery. Well, to me, I look at that and see stupidity that you're putting yourself out of the gym and if you're out of the gym, you're not going to make any progress. So you need to structure your trening in such a way that it's going to be sustainable. You can progress and stay in the gym. So for me, what I identified was I probably needed to pull back the intensity a bit, keep the rep ranges a tad higher and stay away from heavy compound lifts. And with that said, I can still make progress, stick with exercises that are safer and grow. When it comes to nutrition, that's the other aspect that we are going to need to talk about. Your digestive system changes as you get older. Foods that I could tolerate when I was younger, I can't tolerate now. I have to be extremely careful with my food choices now that I'm older. I can't dump hot sauce all over everything. I can't be eating a ton of dairy or gluten like I could when I was younger. I have to be, I can't use a bunch of spices. I can't use things like onions. I end up with acid reflux. I end up with digestive issues. I end up with an upset stomach. So I have to be very, very careful with my diet and food choices. I run a low FODMAP diet. I structure my diet in such a way that I can eat a sustainable diet that isn't going to tear my gut up and be able to allow me to grow. If I'm sick and I can't eat, you're not going to grow. Now, the third part that I started off with and sort of put the car in reverse on was hormones. Hormones decline as you get older. That just happens. Some people decline more than others. Some people decline less. Now, there are some things that you can do to prevent the decline. I think simply just being lean and healthy. If you're going to be a natty, you can sustain things for a bit longer. At a bare minimum, if you're against using at least TRT or HRT, I would find out where your hormones are at and see if you're in an optimal range to make gains. Like for example, if your testosterone is non-existent, there's probably not a whole lot you're going to gain. You're going to need to optimize that. I don't see that as cheating or falling back. You wouldn't not take insulin if you were a diabetic. You are deficient in a hormone. You take that hormone and supplement it reasonably. That's not to say that you need to go out and run a full blown blast cycle, but I would assume that you want to bring your hormones back to some sort of baseline. But I would find that out. You may or may not need it. Some guys, I've seen some guys in their 60s that still have fairly robust hormone levels. They're rare. Not many people have that past the age of 40. It's pretty much a slow decline past, well, not really slow, rapid. Usually from 40 to 50, guys, just bury out. I would find out where you're at and at least get your hormones in an optimal range or consider it. I'm not twisting your arm. I'm not saying that you have to do that. If you're hell bit on being natty, you certainly can be healthy and do things to keep yourself in the gym without takinGHormones. But if you want to grow, they're probably going to need to be optimized. All right, folks, I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, the Scientific Principles of Anabolics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. All right, next question from David Minter. Does a good cycle always include a DHT derivative? Can you run a solid cycle without one? There's no law written that you have to run a DHT derivative with a cycle. It really just depends on how you respond to things. I personally have found I do better with a DHT derivative in the cycle. It makes testosterone work better, keeps my estrogen in check, allows me to run my testosterone higher if I want to, but not everyone has that issue. There are some guys that I've seen that will end up crashing their estrogen when they run a DHT derivative along with their cycle. Ultimately, it's about what you feel best doing. There's always, should be a base of testosterone. We, testosterone is bioidentical. We know how your body's going to handle and respond to testosterone. Same thing with HGH. I would consider runninGHGH and then build your cycle out from there. For me, especially as an older guy, the base of cycle should be HGH and testosterone and then work your way out from there. Find a secondary compound, an anabolic that works well for you. Now, I have found I do like running Nandrolone and Nandrolone makes me grow better than anything else, but Nandrolone for me at this point in my life. It didn't used to be this way. It's been the wheel with side effects. Sometimes I get anxiety. Sometimes I get gyno. Sometimes I get bloated and my blood pressure goes through the roof. There's always some sort of issue. Sometimes I can't get an erection. There's all sorts of issues that you have with Nandrolone. Now, some people don't have those. You may be one of the people that don't have those problems. I generally stay away running orals for an extended period of time because of the detrimental health effects that they have, such as lowerinGHDL, liver stress. And if your liver is stressed, you're probably not going to want to eat. You're probably not going to feel good. And if you don't feel good, you're not going to tren hard. You're not going to eat. You're not going to grow. Now, I think orals are okay for spot duty. It's sort of an age dependent thing. When you're younger, you can probably get away from running more of them as you age. Probably not as much. But if you follow those general principles, start off with test GH first, then figure out what works for you, then you're probably going to be fine. Generally, the secondary compounds I see people start with these days, most guys run either Equipoise, Primovalin, or Masteron. It seems to be one of those three. And find which one of those three works best for you. Scops Sky says, how do you judge, judge, sorry if I can speak English here, check-in pictures? I feel like it's so hard to see a difference between looking flat and looking full, or whatever the case may be. I've been doing this for so long, and I've looked at so many pictures, I can see the difference. There are little cues that I know to look at. So for example, from week to week, I can look at somebody's legs and tell if they screwed up on their diet. Because generally when people screw up on their diet and they are eatinGHigh sodium, high sugar foods, they end up retaining more water. And you can see it in their legs. That's usually where the water retention goes, is in their legs. I can see increased water retention, so I know they have screwed up on their diet. Now as far as progress goes, I like to look at the pictures from week to week. And a lot of times you really can't see differences from week to week. So I always keep their starting picks, whatever phase they were in, and I look at the current picks back to the starting picks to make an analysis of where they are at. We also have to understand in certain phases, like with being flat, being flat is just part of losing fat. If you're in a fat loss phase, you're going to get flat. That just happens. You can't keep somebody, or at least most people, you can't keep them full through an entire contest prep and have them burn body fat. It just doesn't work that way. What you have to do is get the fat off, then worry about filling them out. Once they have all the fat off of their body, then you can fill them out. Now there are some cues I look at too for fat loss. Certain places that people hold fat, I can see where progress is being made. Usually the last place that it goes on dudes is the love handles, glutes, and hamstrings. If those are in, we know that we're ready for a show. I can look there. Usually guys will get lean up front first. They'll have abs before they have shredded glutes. Shredded glutes are the last thing to come in. Not everybody gets shredded glutes. It seems to be the order it goes is abs come in first, then lower back, then hamstrings, and then glutes are the last thing to come in. I am sort of the exact opposite. I'm a weird person. My glutes will come in before my lower back does. I don't know why. My legs are always lean. I'm a weird body type, but generally speaking, when I'm looking at progress for fat loss phases, that's what I'm looking at. Now in the offseason, it's a little bit different. What I'm looking is for growth hormone hormone hormone, for people getting bigger, filling out without adding a significant amount of body fat. Now we know that some body fat accumulation is going to happen in the offseason. That's inevitable, but we're trying to keep that at a minimum. And then I will make diet adjustments based on how body composition or cycle adjustments based on how body composition is tracking. Taddy Natty asks, what is the ideal amount of time for an offseason to spend in a calorie surplus? I find that somewhere between 16 to 20 weeks. So we're talking abouT4 to five months is the maximum productive time to be in a calorie surplus. It really depends on how much runway you have body fat wise. Usually, you know, if we're starting off super lean coming out of a contest, if you're 5% body fat, you can probably run that all the way up to about 15% body fat and be within striking distance of a show. 15 is about as fat as I want to let a competitor get if they're going to be in a bodybuilding show because you get much beyond that. If you're say up to 20 or 25%, it is going to suck getting in shape for a show and you're probably going to lose muscle dieting off that much fat. So I sort of let that dictate the length of it. I do find too, and at least with me and like with people that I've worked with it, somewhere in that 16 to 20 week mark, you've hit this point where the gains stop in the gym. Your appetite starts to suck. You don't want to eat food anymore. There's a limit on how much chicken and rice that you can eat before you just get to a point where you're like, I can't handle this shit anymore. There's also, you stop making progress in the gym. You stop getting stronger. You start getting lethargic. insulin resistance probably is on the rise. I'll see it in fasted glucose levels where they start gettinGHigher. I'll have guys take their fasted glucose levels just to sort of keep track of that. It's a canary in the coal mine for me. Like if I start seeing those going up, I know that we've probably pushed things too far and we need to pull back. There are some tricks you can pull out of the bag if you want to extend things a little bit more. But usually what I do is somewhere around that 16 to 20 week mark, we'll pull back for six to eight weeks, run a cruise, whatever TRT is for you, bodybuilding TRT, you know, somewhere I would say, depending on how big you are, somewhere between 200 and 400 milligrams of testosterone. I can get by on 250, 250, 375 is plenty for me to cruise on. I tried going down to 120 last year. It was too low, but I'll cruise on that and then go to a, maybe a slight deficit or just isocaloric for, you know, six to eight weeks and just allow my body to achieve some homeostasis. And then I will shift into a fat loss phase. Same with the fat loss phase. It's seems to be 16 to 20 weeks is the magic number. That's about all the longer you can push a fat loss phase, probably closer to the 16 week period of time before you need a break. Stronger outside and in ask, what is my strategy for peak week? Is there a preference for loading the carbs the day before the show and the morning of, or do you not do this practice? Yeah, this one drives me nuts. You know, I'm not saying I know everything, but I see coaches that are trying to load carbs the day before and the day of the show. And usually what are we doing the day before and the day of the show? We're pulling water out. We're trying to dry out. We're using diuretics sometimes. And why in the world would you try to load glycogen when you're not using or drinking water? You need water. You need electrolytes to load glycogen. So it makes absolutely zero sense to be pounding a bunch of carbs when you're not drinking water. They're not going to do shit. Probably not going to do much of anything. And I think that's why a lot of guys end up on stage. They're eating a shit ton of food going into the show in the day of the show. And they end up with these bloated, distended bellies. I, last year, really didn't eat on my show day. I ate very little. You know, I ate some I ate some, uh, shit, Rice Krispie Treats and, you know, a little bit of protein. I didn't, I kept the food pretty low and I think it kept me very tight. Now you might get flat. You might need to load some carbs, but if you're going to do that, you need to drink a Gatorade or something like that with it. So it's a fine line. You need to walk. To me, when it makes sense to load carbs is probably two, three, four days out from the show. That's when you want to load carbs. When you're still drinking plenty of water, you do your carb load the day before the show, you would keep the carbs moderate or lower, keep the protein where it usually is probably bump up fats a little bit. There's, you know, there's some, you know, some potential for intramuscular triglyceride loading. I don't know how much it really makes any difference, but if you're pulling your carbs down, you can, you push up the fats a little bit. Um, that's fine. If anything, it just makes you feel a little bit better. I don't know how much fats are really going to fill you out going into a show. To be honest with you, I haven't seen it make that big of a difference, but in my opinion, your carb loading should be done before you pull water and use any sort of diuretic. Chris Ormrod asked any suggestions for how to deal with stomach bloat, gas digestion issues, et cetera, when in the peak offseason. Yeah, this is a huge problem, especially as you get older. My gut is super sensitive. I have to be very, very, very cautious with what I eat or I end up with a bloated, distended gut. I've talked about this a million times before as I sit here burping up my high day. I would run a low FODMAP diet, look up a low FODMAP diet, stay away from things that cause bloating. And I know guys get absolutely bananas when they hear me say this, but I get to a point in the offseason where I have to pull vegetables out and I have to keep my carb sources to just rice. And I have to steer away from spices, certain spices that will bloat me up like garlic, onions, anything that has onion powder in it is, is terrible. I stay away from shit like hot sauces, anything that's going to cause me to have acid reflux. I keep a very, very bland diet and that will keep you from bloating up. I would also steer away from gluten and dairy. A lot of it, you can have spot here, here and there in spots like, you know, I'll have a pasta once a week, my protein pasta, I call it, but it's, it's wheat pasta with, with a bunch of beef and marinara sauce on it. But that's one meal out of 42 in a week. That's not going to kill me. So you have to be very, very mindful of the foods that cause you bloating and distention. Stay away from those. Stick with easy to digest foods, foods that your body can process easily. You also, when you're deep in the offseason, I know this is counterintuitive, but you have to be careful with fiber. I think a lot of times guys end up overdoing the fiber with things like long grain and whole grain rices and with all the vegetables they put in their diet. What I do is keep the foods very, I eat like a baby during the day. And then I will use a fiber supplement in a green supplement before bed. I'll get a little bit of fiber in during the day, but not a ton. And I take it before bed after my food has processed to allow my, something to clear my colon out to get enough fiber in for the day. So, but I try not to mix it with my meals that much. I keep it separate. Now this is not for longevity. Mind you, I remind people of this all the time. This is for bodybuilding purposes, optimizing yourself for bodybuilding and growth hormone hormone hormone is not the same as optimizing your health for longevity. Captain Felix 77 asks, is it possible to oversaturate androgen receptors cruising on 200 milligrams a test, not having the same results six months as I did the first six months? That whole androgen receptor down regulation thinGHas been proven over and over and over again to be bonked. There's a bazillion studies out now that show that that's untrue. Actually, the angeline receptors upregulate as you get bigger, as you run more androgens. So yes, you're never going to get the same results from 200 as you did the first time you ran it. 200 is essentially a TRT dose. You're not going to grow on 200. And the bigger you get, I know a lot of people don't want to hear this, but the bigger you get, the more you got to run. I'm not saying you should come out of the gate throwing a flamethrower at it, but it's just, it's, it's a law of diminishing gains. The bigger you get, you have to throw more at it to grow. And there's a genetic upper limit on how much you can grow anyway. There's also a limited rate of protein synthesis that you can accumulate in a year. I will tell you this, that no cycle is ever going to be as good as your first cycle. It's like making natty gains at the first time you've ever lifted virgin gains. You know, the first time you ever lifted, you're just going to go to the gym and each time you get better. Now, as you get to more advanced in bodybuilding, as you get more advanced in using PEDs, it just gets harder and harder to grind out. You have to pay more attention to detail with your diets. You have to pay more attention to detail with the compounds you're running, and you may even have to run more. That's just how it goes. All right, folks, that's all I got for you today. Thank you for watching. I appreciate your support. I love each and every one of you. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you.