warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, big Paul here today with another muscle rant. I want to talk about our pro cards too easy to get, and I want to do some math on it today. I've talked about this before, made a post on Instagram last week about the actual math on how many bodybuilding pro cards are handed out annually. Seems to be this notion now that pro cards are easier than ever to get and understand where people are coming from. Things have changed. It's not the same as it was 20 years ago and there certainly was a very limited amount of people that were IFBB pros at that time, but there's also a bunch more divisions and if you look at the math on things, it really isn't any easier now. It's probably in fact more difficult to get a pro card depending on what you'recompeting in, but I want to take a look specifically at the men's bodybuilding categories and we can talk about how many pros actually get a pro card annually, what percentage of those people arecompeting and actually look at some math on this stuff. There's a lot of feelings about this. A lot of people get very upset. It's weird to me that this is a controversial thing. I feel sort of passionate about it because I can see how difficult it is and how hard people work to get their pro cards and I feel like there's a lot of people that talk about this stuff that don't have pro cards that really have no business talking about, about it to be honest with you. And I get, look, Hey, I get where people are coming from. We all have nostalgia. Remember the good old days when there was just a handful of guys competing in the IFBB and they were all freaks, but the IFBB has changed and evolved since then. A lot of things have been added to the competitive landscape there where there's just a bunch more divisions and things. So things have really changed. Before we dig into all that, I want to tell you guys that I have a sale on the science of anabolics and PEDs e-course going on and that is 20% off. Use the code winter 20 for 20% off and only last this week until the end of the month. So if you want to grab the e-course, grab it. Now you get a 20% off. We have over 100 modules in e-course now and 60 or so hours of recorded video content on there. It's I think the most comprehensive e-course out there on PEDs. Of course I'm biased. Kurt and I are going to have a live stream, a livEQ and a that you can register for as well. I will put a link into that. That's going to be free. That's typically charged for our charge member only, but we're going to do that free Tonight on the on our platform. So you can register for it. Use the link below. You just give up your email and you can, you can log in for free and ask questions for the science of anabolics and PEDs e-course. Anyway, folks, let's dig into all this in just one second. Okay. Oh, key dokey. I kind of touched on this a little bit, but I don't know. It was a week or so ago. Um, Jay Cutler and Mila Sarchev and guys were talking about pro cards and pro cards beinGHanded out and how masters pro cards should not be allowed to compete in the open divisions. And look, I understand where they're coming from. And I look, I, I'm, I have one of my masters pro card this year. I have no illusions that I'm going to walk on stage and be hanging with Samson Dada and Nick Walker. I believe me, I'm 50 years old. That would be like expecting to get drafted in the NFL at 50 years old and be able to catch a pass from Patrick Mahomes or lay a hit on, on, on somebody. I would get demolished. Those guys are going to demolish me. I am not going to hang with those people. So I get where they are coming from. There are, however, a few outliers in the masters division that have done pretty well. Um, Kareth Baggio, I think that's how you say his last name. I'm not 100% sure. He won the two 12 at New York pro last year. Um, and I'm sorry, 2023 he won. I was up there. Dude dominated. And he's, you know, he's an old guy. He went, won his masters pro card. It's not to say that there aren't some guys that can hang. Um, Dexter Jackson was 50 years old and still placing in the top five in the, in the, or almost 50, whatever he was late forties and placing in the top five at the Olympia. There are some exceptions to the rule, but most of the guys that are in the masters division where I'm at are just going to be, they just get their masters pro card and they hang it up. So I can understand why the young guys are a little salty about that. It is not the same. I will be the first to acknowledge that. But those of us that compete in that division, we're at the top of the guys in our age group. You know, it's, you know, it's not to take anything away from it. Really when you look at it, there aren't that many masters pro cards given out. Uh, there are 22 total, uh, handed out annually in the United States. There are 333 million people that live in the United States or something like 50,000 competitive bodybuilders. Estimate it. I don't know. Some something like that. Maybe it's less, maybe it's more. Who knows for sure. Really? But I, these big national shows are certainly a lot of guys that show up that havEQualified and they had to have competed in a regional show to qualify. I, when I was at masters nationals last year, I think there were over or around roughly. Somebody told me a thousand competitors registered for that show. So a thousand people in masters nationals in bodybuilding, there were 10 pro cards total in bodybuilding across all the age groups, 35, 40, 50 and 60 and 70 years old. There were three in my age group. I think there were about, I don't know, roughly 50 or 60 people total competing in my age group. That werecompeting and there was three of us that got pro cards. So I would say that's pretty competitive and you had to have competed in a regional show with, with masters. You don't have to have placed at a regional show. There really aren't that many people that compete in a regional show. I, you know, in my age group, there might be three or four dudes that walk out there. Now the IFBB does have rules on how many people need to be in a show to compete, but let's look at the total pro cards. Let's do some math on this and, and, and think about this critically in the United States. This is not internationally. There are international pro qualifiers. Most of the international pro qualifiers that I see, there's one pro card for bodybuilding with the exception of the amateur Olympia. So I think there's two of them or something like that internationally. And I think they've got like two or three pro cards in men's bodybuilding. Now keep in mind at the amateur level, what we call, there is no two 12 division in the NPC. Everybody competes in weight classes. So guys that win their pro cards in the NPC at the amateur level, not all of these guys are going to be competing in open. Some of them are going to be competing in the two 12 too. So really this is divided between two divisions. The two 12 is really the short guy division. It's like if you're five, six or five, five and under, you're probably going to be competing in the two 12 if you're over five, five or five, six, unless you're a freak like Derek Lunsford, you're going to be competing in the open. It's really what it boils down to it. That's the, I don't, they maybe you should just make it by height. I don't know. Five, five and under. And there's really just, there's no weight classes in the IFBB it, that's it for bodybuilding. So in the United States we have 45 total pro cards across all the national qualifiers that we look at it. The national qualifiers, we have the Arnold amateur, which will be here in a few weeks. There's one pro card at the Arnold amateur. That's it. One for bodybuilding. Now there's one, there's stuff in the other divisions, the amateur Olympia. There are three at the amateur Olympia at North Americans. They're 13. Now you, you stop and say, Whoa, 13 bodybuilding pro cards at North Americans. I was at North Americans last year. There were, I, there is an ungodly amount of people in that show, something like 1400 registered. And I know the old goats are going to say, you know, well, it's, you know, back in the day there was only, you know, two national qualifiers and three guys got pro cards. There's also, I remember, I don't remember which was it. USA is I went to, I don't remember late nineties, early two thousands. I went to a pro qualifier. And there were like 40 people in the show, 50 people. There was like five in each weight class or something. It wasn't a lot or way less people competing than there was no men's physique. There was no classic physique. There was, you know, not all the 800 women's divisions. There are there. IMean, they, they, it was women's bodybuilding. Maybe, um, figure. I don't know. I don't even know if that was around then. I think, I think it was just women's. I think it was just women's bodybuilding and fitness. That's what it was. So North Americans, 13 pro cards. I don't know how many bodybuilders were actually competing in that show. So keep in mind that when I say 1400, that shows a three day long show or four days, I think it's three days and there's multiple divisions going on probably half those guys from men's physique guys. Uh, but you know, bodybuilders is probably three or 400 bodybuilders in that show. Something like that. Uh, I had a client, you know, competing as a heavyweight and there were like 30 dudes in the heavyweight division alone. So North Americans, USAs are six nationals. Uh, that is a big show at the end of the year. NPC nationals. That's where everybody who didn't get their pro card at the earlier part of the year, they end up competing in that show. Okay. And that's been my opinion is probably the most competitive show of the year because you get all the dudes that just miss getting their pro cards early in the year that are salty and pushinGHard. And you know, it's their last chance in that year to get a pro card. And so you get the best of the dudes that show up for that show. Um, junior USA is no pro cards and bodybuilding junior nationals, no pro cards and bodybuilding. Ben Weiner. It's a show we have here in the DC. That's a M uh, sorry. Natural pro qualifier. There's no open bodybuilding pro cards. Team universe. There are nine open pro card that that's also a very big show. Masters nationals and masters. USAs are the big masters pro qualifiers. I've done both of those shows. Masters nationals is way bigger than masters USAs. It's probably like twice the size, maybe three times the size of masters USAs, but there's only four pro cards in masters USAs. I was out there last year. There are 2023. Sorry. I don't know where I was at. It was probably second or third overall. They don't tell you you're placing overall, but I was out there. One of my clients won, he won the overall. I'm happy to see him when he definitely deserved it. He's better bodybuilder than me. Um, but you know, there, there were no runner up pro cards. You had to win the overall. So you have to win the overall in your age group. So really, there's only really four places that you can get a pro card and masters that I know of. It's North Americans team universe, masters nationals and masters USA. So that's it. So I, I don't understand why Jay and Mila's were focused on masters guys, not being able to compete in the open. I don't know of any of the masters guys that I competed with that are going to go compete in the open. They're just not going to do it and whatever. IMean, if you do, you're probably going to get stomped. Maybe not. But you know, if you can hang, you can hang. That's who cares. Really? At the end of the day, most of us that are in the masters division, we're just doing it for the hell of it. Where it's, it's like, I don't think any of us are realistically think that we're going to be winning a Mr. Olympia. So it's not anything, a big deal. Now, where does this notion come from? That everybody says that there's so many fucking pro cards handed out and everybody's little brother's getting a pro card. Now, IMean, you can do the math on it here. They're, we're talking about 45 plus 22 if you count the masters divisions, if you want to count the masters divisions. So let's just say 45 regular pro cards handed out in bodybuilding in the United States. There are some internationally. I think it's about the equivalent amount internationally that are better. There's more international pro qualifiers. There's a ton of them, but like I said, the majority of those are just one pro card for bodybuilding and some of them don't even have brought body bodybuilding pro cards. So you've got really here in the U S I don't know how many pro shows there are a dozen and a half annually, maybe more. I don't know. You've got a pool of 45 divided across the two 12 in the regular. So probably half of those guys are going to be competing in the two 12 really probably a third of those people that will never compete to begin with. So you don't have a big competitive pool here in the U S IMean, so you're talking about if the average lifespan of a competitive bodybuilder, if they're going to compete for five years as a professional, there are some dudes that compete longer. There are some guys that compete longer. Some guys will go for 10 years, but I'd say for the most part, most guys that are going to do pro shows, they do a couple, they compete a couple years unless you're one of the top dudes, unless you're like an Olympian top 10 Olympian. Most guys don't keep competing. They either get to a point and they're just like, is this worth it anymore? I'm never going to be Mr Olympian. They kind of just fizzle out. There are, there are guys that hang around the sport for a period of time and keep competing. But IMean, you look at it, so let's just say the average career is five years. Maybe it's longer. Maybe it's not. I don't know. That's just, just my guesstimate. So you're talking about a competitive pool in open and two 12 of 200 and 25 competitors over a five year period of time at any, any given point in time. Let's just say it's 300 competitors world, you know, from, from here for the out of 333 million or whatever it is that live in the United States. We're talking about less than a couple of hundred people. If you think about the NFL, I think there's something like an active roster of 2100 players in the NFL at any given time. There are, um, you know, seven rounds in the NFL draft 32 teams. So you're talking about two, about 220 new players drafted into the NFL each year. So your odds of making it into the NFL are greater than they are for being an open class bodybuilder. And look, I will concede, you know, a lot of these guys have this, this nostalgia that they look at things, you know, not every, they remember Dorian. They remember Kevin Lavrone. They remember the guys that, uh, stormed on the seam and took, took things by, you know, took things by storm and, and just dominated everything. They don't remember the guy that got 15th place. And yes, there weren't as many pro cards given out back then, but there also weren't as many shows. There weren't as many divisions. Now I think where this notion comes from, that there is a bazillion pro cards given out is because there's all these other divisions. Now we have men's physique. And if we look, there's many different subclasses within men's physique. So we have open bodybuilding, which is really just its own thing. But opens was men's physique. You have class a class B class, C class D class E class F uh, is the divisions and within the show. And then they take the overall from, from those at the amateur level, you know, sometimes each person, sometimes they'll give one pro card for each division. So there are a fair amount more pro cards given out on this, but it is a larger competitive pool at the professional level. So they need morecompetitors to compete. Nobody wants to go to a show and watch two people on a division compete, right? You know, if there was only one guy in class a and plus, like if people think there's like this plethora of pro bodybuilders right now, I go back and I think about it. I've been to a lot of shows. I've been to a lot of body shows. I can't think of any pro show I've been to where there's been more than 15 or 16 maximum dudes competing in the open. That's it. And there's not even a lot of shows that even have open competitors, even in men's physique. We have the DC pro here, which is men's physique. There might be 15 dudes, maybe 20 competing and men's physique at the pro level at that show. It's not like there's hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of dudes. I think people see people on social media talking about having their pro card and they just think it's, it's some thing. But regardless, you can do the math on it. They're not that many that are given out. I think I heard something like 1400 total between all the divisions, the men's, the women's internationally. Um, you know, all the different classes. I don't know for sure that number was too hard to calculate. I would have to go through every single show, look at every single division. It doesn't seem the IFBB actually publishes how many pro cards they actually give out, but I really don't care about the other divisions. Bodybuilding is what I'm interested in and bodybuilding seems to be the one that people are talking trash about how it's like so easy to get a bodybuilding pro card right now. But as you can see, there's very few people that get them. Now, granted, you know, it's just like the NFL. You have a draft, you know, we talked about 220 or so people getting drafted into the NFL in any given year. How many of those people actually turn out to be superstars? How many Patrick Mahomes are there in each NFL draft? IMean, not even, there's not even one star quarterback that comes out superstar there. You might have one superstar every three or four years. It's the same thing in bodybuilding. There's not a phenom like Nick Walker that comes out every year. There's not a Kevin LeBron that comes out every year and storms the scene. Those are exceptions. Those are rare exceptions. Those are outliers and they do make it fun. IMean, we let the, I love the freak factor of bodybuilding. Everybody loves to see the superstar, but not everybody's that. So, and you need people for them to compete with. You can't just have the top three each, you know, you know, if you know, if it were up to some of the old goats that are nostalgic, there would only be four pro cards given out or one of each other. Let's just say if there was one in each show, yeah, we have, let's see, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, really eight open pro qualifiers. So there would only be a pool of eight people that got a pro card. And let's say half of those were in two 12. So you end up with four in the open five year period. You only have a 20 a pool of 20 competitive bodybuilders. IMean, how many pro shows are you going to be able to put on one, two, three. IMean, there's what? 16, 15, 17, something like that in the Olympia on the Olympia stage. IMean, that's not enough people to feel a competitive pool because not all those guys compete at one time. So that doesn't make any sense, right? We have to have enough people in the pool to compete. It is a business and the other classes. If you don't like men's physique, if you don't like the women's classes, why do you care if they get pro cards? What does it matter? It's not affecting bodybuilding at all. Bodybuilding is its own thing. It's a division within an, in the IFBB. It's its own thing. So I don't know why guys get themselves all butthurt about somebody getting a pro card in women's wellness or whatever. Who cares? That has no effect on bodybuilding. And as a, an entrepreneur and a business person, it makes more sense to have more divisions as a business, to allow more people to compete and you can put on more shows, you can collect more fees, you can sell more tickets, you can market more. IMean, really, I think people just want it to go back to the, just being the freak show of, you know, the 20 biggest dudes in the world. And it's just not that anymore. That's not, there's many other divisions now that we still have freaks out there. IMean, Samson, I think it's probably the biggest Mr. Olympia there has ever been. I'm pretty sure he weighed in more than what Ronnie ever did this year. You know, similar, let's just say it's in the same ballpark. So it's not like the freak show is gone. It's just, there's sidebars to the freak show. Now it, the freak show is still there. It has not gone away. All right, folks, enough of that rant. Hopefully my muscle math didn't completely bore you. Uh, just a topic that gets me irritated sometimes when guys are, talking about pro cards being easier to get or easy to get. Now it's not easier. There's way more people competing than there used to be too. So it's relative. While there may have only been one pro card at each of the big national shows before, there were also not 1400 people showing up to compete either. So it's, it's changed pretty, pretty dramatically. But anyway, what does it matter? Just enjoy the sport, relax, chill. Who cares? Have fun. Watch it. Enjoy it. I like all the divisions. I was at the Olympia. I admit some of the minimum women's stuff bores me, but I really like women's bodybuilding. I like women's physique. Um, I don't know. I enjoyed my, honestly, I did enjoy most of the women's divisions. I enjoy, everybody likes to shit on men's physique. I, the hell, those guys are great. Um, people like to shit on, on classic physique and not as much as men's physique. Those guys are amazing. Um, so, IMean, it makes sense to have the additional divisions and it also gives more opportunity for competition and makes the sport more entertaining, in my opinion, and opens it up to having more people enjoy and watch the sport, which is better for all of us. All right, folks, appreciate each and every one of you take care for coaching or consultations. Head over to www dot anabolic bodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at big P three Rd at gmail.com.