 All right, all right folks, big Paul here with the antibiotic bodybuilding crew and chase, Mr. 3CC himself, 3CC, 3CC. We just finished up the Arnold classic open pre-judging and the finals for the classic physique. So a little bit of a shocker in the classic physique. What do you think, Chase? IMean, to me, it looked like Wesley's back was better and his arm. I also I also I also I also I also I also I also I also I also I also I also I also I also I also I also I I also I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I It always does. I thought it was going to be Ramon, then Wesley, then Urz was three. And I believe it actually was Michael who came in fifth. Fourth was Breon. Fourth was Breon, that's right. And then Michael was fifth. I was really impressed with Breon because he put on that extra size. But it was very close between Wesley and Dino. What do you think? I think I was shocked that Ramon didn't win, but I was really happy that Wesley did. I think he deserved it probably more than anyone at this point. Yeah, IMean, we like Wesley. He has a beautiful physique. I just thought Ramon had a little bit better conditioning than Wesley did, just a little bit. But I think they just gave it to him on shape and how he looked. Now, the open prejudging, I think it was just cut and dry. I don't know what you guys thought. IMean, I feel bad for the guys that had to come out after Hottie did his individuals because it was just like, oh, my God, this guy looks different than everybody else out there. That's something that you get when you go to a show that you don't get when you're just looking on a TV. You can clearly see when somebody separates himself. Yeah, it was shocking. Chase, what did you think? I think Hottie brought his waist in tremendously from the Olympia. IMean, that was his big knock was his waist was, you know, distended at the Olympia. And he it was like they must have like not fed him because he was really pulling that vacuum. And IMean, he was it was tight. Like he he hands down. He's got it for sure. IMean, his midsection was dominant. I didn't see anybody else in the open that had a midsection that looked like that. Yeah. And then also his glutes werecomplete from outside to in top to bottom like he had been in previous Olympias. This most recent Olympia, it wasn't quite the same from the back, but his conditioning was wrapped around shrink wrapped that I thought there was almost no way he wouldn't get first. It was like he was in ultra HD. He there's no it wasn't even like I wasn't sure I was in focus when I was looking at Samson when I was using my video camera. But when I looked over at Hottie, there is no question in my mind that that was in perfect focus. There's just a world of difference between the two is conditioning. And Samson, I feel like missed his peak. But IMean, Hottie was just shockinGHow good he looked compared to everybody else. Yeah, I thought Samson looked just a little bit off. He was a little bit soft, just a tad soft, especially from behind. And his midsection just does not stand up to Hottie's. IMean, he just is dominant. Now, everybody else, God only knows, I have no idea where it was going to. IMean, I thought Antoine looked decent. You know, I thought James looked decent. But it was like just not wide enough. Yeah, IMean, Hottie was clearly head and shoulders above everybody else. Todd, what did you think of everybody else? So I thought there was a huge difference between Hottie and Samson and then a huge difference between Antoine and James. So I thought third and fourth were close. And I but there is James didn't really. Maybe it was paint or something, but he didn't fit in against Antoine at all. And then Horace, who is, I would say, was seventh, pretty much dominated the second call out. Yeah. IMean, I thought James, like his midsection, something's missing with his midsection. It always. Kurt, what did you think? Yeah. No, I just think that there was such a big separation and they just all were slightly off. Right. They look great like the last week and then they all compared to Hottie were so off. Yeah. IMean, big guys like that are hard to peak. IMean, we know that the big guys are hard to peak. But it just I don't know. Hottie was just head and shoulders above every everybody else. So the past two years or so, maybe three years, Hottie Rambot is so dead on with conditioning. And there's so often other people are missing their peaks. They're looking perfect on Instagram. And by the time they're on stage, they don't look as good as they did a week ago. Whereas that is not happening with Hottie's guys. So he's doing something no one else is doing. And it might be because he's doing less. Yeah, that's what I've heard is that he doesn't push the filling the guys up. I know they don't use I've heard they don't use insulin. Who knows if that's true or not? I've heard Hottie's against insulin on prep. I don't know. Chase, what do you think about the rest of the lineup? IMean, it's just a lot of washed out abs. You know, IMean, Antoine's got good abs. But IMean, James, he looks great on Instagram, but he's just not wide enough. His midsection's washed out. It's just not good enough, you know, to get any higher. And then, what, Justin Rodriguez? IMean, same thing with his waist. You know, he's huge, but he doesn't have triceps and he doesn't have a waist. And, yeah. I was a little surprised where they had Justin lined up. I thought he was better than where they had him lined up. But, you know, I don't know. What did you think about Justin? So, I think the reason why Akeem beat out Justin was because Akeem's quads are so amazing and has so much detail and grainy hard conditioning. And his shoulders and arms were so good. And he's got some really great body parts, which makes things like his hamstrings and his lower lats look small. Whereas with Horace, his lower lats and his hamstrings matched everything else, even if the conditioning wasn't as good. And then you've got Justin, who had both of those weaknesses. He was a little on the blurry side. And he was also not as symmetrical and balanced as Horace. IMean, I was disappointed, I think, in James. I feel like I expected to see Dorian second coming, and he was just disappointing to me. He looked like that a week ago or two weeks ago. Now, the million and one dollar question I have is any way that Samson can overtake Hadi by tomorrow? I think not peaking. Whatever you're doing, stop it. Just come in as dry as you can. Don't come in full. You already got him beat by 60 pounds and 6 inches. Give up 10 pounds of water. Be a little flat. And compete with him on his battleground, which is conditioning. You're already one on the size game. Yeah, IMean, he's already, what, 300 pounds? IMean, if he comes in 290, it's not like he's going to look small, right? So, yeah, IMean, I think he looked better a week ago. What did you think, Chase? IMean, when I was comparing them, I felt like I saw a little, and I think he always has it. I feel like he's always, his waist, like, comes in in a vacuum, Samson's waist. And then he's got, like, a little something, like, he needs to take a dump. Yeah, IMean, he's got a little pooch there, and his abs just aren't as developed. Yeah, if they, like, dropped, if they dropped, like, 10 pounds from, like, around there, IMean, if his waist was just sucked in a little more and he had a little less, like, film of water, 10, 15 pounds less, that would... IMean, his width and his legs are impressive. Yeah. They're very impressive. It's just the conditioning was a little bit off. It's the exact same thing with horse. Right here under the navel, he had distension unless he was doinGHis vacuum twist on the knee pose. And I feel that that's not because of a lack of anything. I think it's because there's too much food impacted in the colon because there's too much carbs in the carb up, maybe after water was pulled or too much diuretics was used, so that there's feces in the colon. And it's a very similar problem that's happening between horse and Samson, and there's a dot that needs to be connected between the two and needs to be eliminated. All right, folks. We'll find out what happens tomorrow at finals. Thank you for watching.