warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks. Big Paul here today with another episode of ask Dr. J Dr. Jordan Highland. How are you, Jordan? I'm good, man. Thanks for having me again. I think everybody enjoyed the last episode with you. I got a ton morEQuestions this time. I don't even have all of them here on the list for today, but there's a ton of questions people send in. Some of them a little weird. Some of them, some good stuff, but we'll dig into a few of thesEQuestions that we found interesting and think that might be helpful for some of the other members of the audience. And folks, remember when you ask thesEQuestions, these are health related. If we're bodybuilders and PED users, we're, we're not trying to design your cycle or build anything out like that. Jordan's here to help you with your health questions. All right. First question I have here is from Kevin B. Kevin is one of my clients. I, he wanted to know how do you address high C-reactive protein in bodybuilders? It happens from time to time on Kevin's blood work and sometimes it goes away. Sometimes it's there. Yeah. There's so many different things that could be causing that very likely to not be related to bodybuilding. Um, if you go down the list and keeping it simple, IMean, a lot of bodybuilders actually get viral infections and they don't realize cause they're on so much testosterone that they just feel fine. And if they were otherwise, you know, not on anything that might have a bit of, you know, um, cold and flu symptoms. So, um, definitely looking at the rest of the blood work. Um, there's certain things you can see like neutrophils might be up. Lymphocytes will be down, which will suggest viral infection. Um, and if it's trensient, if it's going like this probably means it's not this sort of chronic thing. It's more likely to be an acute, um, an acute inflammatory phase, which would probably be infection. Um, other things that could cause that and regards to bodybuilding would be, you know, people start testosterone, they get this sort of test flu. Um, I don't think people arEQuite sure what causes that, but some people would say it's because of whatever's mixed in, in there, um, in their gear in terms of the solvents and things. But, um, others would say it's just a reaction to a high dose of testosterone, but it does cause inflammation. And then if you're getting inflammation at the injection site, um, so it's going to be read. It may not necessarily be infected, but it could just be, um, inflammation, the subqtaneous tissue. And that typically happen if you're injecting in the fat rather than in the muscle. Um, what are your thoughts on that? I have seen some people that they seem to have reactions to some of the cheaper, crappier carrier oils and, um, solvents that are used. It seems like, uh, there, there are, I can't, I can't remember, but there's one synthetic solvent, um, or carrier oil. The name escapes me right now. That's a lot of UGLs use because it doesn't crash as easily. That seems to cause problems with people. Usually when I see what people use MCT oil or, um, um, castor oil is another one that's a common carrier oil that usually there's not problems. Um, but that, that is one that I have seen, but a lot of times just guys are sick. Like you said, they just, it's, it, I see it on contest prep a lot. Yeah. Um, I don't necessarily think it's, um, I guess the other thing is, is being overweight, especially if you're, you know, bulking and you've got a lot of fat, um, that can cause, um, CRP to go up, but you have to be pretty, pretty unhealthy. I think other things would be like, um, liver disease, um, these sorts of things. Yeah. I have seen a trensient one prep and that, and sometimes I wonder, I just speculation if it's just not from the stress of overtrening and from all the, all the PEDs and just pushing themselves too hard on contest prep. I have seen that on contest prep and then it goes away afterwards. Yeah. Yeah. Could quite possibly be, but it also depends how high it is, you know? Um, so I think the main thing is that I wouldn't really worry about it too much unless it's persistently elevated. I had an issue with persistent elevation of a C-reactive protein that went on for years and I, they couldn't figure it out. I was told I had an autoimmune disorder and then it turned out it was a Lyme disease. Tommy asked, he goes, um, I am diagnosed medically controlled with PBC and PAC. My cardiologist says I'm good. But what about bodybuilding? Do you think it's safe to continue bodybuilding with this condition? Um, more than likely you probably have the same risks as the general population. I think it's the PVC or, um, they're just, you get these sort of occasional, um, off beats in your heart. So, um, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, um, that you're just going to have spontaneous, um, beats. But overall, your heart rate is regular rhythm. Um, you, it depends how frequently you're getting it. And if your cardiologist says you're fine, you probably are fine. Um, it's very common. So same risk profile is, yeah. What causes that? Is it just genetic? Yeah, genetic. Um, there can be focal areas of the, um, myocardium, which can cause abnormal electrical, um, signals. So you send off extra beats now and again, and that's when people can get palpitations and things. I've heard, uh, correct me if I'm wrong on this, that some guys, there can be a symptom of LVH when guys have, have LVH from, um, when you're doing the PDs trening, et cetera, all the things that go along with bodybuilding that, um, abnormal rhythms can be a part of, or a symptom of LVH. I have seen that before. I've heard of that. Is that correct? Yeah, probably the most common, um, or the most sort of worrying rhythm. So the most common and worrying rhythm you would get with that would probably be atrial fibrillation. And it does happen in some bodybuilders. Particularly guys that use thyroid hormone can significantly increase your risk. Um, but yeah, so, and, and that would present as this irregular rhythm. So if you've got a smartwatch, it's gonna, you know, it's gonna tell you that you've, you've got an irregular rhythm. Yeah. I check mine periodically with my Apple watch. Everything seems to be good, but, um, yeah, I have seen people with AFib before too. All right. Next question I have here is from Sean Mooney. Sean asks, uh, what advice would you have for a bodybuilder with stage four polycystic kidney disease? Um, stay natural. Uh, yeah, the, yeah, no doubt about it. Um, your kidneys are so precious. Um, and you just don't want to mess with them to be honest. Um, keep taking what your nephrologist recommends. And, um, you know, it's, yeah, it's, it's unfortunate, but, um, and, uh, polycystic kidney disease, that is a, um, genetic thing, isn't it? Yeah, it does have genes involved. Um, yeah, it, it, it does run in families. Yeah. Yeah. I would assume that it's probably a result more of genetics and the bodybuilding lifestyle. Correct. It's not related to bodybuilding. No. Yeah. Yeah. I do see a lot of bodybuilders end up with kidney problems long-term. And I, I, we've talked about that before, but I would suspect that that probably has to do with chronic elevated blood pressure over the years, just absolutely destroying the nephron of the kidney. Is that sort of your take on bodybuilders with kidney disease? Yeah. And you don't even really need to take that much to develop hypertension. So, you know, even the guys that think they're safe because they're just taking a little bit, you know, if they're on a bit of Decker, they're going to hold fluid and, you know, cause hypertension. So it's not just the guys that are, you know, taking grams of gear that are gonna end up on dialysis. Yeah. And it does seem like people are more aware of it now and they're treating it with, with blood pressure meds and watching water retention. And I, I'm very cautious with water retention and I have my clients check their blood pressure daily. I encourage them to anyway. Sometimes you can't always get them to do it, but I check mine daily. I keep a, keep a, keep a meter. So Tommy, or I'm sorry, Sean, probably don't take PEDs, man. Probably not a good idea with polycystic kidney disease. You're already at a higher risk. All right, let's see here. Actually, I think that question was from Tommy. So I got that one wrong. So next question here is from Sean. Sean asks, what are the potential dangers of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease being caused by caloric surplus in an offseason bodybuilding phase? Probably would be similar risk to if you wait, was related to just, you know, largely fat. So if you've got a guy who's obese, cause he's holding so much muscle, you would have similar, similar risk. A lot of it is just due to the body weight. So Naffled is, I think when you have it for a long time and it's quite severe and you get cirrhosis and that sort of thing, that's when it becomes a big problem. There was, there was one doctor. Um, I can't recall his name who was saying Naffled is the biggest issue that bodybuilders face. Um, I don't know if you saw that, but I don't think it's true. Yeah, I've had, I've run, I don't know if it's the biggest risk. I think kidneys and heart probably are, but I've seen, I've seen a handful of people that have had, um, you know, fat on their liver. I had a fatty strip in mine and was able to get it off through a hard diet. Um, it completely went away after a diet. Yeah, it's very common in guys who have a lot of, a lot of weight. Um, I don't know if it's gonna, you know, it's gonna cause a bit of inflammation, but I don't know if it's gonna cause too many issues. Um, generally with my clients, what I like to do, I think the guys that are the perma bulkers, that that's just not a smart thing to do to continue to eat in a calorie surplus year round, years on end. After a while, I see like this cascade of problems. It starts to happen where insulin resistance starts to rise. You'll see fasting blood glucose start to rise, which I'm sure is not helpful for fatty, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. I see guys, um, one, you just don't grow. Uh, and another issue I'll see is just, um, inflammation becomes a problem. I, I usually find that 16 to 20 weeks in a calorie surplus is about the longest you want to go. And then I'll usually shift my guys into a deficit after that. Um, and get the fat off and then just sort of repeat that process over and over and not, not saying that it's the best thing for you, but it seems to be healthier and you stay leaner. And you stay leaner and blood markers stay better. Um, that's just what I've seen. I think it's also a problem. And guys who need to eat a bit dirty to try and get those calories up. So they're eating fast food and, you know, a lot of trens fats and things. And that's, what's really going to cause it. You know, the McDonald's diet that Dave Palumbo talks about. I do eat McDonald's once in a while, but not as much as I say that people, people,  I'll have it like once in a blue moon. I generally, with my diets, I run lower fat. I keep the EFAs higher. I try to limit saturated fat intake is keep it as low as I possibly can with my, keep my meat sources as lean as I possibly can. Cod, chicken, um, egg whites, things like that, that aren't going to have high saturated fats. Um, okay. Next question here is Josh lifts Edinburgh and he goes, is there any good way to elevate HDL? HDL seems to be suppressed when I am on PDS. Um, yeah, IMean, that's pretty universal problem. Even just TRT can drop your HDL below normal. Um, people will take things like niacin, um, to increase it. But, um, that comes a lot of gastrointestinal side effects and really my, my approach for guys is to just get that LDL down as low as possible. Um, and yeah, that, that's generally the best thing to do. If your cholesterol is terrible and you've got a family history of heart disease, you should be on a statin is my opinion. Um, people will have different opinions and I'm probably going to get roasted in the comments for saying that, but, um, I think statins, uh, useful in a certain, um, population. That's usually high risk guys with, um, family history of heart disease. You know, if someone tells me their dad had, you know, a triple bypass or they had stents in their forties and their bodybuilding and they've got high cholesterol, um, they should probably look at a statin and that's just going to bring their LDL  It's going to improve the HDL as well and it's also going to stabilize the plaque that you have in your, in your,  coronary arteries. Yeah. I usually suggest to my guys to get a calcium CT score done annually. Um, I also, it's the same deal. Like I try to tell them to keep their LDL low, which is why I have a diet low in saturated fat. I find that if you keep saturated fat low in your diet, if you keep cardio up, um, if you're, um, keeping some EFAs in, not a lot, you don't need a ton. Uh, and, and then I, I'm on a low dose statin. Uh, you know, it's, it's in my, my, um, LDL is usually in the eighties, seventies, eighties, somewhere around there. Even if my, and it's the ratio, correct me if I'm wronGHere, it's the ratio of HDL to LDL. That's really critical, right? Yeah. Yeah. Um, that's important as well, but even if you've got a good amount of HDL, if you still have a shitload of LDL, it's going to probably cause problems. So you, you aim if someone's high risk or say they've had a heart attack before you would aim for an LDL. Of now, I'm not sure if it's the same units as you, but it's 1.2 here. Um, probably the UK guys that will make sense to them. So you'd want to like, you'd want to chronically low. All right. Up next year we have Dave B. Um, Paul, I'm on five units of GH. And I am experiencing the Don phenomenon with my blood glucose verified by a CGM. Uh, my blood glucose is elevated in the morning and fine. The rest of the day. Is there any way to mitigate this? And what do you expect is the culprit? Yeah. IMean, I'd worry if he's been on that for a long time. Um, he may develop a bit of insulin resistance, but, um, depends how high as BSLs are in the morning as well. Did he say how, how high they, no, he didn't say. Um, so just, IMean, talk to your doctor about whether you should be worried and, and look at getting some extra tests. IMean, he should get an HPA one C to see if he's, you know, um, developing diabetes. Um, if it is the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, I'd imagine he's probably been on it for some time. Um, and this is why guys pair it with, um, generally metformin. Um, what do you, what were your thoughts on that? I'll see it sometimes. And it's a strenge thing. I, I contest prep a lot of people, probably 30, 40 people a year. And I've noticed when people are on diets and then they get really depleted and towards the end of a diet, they'll, they'll have it where I, this is just my thought process. And I've had people monitor it with a CGM where they're so lean. They're so insulin sensitive. They're so glycogen depleted at the, during the night, their blood sugars will crash. I'll see where they'll guys will get down in the forties. And I assume what's happening is there's some dump of liver glycogen going on to keep you from dying. Right. Um, similar to the Don phenomenon that you see in diabetics. But I only see it on contest prep generally when people are in calorie deficits and are super lean and then they wake up with high glucose levels and then nothing crazy, just slightly above normal. And, but their A1Cs are low. I see it frequently with guys on contest prep. And, um, you know, I have my theory on it, but you know, I'm not a doctor. I'm just an idiot bodybuilder. Um, yeah, IMean the HbA1c being low probably suggests that they're throughout the night and throughout the day within range. Um, but it's just these one-off sort of peaks. Um, yeah, no, definitely GH does seem to have this, um, sort of effect where it does crash things and then it'll rise. And then, um, I don't think that, I think the insulin resistance thing is a little bit overstated with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Um, very rarely do guys get even sort of pre-diabetic when they're running GH for a long time. Yeah, I don't see it. I, I have people, I suggest that people do A1c tests with their blood panels. And very rarely do I see somebody with high A1c, almost never with bodybuilders, even on high doses of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Yeah. I think the risks of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone are probably, that's not what you should be focusing on too much. Um, cause you're otherwise, you know, lean, you've got high testosterone, um, assuming no risk factors for diabetes, you're pretty low risk of even becoming somewhat insulin resistant. Um, the issues that I think with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone would be establishing if you've actually got a family history of the relevant cancers. So that would be, um, thyroid, lung, bowel, and liver are the main ones. Um, so if you've got a family history of that, I'd probably stay away from it just to be safe. And, um, yeah. And from, from what I understand with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, it doesn't, it's not carcinogenic, but it can accelerate the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of an existing cancer, correct? It can accelerate the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of an existing cancer, but the way cancer is formed is by, um, abnormal replication of cells and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone increases that turnover of cells. So you're going to have a greater chance of developing cancer. So if you look at the studies and patients with acromegaly who have a, um, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone secreting tumor, you can look at which cancer is far more common. Far more common. So they'll get thyroid cancer six times more common than the average population. So it does initiate cancer as well. Interesting. All right. Next one I have here is key low 100. This is one that bodybuilders seem to be obsessed with. They, he says, how do you manage and monitor for high prolactin? I, I'm going to say my little piece on this before you get into it, but I, I've seen guys proactively take things like cabergoline for to prevent high prolactin. I have, I look at hundreds of blood panels annually from bodybuilders and I almost never see hyperlactin. And when I do, they almost always have a pituitary tumor. I very rarely see it from costs from things like DECA or tren, the things that they're worried about. Yeah. You should never take that stuff. Um, prophylactically, uh, especially caber there. The risks of caber include, um, lung and heart fibrosis, but that's at clinical doses, which is, is probably, you know, two to three times more than what you'd take, but there's still that risk there. Um, when you crash your prolactin by using caber, you run the risk of all the weird stuff that happens with caber. So you become hypersexual, you start gambling, these sorts of things. Um, and the company that made caber actually got sued by, um, a patient that, um, became hypersexual after taking caber. So, um, everything that you kind of don't want on cycle will be elevated when you take, um, something like caber. So you really need to establish if you have hyperprolactinemia, um, if it's like slightly elevated, it usually won't be due to a, um, prolactinoma. Testosterone does increase prolactin, so it could just be that. Um, and obviously you've got the tren and the DECA, which, um, can raise it, uh, significantly more, but unless you're getting gyno or you're feeling super fatigued or sex drivers is, you know, rock bottom, I wouldn't, I wouldn't start taking other medications to try and control it. Vitamin B6, obviously everyone's heard of, but, um, people can start to get, um, neuropathy, um, or tingling in their, in their hands when they take too much of it. So, um, generally wouldn't advise that either unless you're having issues with prolactin. I just don't see it on blood work. I like almost never see it on blood work. I think guys, it's like this boogeyman that people have invented that just isn't even a problem for 99% of people. Yeah. Um, and then caber, caber, you know, also dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome, right? Not a good thing, right? Yeah. Don't mess with your dopamine unless, you know, there's a, you know, you're getting gyno or something like that. But, um, a lot of the guys that have raised prolactin probably had hyperlactin previously. Um, and I think a lot of, um, the management of prolactin side effects is mainly guys are running estrogen too high. And that's, that's, if you fix that, you can, um, avoid issues. But there are some guys that they do run a bit of decor or a bit of trening. They, they got no pops up straight away. Um, it's not really clear what exactly causes that, whether it's prolactin, whether it's progesterone, it's certainly not estrogen. Um, cause they can be pretty depleted in estrogen and still develop gyno. So there was, um, I had spoken to Kurt about it before, but I think he was saying that there's some speculation that those drugs, they're not a hundred percent sure, but may interact directly with some unknown pathway with the ER. What he was saying. Interesting. Yeah. Um, it's just once again, speculation. I could be slaughtering that, but that's what I recall him saying. Um, Kyle gets fit. He has a question. Um, he asked, um, B, BPH benign prostate hyperplasia runs in my family. My dad had to get prostate surgery because he is, was so big. How do body builders not all have huge prostates when they're on tons of androgens? Well, they're not old enough. Um, I'm sure a lot of, a lot of bodybuilders as they get into their sixties and seventies will need to address their prostate. Um, some of them self catheterize and some of them get a turp where they, uh, resects the prostate. So it does happen. Um, androgens. More and more evidence suggests that it's not so much the androgens causing BPH. It's more estrogen. Um, and so if you are worried about that with your family history, make sure you're not running estrogen too high. Um, and you'll notice that if you leave estrogen high, um, you'll get prosthetic symptoms. So you'll need to get up in the night and pay more. You know, your urinary flow won't be as strong. Um, and there's good evidence that estrogen is what causes prostate cancer. Um, when people go on testosterone therapy, their prostate symptoms score actually improves. So their prostate symptoms improve. Um, so. Who knows why guys aren't really getting BPH early on as bodybuilders. It's probably because androgens, uh, are not as important in that process. Um, so. It's all speculation. I, um, had a lot of problems with BPH when I was off steroids for about 10 years. And it turned out that my estrogen was through the roof. My testosterone was buried. Um, and once I got the estrogen and testosterone fixed, those, those symptoms, um, were gone. Um, so. And once I got the estrogen and testosterone fixed, those, those symptoms went away. So, yep, it seems to be the case. Uh, right. Let's get one more in here. Uh, Leshawn Jenkins, he goes, I want to know a list of suggested labs that I should get checked before, during and after my cycle. There's so much mixed information out there. It would nice be nice to know a good list of labs that I should have done. We can talk about which labs are not necessary. Um, I think people, uh, wasting a lot of money on certain tests. Um, like especially most guys, I think have to pay for their own blood work. So, um, things that aren't too necessary, um, you know, as we've talked about prolactin is probably not necessary. Um, a full, a full thyroid panel. Generally, if your TSH is okay, um, and you, you, you can infer that probably T3, T4 are normal. Um, if they're not, you're probably not going to do much about it anyway. Um, so you won't need, you won't need to get a full thyroid panel every three months. It's overkill. Um, you know, um, CRP is again, you're not going to do anything about it. And if it's, if it's raised, so, um, that's another test that's not essential. Um, but generally the things that you act upon are the things that you should test. So your full blood count, your cholesterol, um, your creatinine, cystatin C, liver function, estrogen. Um, if you, if you're on cycle, I don't see why testosterone is too important, but, um, HbA1c, get a urine, protein, creatinine ratio. Um, so you can do a lot with just that. And, uh, not need to spend so much money. Everything else is surplus. Um, so. And, uh, not need to spend so much money. Everything else is, is surplus. That's generally what I have people test. It's, it makes me laugh because people want to get their testosterone levels checked when they're on. And I'm like, just save your money. The test is a hundred, $150 here in the U S it's going to be high. We know that. Um, yeah, people spend a lot of money on tests like, um, cortisol, um, DHEA, DHT, um, progesterone and men, these, these sort of things. Um, they don't provide you any relevant information for guys. Um, cortisol is only to show that your adrenals are functioning sufficiently. Not that you have too much cortisol. Um, if you had too much cortisol, you'd probably know about it. So, um, yeah, the cortisol, I just, I just, I stay away from that test as well. IMean, generally the things I think, like when I have a list that I get people, but are going to be heart, heart related, you know, lipids, um, the comprehensive metabolic panel, um, liver, kidneys. IMean, in estrogen, uh, a one C, those are probably the big ones, right? All right, folks. Thank you for watching today. Dr. J. What's going on? Uh, all thesEQuestions were great. If you got questions for the next episode, put them in the video description or the comment section below and give Dr. J a follow on Instagram. I have a link to his profile in the video description. Thank you for watching.