warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, Big Paul here today with Ask Dr. J. I have Dr. Jordan Hyland with me today. Dr. J is a bodybuilder and medical doctor from New Zealand. He's going to answer your bodybuilding related health questions. This is going to be an ongoing thing with Dr. J. If you havEQuestions for Dr. J for an upcoming episode, put them in the comment section below. Also, just a reminder, this is not medical advice. This is just for informational purposes only. Dr. J is not your medical doctor. If you have a medical problem, you should speak to your own medical provider and get advice from them. We are going to dig into all your questions in just one second. I have a first question is from dlloyd5356. I have adrenal insufficiency, so I need to replace my non-existent natural cortisol multiple times a day. I keep hydrocortisone dose as low as effectively possible. I also have to use fluterocortisone, aldosterone replacement daily. Does this put me in a good, bad, or no difference position for bodybuilding? I guess he didn't say really how much he was into bodybuilding, but you're playing with fire with this stuff. So he's obviously got adrenal insufficiency, so he requires complete replacement, sounds like, of his adrenal function. So he's got the mineral corticoids and the glucocorticoids. So the fluterocortisone that he's taking is essentially helping to regulate his salts in his body. And when we're doing a show and we're manipulating salt and water, our body regulates its own adrenal function. So it'd be very difficult to not only prep for a bodybuilding show, but also it could bEQuite dangerous, I think, and also because you're manipulating salt and water when, for example, let's say you're holding on to a certain amount of minerals and your body wants to get rid of it. It can't because you're on this maintenance dose. So I would be very cautious with, let's just say aggressively competing in bodybuilding, I think, and it's unfortunate. But yeah, I think playing with fire with that stuff. Yeah, so I would think with Deloitte, I would think that the danger here would be at the end with water manipulation and any mineral depletion, all that could put you in a very dangerous spot going into the show, I would assume. Yeah, yeah. I think, yeah, we often have these, you know, diabetics, they need insulin. The first thing they think is, oh, I can get jacked. You know, I'm a bodybuilder, I can just take more. But it's not really the same with this stuff. When one of these patients are unwell, you typically have to increase their doses of their prednisone or their hydrocort because they can't fight off infection adequately. So there's just a lot going on there, and it's, yeah, it is unfortunate. Trust me, type one, I am a diabetic, and being a diabetic does not make bodybuilding easier. There's nothing easier about it. I have to be really careful about managing my glucose levels and paying close attention to things. It's a pain in the ass, to bEQuite honest with you. It takes an extra level of attention. IMean, I'm monitoring my blood glucose throughout the whole day to make sure everything's okay. I'm a really weird type 1B. I have a pancreatic insufficiency. I did not find this out until I was in my 40s. They said that they almost never see it in white people. That's what I was told. They thought maybe you had type 2, and then it turned out you had type 1. Yeah, because I was lean, so they thought I had type 2, and the typical treatments for type 2 were not helping me. Nothing was helping me, man. So trust me, having those sorts of limitations is not a benefit. Yeah. All right, next question I got here is TonyRoy986. This is an interesting one. I took Trenace for 2 weeks at 70 milligrams a week, being on 600 milligrams of testosterone for 6 months, and I got high blood pressure for 5 months after coming completely off. Why did that happen? Hmm. How much test? 600 milligrams of test a week for 6 months. Okay. So it sounds like you didn't use an AI. He's got no, so he's just pretty good on that, really, 600 tests for the Tren. I think that testosterone is obviously still going to be in your system for a good couple months after. He's got upregulation of his renin-aldosterone system. We don't know how long that lasts for after a cycle, and it's not uncommon to have high blood pressure after a cycle for quite a prolonged period, but he was probably monitorinGHis blood pressure during the cycle, and it was okay, and then once he comes off, it starts to rear its head. So I don't know if he's done any sort of permanent damage or permanent dysfunction. I think it's just a lag in response to the steroids that are upregulatinGHis kidneys' sort of salt retention pathways. So the other thing is if he's come off everything, he's going to have low T, and that's not going to help. So I think it's going to take a bit of time. Yeah, and keep in mind the Tren is a very strong androgen, so I don't know how much stimulation that would cause to the rest system and how long that would last. But you're right, the Tren should be, in theory, should be out of his system in a couple of weeks, the Tren Ace, the test. Let me ask you, is it possible, and this is just me, the dummy bodybuilder, talking. I've seen guys, when they come off of everything, like you mentioned, they have this hormonal crash, and I see an estrogen rebound. Guys have this crazy high estrogen rebound when they come off of everything, and then I see guys have a bunch of water retention and stuff afterwards. Is that related to the estrogen or what's going on there? Yeah, so, IMean, he's going to get upregulation of the aromatase enzyme durinGHis cycle. That doesn't just quickly, you know, go away after you stop it. It's going to take time to come back down. So your body's going to convert more to estrogen during the cycle, and then it's going to continue thereafter for a period of time. I think it's the test that's causinGHis issues rather than the Tren. Right. Yeah, that's kind of what I was thinking too. That was my thought process there. Okay, so, an ARB or an ACE inhibitor might be helpful here? Yeah, it depends how hypertensive he is. But if he's, yeah, IMean, a low dose of an ARB might help. Maybe calcium channel blocker. It depends how bad his hypertension is. But he should be on something probably long-term, I wonder if he actually had high blood pressure beforehand. Possibly, and just didn't notice it. It seems like, just, you know, anecdote again, the baseline blood pressure that I see for everybody that's on gear, that's untreated, seems to be 130 over 80. That just seems to be where everybody's at. Yeah, IMean, 30% of guys have undiagnosed high blood pressure, and they don't know they have it. So that's always something to think about. Yeah, it's not surprising. And I have my clients actually check their blood pressure daily and report it on their check-ins. So just to keep tabs on it. Same thing, I have guys also check their fasting glucose levels. I don't know how many coaches actually do stuff like that, but I just want to keep an eye on it just in case there is a problem. I can tell them to go talk to their doctor. Yeah, yeah. I think it's good to get in the habit of checking blood pressure as well because you eliminate what we call white coat hypertension. It's falsely elevated if you just check it once a week or so. I got my cuff right here. I check it daily. Yeah, and fasting glucose levels, I think that's another thing to keep an eye on too, especially with dudes pounding GH and eating a shit ton of carbs. It's something you want to be mindful of. I've had a couple people that I've coached over the years that have had undiagnosed diabetes that we've sussed out from just checking fasting blood sugars. We've been having an A1c test on blood panels. Yeah, yeah. So probably something if you're bodybuilding, I would think, and you tell me checking your blood sugar, checking your blood pressure regularly is probably smart and proactive. Yeah, I always say forget bloods, forget everything. If you're not checking blood pressure, you're going to have issues. That's the most important thing. Sugars are helpful as well. I guess as a diabetic, you'll know the outcomes of having chronically high sugars, like really, really high sugars. If someone's a bit insulin resistant, like they're in the pre-diabetes range or things like that, they're not too bad. Theoretically, there are increased risks there, but when we're talking about blood pressure, that's generally the root of most of the bodybuilders' problems is long-term blood pressure issues. Yeah, and it seems to be the most chronic health issues that bodybuilders have are long-term. Well, you see guys falling over, heart attacks, strokes, kidney disease seems to get people, clots, aneurysms. IMean, those are the things that IMostly see that get bodybuilders, and a lot of that is interrelated with blood pressure, right? Untreated high blood pressure? Yeah, a lot of it is not what the steroids are doing to your body, but these parameters that are not being checked. So if someone's on a grammar test and their blood pressure is good, they might actually be healthier than the guy who's on TRT with high blood pressure. But we don't have the evidence to say that conclusively, but I think there's patterns that are picking up. All right, next question I got here is from niceguy4928. This is another blood pressurEQuestion. Can acute high blood pressure while working out with bracing and strening, such as a heavy squat or deadlifts, have a negative effect on long-term kidney health? On kidney health? I think keep lifting. No, and I don't see how you'd be able to study that either. Generally, guys who are in the gym working out like that, they're going to have better health outcomes, so it would be pretty tricky to study. Also, I think everything in moderation, right? Everything that we do is not the healthiest. If you're maxing out on squats and deadlifts, you're probably going to have musculoskeletal problems down the line, but I don't know about the kidneys, so I don't think so. From what I understand, tell me if I'm wrong about this, that the body can handle short-term, likEQuick high blood pressure bursts like that when you're in a strenuous activity. It's just the long-term elevated, constantly elevated blood pressure that kills you, right? Well, yeah. Heart disease, kidney disease, this happens over decades, over years. When you're resting and it's like that for most of the day, that's when the problems occur. That elevated blood pressure eventually destroys the nephron in the kidneys, correct? Then over time, that's how kidney disease develops. Yeah, and then you start to get protein leaking out the urine. On that point, I think a good idea for bodybuilders is to just check that. Get a urine test to make sure you're not leaking any protein. Yeah, I have guys do that when they go get their blood panels done. All right, next question is B. Newsome. He asks, if someone currently has gynecomastia, is there a permanent non-surgical fix like an AI or a serum that we can use to get rid of it? What has your experience been with this? My experience has been once the breast tissue is formed, surgery is the only way to get rid of it. Yeah, so— If it's just fat, if it's just estrogen-related fat, you can get rid of it with a serum. If it's not, if it's actual mammary gland, actual tissue, you have to get it removed. I had mine removed, and you'll see it when they take it out. It's a big, hard, rubbery mess. There's nothing that's getting rid of that. Yeah, so studies suggest about 70% of people have a response to tamoxifen, and a certain percentage of that will come back. If you're a bodybuilder, it's a different cohort. You shrink it, you go back on cycle, it's going to pop right back up. Yeah, it comes back. Often, guys are running TREN, DECA, MPP. These are the things that flare it up with the progesterone. I'll tell you this. Every pro-bodybuilder I know has had guano surgery done, so if that tells you anything— Yeah, yeah. I would be cautious about trying to find a medical solution to it, because chronically low estrogen is going to cause you a lot of issues, so I think it's best to just sort of, first of all, figure out what's causing it and stop that, and second, if you can afford it, get the surgery. From what I understand, running a serum like tamoxifen all the time, too, carries its own risk for clotting and other issues. It just makes you feel terrible. Yeah, yeah, you feel awful when you're on it. It's a different story when somebody's on a boatload of gear, right, because they're not going to notice it too much. Certainly if you're off everything, if you're natural and you're on tamoxifen, you're not going to feel too good, so I would never advise that. It's commonly—and this is not medical advice, but it's commonly run at the end of contest prep for guys to tighten up their chest at the end, at the last couple of weeks, and I can tell you, you feel awful when you bury your estrogen and you run tamoxifen. It's a terrible, terrible feeling. And then you got the guys crying on stage. Guys, bodybuilders at the end of contest prep are literally crazy. They're insane. I contest prep guys, and I feel like I'm an armchair psychologist, more so than a prep coach. Yeah, you lose your mind. All right, I don't know how much you know about this one, but there's been a lot of talk within the bodybuilding community about the nephrotoxicity of boldenone, equipoise. There was a study. It's an old one. I think it was Donald Rabbits. It was from the 70s that showed that there was some renal toxicity directly from equipoise, and it kind of got a lot of people in the community scared if there is potential for equipoise to be toxic to the kidneys. Do you know anything about that? Or aware of that one? Yeah, yeah. I have looked into it before, and I think this brings on to a wider point of what are you actually looking at with those studies. So you're looking at an animal model where they're given one agent, so they're given equipoise or boldenone, and there's no time when a bodybuilder would use a boldenone-only cycle, right? So they're going to be having some test base, some estrogen in there. So I would take those studies with a grain of salt because what you're looking at is the equivalent of a guy on one to two grams of EQ and no testosterone, and then you're going to get sort of cellular changes in the kidneys, and I think that's pretty hard to trensfer into what bodybuilders do. I think you're kind of removing testosterone and estrogen out of the picture, and their primary hormone that they're functioning on is boldenone. So it's not surprising that you're going to get sclerosis of the kidneys. So thEQuestion would be, do those studies suggest that there's a protective factor of estrogen? That could be another way to phrase it. So it's just a problem that I have with all studies where they just look at one compound. Yeah. Yeah, they're done in isolation. Exactly. Yeah. IMean, I don't know how much you can extract from that, plus it's not on our cohort, really, what we're doing. Like, I'll see a lot of times, like, guys will see a study done on 70-year-old diabetics and try to extrapolate that into bodybuilding. I don't know how much you can, you know, just stuff in that. That was an arbitrary example. I don't know how much you can read into that. Like, there was a whole thing about, I know guys were terrified of metformin because of lowered IGF-1. You know, they didn't want to lower their IGF-1, but I just, like, if you're on enough growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or whatnot, it probably has no effect. Yeah, well, IMean, your natural IGF-1 will be suppressed, so. Yeah. Yeah. Right, so it's a whole different, you know, so that has no application. But anyway, all right, the next question I got here is from Josh Perry. Josh is one of my regulars. Josh asks, how lonGHave GLP-1 agonists like semiglutide been studied, and are there long-term risks associated with taking them? They have been around for decades. They've gained popularity in the last five years or so. But I believe FDA approved them about 20 years ago. They are good medicines. With the current meds that bodybuilders are using, like clen and T3, and for particular bodybuilders who have appetite issues, it's quite a good adjunct. It's also these drugs seem to improve your cardiovascular outcomes, so they reduce your risk of heart attacks and strokes and whatnot. Long-term side effects, people do wonder about something called gastroparesis, where the gut slows down a bit. But overall, if you're thinking about like a population level, it's amazing medication. But some people will have side effects like that. Yeah, I've often wondered with, for the general public, the gastroparesis, the people that don't read, it's probably not such a bad thing, right? But for a bodybuilder, when you're trying to bulk up in the off-season, it might not be so good. That was sort of my thought process. Isn't there some loose association with thyroid cancer too? Yeah, medullary thyroid cancer. So there is an association there, and also pancreatitis can happen. Yeah. I had a client that had pancreatitis with it pretty bad. Yeah, they're very rare issues. But in the context of things, you've got to think about what's the alternative. And people will often, especially guys who are overweight, who aren't bodybuilders, thinking about getting bariatric surgery or something. It's like, what are the risks of that? It's crazy. Yeah, I would say it's probably – IMean, you tell me. I would assume that it's a way better option than bariatric surgery. Well, these drugs don't work for some people. So some people do need the surgery. But yeah, basically, you're right. And I'm sure it's probably better than the risk of being 100 pounds overweight. Yeah. There's a lot of good things. But there's no free lunch, unfortunately. Yeah, IMean, everything comes with a risk, right? Peyton Edwards asks – this is a good question. Evidently, he has started taking PEDs at the age of 21. And he wants to know what should he monitor to make sure that his health is fine. Should he get with a cardiologist to make sure that his heart is fine? Should he just talk to his regular primary care doctor or urologist? What do you suggest to make sure that he's keepinGHis health in line while on PEDs? You start looking at cardiologists and getting extensive scans and things. And I think it's figuring out what are the things that are actually relevant to him. And it's probably his fertility. It's probably whether he might decide to be natural again in the future. I think these issues might actually be more important in that age group rather than making sure he's not having a heart attack. Because that's going to be 15 years down the line that you need to start worrying about that with prolonged use. So I think, yeah, it would be a different approach, I think, for the younger guys. When you're 21, you don't think the same as when you're 25. And a lot of guys will want to come off and say, oh, crap, I can't be natural anymore because my levels are shit. Or I'm stuck on tests and I want to have a kid and it's becoming problematic. So, IMean, for sure, if this guy's 21 and he's like 120 kgs and he's open bodybuilding, then I'd go and see a cardiologist. And make sure you haven't got any sort of congenital issues. But I don't think, I think it would probably be overkill at the moment. Yeah. Yeah, that's a good point. I never even considered fertility in the long term. That's a big one to consider at that age. Because, believe me, when I was 21, I told myself I was never having kids. And I have two kids. I'm glad I have my daughter now, right? You hear it a lot. That's a consideration. IMean, you know, my children are important to me. I'm glad I have them. I didn't, you know, I basically did everything wrong. I didn't do anything correct. Here's a, go ahead. You might get someone in the comments saying, I had a kid and I was on tren. That's me. Well, yeah. That's me. But I know that's uncommon. I've had quite a few clients that have had major fertility issues. And they've had to go through IVF and a bunch of, you know, just very expensive. And they've had a bunch of issues coming off of things after being on for a long time. And then there's Ronnie Coleman who had like 12 kids. Yeah. The problem isn't necessarily getting that sperm count back up. It goes up. And you won't really find too many guys with long-term depression of their sperm count. It's more the T-level. The T-levels, yeah. And actually functioning, having a normal life while you're trying to conceive is the hard bit. So often couples will, they'll, you know, he'll come off TS. They'll want to have a kid. And then six months down the line, they're like, we can't even have a child because he's just not in the right frame of mind. You know? Yeah. So there's a lot of things to think about there. Yeah. You have to be able to function too, right? Exactly. You know, it's not just about sperm count. You have to be able to make everything work. Next question is sort of a continuation of this one. Macon, the creator, asks, is HCGHelpful for post-cycle therapy? And what is a reasonable dosage? Oh, okay. HCG, well, to answer thEQuestion, is it useful as post-cycle therapy? Yep, it would be. It would be better if you ran it during cycle. I think all guys that are on stuff and planning on taking breaks and coming off should try and run HCG during. I think it's the idea that you blast and then you come off and PCT is starting to be a bit old-fashioned. And the idea should be to prevent shutdown appearing in the first place. So for the amount of time that you're taking stuff, you're going to get suppression and cellular damage. Scar tissue would develop in the testes. So if you're runninGHCG, you're going to prevent a lot of that damage. But, yeah. Do people actually come off? I don't know those guys. They do at the start. I don't know any of those guys. You know what I see? Sort of a follow-up question for you. After you get to a certain age, like let's say you're my age, 50, is there any point to even runninGHCG with TRT anymore at that point? The reasons would be if you're wanting to be fertile, if you're worried about an apocalypse. That's a fair point. And third is just cosmetic. Some guys don't like their manhood shrinking. But other than that, there's a small group of people that seem to think HCG therapy helps with some of the intermediary hormones that our testes make that we're missing from exogenous testosterone. I know there's a guy, Vigorous Steve. He's quite keen on HCG for that reason. I guess I'm quotinGHim. But, again, it's a hard thing to study. And I think a lot of guys that feel better with the HCG, it's probably because it's just boosting up their T levels on TRT. So I would save you money, to be honest. Yes. Steve talks about neurosteroids and mood and things like that, how it affects your brain. I think that's one of the things he talked about. That's something that often goes overlooked with what we do, bodybuilders, the stupid stuff we do, the psychological and mental health effects that some of the hormones have. Yes. So maybe HCG does have a role there. And some people will certainly take it and feel better while they're on testosterone. But a lot of that, I think, is their T levels just going up. Tell me if I'm wrong about this, but DHEA can help also with mood and can be low when you're running exogenous hormones as well. Am I correct in that? Yes, it does drop. It's great in women because it's about a quarter of their androgens. In men, it's a tiny percentage. It's only a fractianavar natural androgen production, so it's not going to make too much difference. Okay. In older men, in 70, 80-year-old guys, you give them DHEA, it does improve their fitness. But that's just because they probably got low T. Yeah, probably. Probably would have been better off having TRT. But for women, it's good. It's a good idea. Can gynecomastia come back after surgery with a professional plastic surgeon? And the answer is yes. I've had it done twice. Oh, really? The only times I've seen it come back is when the surgeon wasn't a plastic surgeon. They were just family doctors cutting it out in their practice under local. The surgeons try to leave a little bit there because if you cut it all out, it's going to leave a dip. They leave about 10%. And if you're leaving some of the tissue there which are estrogen receptor sensitive, it's going to grow back. So, yeah, I've definitely had a dozen guys who have a recurrence because it wasn't completely cut out. But if you've got a good plastic surgeon, they're going to do it properly. And they should actually fix it if it comes back. So, I definitely talk to them about that. Mine grew back and I sort of did the same mistake that you said. This was 20 years ago. I went to a general surgeon, not a plastic surgeon, who had never done these kind of surgeries. He removed it and left a big chunk of the gland there and it all grew back again. And I had to go back and have it done a second time. And the second time, I told him that I wanted all the gland out and he took all the gland out. And as you mentioned, if they take all the gland out, my nipple collapsed. So, I have one nipple that people love to point it out on Instagram. Like, what's wrong with your nipple, bro? I'm like, it's a gynosurgery disaster and that's what happened. It's so important to tell the surgeon that, hey, look, I'm going to be on stage. Don't mess it up. And if you're not qualified, I need to see someone that can actually make it look good. So, the moral of the story is here, folks, don't go cheap on a surgeon. Spend the money, get a certified. Here in the United States, there's evidently a difference between a plastic surgeon and a board certified plastic surgeon. So, the board certified plastic surgeons are the ones that you want. I found that out the hard way as well. Yeah. That's the guy you want. I think any doctor can call themselves a plastic surgeon from what I understand. And the board certified ones actually have to go through a certification process. Interesting. So, yeah, the guy that's given Botox shots can call himself a plastic surgeon. But the board certified is actually certified by the plastic surgery board to have a certain level of competency. Yeah, and it's the same of a lot of common surgeries like hernia operations and things. You just want to tell your surgeon that you're a bodybuilder, even if you don't look like one. At the time, if you're in mid-offseason, you got to let them know. Yeah. All right, Dr. J, where can people find you online? Just head over to Instagram, put me a message, bodybuilding underscore doctor. I'm happy to have a chat. And you do consults and whatnot too, correct? Occasionally, yeah. Occasionally, okay. All right, folks, well, if you want to get a hold of Dr. J, you can go there. I will put his information in the video description below. If you havEQuestions for next episode, leave them in the comment section below and we'll get to them. We'll try to get to them on the next episode. Please limit them to health questions. We're not going to help you build your cycle. That's for a different episode. All right. Thank you, Dr. J. Enjoyed having you here. Thanks, bud. See ya. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you for watching.