warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, Jim bros, what's up? Big Paul here today and I've got a cool study. We're going to take a look from the early 1980s on your favorite oral steroid, Dianabol, D-ball. And there were some results in the study that you would expect. Muscles got bigger, strength went up, weight went up, but when they actually analyze where that weight came from, they were surprised to find out that almost none of it was actual contractile tissue or protein structures. And we're going to dig into all of that and look at the study and tear it apart in just one second. All right. So the corEQuestion at stake here with this study was whether or not steroids, and specifically this one, D-ball actually added real contractile tissue. Because we know that when the scale goes up, it doesn't tell us what kind of weight is being added. Is it protein structures and actual contractile tissue? Is it additional glycogen synthesis? Is it water and mineral retention? Is it nitrogen retention? What is going on in this study? Look at this critically with Dianabol, D-ball and unpack that. You bros know I love to shit on D-ball and I do think it has an application. I've used it quite a bit in the past and I've used it periodically, but what I have found, and this is anecdote, and maybe there's some science here to back this up and we'll dig into all of that and look into it, that maybe it doesn't really add much as far as contractile tissue goes. Now we can make the argument that the additional nitrogen retention, mineral retention, and the other things that happen when you take this stuff, lay down the framework and allow you to progress in such a fashion that you're eventually going to add more contractile tissue. If you're able to leverage more weight and lift more weight because of the intracellular additional fluid and water retention, that long-term probably does lead to additional contractile tissue. So directly, it may not contribute to muscle protein synthesis or additional muscle size, so to speak, but long-term it might, but we'll, we'll dig into this and let's talk about the study. So the introduction says in a previous paper, I'm going to skip the names. We received the evidence for the reality of anabolic action of testosterone and the related drugs known as anabolic steroids. We pointed out that the work on animals, which originally appeared in the effect of blah, blah, blah, blah, to the open, is open to criticism. Our work on rats, Henry and Hutchinson 1973 failed to demonstrate the effect studies of the effects of anabolic steroids on performance and body composition in athletes had given inconsistent results. We described the study in which 11 young men took anabolic steroids and a placebo, ultimately during two six week periods of weight trening in a double blind crossover experiment, performing in performance and strength increased by similar amounts in both periods. Body composition changed when the steroid was taken, body weight, body potassium, muscle widths, limb circumferences increased significantly. Body fat did not change the increase in body potassium. It was a large proportion of the weight gained so that the overall composition of the lean body must have changed. It was left uncertain to what extent the weight represented muscle tissue or intra fluid, intramuscular intracellular fluid. So they're talking about a previous study that, that the, that was done and they're trying to be more accurate with this one to determine what was going on. So there was a previous study that was done that really didn't give definitive answers on whether or not the ball really did anything. So they're going to dig into this a little bit more here. ThEQuestion we have might have been resolved if we had been able to measure the changes in nitrogen content of the body. Acquisition of the 3.3 kilograms of intact muscle tissue would have increased body nitrogen by about a hundred grams. Whereas acquisition of the same mass of intracellular fluid would not change it at all. We have now repeated the study on another group of subjects measuring the total body nitrogen and nitrogen activation analysis in vivo. The subjects in the previous trial had specialized in various athletic activities other than weight trening and showed all large improvements in weightlifting performance and control and in treatment periods. In the present trial, the subjects werecompetitive weightlifters. So they used a more relevant cohort population in this study than they did on the previous one. In continuous trening, it was hoped that this would show any effect the steroids had on performance more clearly. Now, obviously that makes sense. Um, you know, rats and non-weight trening athletes, you know, doing a study on steroids is probably irrelevant. So this is more relevant to our population of bodybuilders. So this was a double blind crossover placebo study, meaning that each subject acted as its own control. So in also this was done on a population of weightlifters. So this is more, like I said, more relevant to our population and we can extract some information and thoughts on how it affects us as bodybuilders, weightlifters, recreational gym bros, whatever the fuck you are. The group completed two rounds of the study of six weeks, one with a hundred milligrams of D-ball day. That's a spicy dose of D-ball, a hundred milligrams, uh, for a six week period of time. And then another, uh, six week period of zero, uh, milligrams for the placebo, uh, group. All right. So subjects and methods, the subjects were entering the trial where weightlifters who already were trening regularly, they volunteered to take part after the aims and procedures of the study had been fully explained to them. The experiment comp, uh, comprised two periods of six weeks, as IMentioned before of treatment, separated by periods of six weeks without the treatment. The subjects continued regular trening throughout during the first period, half of them chosen random took a hundred milligrams of dianabol a day orally on a double blind basis. And the others took an indistinguishable placebo. And the second period, the treatments were interchanged. The tablets were issued weekly. The subjects were examined clinically before the start of the trial. And at the weekly intervals thereafter, they were highly motivated towards the experiment. I'm sure these motherfuckers were excited as shit to be taking some dbol. Um, and it was considered unnecessary to monitor swallowing of the tablets or supervise and trening continuously. That is hilarious. You know, they didn't have to monitor the guys taking the tablets. I'm sure these bros were very excited to get some, some pharmaceutical grade dbol from the scientists to help with their trening. The weight trening consisted of repetitive leg and arm extensions against weights. We're not going to go through all this. So it was just basically, um, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Performance was assessed as the maximum weight reached and the subject's standard procedure. Grip strength was measured, um, on a hand grip dynamometer. The denominator measured the measured meter designed by the department of mechanical engineering. University of Leeds was modified to with a hip harness to measure the combined strength of both the legs in a deadlift and knee extension to measure the arm strength of the dynamometer was, was fitted with a chain and barbell, blah, blah, blah, blah. They just go on and on about how, how they measured, um, the strength increases. I think there would have been simpler ways to measure the strength increases. On the same occasion, the body composition was assessed by measuring body weights, skin fold thickness of the use calipers in limb circumference. So they measured, you know, they took like us bros do. They measured their arms and other body parts to see if there was any growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Let's, let's see here. The thickness of the muscle and subqtaneous fat were measured in soft tissue radiographs taken by the department of radiography Leeds, um, infirmary. Let's see. I'm assuming that's probably adexA scan. I'm not, not a hundred percent sure. The significant, uh, the department of physics in the university, um, the, the coefficients of the variance in the measurements of density and body potassium and body nitrogen respectively, approximately 0.25%. So there was a margin of error of 0.25%. It looks like the significance of changes in the differences between the changes were all measured in quantities and retested by the students, um, test period. Okay. So, so we established the methods here. Uh, they had these guys trening for six weeks. Like IMentioned, one group was taking dbol, one wasn't a hundred milligrams a day, and then they swapped them out on the second six week period. The tren trenees, the subjects did not know which part of the trial they were on, whether they were taking it or not. Um, so what we have here for the results, 12 of the subjects entered the trial, but only seven completed it satisfactorily three were removed because they were found to have taken, um, anabolic steroids shortly before the trial. All right. So that probably would, would affect the results, uh, before the trial and during the placebo period, one was withdrawn because of concentrations of alanine and aspirate aspirate and aspirate aspirate amino trensferase in his blood rose above the upper limits of normal. Um, so his ALT and AST were, um, elevated above what they would consider the, um, acceptable thresholds in his blood above the upper limits of normal. And because of the abandoned abandoned the program, one subject complained of scrotal pain while taking the steroid, but chose to continue the experiment. No other side effects were observed. Results of soft tissue radiography are given for six subjects because one missed an appointment. Since the trial crossed over, four of the subjects took the dbol before the placebo to assess whether or not they returned to their original condition. By the beginning of the placebo period, the initial measurements for the two periods werecompared. And at the start of the placebo and after body weight, the body potassium in some of the performance measurements were above the original starting factors, but the amounts of which did not reach statistical significance. All right. So let's see what we got here. The only difference was the degrees of six millimeters and aggregate skin fold thickness. The data from all the subjects has been considered below. Um, okay. So what it found out. All right. So table one shows the initial values and changes in the body measurements over the trening periods. The mean body weight fell over the control period. So they lost weight during the control period, but increased by two to three kilograms while on the steroid. So about six pounds of weight gain during the treatment period with the Dianabol. The increase was accompanied by a significant increase of total body potassium, total body nitrogen, fat-free mass measured by body density, limb circumference, muscle mass, which measured in radiography, body density, body fat, skin fold thickness, and subqtaneous fat thickness were all measured in the radiographic. They did not change significantly. Athletic performance did not improve significantly over the placebo period as would be expected, but did so over the steroid period, the denominator readings showed an increase of strength of the legs during the period of the drug, but not for the arms and hands. I don't know why you would measure grip strength. It seems like a stupid thing to measure. All right. So what the study found out, let's, let's take a look at the discussion here. Our previous study left us undecided in the exact nature of the lean tissue gain by the athletes who took the Dianabol during the trening period. It may have been insensitive to effect to the effect of the drug during the physical performance since the subject showed a large changes during both trening periods in the present study. Although the subjects were somewhat older and heavier, the changes in body weight and composition closely confirmed those seen previously. The mean weight gain during the steroid treatment was 2.3 kilograms, two to three kilograms, sorry, was not significantly different from the previous study of three kilograms in each of the previous experiment. The experiments of the body density suggests that the weight gain was in lean in the lean body. The radiographic studies and measurements of the limb circumference showed the muscle size increased weight lifting and performance in leg strength also increased during the treatment, but not as the previous study during the placebo period. So during this study, the second study that they did, there was no increase in strength or overall performance body weight during the placebo, which is to be expected, correct. The fact that in the four subjects who took the Dianabol first, some of the measurements of performance were still increased at the start of the second phase of the experiment and may have diminished the apparent response to the trening on the placebo and therefore possibly exaggerated the effect of the drug on performance. Nevertheless, the results would again suggest that the drug increased muscle mass, hence the performance increase in strength. So they're saying the people that took the drug first and then went into the placebo still had an increase in performance afterwards is the way I interpret this. As in the previous study, however, the substance gain, substance gain did not appear to have the composition of normal skeletal muscle. Now here's where we get into the nitty gritty of this, whether or not D-Bal, actually causes a gain in muscle tissue. We have already reported that the relationship between the potassium content and the density of the lean body changed. A recent review published reports of analysis of biopsy samples showing that the mean concentration of potassium in normal, fresh fat-free skeletal muscle is approximately 90 millimoles per kilogram of muscle. And the two to three kilograms of body weight gain during the steroid treatment had normal muscle. The expected increase of body potassium would have been about 207 millimoles and about half the observed increase of 436 millimoles. So there was a big increase in potassium retention during the treatment with the Dianabol. The concentration of potassium in the intracellular fluid is higher in the whole muscle, but the finding increased the total body nitrogen does not support the attribution of weight gain to intracellular fluid alone. The increase in nitrogen also was a large proportion of the water gain. It looks like nitrogen retention and potassium retention were the majority of the water, the weight that was gained. The increase in nitrogen was also looked at with the C, C reviewed the published analysis of the biopsy of the specimens in the muscle and gave the mean concentration of 30.8 grams of nitrogen per kilogram of muscle. If the 2.2 to three kilograms of weight gain by our subjects during the steroid treatment had been normal muscle or lean tissue, it would have been expected to include say 70 to 80 grams of nitrogen. About a third of the observed increase of the 235 grams. The possibility must be considered that the gain of nitrogen reflected increased contractile protein by something in the order of 20% since around one to two kilograms of the muscle without a proportionate increase in cell fluid. The protein would carry charges which would electrify the balance of the potassium ions and the nitrogen and potassium were the same ratio as a normal muscle. The water needed to maintain the osmolarity implies a greater weight gain than found. More than half of the potassium ions in the muscle cells, however, are balanced by phosphate ions. If the substance gain consisted of protein in the potassium associated with this, but less phosphate than would accompany it in normal muscle cells, our findings might be reconciled. We can find no published analysis of muscle from athletes. Effects of trening and interactions between these effects of the drug might also contribute to the end result. Although the present experiment would appear to have contribute a new positive finding in the gain of nitrogen and so strengthen the grounds for the belief that anabolic action of Dianabol, the objections remain in the negative findings from the direct carcasses analysis in treated rats in the disproportionate gains of nitrogen, potassium and weight in the human subjects and the indirect mechanism of the action, which in the meat and the animals, the athletes also take large doses of anabolic steroids undoubtedly gain weight, but what they gain is not normal tissue, whether it is acquisition, whether it's acquisition should be called anabolism or not. The value to the athlete must, we believe, remain in doubts. All right, so what can we extrapolate from this? Let's break this down. Sorry to ramble on this. I thought it would be interesting to read through the study. Basically what they used to evaluate this is they looked at potassium increase in potassium retention is going to be indicative of increased intracellular fluid retention, which we, you know, from anecdotal experience, we know that D-ball is going to pull you up and give you a bunch of fucking water retention. So it pulls more water into the cell. It's good. There's going to be more mineral retention inside of the cell. They also tracked nitrogen retention as well to see what the, how much nitrogen retention the Dianabol caused as well. And we know that, you know, years of experience that Dianabol is going to cause increased nitrogen retention, which is going to contribute to weight gain as well. But how they discern whether or not it's just a bunch of fucking water and mineral nitrogen retention is the, these, as the scale increases the level of potassium and nitrogen retention should increase proportionally. If it's real contractile tissue, that, that, that shouldn't change. And what they saw is when the weight increased that those, the numbers in both drastically increased. There's pretty big, pretty big increase in both, which is indicative of it just being a bunch of fluid nitrogen and fluid retention that's going on when taking the Dianabol. So in the end, the subjects can retained about, I'm looking at my notes here about 255 grams of nitrogen on average based on known muscle chemistry. The amount of nitrogen could only explain about one third of the weight gain and the rest of it must've just been fluid glycogen retention, other things that were going on with the muscle tissue. And the majority of the weight was lost when the guys went back to the placebo. There was some amount of weight that was retained, but we know that from taking Dianabol over the years that what ends up happening is you gain a bunch of weight rapidly. And then when you stop the Dianabol, that weight falls off pretty quickly. And generally you go back to where you were at before. Now does this mean that it doesn't contribute to hypertrophy? No, that doesn't mean that longterm it doesn't contribute to hypertrophy. Uh, the additional water retention, the additional nitrogen retention are all setting up, um, a case of where, you know, setting up the, basically setting the table for, for hypertrophy, where, where, where we could add additional tissue longterm. And then also just purely the effect of getting on stage and being a body builder. A lot of it's just illusion. It's not necessarily that it has to be real contractile tissue to a certain degree. We do need some, but you know, nobody knows when you get on stage, whether or not it's, it's a nitrogen retention or actual contractile tissue. All we're looking at is how big the guy looks. And, and I think this is what happens longterm. When you hear people talk about muscle maturity, that's the difference that you see between real dense contractile tissue that guys have accumulated over time. You can see it with guys that have been lifting for a long time, or they just have that dense fibrous look versus the big round puffy look that a lot of dudes have that put weight on quickly. Um, but, but I do think that that sort of sets up the, the table sets up the table for longterm muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Because if you, if you have more nitrogen and water retention and intracellular water retention, that's going to give you more leverage and allow you to lift heavier and to push things a little bit more. And ultimately that probably does lead to longterm muscle gains. Now, here's my thing with Diana Bond. This is what I've always kind of the, the, the, the reason why I don't like, it's not necessarily because of the additional nitrogen in retention and fluid retention that it causes. I'm okay with that. The problems that we run into with dianabol for guys is the, the side effects that you get with it, the increased blood pressure from all the additional water, water weight. A lot of guys that blood pressure blows up to the roof. You can see dudes are red and puffy when they're on it. Uh, you can spot a dianabol guy from a mile away. Guys that are runninGHigh doses of dbol, they're usually red swollen. They're covered with acne because of the increased methyl diol conversion, which is essentially estrogen on steroids, increased sebum production because of that. It's also a recipe for gynecomastia. Now some people don't get that genetics play a role in there. If you're a dude that doesn't get gyne from dbol, fantastic. If you're a dude that doesn't get all that massive water retention and, and acne, fantastic. They're, you know, people like to cite Arnold Schwarzenegger and some of the old school 70 guys as examples of why D dbol is the best steroid known to man. Well, for them it was because they probably didn't have the genetic predispositions to have all of the nasty side effects that you get from with the gynecomastia, the, uh, the what massive water retention, the, um, the, um, uh, acne that you get from it. You know, clearly Arnold did not have a predisposition to gyne or acne because they weren't fucking treating that stuff back then. They didn't, they didn't really know how to handle it. Maybe they did gyno surgery, but it wasn't like what we do now with lipo and all this carefully manicured and crafted procedures for bodybuilders specifically in the, I just wasn't going on during the seventies. The guys that you saw on stage that were able to use dbol and use it successfully were the dudes that won the genetic lottery. You didn't see the 50 other guys that ended up with gyno hair loss and uh, the uh, huge batches of acne on their back. They just didn't make it. Those dudes, you know, are often obscurity somewhere. So this is why I, I'm not a huge fan of dianabol overall. I have used it and I occasionally use it and I think there are situations where probably one out of 10 people can use it and think it's the best thing ever. And then the other nine out of 10, you know, you take it and you end up with a bunch of side effects and it doesn't do a damn thing for you other than make you big and bloated. Um, I, you know, I like the slow steady approach when it comes to gaining weight. I think ultimately that ends up with the best results. But you know, if you want to put somEQuick weight on and look big as fuck, dbol is the way to go and we'll do it. And there's nothing else that beats it as far as putting quick weight on it that I've seen. Uh, it, you know, maybe, maybe insulin and a bunch of fucking carbs, possibly, but dbol is going to throw some weight on you fucking quick. It's going to make you look big, round and full and with no deficient issue. But, um, you know, using it as a pre-workout, you know, just to get that, uh, drive and the feel good from the methyl ester dial. Hey, I can get behind that. But anyway, that's, that's, uh, basically what this study is, is telling us is that what we've, or IMean the shit, this thing is 40 fucking years old, uh, 45 years old and it's telling us what we already knew. IMean, it granted, granted, it's a very, it has some limitations. It was a very small group and it was, it was basically a repeat of a study done before. And he talked about the previous animal studies, but it essentially confirmed confirmed what we know when, when the guys went back to the placebo, they basically lost 95% of what they gained when they were on it. So that, that tells us that it's just not real tissue. It's also a very short run. IMean, I don't know how much actual new contractile tissue you're going to lay down in six weeks too. I don't know what we can extrapolate from that. If they had, you know, these guys had done six weeks on six weeks off and run it with some testosterone and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone over a 12 month period of time, I'm sure we would have seen some new contractile tissue laid down. That is without a doubt. So that is a limitation of the study. But what we can extrapolate from here and what we can see is that the, thEQuick gains that you get from dbol guys like to use it as their jumpstart for their cycle is nothing really much more than just a bunch of intracellular fluid and nitrogen retention. It's not real contractile tissue. All right, folks, I probably heard some feelings with this one. People get mad at me when I shit on dbol. I'm not saying dbol's terrible. I have used it. I like it in certain applications. I just don't think it's the best option that we have at our disposal. Let me know what you think in the comment section below. You can tell me what an idiot I am and how much you love dbol. Put it, put it all down here. I want to hear, hear your comments. IMight, IMight tell you you're stupid, but it's all good. Good spirit and love. I appreciate each and every one of you. I'll see you on the next episode.