WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today with a really great interview for you with Dr. Marv Marvin. I sort of found Dr. Marv through Skipp Hill. Dr. Marv is very sharp when it comes to bodybuilding, rehab, injury prevention, and just overall mobility. Dr. Marv is fantastic and I wanted to get him on mainly because I was curious about rehab because of my shoulder injury and we go through some pretty interesting discussion on how to prevent injuries. We talk about shoulder injuries which are very common in bodybuilding, the most common injury actually in bodybuilding it seems, and how to deal with them, why they happen, and what we can do as far as exercise choice, warming up, preventing these injuries, doing different things that we can do to increase mobility that are going to help with injury prevention. It's a really great interview. I appreciate Dr. Marv coming on. Also want to remind you guys to check out Dr. Marv's podcast slash show that he has with Skipp Hill. It's on YouTube. There's a link in the video description below. It's called Between Two Dumbbells. It is a fantastic podcast. Skipp Hill's an OG. I've known Skip for shit 20 years. Skip is amazing. I need to get him on here again. But anyway, I hope you guys enjoyed this one. This is fantastic. Check out Dr. Marv. His contact information is below in the video description. Give him a follow. Give him some support. Dr. Marv is fantastic and I hope you enjoyed it. All right, folks. Big Paul here today with you with Dr. Christopher Marv. Marvin, we're going to talk about some injuries, recovery, rehab. I got my screwed up shoulder, so this is definitely a little bit of a selfish podcast. We're going to talk through some recovery and injury prevention. So what's going on, Doc? Another day, man. I'm in the Houston Bay Area. I own a performance chiropractic office. I work with a lot of people with shoulder issues. I have two torn shoulders myself, so I know your pain. And you're a meathead too, so you understand. Yes. I call myself an educated meathead. I'm a slightly less educated meathead, so we'll put us both in categories. Yeah, so let's just kind of talk about, I kind of want to, something I've been thinking about a lot lately, man, this has been on my mind. And this is like some introspection and reflection on the dumb shit I did when I was younger, trening. I was thinking about it. I actually, I did an interview with, I don't know if you know Dr. Mike Izzard at all, but I did an interview with him like a month or two ago and I was really reflecting on some stuff we were talking about. But we were talking about just doing stupid stuff in the gym, being a meathead and how you really need to think through the cost of doing certain exercises and being intelligent with how you lift. Because that stupid thing you do in the gym today can haunt you for the rest of your life. It's like my shoulder injury, it didn't even happen lifting weights, man. It was me doing jujitsu and just being, letting my ego get the best of me and not tapping out when a guy got me in a shoulder lock. You know, just a dumb ego-driven decision. I know a lot of dudes ego lift when they're in the gym. You know, I just really, you know, and I've definitely hurt myself in the gym, that's for sure. But I really have been thinking about protecting my body more, especially now that I'm in my 50s. And I've managed to progress in bodybuilding, working around these injuries. But I don't know, I just want to get your thoughts on things that guys can do as far as exercise selection, rehab, a routine to get in to make sure that they're minimizing injury risk and recovering properly in the gym. Just kind of your core ideals on that stuff. Yeah, IMean, yeah, that's a massive topic. So let's just talk about big rocks that everybody can do that you don't need to know anything about biomechanics or the human body low hanging fruit. How about you go into every trening session hydrated? I can't tell you how many people skip that. So everybody talks about muscle being 70% water. Everybody talks about how your dehydrated performance goes down. Nobody talks about the fact that tendons and ligaments and our soft tissue is 60% water. And unlike muscle tissue, because of crummy blood supply, once the tendon and ligaments gets dehydrated, takes a hell of a lot longer to rehydrate that tissue, the muscle. So if you're chronically dehydrated going into trening sessions, you're not only decreasing your performance in your gains with a Z, but you're dramatically increasing your injury risk. And especially with tendons and ligaments, that's, that's a big one that there's, in my mind, there's no excuse for that. Even if you wake up first thing in the morning, you know, I'll tell patients or clients, you got to consume bare minimum one liter of fluids before caffeine, you're getting an extra electrolytes. I love the, the over the counter amino acid taurine, especially early morning trening sessions. It does a lot of good. It's one of my all time favorite supplements that is super cheap. Nobody really talks about it. There's a lot of benefits with it. Plus it makes electrolytes work better and hydrates the cell. So hydration should be priority one. Like I'll choose being like on an empty stomach, but well hydrated versus the opposite, right? Cause if you're well hydrated, you can still get a wicked pump, even if you do or do not have consumed carbs that day. I remember, God damn it. I remember, I forget where I saw it, but there was a study I saw where they, there was actually an increased, they saw an increased risk of muscle tears and ligament tears with fasted trening over, over later in the day trening. And I just assumed that that had to do with hydration. And you statistically are stronger and more mobile in the afternoon around three or four o'clock. However, that is optimal. If you could only tren first thing in the morning, you got to do what you got to do because consistency is the name of the game, but you better take it very seriously. The second you wake up fluids, fluids, fluids, fluids, fluids, electrolytes. I'm a big believer in intra. So long as your big rocks are in order, that's another way to keep hydration going. Uh, especially if you're trening earlier in your day. I think that's a big one. Again, though, if you don't have your hydration in order, you don't have your big rocks of like sleep in order, then quit wasting money on intra, right? Everything stacks on each other. But yeah, that is a big, big one that could prevent a lot of the injuries that are coming into my office. Yeah. IMean, I, I will see it too. You see guys and there's various reasons it happens, but you see guys at the end of contest prep, um, you know, where there's certain things they're doing at the end of contest prep where they're dried out and hydration might be a little bit different. It's it's, I see the majority of the time I see muscle tears with, with, I've been coaching people off and on for 30 years, but it's like, it's almost always at the end of contest prep. Yeah. Yeah. Like nobody wants to hear this, but you probably shouldn't be doing four or five plate RDLs or stifflated deadlifts the last month of contest prep. You probably shouldn't like, I know that sucks. Cause you know, bring what brought you to the dance. You've got to change your trening slightly that last month. You just got I constantly think about Dorian Yates. Uh, I don't know how much of a bodybuilding fan you are, but all the massive injuries that he had, they were all at the end of contest prep. Yep. Cause he, yeah, he was famous for like, he was like, when I did my leg extension, the leg extension machine was literally lifting and moving. Cause I was that explosive. That's impressive as hell. But yeah, it's amazing. He only had the injuries he had when you think about it. Yeah. IMean the, the way that, that style of trening is, is it has a higher risk to it, whether people want to want to hear that or not. But I, you know, I even heard him talk about it. I have interviewed his old trening partner a few times. It's really cool to hear how they tren, but like he said, even Dorian acknowledged that if he had just backed off a little bit at the end of his prep, that he probably would have extended his career. I think it's not just him. I've seen a lot of guys like, IMean, I was a Nick Walker, Tori's hamstring last week or last year, you know, a week and a half out from show. IMean, it's just, it's, it's, I see it all the time with guys. And I just assumed that it had to do with just being depleted, probably dehydrated, you know, all the other shit that's going on calorie deficit. IMean, there's all these things, other things that can factor into it. Yeah. So speaking of calories, when you are rehabbing an injury, it's not the time to be in a deficit. A slight surplus is going to help the body recover quicker. Nobody wants to hear that. So somebody comes in and I just tore something. I got a show in four weeks. I'm like, well, how important is the show not to be rude, but if you're an amateur, shut it down, let's get this healed. Right. Unless for some reason you have a contract or an obligation, get out of the deficit, a small surplus, let's get your body healing. Yeah. I would, I would assume that being a deficit is not an ideal. hemato local urera, seasickness, cystitis, etc. ounds as a whole. A little bit about my story. I've had nine surgeries. I'm beat to shit. That's why I do what I do. And I'm so passionate about it. So yeah, I have to do everything possible when I have an injury. So unfortunately, like I retore something two weeks ago, I have two torn shoulder labrums, I'm putting surgery off. And I have to do everything under the sun because IMake a living based on my body. But it's kind of like, everybody likes to say they're all in, but they're selectively all in. If that makes sense. I think I got you beat on the surgeries. This is number 12. For me. Damn, that's rare. Okay, wow. That's very rare for somebody to beat me. That's impressive. I shouldn't I shouldn't brag about that. Yeah. No, this is why I've been really thinking about it lately. Like, it's just like, I, I tren a lot of younger guys. And I know they don't want to hear it sometimes. But I just like, I really try to emphasize the cost versus benefit of everything that they do. Yeah. And, and, and, you know, it's just across the board diet, you know, some of the other stuff they do. The trening, like, like really consider what, you know, it's always a risk versus reward analysis when it comes to things. And I think like, especially like in the bodybuilding world, if you want to be highly successful, it's a longevity game, man, you gotta, you gotta play the 10 year game. Like, there's no one thing that's worth risking today, unless you're like, you know, out there getting on the Olympia stage or something like you said, like, shut that contest prep down. Yeah, and that's nails on a chalkboard. So obviously, like, I'm a bit older, I've been trening for 17 years, I've been doing something professionally or educationally for 17 years doing this. When you're bulletproof, and you're young, and you're Gumby, and you don't have injuries, this is nails on a chalkboard. But every single person who's been in the game long enough who has the longevity, because most people what they tren for three to five years, they bodybuild for three to five years. And that's it. Yep. So like, listen to the people who have come before you. I know a little bit about your story. You are a Dante DC guy. I'm the same way. I didn't work with Dante, but I DC is my favorite trening strategy. I love fortitude trening. I love the very low volume, high intensity. But you've got to be very smart with how you're doing that. An easy way that even Dante has talked about time and time again is Yeah, as you get a little bit older, you have you're a little bit more beat up, like just push, push those rep ranges up a little bit. Right? That way, you're not doing one or two reps in your last round of arrest pause, you're still getting 345 or six. I think a lot of it too has to do with exercise selection to Yeah, certainly more some exercises that are more risky than others. I don't really tren that style anymore. So much. I do a little more volume now, but I did it for a long time. Should I tren that way for like a decade? Yeah, Dante, Dante is great. Probably one of the most influenceable and one of the biggest influences on my path over my life. Yeah. Yeah, no, IMean, I think that's where people get like, confused about what you know, like, you know, I think that he resents that sometimes like the he's a big proponent of trening intelligently, like I know, from from from talking to him, like he's like, he's like, No, that's not what I was saying to go ahead and beat the living dog shit out of you. And I don't, I don't know, man. Like, I really have been thinking a lot more about exercise selection lately. Like, is this? Is this exercise actually providing the stimulus that I need to grow? What are the risks that I'm taking with this exercise? You know, what are the fatigue costs of it? Like, I used to love squatting and deadlifting. I don't do either one of them anymore, man. You know, and I'm not saying that you need to yank those out of your routine. But like, for me, like just the cost versus the benefit ratio of it anymore, just is not worth it to me. Like, the hardest thing, though, is also realizing that everybody has their own it's called anthropometrics. We're like, yeah, you and I have different lengths of our thigh bone. That's gonna change our squat. Yeah, absolutely. Like, we, we know that the longer your femur, which is your thigh bone is the worst you are at squatting. Yeah, and that's 62. Yeah. So like, but you know, you look at Tom Platts short as he was built to squat into high bar squat, because a high bar squat will do way less shearing force on your low back than a low bar. Yep. And like, this is what people get frustrated. I think is true. Experts are saying it depends. Maybe they're not doing black and white statements, because what is your injury history? What is your body structure, all that has to go into play when you're younger, and you're starting out, it can get a little daunting of a what the bleep do I do, but just know, like, you're gonna have to experiment a little bit with something. But if you you know, you're somebody like yourself, you know, you're six to with long ass femurs. I, I think squatting is a valuable skill to learn early on. But that's not going to be your bread and butter for quad growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, because your squats going to be hip dominant, i.e. glute and adductor dominant versus shorter femur high bar is going to bEQuad dominant. And I do have giant adductors from squat, from squatting. IMean, I did a ton of squats when I was younger. I just you know, it's just like, I, I look at it like I have a budget to invest. And at this point, like I look and I did a ton of squats when I was younger. I'm not telling young guys to not squat, but I think about it now like, I get way more out of a hack squat than I do a barbell squat. It just fits me better. And there's even even down to certain machine selection, like there's a certain machine that I like, we have an Atlantis hack squat that really fits me well. Yeah, yeah, right. And I've had five knee surgery. It's at that point, both my ACLs reconstructed. I want to take something that's going to have the lowest risk in the max maximum stimulus for my quads. I noticed that that seems to be hack squats for me, certain types of hack squats. So yeah, I just think, you know, I don't know what you think about this, but I just, you know, I encourage young lifters to think critically about everything they're doing, even down to diet supplementation, like ask why. And as you said, it's very specific to the person. Yeah, that's the hardest part. So there is going to be some experimentation. And if you're coached by somebody, hopefully it's a coach with experience who knows how to modify stuff or is willing for you to say, Hey, this isn't working for me. Like there should for hypertrophy trening, guess what? We're not power lifters. So nothing is mandatory, which is amazing. Right. You're not forced to squat bench or deadlift. Like hell, I think an RDL is a better stimulus for a bodybuilder than a deadlift. Yeah. Right. So I still do RDLs. Yeah. I love RDLs. Yeah. Yeah. RDLs are fantastic exercise. So hydration, what, what are some other big rocks that you would say are important for people for, for. Yeah. So is one knowing when it's discomfort versus pain. So that's a lesson I've had to learn a hard way. That's really, really hard. So this, especially, so let's talk about working out and then rehabbing. Cause there are two different scenarios. Like, yes, if you're trening really hard in the gym, it should be some discomfort, but it's more your lungs, the muscles burning, it shouldn't be joint pain. And then when you're rehabbing an injury, especially like a tendon injury, or like after you get your surgery, there's going to be discomfort when you rehab an injury, especially tendons, because tendons require load to heal. So in office, I tell people, look, you get to choose the line in the sand with discomfort or pain. So a three or four out of 10 on a pain scale, that's discomforT4 or five is pain. If you, you, you go from discomfort to pain. It means you typically did too much typically the day before. So pull it back a little bit and really pay attention to feedback because pain is smoke, right? So pain is, is the result of some issues. Sometimes that issue has been there for a day. Sometimes that issue has been there for a year and then somethinGHappened to where you eclipsed the threshold that now your, your brain is registering it as pain. So while I always want to know if people are in pain, especially when rehabbing an injury, you also got to look at strength, range of motion function, blah, blah, blah, blah, which gets frustrating, but your workout should be muscular discomfort of pushinGHard, not my knees are going to explode on this hack squat. Right? So that's, that's something that is going to be, you'll learn as you go. And then I am a big, big, my hypodermic trick-of-that-kind-to-you, ćUP she will have a different warm-up and it should be based on your unique ability so I call them areas of opportunity of how are these your body moved cold what are the movements you're going to do today okay where are your areas you're lacking in and let's prep that so because you're doing shoulder surgery I figured we would I'll just kind of show how I break down shoulder assessment and from there yep so give me though a quick rundown of what happened with the shoulder because then I could actually show all the listeners with an app of what has been injured and then also point out like a lot of people come in my office and say it's my rotator cuff for lifters 70% of the time it's not rotator it's bicep but tell me what happened with the shoulder well you nailed it for me it's I initially tore my labrum it's a partial tear mm-hmm I did that years ago doing jiu-jitsu and then through liftinGHas gotten worse I have the partially torn the supraspinatus and then my bicep tendon is just hanging on for dear life and honestly it's the bicep tendon that's what according to the MRI is where the where the bulk of the problem is yep so did they use the term slap tear to describe the labral tear do you remember I don't recall I think he said it was in the rear okay okay yeah all right so let's do this so this will also be really helpful for people in general to understand how the shoulder works in terms of what you could do to prevent the issues Paul had and rehabbing and then after I do this I'll kind of just give people a real basic self-assessment and see what they need so let's try it's funny you talking about the pain thing that is another thing I'm terrible at dude I've just gotten and I think this happens to a lot of bodybuilders you get used to being in pain yep and you just push push through it I had an issue with my elbow years ago and my elbow had been bothering me for years and I finally went in and I'm like had him look at it I'm like can we get he ordered an MRI and they're like you don't have a UCL it's like completely gone yeah yeah yeah and we become okay with that which is wild to the average person especially people who do the high-intensity trening style which I that's what I love yeah I should go to more volume reps and reserve man that shit so boring to me it is boring and I've really had to struggle mentally with it yeah but like I don't make a living directly based on how I look because I am NOT an IFBB pro I know this folks so thank you for pointing out the obvious but yeah it is that so let's do this so all right so do you see my screen yeah well let me share it here yep there we go all right cool so let's teach some people about their bodies all right so when people have pain in the shoulder especially with lifting primarily lifting with pressing motions usually pulling is fine it is not your rotator cuff it is your bicep so people do not realize your bicep is the primary stabilizer in front of the shoulder your rotator cuff is back here and it attaches on the side of the shoulder so every time I am flexing my bicep which would be any sort of pressing obviously any sort of curls front raises as you can see your your bicep is the primary stabilizer on the front of the shoulder so typically typically have pain along the front there okay now why this happens is there's gonna be improper shoulder blade mechanics and I will show what that means when I quit showing my screen but if you look at the shoulder blade I think this should be a design recall we have these hooks on the shoulder blade and two things run below it your supraspinatus which is part of your rotator cuff which guess what is the number one torn rotator cuff muscle which you have and guess who the average person who has a tear elderly females it's like 70% of elderly females have a tear here because it starts to rub around and you have poor blood supply the other thing that is under there is the lonGHead or the outer head of your bicep and guess what that bicep directly attaches to your labrum so what I was asking earlier there's something called a slap tear unfortunately I have that on both sides the bicep tendon rips open that's exactly what it was yeah so there's that okay so shoulder blade control is massive now just so people are aware supraspinatus right that's above the spine of the scapula that is primarily responsible for the first 15 degrees of abduction ie a lateral raise the infraspinatus typically does external rotation when you are pressing in the gym this is the most active rotator cuff it's the primary stabilizer the bicep and the infraspinatus have a direct relationship to each other the infraspinatus will refer pain to the front of the shoulder so sometimes it'll be misdiagnosed as a bicep injury but regardless if you have a bicep tendon issue or a tear or whatever we always want to treat the infraspinatus this little guy is called your Terry's minor that has the ability to externally rotate your shoulder when your elbow is by your side when your elbow is in space the infra takes over and this guy right here called your subscap this is massive for a variety of reasons especially with posing if you have a lat spread issue where you cannot flare one lat out as well I guarantee you it's not the only culprit but one of the culprits is a very locked up subscap and that is an internal rotator on your shoulder so that's the rotator cuff you would be so far yeah IMean you pretty much described my injury yep so exactly when I and then here's your inner bicep head it connects to the backside of your shoulder blade that your pec minor attaches to so there's the chest so a lot of times when stuff gets you know one thing becomes tight or spastic or trigger points or there's an injury everything tightens up people have to remember our ancestors didn't have doctors so when you tore your labrum your body's gonna do its job and try to create a sling and it's gonna spasm and lock everything down and that spasm hurts like hell why people will have pain in this area I know there used to be a way to put pain signals there I don't quite remember I apologize but it's if people can zoom in on the screen inflammation will pick up because we're pitching stuff and it's irritating it takes two to three days for inflammation to peak two weeks to clear it's gonna start traveling down this little groove in your upper arm or the bicep tendon goes to you that's why people are gonna have a hell of a lot of tender to touch pain near the front of the shoulder and then there's usually right where the muscle starts turning into tendon a very gnarly trigger point as well as usually a trigger point down below by the elbow 100% me yep and remember I have this on both sides so I kind of know when people are gonna be in pain and what to do in terms of rehabbing now obviously you need to be clear with a medical professional this is education only right because I haven't done an exam but there's really two major muscles that I really really focus on starting out to rehab the shoulder issue especially a bicep issue which is more common in lifters than rotator cuff we're gonna start on the backside of the body is in particular lower trap so everybody knows shrugs carries upper traps or hopefully everybody knows that all your rows are getting metal traps lower traps we typically don't tren as bodybuilders and in general we don't why we don't typically don't tren the lower trap is in order to prioritize that part of the musculature your arm needs to be parallel to the fibers which is like an overhead V type movement which we typically don't do as bodybuilders where that matters is if you see where it attaches on the shoulder blade when I recruit the lower trap it's gonna take both of those shoulder blades and rotate this tip where the hooks are it's gonna rotate them upwards to create space to not pinch the supraspinatus and the bicep so lower trap massively important for that the other muscle and then I'll quit sharing my screen so I could show a little bit more things is your serratus anterior nobody trens that they did a study it's the most undertrened muscle in the upper body it is massively important for shoulder health let alone bodybuilding posing and trening so its job is to not retract the shoulder blade but to protract the shoulder blade and push it out think about a lat spread think about most of your movements in the gym especially with pulling if you're getting full range of motion it also prevents the shoulder blade from popping off the ribcage known as scapular winging which looks funky on stage and increases your injury risk why this matters for you udastritis, gastro Artem, marine gastritis, perilomyotin, per Certif or MamaS museum testing, ovarian dong, some options, etc. I apologize for these red herons in my head. Don't hold the evidence against me for something you think is true, or photograph ocured by Dr. Fuck, our Professor of stupor and stupor. issues. I personally think that's a little high, but it shows you the importance of it. So again, so now that I'm back on screen, so if I am facing, this is my belly button facing the camera. Here's those hooks. That lower trap will rotate them up, creating space. So I'm not coming down and pinching that part of the shoulder. That's awesome. Does that make sense? Yep. Yeah. Go ahead. I'm going to give you the full screen so you can show. Okay. Yeah. So another thing though, unfortunately nobody talks about is rib cage. Rib cage is the driver of your upper body and I'm kicking myself because I normally make sure I have all my spine and rib cage and foot models here when I do podcasts, but I forgot because this is not a normal podcast day. But your rib cage is the driver of the upper body with shoulder, shoulder range of motion. Your foot's the driver of the lower body, especially with hip range of motion. So rib cage is a big one. As we get bigger and stronger, our rib cage starts to get compressed. That's why we're super strong, but the morecompressed the rib cage, less range of motion we have. So rib cage is a big one that not a lot of poke folks look at. It'll help posing shoulder range of motion, all of that jazz. So again, we've, when I'm assessing people, I'm going to do like, what is your range of motion cold? We use shoulder range of motion cold to figure out rib cage. So then I'll give people prep drills to get the rib cage moving better. So they unlock a lot of movement. And then we work on ranges of motion. Somebody doesn't have cold. And I always include some sort of lower trap and serratus activity before. And then one other thing that's really important, especially for you is range of motion and how it applies to gym movements in particular, pressing. I love the fact that the team full range of motion like had this big resurgence because yes, I agree. A lot of people were ego lifting and they weren't doing a full range of motion, but, and I know they were doing it because I don't want to speak for them, but my understanding is they were doing it just to be like pushing back against a lot of like the hardcore ego lifting that was happening at the time of, Hey, let's get the most out of it. But it should be a team full range of motion for what you can do yourself. So for depth, for a chest press, as I'm coming down, I'm good, good, good. Now, if you watch the front of my shoulder, if I go any lower, see how it kind of rolls forward and down. So that means I've exceeded the active range of where my pec has the main tension. It's now going directly onto my bicep tendon and it's increasing some stren on my rotator cuff. So we want to increase somebody's abilities, ability to rotate the shoulder this way, which is called internal rotation. So we have external rotation and we have internal rotation. So when I'm doing shoulder motion, I think it's easiest if I do this from here to about, let's call it 60 degrees. I need to externally rotate my shoulder from 60 degrees to about 120. I have to internally rotate my shoulder. And from 120 up, I have to externally rotate my shoulder. When I am going down in a bench press, as I, my elbow goes past midline, I'm getting into shoulder. This is called shoulder extension, right? This is shoulder flexion. I have to internally rotate. So if you're restricted in internal rotation, you're going to have all, how do I say this? It will, if you're going all the way down full range of motion and you're always letting it kind of hinge like that, it's not, if you have a bicep issue, it's when, and I'm not trying to fear monger. My biggest message is you're not broke. You're not fragile, but we need to be paying attention to this because if you're doing, you're doing all these great pressing movements and you're progressive overloading, but every time you're putting a ton of stress on the bicep tendon and you want to do this for 15, 20, 25, 30 years, you're opening yourself up. Why I, I hop, I heart on rotation and then I'll see where you're at, what questions you have. Here's, if I, if you only come away with this, this will help everybody. Rotation unlocks everything, meaning every joint in your body rotates, even your elbows, even your knees and rotation unlocks all directions of movement. So you have six movements, you could flex, flex, you could extend, you could side bend and I could rotate. Well, if I just showed you when I'm flexing or extending my shoulder, how the shoulder rotates, if I increase my body's ability to do that, I improve every single direction. So now your warmups only need to be five to 10 minutes, not 20 to 30 minutes of movement masturbation of, okay, let me work on flexion extension. Let me work on side to side, just go straight to rotation. So long as there's not an active acute injury like an ACL tear, a meniscus tear, shoulder labrums, everybody's different. Some people don't have to modify a ton. Other times people have to modify a lot. So rotation is the name of the game. You get your body to rotate better. Everything improves as well as your body's ability to optimally recruit musculature goes through the roof. Does that make sense? That makes a hundred percent sense. So what would you do for warmups for shoulders for working on rotation? Yep. So you would want to figure out like how you move cold. So I'll just do just a generic, super generic. So let me actually pull a few things up cause it's going to be hard to describe otherwise. So give me one sec. Cause I can give just pretty generic stuff that would still help everybody. Cause guess what? 98% of bodybuilders need better shoulder internal rotation. It seems like everybody that's been bodybuilding for a while ends up with a bump shoulder. Yeah. So bodybuilding is more internal rotation driven. All my strong men I work with cause I'm blessed to work with a ton of strong men. I got to go to the Arnold the first time doing so that sport is more external rotation driven. My orthopedic surgeon said he makes, he's a shoulder specialist. He said he makes an entire career off of bodybuilders and power lifters. Oh yeah. Oh, or cross crossfit even more cross security for me. All right. So I'm pulling up everything I would need to quickly show people. It does seem like there are a lot of injuries in CrossFit. I'm popular in CrossFit because I'm one of the, my mom, my thing is modify, don't eliminate. So that makes sense. Shoulder issues, especially bicep are super common because of all the overhead motions they do. And so when somebody has like a bicep issue, Hey, you probably need to avoid overhead press in an Olympic lifts, modify your pushups. Like the CrossFit pushup is touch your chest. Most people can't do that. I've tried it a couple of times, man. That's, that scares the crap out of me. Cool. All right. So I'm going to show four movements, which would be incredibly helpful for most people. All right. So I'm going to share my screen again. So actually, before I do that real quickly. So how I approach upper body is we do the ribcage stuff first. Then I like to activate everything. So the ribcage stuff will automatically change your range of motion. Actually I think this would be super awesome. One last thing to show, I'm sorry, that way I could, we could show the before and after because it's pretty wild. I'm terrible with warmups too. So I go after ribcage stuff first, so that'll automatically change range of motion and then activate all those muscles we talked about. So like, yes, I like activating rotator cuff. The serratus is a big one. Everybody poo poo serratus stuff. You get your serratus moving better. Your posing gets better. Your trening gets better, let alone shoulder longevity like we talked about. So that'll be super helpful. So I'm going to share my screen. So this is what I would do first. This is super easy to do. This is a big bang for your buck. So this is just a generic way to get somebody with a compressed ribcage to expand it a little bit. I got to do a consult with somebody who's on the Olympia in Arnold stages. We did this and it dramatically improved his double back bicep because he could lean back a little bit more, right? So the upper back could look bigger to the judges. So all you need to do is something, a foam roller, a yoga block. I have used my damn water bottle and a rest stop table because my ribs are killing me. You lay on your side. Everything is perfectly stacked. This is at nipple height, no matter, and if you're having like mid back pain or like rib cage pain, obviously if it's a broken rib, don't do this, but you put it right there. He puts his arm up in the beginning. You might need to offload your body weight with in hand with his left arm to kind of not put all his weight in there, but you do 10 breaths. You breathe in through your nose. Then you blow out birthday candles to purse lips on the exhale. You try to relax your weight into the foam roller. so what that'll do is it'll get a compressed rib cage that is more oval shape versus more a round shape which means maximum mobility that'll kind of get that to change its dimensions from front to back to be a little bit less mobile to a little round IMean oval to a little bit rounder which will be super helpful for shoulder blade motion rotation so like this is you know all my golfers pickleball tennis uh quarterbacks pitchers this is you're feeling stiff in general you do 10 breaths each side and you go to like rotate your upper body you'll feel like butter it will be uncomfortable the first few times you do it so just know that but it gets way better as you go a perfect story that highlights everything is in my office there's two docs have a business partner in another cairo rents from us and they would have to adjust my ribs two to three times a week for the first year because i was always tight stiff and in pain i implemented this on my own and both docs independently said hey i haven't had to adjust you i've maybe had my ribs adjusted three times in the last year after doing this so super helpful so 10 breaths each side then um we're just gonna assume people need internal rotation so this is what you would do next this is from an approach called postural restoration institute you don't need to know that but i always give people credit who i learned it from you're on all four position you have your hand elevated you could use that same yoga block water bottle or foam roller that elbow is bent the other arm is straight and then he is going to very slightly round his upper back right there and then you do that same breathing 10 breaths in through your nose out through pursed lips and then you're gonna visualize breathing on the side of the rib cage that the arm is straight and on the ground so for him it's between his left shoulder blade and his left side of the spine he's gonna visualize breathing into that area and expandinGHis rib cage it's gonna be 10 breaths you would do both sides so those are what i would do for for the rib cage let me just show one other movement so this would be where is it okay so this is the movement i do for external rotation of the shoulder especially for my strongman but just to show you the before and after so that's his before okay so we can see that he's gonna do the drill and then here is his after okay he did 10 breaths oh wow that's crazy yeah so like before you back squat absent freaking so i was blessed to do a squat seminar and i had a great q a panel with the current all-time world record holder for squats and one of the things we talked about as we get bigger a lot of guys lose the ability to get their damn hands on a straight bar so you do this before you back squat game changer so that because i don't have the before and after in the other drill you could see he did 10 breaths that's all he did so big bang for your buck that's another reason why i don't squat anymore i can't get my arm out of the 100 yep and then that opens up a whole other host of issues so you do your rib cage then i like doing serratus next but to each their own everybody laughs at these the old school booty band wall walks if you want to practice get really good at a lat spread this is it so if you don't have a booty band you could use a pillowcase and just pull it all the way down to your elbows your forearms are against the wall now we're going to protract i.e push the shoulder blade out wide and then work your your arms up the wall right so you could do it one arm at a time or together yeah i can see the shoulder blade so your goal is to keep the shoulder blade wide but don't shrug up because a lot of people will shrug up so you're still keeping the trap still but you're getting that serratus and one last movement and i'll see that a lot of times like you see a lot of dudes that can't do last spreads and it's usually issue with the getting the shoulder blade spread the scapula i guess correct yep so that subscap muscle in the armpit and the serratus we work on that it's wild what you can do and then this is my all-time favorite movement before pressing this guy is a crossfitter and he actually had a torn shoulder so perfect example so uh a chicken wing you you have a band it's anchored in front of you the band is above your elbow your hands on your low back and then we just keep your torso still but you're gonna pull that shoulder back so this is my favorite before pressing whenever i help out at powerlifting meet i bring bands and i have all the lifters do this and without fail they all come back and said i just had a lifetime pr and the bar felt light so that's the motion i'm going to quit sharing my screen so i could talk people through it so what that movement's doing is it is warming up that infraspinatus which is the most active on uh oppressing it's also directly increasing internal rotation so remember you've already done your rib cage breathing drill so you're already gonna gain three to five inches you gain another inch from that i'm literally increasing that active range to where now my pec is the primary mover for a hell of a lot deeper so that's just a big bang for your buck now the exercise isn't how far forward you could go because the shoulder labrum will have to fold over in the front as your elbow goes forward so there will be a slight pinching so do what is tolerable so discomfort not pain the exercise though is pulling back and holding usually your dominant side is going to be tighter in everything we do um so just know like you even without a shoulder issue you're you know if you're right handed you're probably only going to be here for the elbow forward versus your left hand can probably go there but again you're staying still you're not rotating your torso you're just pullinGHolding for a count in that so you do those four things before your next press day if you don't notice a difference you could go on paul's youtube and call me a charlatan and give all the hate you want because i'm that confident so 10 breaths each side for the rib cage that's assuming you arecompressed most people who are super strong and big arecompressed then you're going to do two to three sets of five i would prefer three sets of five of the wall walk and then two to three sets of ten for that and if you're if you don't notice a difference like i can't help you so that is big and so that is how i apply you know the biomechanics of movement to your targeted warm-up to blend it and then yes now IMake sure i'm not letting my shoulder dip down so now i'm doing the proper biomechanics for lifting like one plus one plus one equals ten in this scenario yeah that's that's i think back about like i've had like some tweaks on i'm a strong presser i've always i don't it doesn't make any sense because i got long ass arms but i like think about like when i've tweaked my shoulder doing presses which i have in the past it's like and i think it was the bicep tendon exactly what you described yeah it's super common IMean i did a lot IMean i destroyed myself with way too heavy skull crushers and forcing elbows forward with a skull crusher or french press stuff like that yeah like in hindsight if it causes any discomfort especially when you're younger probably ditch it because it's just going to get worse what on the skull crusher thing what is the proper way what would you suggest how do you do and where do you even include them unless you're somebody like dusty handshaw who has teflon elbows i typically say most people it's going to piss off but if for some reason it's not pissing your elbows off i don't even though biomechanically that might be slightly better i want elbows a little bit wider and then i personally prefer to not have the upper arm perpendicular 90 degrees i want a little bit higher so there's still a little bit more stretch on the tricep at the top if you want an exercise substitute one of my favorite movements of all time is the dumbbell pgr pullover so that is now what i typically program for folks or do myself that is kind of a similar movement a little bit easier on the elbows yeah i can't do skull crushers anymore they just rip my elbows up that's they do that for more people than they help now is that for pure muscle mass sure but if what's the risk to reward ratio right yeah we talked about that earlier yeah it seems like from what i've seen is just my uneducated anecdote it seems like skull crushers are responsible for more elbow problems than anything yeah so they are job security for me uh when people come in and go man i'm trying to do skull crushers and they're hurting i'm like but why what do you mean i'm like why are you doing a movement that causes a ton of pain and then your elbows are screaming at you they're starting to feel okay by the time your next workout and you do it again like that's the definition of insanity but people latch on to genitalia, promenade contrariamente sugiro, intestinal caution, intestinal probs in the biggest dudes, man, like you and me have totally different ancestry. Your ancestors Ate my ancestors. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, those people are outliers too. IMean, they're not my elite people I work with. And I work with a lot more elite strength athletes and bodybuilders right now. But I work with both. My elite folks, they're mutants. Like, we're rehabbing something or we make one tweet to their trening, and they come back a week later. And it's like six freaking months worth of progress. I'm like, how is this physically possible? They even recover from rehab quicker, or a lot of people with bodybuilders, right? We have an old muscle tear, there's a dent. Well, what's pretty rad is, I've, obviously, I didn't come up with this, I was trening it, and I was experimenting, and I figured out a way to kind of bring back the muscle tissue to get rid of the dent from an onstage standpoint. So you could actually visually change old tears. And like my elite pros, they'll take three or four dry needling sessions. And you could still tell it's there, because you know, it's there, but the average person won't. My, my, you know, my amateurs, it's going to take 789 10 dry needling sessions, the same exact way to get the same results. Like, some people are just different. And that's not like an excuse for a cop out or to be negative. It is what it is like, it's really cool getting to live vicariously through those people, because I'll never know what that's like. Right. But like, everybody's different. And we typically latch on to the point 00000001% versus the average person. Yeah, I'm glad you mentioned that. I'm always telling guys like that's the worst guy to emulate. Yeah. And it's not hating like they're incredible. Like they are incredible. Like, here's a great example. And I'm not throwing shade because everybody will say probably the best structure ever. Like, Keon was like, I started trening my hamstrings after IMade the Olympia stage. What? And then Yeah, what's his favoritEQuad movement? leg extensions? Like, tell me you're the genetic elite without some user genetically that leg extensions blew up your quads the most, and that you never tren hamstrings until you made the Olympia. Like, that's mind blowing. That's rad as hell. But we probably shouldn't take trening advice from you. Not throwing shade. He is incredible. But that's not the person I'm going to listen to for trening advice. Because guess what? I am not a mutant. Yeah, it's funny. It's funny. People don't think about genetics when it comes to trening and bodybuilding. And it's like I played basketball when I was younger. And that's an area where genetics are blatantly obvious. Yes. You know, and I'll tell guys like you wouldn't want to model your game after Shaquille O'Neal. IMean, he was really like his his best game was terrible. To be honest with you. He was just so fucking big and physically dominant. The guy shot 40 some percent from the free Throw line for a career like rec rec league guys that are better than that. But because he's so gifted physically, he can he can get away with that. And it's the same thing with bodybuilders. Like you hear the stories about Ronnie Coleman prepping for bodybuilding shows Eden Denny's. But yeah, who does that? Yeah. Yeah. Because like, nobody thinks they're going to be an offensive lineman. But everybody thinks they can turn pro within six months of starting trening. And like you said, first of all, it's 10 years. Like, I don't know how you speed up the timeline other than 10 years. Like everybody goes, Nick Walker, it took him 10 years to put on 100 pounds. And he's had one of the craziest growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone rates we have ever seen. Yeah, no, still 10 years. Yeah, it's 10. It's 10 years. And IMean, you do the math on it, you know, 10 pounds a year. IMean, that's, you know, 12, like, what, like, like point eight pounds a week, something like that. And then, you know, point two pounds, or point point eight pounds a month to point two pounds a week, something like that. You know, that's, that's the best. That's the best you could hope for. Ever. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, I want to turn pro. Do you haven't even done a show yet? That's why I laugh when guys get, you know, you know, not to throw any clients under the bus. But I just had a guy recently, he was like, I only gained four pounds of muscle on this last 16 weeks or 20 weeks phase that we did. And he goes, I'm kind of disappointed. And I'm like, what? That's insanity. Yeah. Yep. Yeah, that's, that's incredible progress. Especially if it's lean, right? It's not water weight. Right? Because Oh, well, that's why everybody likes a certain like, people like certain things that throw on 20 pounds of water weight. Yeah. But when you're off it, you've had like two pounds. Like, yeah. Yeah. IMean, I, and I also tell people like, go throw four pounds of steak in your shopping cart. Yes. I love that analogy. That is mass. Like, look at even a pound. Imagine putting a pound in a very specific area on your body that's lagging. That is career changing. Yeah. IMean, it's, it's a considerable amount of tissue. I think people just under appreciate how much that actually is. And, and then overestimate what they can, what they can do. It's the same thing like with body fat, like I see it all the time too. Like everybody thinks they're weaner than what they are. Everybody overestimates what they can do in one month and underestimates what they can do in one year. Yep. Yep. A hundred percent. All right. Dr. Marv, I appreciate you coming on, man. If somebody wants to get ahold of you for anything, how do they do so? Easiest way, Instagram. I'm the most active at dr.marvin.saysdc. My website's educatedmeathead.com. My office is in Houston Bay area. I do telemedicine for all Texas. If you're not in Texas, we can do consults through the educated meat head. I just can't legally diagnose you, but I can still give exercise prescription and information. I just can't say, Hey Paul, you have a bicep tendinopathy, but could give you every other info. I don't work one-on-one with anybody. I'm too busy. I already do a hundred hours a week right now with my office and all that. I got some online courses, seminars. If you got questions, just please reach out and let me know what I can do to help. But this is what I focus on is putting somebody through an assessment. Here's what you can do for trening. If you arecompetitive bodybuilder, here's what you can do for posing. So just giving people tools and info so they can take charge and then I have workout programs on my website, but I don't work one-on-one anymore. So go to Paul for that. Awesome. Dr. Marber, I appreciate you. Absolutely. Thanks for having me on. All right. Thanks.