 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. You it it it of it of it of it of of it it it it it it it it it! it it it it it it it it And these are probably going to be somewhere in the 10 to 12 rep range I'm going to do abouT4 or five sets of these and that will be it Next up we got the prime row. I love these prime machines They have where you can load it on different parts of the range of motion So they have the top center and bottom portion where you can load it So if you want to feel it in the top portion of the movement The bottom portion of the movement or through the full range of motion. I usually keep it in the middle for the full range of motion But same concept here. We're doing rows. These are overhanded rows. I try to mix them some underhand rows My one concern with underhand rows especially like with barbell rows or barbell type movements bicep tears You'll see a lot of guys tear their biceps going Barbell rows I think Dorian Yates is an example of that Doing them underhanded although some people say you feel more back activation with barbell rows doing them underhanded I don't know if that's necessarily true or not. I don't see how that works But IMix them in just to keep things a little different and we're gonna get to it in a second All right, folks, I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that kurt havens and I have put together The scientific principles of anabolics and And pedis this is the most comprehensive Pede course ever put together with over 80 modules including intros to peds major steroid profiles Competitor offseason cycles non-competitor cycles contest prep cycles HGH fundamentals insulin fundamentals side effect management safer use concepts fat loss agents estrogen management and advanced PED and hypertrophy science It is the best course out there of its kind go check it out link is in the video description below So colin hardy. I got an important question for you, man What's up? What is the most important thing for buildinGHuge biceps? The most important thing for buildinGHuge biceps You it's it's counterintuitive you want to load as much weight on as possible whether or not like using a machine You want to load as many plates on as you you possibly can find if you're doing barbell or dumbbell You want to use as much weight as you possibly can and you want to do like the worm standing up You want to get as much of your body into the bicep curl as possible And that way you're recruiting a lot of muscle fibers and that's going to help you grow big biceps everybody knows it So you're saying three-quarter range of motion is the key. Absolutely every 45 pound dumbbell That's every 45 pound plate in the gym Anything you lose in form you're going to make up for in raw weight and power power is the key Power and partial range of motion. That's right All right, so let's do some biceps. Let's do some bicep curls So all kidding aside folks the biggest dumbest most bro mistake I see in the gym with bicep Bicep exercises is loading up as much weight as you can. I used to be guilty of it So I know first hand everybody asked me how I grew these PIPes And it's counterintuitive. I lightened up my weight. I fixed my form. I started doing full range of motion And guess what my arms fucking brew So one of the things I like to do is machines for biceps versus a traditional preacher curl And one of the things that you get out of a machine that you wouldn't get on a barbell preacher curl is you have resistance through the full range of motion if you think about it on a Barbell preacher curl once you get past the bottom probably 30% of the motion It probably once you're halfway all the load is off the biceps So there's literally no load or almost no load on the contractive part of the motion And that's the part that everybody does they start here and they go up here and they're using a bunch of weight And they're not doing anything to activate the biceps. They're literally Wasting their time. It's nothing but a bunch of mental masturbation. It's just stupid dumb way to tren your biceps So we're going to tren our biceps correctly today All right, so like I said full range of motion weight we can manage And I like to do biceps sort of in the 12 to 15 rep range You can see here the weights touching all the way at the bottom getting full range of motion And it's really that simple All right folks all right next up we have cable curls once again and you'll see a theme here I like doing exercises where i'm getting tension through a full range of motion Especially for isolation exercises for biceps arms things like this though Versus a dumbbell curl where once again you're only going to get tension on that bottom portion of the movement This you're going to get tension through the full range of motion now. That's not to say I don't do dumbbell curls here and there We do and we will do some easy curl bars Here and there, but for the most part I like cables and machines for for arms where you're getting attention through the full range of motion I think there's some crappy ass Justin Timberlake or NSYNC plan, but whatever it is Hopefully we can drown it out with some music and post-production, but it's hard to get motivated for this crap So anyway, I would prefer some dying penis or lamb a guy, but we'll we'll try to get motivated with this so cable curls tension through the full range of motion You want full range of motion on these Once again 12 to 15 reps That's the range of that's the range of reps that I like to be in for biceps probably closer to the 15 rep range Sometimes I'll go a little higher, but I feel like that's productive For smaller body parts for a compound exercise. We're going to be more in the 10 rep range isolation exercise is more like 15 And I completely lost count. I have no idea how many reps I've done That feels like about 15 Last but not least we have abs and I do abs on my Back day Why? I don't know. It's just the way I've always done it. I like doing abs on my back day People ask me how do you get some chunky looking abs like the thick dense abs that I have and This is something that drives me mad It's a literal It's a literal thumb throw thing I don't know why guys think that doing crunches and non-weighted exercises are going to build a muscle up It's literally like trying to build a big chest but doing push-ups It ain't going to do shit So if you want big chunky abs you have to use resistance You have to use weight So I use the hammer-strip machine with weighted Crunches and if you want big abs It's just like any other muscle in your body It's progressive overload You want to use resistance You want to move the weight up And that's how you develop abs They're a muscle just like anything else in your body I don't know why that doesn't compete with people We're going to do some abs You want to push it You want to push it You want to push it You want to push it You want to push it You want to push it Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.