WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up gym bros? Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A where I break down all your questions regarding performance enhancement, trening, nutrition, and I help you do it in a safe and responsible way, saving bros from doing the stupid crap that they often do. Today we got some really good questions lined up. Rebound versus off-season trening. What's the best way to structure your trening? Come in out of a show so you don't burn yourself out over the course of an off-season. MOTS-C and other mitochondrial enhancers. What's the deal with them and how they pair with retrotrutide? Are they worth all the hype? What's the optimal range for estrogen while cutting? Where do we want to keep our estradiol levels at? The path into coaching. How you can trensition from being a bodybuilder into being a paid coach. What certifications matter and how you get into the business. The looks max movement and the use of steroids and performance enhancers in teenagers. My thoughts on that and the potential harm that can cause to a developing young man. This one's a new one to me. I didn't even know this was a thing. It's insanity. Someone told me about it and wanted me to answer that one, so I'll talk about that one. We're going to dig into all these, plus some more, in just one second. So, first question I got up here is from Dave C. Dave asks, how should a competitor trensition trening coming out of a show, rebound phase versus off-season for sustainability, going through the full year of trening? Coming out of a rebound from a show, there usually is a period of rapid strength gain when you come out of the show. Your weight's going to go up, you're going to have more leverage, calories are going to increase, you're going to have additional glycogen synthesis and you're going to feel like a million bucks and want to the gym and attack the weights. Usually, I tell guys to taper off their trening coming out of show, not to go balls to the wall right out of the show, especially guys that are older. If you're younger, you could probably get away with just going back in and attacking it, but I like to taper off my trening over a six to eight week period of time and trust me, you're going to grow regardless coming out of the show just from the food, the increased nutrient uptake because gastric emptying is at an all-time high, mTOR is high, myostatin is going to be low, this entire insulin sensitivity is going to be high, this entire environment is ripe for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. You really aren't going to need to tren that hard to grow in the rebound phase, plus there's an additional risk of injury because your joints are probably still somewhat dried out from the crazy things that we use on contest prep, smashing estrogen, running the DHT derived PEDs that can leave our joints and connective tissues susceptible to injury. So, I slowly taper things up over a six to eight week period of time and then I pull back and take a cruise where I would pull down to TRT after about eight weeks of the post-show rebound phase. I also dial my trening back a little bit, maybe just pull the volume back a little bit. A lot of times I'll continue to progress weights during that rebound phase but dial the volume back just a tad and set myself up for an off-season progress period. Now, I will say this, you know, everybody calls the off-season, that 16 to 20 week phase, the, you know, progress phase, mass phase, etc., whatever you wanted. I find a lot of times guys just get fat, get off plan, don't follow a strict diet, things like that. With trening, the diet is also going to feed the trening. So, I often see dudes, they get off track in their off-season and then the diet is not adequate enough to sustain the type of trening that you need to do in the off-season to make progress. My advice for people is just to treat the off-season like contest prep. Allow yourself a little bit of slack here and there. You can give yourself a little more wiggle room. Contest prep, you need to be 99% off-season, you probably need to be 90% dialed in. You can have a little more slack but you need to be pretty dialed in the off-season. As far as trening goes, IMainly listen to my body. IMean, in an ideal world, when I write trening programs for some of my clients, I'll have a five to six week block and then program in a deload. In reality, I am terrible about taking deloads. The only time I ever take deloads when I feel like I'm going to just completely fall apart. Forced deloads, I'm trying to be better about that. But I would say you probably want to break your off-season up into probably three, five to six week pushes and with a one week deload in between those and then you end up with a full probably 18 to 20 week off-season which is going to be productive for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Now, you're not going to have the rapid progress in the off-season like you do coming out of the show in the rebound. I would say you want to progressively lift your weights but at the same time being mindful of managing injuries and preventing injuries. You want to be somewhat aggressive with your trening but not so aggressive that you get yourself hurt. Now, some of this is age dependent as well. An older bodybuilder is going to be a little more cautious with it than say a 22 year old bodybuilder who can be more aggressive with their trening and get away with things that an older guy say in his 40s couldn't get away with. But what I found is proper exercise selection, making sure that you have your form locked in completely to the point where you are limiting risk. I honestly don't really use that many free weights anymore. I haven't in years. If you want to use free weights that's fine but keep in mind the barbells and dumbbells carry more potential for risk and also seem to cause more wear and tear on joint and connective tissue. It's perfectly fine if you feel like you can handle them but at the same time if you're beating yourself up so much that you have to take constant time off of the gym because of little nagging injuries, you're not going to progress if you're beat up and all the time having to take days off because you beat yourself up doing say squats or deadlifts or something that you for barbell rows or something that you feel like you absolutely have to do to keep sustained progress going. You can progress on machines. IMean JP, if you look at JP, he's one of the biggest dudes on the planet. That dude mostly uses machines for the most part when you look at how he trens. It's mostly machines. Nick Walker mostly uses machines. He does do some free weight movements but I would say you know be mindful of that. You want to be aggressive but not so aggressive that you get yourself hurt. You want to walk the line. Listen to your body. I think this is a lesson that I didn't pay attention to when I was younger. I wish I had learned when I was younger is listen to your body. If you're feeling beat up, if you're feeling like your body can't sustain the style of trening that you're doing, if like the say skull crushers are hurting your elbow, then stop doing fucking skull crushers. If behind the neck presses with a barbell are beating up your shoulders and your shoulders hurt like hell, don't feel like you have to do them that they're a mandatory requirement. Dump them and do something that's not going to hurt your shoulders as much. If you can tren without pain, you're going to be able to tren harder and I think that's something that I completely, you know, didn't think about when I was younger. That was completely lost on me. I felt like I had to push myself and do these certain exercises no matter what or I was just a straight up P-U-S-S-Y and wasn't worthy of trening. It's just a bro mentality. So be smart with your trening. Make sure that you have your form locked in. Make sure that you listen to your body. If you're beat up, take some time off or do a deload or correct your exercise form or move to something else and just be intelligent with the offseason. Make sure that you can sustain trening to an adequate enough intensity that you are going to have the proper stimulus to elicit a response and an adaptation for hypertrophy. It really is just that simple. Stay healthy. Keep yourself in the gym. Don't beat yourself up to the point where you can't tren, but push hard enough to elicit a stimulus and adaptation. All right, another question here about the rebound phase going into an offseason. This one is from Larry W. Larry asks, after six to eight weeks rebound phase, I'll drop to HRT for a health phase. If I push up the carbs up aggressively, say 450 grams a day in week two, and then I'm aiming for 600 by the end of the rebound, should I pull the calories back once the PEDs come down? I would say that's, you know, 450 grams a day is not even really that aggressive with carbs. I was eating 450 grams on my medium day, 500 grams on my medium day, on my last week of contest prep last year. I was doing over a thousand grams a day. On my high days, I was carb cycling and then something like 200, 250 grams a day on my low days, you know, on the last couple of weeks of my contest prep. I would try to aggressively push those carbs up more, maybe do one or two days a week where. Pelvic and pelvic cholesterol code at all of these rooms. Which of these rooms here? Adam is complaining that he was at that med school in 캐비 vindУ gyno. You're a professional bodybuilder. I know you know how to keep your shit together, but I would be more aggressive with the carbohydrates and see what you can get away with. And set yourself up for a good offseason. That would be my two cents on that one. Now when it comes to the cruise phase, usually what I do is I try to maintain my body weight during that cruise phase. With the carb cycling approach, what I would do is have guys run two to three high days a week during the rebound phase and then we will pull back down to one high day per week during the cruise phase. Now I'll let the scale and body composition dictate this. If I see the scale going down and us flattening out, we may need to keep some high days in, some extra high days in. We may need to keep two in if we notice the weight is going up and body composition is starting to decline because of lack of anabolics, then it might be wise to pull that second high day out. But keep in mind the carbohydrates are just fuel. If you're trening less, you're going to need less gas in the tank and you can pull those carbohydrates down. There's sort of the wild card in the diet that you can adjust up and down. We also have a bigger gas tank as a bodybuilder where we can store those carbohydrates and glycogen stores. So use that as a consideration. But I would say typically during the cruise phase, we're going to pull the food back a little bit with the objective of just maintaining weight, getting ready for the offseason phase. I hope that answers your question. All right, more trening questions. This is a kind of, I kind of answered this one before. This one is from Josh M. Josh asks, how do you periodize phases like hypertrophy, strength, peaking and deload over a 12 to 24 week period of time? Now if you're a bodybuilder, we're not trening for strength ultimately. We do want to try to progress the weights and I also think it depends on what phase of bodybuilding that you're in. If you're a beginner bodybuilder, you know, somebody that's just new to lifting weights or within the first couple of years of lifting weight, I would say progressing strength is probably more of a priority than it is for the 15 year veteran who's been lifting weights for a long time, who's already progressed their strength up to an adequate set point. With bodybuilding, our goal primarily is hypertrophy and we want to gear our trening towards hypertrophy. With that in mind, we want to structure our trening form, trening program, exercise selection as such to prioritize mechanical tension. trening for powerlifting is very different from bodybuilding. I know powerlifters do strength phases and hypertrophy phases and the reason they mix hypertrophy phases is because a bigger muscle is ultimately going to be able to generate more force. With bodybuilding, we're not so concerned about that, so having strength phases are not as important as it would be, say, for a powerlifter. That's not to say, though, that you don't want to progress strength. Where we can within the context of good form for maximizing mechanical tension for hypertrophy, we certainly do want to press things forward and increase strength where it is appropriate and applicable because this is going to elicit an adaptation and ultimately, in theory, should bring about growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone because mechanical tension is the primary driver of hypertrophy. Now as far as breaking an offseason up into blocks, as IMentioned earlier, I like to do five to six week blocks, ultimately letting my body tell the story. If I feel like I can keep pushing, I'll just keep pushing. If I feel completely gassed out and beat the fuck up aT4 to five weeks, then I'll program in a deload and usually during the deload, what I'll do is lower volume and lower the weights a bit and tren something like with four reps in reserve. I would call it an active recovery week. It's almost like being off from the gym, but you're doing basically blood flow and pump movements to just facilitate healing and allow your body some space to breathe. I will do probably three of these blocks in a phase, three, five to six week blocks with one week deloads. That takes us somewhere between the 18 to 20 week range ultimately is where we end up. Now with contest prep, it's a bit different. If we're in a fat loss phase, I will program in usually two deloads and keep in mind the trening is very different on contest prep. The way I think about trening during contest prep or a fat loss phase is I want it such as that we're not going to lose muscle. We provide enough stimulus that we're not going to lose muscle and I want to minimize risk of gettinGHurt. I like to do a little more volume sometimes on contest prep, maybe lighten the weights up just a tad so we're getting more energy expenditure, creating a bigger net energy balance. If you look at the guys from the 70s, the golden era bodybuilders, those dudes never did cardio or at least they really didn't do much. They weren't pounding the step mill like guys are now because they didn't have that shit available. They mostly just tren more. They just did more exercise. They did more lifting, which ultimately burns calories. So I look at it that way. My trening on contest prep is very different than my trening in the offseason. My trening in the offseason is focused on hypertrophy and elicitinGHypertrophy. trening during contest prep focuses limiting muscle loss, preventing injury, and increasing caloric expenditure. Those are our priorities so we can get lean and have a hard chiseled body for the stage or for the beach if you're just trying to get in shape for the summer. All right, next question here is from Aaron W. What's the optimal estrogen range while cutting? When, if ever, should estrogen be crushed and for how long? Ultimately crushing your estrogen feels like shit. You feel like dog shit when you bury your estrogen. Your joints hurt, you have no sex drive, you're tired, you're lethargic, it's not a fun feeling. And I would say outside of contest prep, getting stage ready, there really isn't a compelling reason to ever completely smash your estrogen outside of contest prep. Now with that said, I know there are some dudes that argue that you need to leave some estrogen in on contest prep. I just have not seen that bear out to a hard, dry look on stage. Usually the guys that say that you need to leave estrogen higher on contest prep end up looking like a wet bag of flour on stage is what I've seen. Now with that said, we don't want to spend months with our estrogen completely smashed. That's going to cause a whole bunch of problems. Your joints are going to hurt. Your lipids are going to be absolutely destroyed. You're going to have problems. You're going to have hot flashes. You're not going to be sleeping well. There's all these other things that happen with it. So what I usually do is save it for the last 10 to 14 days going into a show. We smash the estrogen the last week and a half to two weeks going into a show, which is going to dry us out, give us that hard, detailed look, or at least contribute to it that we get on stage. I just have not seen a reliable way of doing this without smashing estrogen. I just have not seen it, and the guys that don't smash their estrogen usually don't look that good on stage in my experience. So for the average gym bro who's just trying to get lean, just keep your estrogen in range. You know, havinGHigher estrogen is going to mean more water retention and potentially more fat gain. There is some hormonal component to fat gain, but ultimately it is a caloric, net caloric deficit. Ultimately, it's going to cause weight loss. But I would say there's really no compelling reason for just an average gym bro to completely smash their estrogen ever. You're going to have negative outcomes when it comes to cardiovascular health, cognitive health. Your sex drive is going to suck, and who wants to have no desire to have sex? That's no fun. And your joints are going to be all beat up, et cetera. But I would say keep it in range. Maybe a little bit lower when you're trying to lose fat. When you're in your off-season, you're trying to gain a little bit of muscle, bring it up to the top of the reference range or a little over, whatever you can tolerate reasonably, wherever you feel the best. And that would be where I would keep it for optimization. All right, next question here is from George P. George asks, can you narrow down some under-discussed categories in bodybuilding areas where guys often are wrong but aren't taught? it's probably a bad diet. It's probably not going to work. Really, diet and macronutrients are, to me, are just tools in the toolbox. You know, everybody gets obsessed with fats and carbs and protein and yada, yada, yada, yada, yada. They're just levers that you can pull. They're knobs that you can adjust when you are dieting. And people get emotionally attached to diets. They join some diet cult, and they feel like this diet is going to cure everything from cancer to autism to, you know, whatever, whatever ails you while making you lean and shredded. And it really, at the end of the day, it's about net energy balance and losing fat. Now, macronutrients do make a difference, how your body partitions nutrients and stores energy. Those all matter to body composition. You're going to look way different if you eat a bunch of fats and carbs and no protein and a caloric deficit, whereas if you ate lower fat, lower carbs and a lot more protein, you're going to have a better body composition from eating the higher protein diet. But people get all emotional about diet. People get super emotional about diet cults. People buy into all these charlatans that talk about weird ass diets and try to sell you their supplements. Pick and choose your diet hero, whatever your chosen diet is. And there's 20 shucksters out there trying to sell you something related to that diet. But like I said, if you have a t-shirt with your diet name on it, it's probably the wrong fucking diet for getting in shape. But I would say as far as bodybuilding goes, diet is probably the most misunderstood, a most underestimated, most abused portion of bodybuilding that's just incorrect. And people get wrong all the fucking time. It's a diet. And I put a post up the other day about diet and there was some dude that said that diet doesn't matter. You just need to eat food. Well, I wish that were true. I've yet to see somebody win a professional bodybuilding show without following some sort of structured diet or nutrition plan. It just doesn't fuckinGHappen. Now there are genetic outliers. There are freaks that can eat whatever the fuck they want and stay lean. That does happen. But I would say if you were going to devote your energy into any single area to master, it would be nutrition first. I would say most guys somewhat get trening right. PEDs aren't that complicated. IMean, people overthink the PED aspect of it. IMean, they're only really in a bodybuilding toolbox out of the stuff that we are going to use regularly that are actually effective. There's only like six or seven different PEDs. You can go down all the rabbit hole with all the different peptides that are out now. But for the large part, physiques haven't changed since the early nineties and everybody's using the same damn thing as they were then. You know, it's test, GH, whatever your favorite anabolic is, you know, just fill in the blank with that and maybe some insulin. And that's it. It's really not rocket science and run as much as you can handle until you get as big as you want. tren hard, tren progressively. And then diet is the part where I can die. It's the part that most people are deficient in. When I get people come to me for coaching and they want to make a serious change in their physique and how they look, the one area that I can have the most impact on in the shortest amount of time is going to be fixing their diet. So diet is the most overlooked, under-discussed thing when it comes to physique enhancement and bodybuilding. All right. Next question here is from Stephen. Stephen asks, what are your thoughts on retrotide and MOTC for cutting pros, cons, and any similar agents you're excited about? I have not been running MOTC with my contest preps or cutting. If people want to run it, you know, by all means go do so. I've had a few of my clients report back to me about running it. IMean, it seems to have some effect. I have definitely seen a lot of people that I work with and that I know that are using retrotide. Retrotide seems to be very, very effective. I've seen people that had a hard time losing weight, couldn't handle the side effects from trazepatide or semi-glutide, have really good success with retrotide. I feel like I'm the retrotide apostle. MOTC is an interesting one. It is a mitochondrial enhancer. I am a little concerned about some of these mitochondrial enhancers because I know guys are running them year round. And the issue with these things is that most of these mitochondrial enhancers, MOTC included, they're going to enhance AMPK and lower mTOR, which as we know, great for fat burning, not so great for muscle building. It basically flips the switch from mTOR over to AMPK. And MOTC increases AMPK, which indirectly raises insulin sensitivity, fat oxidation, et cetera, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Increases mitochondrial efficiency. It's almost like an exercise mimetic, I guess in some way it is. And the mitochondria are going to more efficiently burn energy. And without exercising, it sort of simulates what exercising is like, which is great for fat loss, probably not so great for inducinGHypertrophy. So I would, if you were to run it, I would probably limit it to a specific part of prep. I wouldn't overdo it. I am a bit concerned about some of the effects that things like this have on muscle loss and muscle wasting. IMean, you can look at the data on it. Even the GLP-1s don't seem to have a great track record. Now, if you're running enough PEDs on top of it, you're probably going to be just fine. You're not going to lose muscle, but that is a concern to think about when running things like MOTC. As far as other things that I've seen out there that seem to work well, SLU-PP332 seems to be pretty effective. I have seen quite a few of my contest prep clients run that this year and have some success with it. When I go back to just the good old standbys are probably the best that I have seen. You know, Clem Buterol, the good old ECY stack. Now, RETTATRUTIDE is pretty fucking amazing. I have seen some people that couldn't lose fat before, couldn't lose weight, throw RETTATRUTIDE into the mix and then bam, they're able to get lean. It does seem to be a game changer. It does seem to have a strong impact. I feel like I beat the RETTATRUTIDE drum every week and there's going to be all sorts of new GLP ones coming out here shortly, but it does seem to have a pretty profound impact on fat loss. All right, next question here is from William P. He asks, how would you structure fasted cardio if you tren in the morning? I just wouldn't do fasted cardio. If you're up in the morning and you're trening, get a meal in before you tren. I do not like fasted trening. I know dudes love to do fasted trening. I think it kind of, it's, lifting is a glucose driven process. You know, your body is using glucose for energy when you're lifting weights. You can simulate GLUT4 trensport while lifting in increased glycogen uptake. There's, you know, I would think you probably do not want to be stimulating or causing muscle tissue breakdown with no amino acids present in the morning. So what I would do is get up, have my meal, be well hydrated, do my trening, and then get my cardio in after my trening, if that's what you're intent on doing. IMean, ultimately the science says that there's no big difference between fasted trening and fed, or sorry, fasted cardio and fed cardio. My anecdotal experience in most any bodybuilder is going to tell you that that's not true. Fasted cardio works better, but at the end of the day, that's just bro science. There's no evidence, current evidence to show that it is more effective. But I would say just get up in the morning, eat a meal, eat your regular pre-workout meal, get your trening in, do your cardio after your trening, go home and eat again. Simple as that. All right, next one up here is from JD. JD asks, what do you think about the names moving into the open? Guys like Urs, Wesley, et cetera, Keon, these guys moving from Classic Physique into Open. I think it's cool as fuck. IMean, some of the best bodybuilders, in my opinion, are in Classic right now. The money's way better for these dudes in Open. So if they can successfully trensition into Open, they're going to make more money than they would in Classic. and open is the gold star, the shining star of bodybuilding. IMean, I, you know, another thing too, I saw Wesley talking about, and he alluded to, he was asking people for, you know, he had a poll up about should he move to open, etc. I can't imagine getting to a point in your trening where you are limited by a weight cap and you have to think about, well, I can't really push the diet. I can't really push the trening anymore. I just need to maintain for the next seven or eight years and make a career out of being a classic physique bodybuilder. To me, that would take all the fun out of bodybuilding. IMean, to me, the most fun about bodybuilding is thEQuest to improve. That's the part that I love, and I think that's the part that most people love. And if you're bound by a weight cap and you can't continue to push and improve, it's sort of like, what's the point? Why am I doing this? What is the purpose here? I would feel like I would lose purpose if I were bound by a weight cap and just had to coast and make weight, or some of these guys even have to dial back, have to eat less, they have to tren less. They, you know, some of the dudes, their bodies just are so ready to grow that they can't make the classic cap. IMean, hell, I, you know, I'm just an old guy bodybuilder. I was close to 10 pounds over the classic cap last year when I, you know, for pros, not for MPC, I was like 20 pounds over the MPC cap last year, and I can't imagine having to cut down another 20 pounds to make a weight class. That would not excite me at all. That would make me not want to tren. That would make me not want to follow a diet. I kind of like feel like I don't, there's not a point to what I'm doing anymore. Now with that said, if you get to a point where, hey, you just want to maintain, you don't really want to tren that hard. You don't want to run a bunch of gear. I know Chris Bumstead had some health issues. Maybe that is, was part of the equation when he was considering moving to open. I know he did one open show, but maybe that's why he tried not to make a career out of being an open because it's probably easier on his body just to maintain what he needs to do to be competitive in, in classic physique. So I totally get that. And I I've thought about that myself. If I want to compete again, maybe I'd be better off just doing classic physique. So I don't have to run as much gear or beat my body up as much in the gym. But at the younger version of me, I just wanted to be the biggest motherfucker, the baddest motherfucker I could possibly be. And the thought of holding back just doesn't sound fun. I wouldn't want to tren that way. I can't imagine these guys want to tren that way. I can't imagine these guys enjoy eating that way. I can't imagine these guys enjoy being bound by the constrents of their respective division. Keyon's in 212, but classic or 212, I can't imagine being bound by the, you know, these arbitrary numbers when it comes to weight caps for my division. All right, next question here is from Batman Bane. What are your thoughts on the Looks Max community using steroids during puberty for things like height, clavicle width, facial bone structure, TikTok personalities like clavicular, clavicular, androgenic, and nocturnal kints? Is that correctly? I don't know. Are big names in that space. Well, first of all, my TikTok got banned for promoting steroids. I can't believe these guys are on here promoting use for teenagers and they're still alive on TikTok. How the fuck did my shit get banned on TikTok? It just makes zero sense to me. Anyway, but yeah, IMean, that just sounds like utterly ridiculous insanity to me. Now, your body is developing through puberty and this is the one time in life, in theory, where you got like a five or six-year window where your body is developing so rapidly. Your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone levels are so high. Your testosterone levels are so high that it's almost like your own PEDs anyway. Why not just take advantage of that time period and lift some damn weights and eat some food? I think that would be the most common sense thing. Now, I know there are guys that started young. The rumor was that I think Arnold started taking steroids when he was 15 and it completely changed his body. But, you know, I also know I've talked to other people who have had success in this arena who started around puberty and they ended up never fully going through puberty or having fully functional testicles and they ended up being on TRT their entire adult life. You know, IMean, I guess that's a choice that people make. I would not want my kid doing it. I think you're insane if you do it. Learn how to tren. Learn how to eat. Learn how to, you know, lift properly. You know, do the lifestyle thing. You know, everybody's looking for a shortcut. It seems utterly insane to me and pretty unethical if someone's suggesting that people do this. It seems pretty horrendous to me. IMean, I can't imagine being a part of that, but I'm sure there is a community out there. This is news to me. I've not heard of this and, you know, I know there have been professional bodybuilders that started when they were really young, probably pro athletes that started when they were really young, but that seems to be just egregiously irresponsible. You're making decisions as a teenager that could fuck you up for the rest of your life. IMean, I wouldn't let my teenager, you know, go get a tattoo or a nose peering, you know, if I had a 14 year old boy or whatever, much less do any of that shit. Anyway, I think it's silly. I think it's ridiculous. I think people are probably just doing it for views and I'm confounded how my stuff got taken down and shit like this is still out there. That is absolutely insane insanity to me. All right. Next question here is from Chase C. Are there any no tropics that you think are actually worth the hype? I'm not a big no tropic guy. I've dabbled. I know they're really big in Silicon Valley. I came from the IT world. I know there arEQuite a few people in the IT world that love their Adderall and their monster energy drinks and different peptides to help with productivity, especially guys in game development and things like that, where they are under a time crunch for development. You'll see it frequently where guys are doing stuff like that. I think, you know, if the rumors are that Elon Musk is pretty deep into some of that stuff, but there are plenty over the counter things that you can use that are going to enhance cognitive performance. IMean, just, you know, creatine is one caffeine plus L-theanine. I think Justin's ATP product has caffeine plus L-theanine in it. I'm pretty sure that's what it has in it. I could be wrong about that. You know, troponin nutrition, I have not tried it. Those are potential things that you could use. Using omega-3s, just, you know, just getting up and doing some cardio in the morning and beinGHealthier and eatinGHealthier food, drinking some caffeine, things like that are going to have a profound impact on cognitive performance. Managing your glucose levels, making sure that your glucose levels are in range, that could potentially have profound effects, positive effects on cognitive performance. Just things like that. Now, you know, some stuff that, you know, people, I did try noopept. That stuff was definitely, definitely razzed me up for a few hours. I definitely felt some clarity from it and then kind of crashed. That's the thing that I've noticed with a lot of this stuff is that you feel good for a little bit and then you crash. There's methylene blue seems to be super popular right now. Methylene blue sort of concerns me with the dopamine, you know, the dopamine problems that it can potentially cause. I ran it for a few days, felt great, had a lot of energy, a lot of clarity, and then when I came off of it, I fucking crashed hard and was just an anxious mess. Did not make me feel good. I know if you're on an SSRI, you can't use it. You know, there are other things out there as well. IMean, just, you know, fuck, you know, just some over-the-counter ephedrine and you can get some bronchate if you need to power through and do some work. That shit works really well. You know, it is somewhat of, IMean, it isn't an ephedrine at the end of the day. It's a non-selective beta agonist, but it will amp you up, make your blood pressure go through the roof. But if you need to get some work done, that definitely is something that's an option. But at the end of the day, just drink some fucking coffee, take some fish oil pills, take some creatine, do some cardio workout, lose some fat, eat a clen diet, and that's probably going to be the biggest thing to help your cognitive performance. I don't know that there's anything out there right now that that would provide a significant benefit outside of maybe Adderall, but people get fuckinGHooked on Adderall and it becomes addictive. I have ADHD and I've been prescribed it in the past and I use it with caution, I'll just say that. I can't be running that shit all the fucking time. It's a once in a while kind of thing. Just be careful with this stuff, we don't know what a lot of the long-term effects are of it. You don't want to be 65 years old wearing an adult diaper because you completely fried your noodle from fucking around with some of this stuff. At some point I need to go through and do some research on nootropics, I have not done a lot of research on it and put together some thoughts and content and videos on it, but as for right now, I would say go check out Vigorous Steve, he probably has more robust content on this kind of stuff, I know that's an area of expertise for him. I've never really dabbled that much or done much with it, I've just dabbled with a couple things and some stuff people have sent me and said, here try this, and I tried a couple just to see how I feel and that's the extent of my experience with it. Alright, next question here is from Colton R. Colton says, even after 20 years of lifting and Marine Corps experience, getting an IFBB pro card is really hard and rare. What's the best path for coaching at the pro level if you want to get into coaching at the pro level? Start with a certification and specialized trening like NASM or Physique and Bodybuilding IFBB Academy, gain hands-on experience with beginners and compete and build a portfolio and create content. J3 University, is that a great resource? With the GI Bill, I also get benefits. Would an exercise degree or kinesiology degree also boost my credibility in the business? What are the key hurdles and strategies for sustainable growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone if I want to be a trener? What certifications matter the most? You know, I started off as a personal trener and nutritionist in a gym when I was 19 years old. I worked pretty much all through college. I think I was at the gym for four or five years working as a personal trener and nutritionist. I went through, I think it was NASM, I don't remember. I went through and got a personal trener certification and a nutrition certification. It sort of just gave me the basics, the groundwork, the framework of understanding some basic things but I'll be honest with you, I think it contributed almost zero to my ability to successfully coach bodybuilders. I don't think it really did jack shit. I worked in the IT world for years as a consultant, as a CEO, as a, you know, network security expert and I would get guys that would come to me that want to get into the IT world and say what certifications are best to get if I want to get in the IT world and I would tell them the same advice that I would tell you. I don't think certifications make shit all the difference. If you want to learn something, that's cool. You know, you can, if you've got the money to burn and you want to do a certification, it's great. I've done a handful myself but I would say that certifications have contributed zero to my success in the business of bodybuilding and in IT as well and in fact when I was hiring in the IT, I didn't give a fuck what certifications people have as long as they had the capabilities necessary to produce. So ultimately, I think what would benefit you the most is just get some hands-on experience with coaching competitors. Start with local level competitors, work with some guys, you know, maybe even for free. IMean, I used to coach people, I've coached many people for free over the years. I don't anymore because my time is so limited and I'm overwhelmed with clients now but that will happen over time as you build your reputation up. But I would say start with some guys, you know, maybe if you've got a buddy that's competing at a local show and get them in shape. Also if you compete yourself, if you get yourself in kick-ass shape and you actually win some shows, then people see you and like, hey, I want to work with that guy, that guy looked good. Same thing with your competitors, if you start coaching some competitors, your guys look good at shows, every time I go to a show and I have a guy that does well, I always pick up three or four clients, always. Every national show I've been to, every local show I've been to, if my guys look good, they place well, you know, they're backstage talking to other people and people ask them about me, I end up getting clients out of it. And then you share their success on social media, they share their success and tag you and other people see it and it's sort of an organic marketing campaign where other people see what you have done. I don't actively promote my coaching on social media, IMean, I would say passively but... And then establish yourself with a reputation of having success, establish yourself with having a track record, establish yourself as a subject matter expert, I would say the majority of the most valuable information that I've gotten from coaching or that contributed to my success in coaching and continued success, I'm always learning, I feel like I've spent a lot of time this year invested in learning and becoming better at my craft, I didn't come from a classroom, to be honest with you, the majority of it was self-taught, it was from reading books, it was from reading research papers, it was from talking to other coaches, it was from having experience making mistakes myself, learning from those mistakes, having a critical eye, you know, if things didn't go well with me or a client, post-show I go back through and do a post-mortem, what could we have done better, how could we have done things differently, where did it go wrong, troubleshooting and diagnosis, I would say be really good at problem solving and realize that bodybuilding is a subjective sport, not a quantitative one, I think that's an area where I see a lot of guys make mistakes that want to get into coaching, they get so focused on data and look, I'm a data analytics guy, went to school for computer science and studied data analytics, but I would say this, bodybuilding is the ultimate subjective sport, at the end of the day you're on a stage in front of seven judges in your underwear and they're just going, that guy looks the best, at the end of the day, so it's ultimately about having the best physique on stage, learninGHow to have a critical eye, looking at physiques and seeing, well, you know, I know we need to pull this lever to get this look, I know we need to change this macro to affect body composition in a certain way, I know we need to change sodium or water intake, whatever the case may be, I'm just throwing out arbitrary things, to affect water retention, etc, etc, these are all things that you need to learn just through experience of doing and talking to other coaches and paying for mentorships, I would say subscribe to every possible course that you can get your hands on, IMean, I bought hundreds of books and I've gotten my hands on every single e-course I possibly can get my hands on, some from people from assholes that I don't like or some support, but I just am a voracious learner, I'm constantly looking at research articles, I'm constantly reading, I would say also too, if you have the GI Bill, you know, follow something that you love, that you're going to enjoy, you're going to be interested in, if your school's paid for for free, why not take advantage of that, holy fuck man, I love learning, I love education, I have two degrees, take advantage of that if it's for free, IMean, I would look at, you know, an exercise science degree, probably the one that's going to be most applicable to bodybuilding and the guys that I see that are the muscle nerds that do well in the bodybuilding world, came from a biology or a medical background, biology, usually biology, I see those guys do well, chemistry, biochem, all that shit's really fuckinGHard, but those are the guys that tend to do better working with bodybuilders, the exercise physiologists, the PT guys, it's a very specific thing, it doesn't really have a whole lot of application to bodybuilding, IMean, it does to a certain degree, but I would say, honestly, man, like, like really bodybuilding is mostly nutrition and pharmacology, if you understand biology and biochemistry, that's probably going to be the best thing to learn to manipulate for bodybuilding, so I would invest some energy there, but ultimately do what you love, I think the process of going through school basically teaches you how to do research, how to interpret data, how to be disciplined and structured and get through these things, and then you can take and apply that on your own when you're self-teaching, it's just, you know, I think that's the most valuable part of going to college, is it teaches you how to teach yourself, college for the most part is very independent, it's not like going to public school where you have a teacher spoon-feeding you everything. that's an idea, man. Anyway, I hope that helps. And good luck on your quest to be a coach. And if you get good at it, just get ready to never have a day off. I had, I think I had something like 20 straight weeks, 24 straight weeks with at least two people competing every weekend. And no, no, no days off, zero, 10, 12 hour days, seven days a week. And if you take a day off, then the work just piles up and you have to do twice as much the next day. So get ready for that. If you have some success, make sure that's what you really want. If that's what you want, because when people are on contest prep, they don't give a fuck. If you're on vacation, they don't give a fuck. If you had a death in your family, they don't give a fuck. If you're in the hospital, you're sick. If they got a show tomorrow, you gotta answer and, um, be available at all times. Know what you're getting into. All right. Last but not least, thEQuestion from William P. Do you have a protocol for before blood work, like taking a week off from trening, dropping creatine, peptides, or supplements to get the clenest markers possible? Well, IMean, you don't necessarily have to do that. You just, you just have to know what things that you're doing and are taking could affect blood panels. You know, for example, we do know that creatine can artificially raise creatinine numbers. We know that treninGHard in the gym could potentially raise creatinine as well in ALT and AST. So we need to look at other things. Eating a high protein diet is going to skew BUN and you're going to have high BUN. A lot of times doctors will see high BUN and creatinine and think, oh, Jesus, this guy's got kidney failure when it's not actually fucking kidney failure. You're just eating a bunch of protein and taking creatine, which is artificially skewing those numbers. So there are workarounds for it. You know that using like a statin C score is going to give you a more accurate indicator of glomerular filtration. You know that if you are treninGHard and you haven't taken some days off that ALT and AST are likely going to be elevated to a certain degree. So we can use GGT as a better indicator of liver health. We know that if you have had, you know, if you're eating a higher fat diet, say you're a keto guy, your lipids are probably going to be skewed, things like that. But I would say, you know, look, if you want to have the markers at a baseline as clen as possible, I would take a few days off from the gym. I don't know, a couple of three, probably three is probably adequate to bring ALT and AST dip back down to baseline. I would probably not take creatine for a week. I would lower my protein intake for a few days. I would bring my protein intake down for a few days. Um, you know, and then, and then, you know, drink a fair amount of water. I'm not, don't overdo it. I've seen guys make themselves hype into trimming. They drink too much water the morning of the blood work and then fast for, you know, a good 12 hours, 16 hours before you go in and get your blood work done. And then that's probably going to give you the most accurate readings that you can get. Um, some of those numbers may still be skewed slightly because it does take some time, but get a look. Is that necessary to do that? Maybe, maybe not. But if, if you don't want to take days off from trening, if you don't want to lower your diet, you don't want to drop the creatine, just know that those things are going to be elevated to a certain degree and understand what that looks like. And just take that into account. Um, if you got a stupid doctor looking at your shit, they're going to freak out when they see those numbers skewed. But pretty much every freaking blood panel I look at, you know, creatine is going to be 1.3 ish. BUN is going to be two or three points over what it's supposed to be. ALT and AST are always like in the fifties and sixties and just baseline. HDL is going to be suppressed on every blood panel I look at for the most part. I never see guys that are on PEDs that have HDL, um, above 40. It just, it just doesn't exist. IMean, these are just things that are just going to be skewed when you're on PEDs and just know that and take that into context when you're evaluating blood work. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. I love each and every one of you. We will see you on the next episode of the anabolic Q and a you rock. Take care. Rock on. trenscribed by https://otter.AI