Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up, gym bros? Big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A. This is where I answer your questions about trening, nutrition, and responsible performance enhancement, all while getting you better results and keeping you safe from the stupid shit you bros know you like to do. Today, I have some great questions lined up from my school anabolic bodybuilding members, community members get their questions guaranteed to be asked on thEQ&A. If you wanna join, link is in the video description below. Some of thEQuestions I have lined up include, why does growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone spike fasting glucose levels and how do you fix it without dropping it entirely? Can you grow while sleep is compromised from runninGHigh dose androgens or are you compromised permanently? Are there peptides that can help you feel better and stay healthier at the end of contest prep? I'll answer thesEQuestions and many more just after this. All right, first question I've got up here is from Chase C. From the school anabolic bodybuilding members community, Chase asks, any thoughts on using specific peptides towards the end of contest prep to help athletes feel better? For example, TA1 or LL37 to reduce the risk of getting sick before stepping on stage, or TB-500 or BPC-157 to support joints when runninGHarsher compounds like Winstraw and halotestin. I don't think any of those are really gonna make that much of a difference at the end of contest prep. Your joint and connective tissue pain that you're gonna have towards the end is just from being fucking dried out. It's nothing that those, it's not an inflammation issue. It's nothing that BPC-157 or TB-500 are really going to help with. When runninGHigh dose Winstraw, when estrogen is smashed, you're going to have very dry, creaky joints. Winstraw has been shown, from what I recall, to reduce synovial fluid production and reduce collagen synthesis, all that makes your skin look very thin and papery when you get towards the end of prep, but not that great for your joints. So there's not a whole lot we can do there as far as that goes. With immune function, probably the simplest and easiest thing you can do towards the end of prep when we're heading into peak week is just pull back a little bit. I think a lot of times guys have run themselves into the dirt on contest prep, trying to get themselves as lean as possible, and there is this old bro mentality that unless you suffer, that you're not going to do well. The guy that suffers the most is going to win the bodybuilding contest. That is not always true. When you get on stage, the judges aren't going around and taking a survey of seeing who suffered the most and who did the most cardio, who had the most amount of fish and asparagus going into their show. They don't fucking care. It's just how you look when you get up on stage. And what I have found to be the most effective to making you fresh, feeling good, be healthy when you get on stage, it's just to simply pull everything back a week or two before you get on stage. If you're not ready by two weeks out, you're not going to be ready for the show. So the objective should be to get fat free before two weeks out, somewhere around two weeks out, 10 to 14 days out, I like to have guys fat free. Then what I will do is start to dial back the cardio. I will start to put some food back in. I will do things to try to help with sleep. I think a lot of times at that point, you're so amped up from all the fat burners and the heavy androgen load that a lot of times it's harder to sleep. Sometimes I'll just pull all the fat burners completely when we get up towards the end. Now with the non-stimulant based fat burners, I found that sleep is much better. Guys feel and look better. You know, when you're not hammering beta agonists and things like caffeine and yada, yada, all the old school fat burners, heavily like we did on the old school contest prep and using more of the metabolic aids that we have now, such as GLP-1s and MOTC, stuff like that. And a lot of times guys, actually their health is better towards the end of the contest prep. They actually look better. They actually feel better. And then just getting some sleep, just getting some sleep, pulling your trening back. Really, to me, peak week and the way I treat peak weeks anymore is it's really a deload. We're gonna yank trening back. We're gonna pull cardio back down to a minimum, probably 20 minutes a day or so, just walking. I wanna put some food back in and get guys filled back out, lower inflammation, get more sleep in place, do things to lower cortisol and stress, do things to lower central nervous system stimulation and just get guys freshened up, looking good when they get on stage. Sometimes even pulling the gear back. I'll yank the injectables out a week out going into the show, maybe just run a moderate dose of an oral going into the show. And most of the time guys look better. Rather than adding more drugs and morecompounds, sometimes the answer is using less, pulling your trening back, pulling your cardio back, letting your body rest and recover and just looking fresh when you get on stage. I think that's probably the better and easier way to do things. I know a lot of times guys just wanna throw more drugs at the problem, thinking that's going to make things. But to me, that's just going to add more systemic stress and probably worsen your look. The more stuff you throw at things, the more there is of a chance of you looking worse. And when do guys always say they look their best? It's a week after the show, four or five days after the show. What has changed? They've dropped the fat burners. They have gotten a good night's sleep. They've eaten a little more food. The stress is gone. All the stuff that was making them look worse and increase cortisol and all these other things that make people look worse going into the show, they look better four or five days after the show, a lot of times. And why not let's try to duplicate that going into the show and remove those factors that are removed post-show before we get to the show and essentially reverse into the show. That's what I like to do. And I think that yields the best result when you're getting on stage and you're gonna look your best, you're gonna feel your best. So get fat free early, reverse into the show, reduce stress going into the show, reduce your drug load going into the show. And I think ultimately you're gonna look better. All right, next question I've got here is from David E. from the School Antibiotic Bodybuilding Members Community. Do you have a general recommendation for daily magnesium and potassium intake while using GH? This is mainly in relation to water retention, swelling and hand numbness that I get from using GH. I keep overall sodium low and mostly use light salt. Okay, so we got a few things to unpack here. We wanna talk about magnesium first. Magnesium is going to help with nerve conduction. So if you're gettinGHand numbness, a lot of times that's just pressure, it's from the water retention that has. But magnesium can secondarily help with nerve conduction. It also has an effect on water retention and cell membrane integrity. Cell membrane integrity is improved. It keeps the water where it belongs and doesn't allow leakage from the cell. Magnesium has a secondary effect on lowering aldosterone. It's not as strong as potassium does, but it does lower aldosterone and increase sodium water excretion as well, but not to the same degree that we're going to get with potassium. Potassium is gonna have a more potent effect on that. Magnesium also has a natural-like effect like a calcium channel blocker, say like amlodipine does, where it's going to increase vascular dilation and thus increase the ability for circulation to be improved and lower the risk of water leaking from the vascular system into the intracellular area. Also, having deficient magnesium is going to impair the sodium-potassium pump, which is important for proper water balance in the body. As far as doses go, I would start with magnesium glycinate. Start off probably around 200 milligrams and increase to 400 to 600 before bed. The general rule of thumb is vitamins in the morning, minerals at night. I heard that one from Broderick Chavez. He has some good information on that, but I would start there first and see how it goes. Magnesium can also make you shit your pants, so you do have to be careful with that. I do like magnesium glycinate. It seems to be gentler on the stomach, but start off low, work your doses up, probably 600, 400 to 600 would be an optimal dose. 200's probably a good place to start, see how it goes, and then work your doses up. Now, moving on to potassium and sodium. We'll talk about those next. Obviously, we established that the potassium-sodium pump is. ︢olthoran-propancy test, clue-1, clue-2, clue-4, clue-1, clue-5, clue-4, clue-5end, bowes oral test, clue, correlation, bowelcane riding, pour tooth growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone,�를 ρέ not via, question-hing, Division of Internal Medicine Extension office aye a cold sore about your English a up 90% of the people that I see is deficient people people are not getting enough potassium potassium is going to lower aldosterone increase vasodilation and increase sodium excretion causing your body to expel that water What when we have it out of balance we have sodium retention and then you're going to have all this intracellular Water retention where fluid where we don't want it you'll see it guys would get the fucking puffy ankles and all that other shit that goes on when you are Taking when you're taking too much salt and not enough potassium The light salt that you mentioned has a perfect balance Well, I shouldn't say perfect, but it is the recommended balance of sodium and potassium I believe that it's three parts potassium two parts sodium if I recall correctly now potassium seems to be a bit more static as far as Dosing that we need we we know that potassium Excretion isn't the same as sodium sodium a lot of times sodium You know if you drink more water if you sweat more you're going to need more sodium So sodium is a bit more trensient if you're sedentary like me and you sit on your ass all day long and do nothing You probably don't need as much salt as some people so it was genetic. Some some dudes are very very Sensitive to sodium. I happen to be one of those. I can't push my sodium to higher and up just a fucking water bag Other guys can run higher doses of sodium so sodiums trensit if you're a guy that is You know a construction worker say or somebody who does a manual labor job and you're sweating a lot you're out in the Sun You are going to need more sodium. You're going to need to increase your your sodium Intake now as far as potassium doses, I'd say probably around 3,500 milligrams a day is where we're targeting Maybe more depending on the person. You also have to factor in if you're using an ARB The ARB is increased potassium retention so that's another thing to consider that you're going to have more potassium with the Potassium retention with an ARB if you have a diet that you know So you're eating a bunch of fucking potatoes and bananas high potassium foods like that You also have to be careful with your potassium intake. We don't want potassium too high then we end up with electrolyte imbalances Ask anybody who's done a bodybuilding show and used a potassium sparing diuretic and they've end up hyponatremic afterwards where they have low Sodium and high potassium. It's not a pleasant experience Can actually fucking kill you cause your heart to seize up. I believe in lethal injections They use high dose potassium for that to make the heart stop pumping. So we definitely don't want that and Paradoxically there are some dudes to think well Maybe I just shouldn't eat sodium at all since it causes water retention I see this a lot with dudes at the end of contest prep. They end up dumping all their fucking salt and then Paradoxically what ends up happening is that you have more water retention because your sodium has gotten so low if you're hyponatremic low sodium low Water you can't excrete water if you don't have Sodium in your body and then it just ends up all being this squishy Intracellular water you see it on guys at the peak with guys that overdo fucking diuretics at the end Using potassium sparing diuretics and and they cut all their sodium out these dumbass Old school bodybuilding coaches that cut all the sodium out at the end And then they wonder why when they use a diuretic why the guys end up looking even softer It's because they flush all the sodium out What sodium is required to to to pull the water out of the body Is salt remember water follows salt wherever salt goes water follows and when you lower aldosterone when you Do all these other factors that are going to increase sodium excretion from the kidneys if there's no salt to excrete there's not Your body is not going to pull all that water from out of the areas that it's not supposed to be the sodium potassium Pump in the cell doesn't work correctly. You end up with electrolyte imbalances and guys, you know fucking Sees up on stage you see dudes all the time They get the heebie-jeebie shakes on stage and it's because they have a an electrolyte imbalance most likely high potassium and low sodium So that's but stupid too. So we need a balance of both but sodium is a bit more nuanced You just have to play around with your sodium doses and see what's appropriate for you I know for me, I I need to run a little less salt. I usually run somewhere I'd say around two to three grams of salt a day I think is where I need to be in abouT4 grams three to four grams of potassium is where I need to be But you may need three times as much. IMean, I've seen dudes that need 10 12 grams of salt Depending on how much they're sweating depending on how their sodium retention is how all these other things I think it really is just dependent upon your Physiology your activity level all these other things But I would say as you get deeper into prep cutting sodium is really fucking stupid So long answer short with the GH and in in in potassium sodium Magnesium I would start the light salt is a good place to Start you may need to add additional sodium To your meals on top of the light salt be careful if you're using Magnesium start off low with the magnesium work your way up. Make sure you don't shit your pants And then go from there and then monitor the water retention It should start to improve and also, you know other things that factor into it to like your diet shit your your Estrogen is too high. There's other things that can affect water retention as well So just some other areas that you need to monitor but long story short, that's that's it All right, next question here is from Derek are we have another growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormonEQuestion We get a lot of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormonEQuestions around here. Derek asked for a strength athlete strong, man What HGH dosage would you typically suggest during a strength focused phase? I think I talked about this before I don't recall Yeah, I think it was the last week that maybe you asked about The main thing I would be concerned about was strong man grip strength is Incredibly important for strong man, and you're gonna need to monitor your HGH doses as we talked about before if you have a bunch of fucking water retention and You have numb hands from the carpal tunnel from the water retention You're gonna need to monitor your HGH dosage So if you have a bunch of fucking water retention and you have numb hands from the carpal tunnel from the water retention You know picking up those big-ass things that you guys pick up and move around and carry it when your hands are going numb It's probably not great. So I would say, you know, let that be the driver of your dosage For strong man, I would say really the GH isn't going to be in there for recovery We're really concerned primarily about the recovery that you know joint and connective tissue Health the ability to recover the sleep other other benefits that we get from HGH Primarily are going to be the performance enhancing effects. I see that with other professional athletes They don't want to have anything that's going to impair athletic function For their sport. So numb hands certainly wouldn't be conducive to Performance enhancement for a strongman or strength athlete having water pumps because you're so bloated up From all of the water retention that you have from GH is not going to be great I would say probably start off with four or five units and see how you do Monitor the effects of the GH and if you're gettinGHand numbness and whatnot, you maybe need to back off If you're having water retention, you may need to back off or go to every other day dosing that From what I've seen on based on the serostim studies when people had Water retention and hand numbness issues It seems that the every other day dosing schedule was the way to resolve that without much loss in performance enhancement So that's an option, but I would start off low work your way up monitor your side effects. See how Those impact your performance in your sport and if it's having a negative impact on your performance Don't use it or lower the dose or go to every other day dosing Don't use it or lower the dose or go to every other day dosing Let logic and reasoning dictate what you use but start off low work your way up and see how it goes All right Next question here is from Aaron W. Aaron asks. I recently started HGH man This is the HGH episode And I noticed blood glucose issues if I eat more than 75 grams of carbs early in the day while taking deca dick. Но splitting your doses up when carbs are present, only taking the GH in a fasted state, maybe using berberine. I probably would start with some berberine first and see if that helps with the glucose levels. But really like 103 to 106 is not that big of a deal. 130, that might be a big deal. You might also want to get yourself a CGM and see if you're having an acute rise in glucose levels before you get up in the morning. If that's the case, it could be just the dawn effect where your body is dumping glucose before you wake up. You might be fine during the night and then just have a dump before you wake up. Keep in mind that when you're testing your glucose levels, that's just a snapshot in time. So don't take that as gospel. I would consider carefully looking at your glucose levels throughout the day rather than just a snapshot in time. I would spend maybe 50 bucks and get yourself a lingo and monitor your glucose levels for two weeks and see what it is throughout the day. It may be that you're fine throughout the day. It could be just the dawn effect going on. You don't know. So that's something that I would check as well. Anyway, that's it in a nutshell. I would check all those factors. That's why it causes it. It may be nothing, but growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is known to do that. All right. Next question here is from Paul B. What's your view on backfilling syringes and swapping a lure lock needle tip to smaller gauges to reduce scar tissue? How small can you realistically go with oil-based compounds? I don't know why I did not think of this beforehand. I spent years trying to pull, you know, or backfilling syringes unnecessarily because I saw some other bro do that. What I do is I get these 1cc insulin syringes. You can buy them online. And I use a 25-gauge, 5-8-inch needle to inject with. And then I use a drawing needle. I buy an 18-gauge drawing needle. I get the ones with the lure locks on them. And then swap out the 18-gauge lure lock needle and draw up what I'm using with that. And then put the 25-gauge needle 5-8s back on. And I inject with that. No more backfilling. I don't know why it never occurred to me to do it that way. I spent all this time backfilling insulin syringes unnecessarily. You know, the problem with backfilling is you're taking a sterile environment in the needle and exposing it to open air. IMean, there's this very, very small chance that there could be some bacteria, especially if you set the fucking plunger down on your countertop or desk or bathroom, wherever you're doing your injections. There is a small chance that you could introduce bacteria in there. So you want to keep that environment sterile. I would use a drawing needle, an 18-gauge drawing needle to pull your compound out. And then I find the 25-gauge 5-8s needle perfect for injecting. That's what I use. And then you don't have to worry about backfilling anymore or have the introduction of bacteria potentially into your solution that you're putting in and ended up with a fucking abscess. I've seen so many bros. Six-degree chest blood sugar eyebrows, I've had to years of on PDUs. So that's pretty good win ratio, still want to take every possible precaution to reduce the potential. I think back-filming is not the smartest was of doing things. I would opt with the way I suggested. I would opt with the way that I suggested. Next question here is from Richie and from the School of Antibiotic Bodybuilding members community. Richie asks, what advice would you give someone whose sleep is their biggest bottleneck to progress? Since starting androgens, I have had persistent early waking and six-hour sleep despite good sleep hygiene and multiple sleep aids, magnesium, trazodone, etc. Can progress still be made long-term or am I limiting myself no matter what? Look, more sleep is ideal, but I don't know that it's required to make progress. Arnold Schwarzenegger was famous for sleeping four or five hours a night and working all day long. I think he did okay. From what I understand, I don't think Jay Cutler, I think he was a workaholic, didn't sleep a lot. I could be wrong about that. I spent pretty much the entirety of my adult life working as a CEO, raising two kids, sleeping five to six hours a night, and IManaged to somehow get myself up from 180 up to 250 pounds as a bodybuilder. Does sleep help? Sure. IMean, probably the biggest effect that it's going to have is longevity, overall health. You're adding more stress to your body by not sleeping, but it certainly seems like that the androgens alone can overpower that and get you to where you need to go. I know plenty of people that are massive and don't sleep a lot, and then some people just don't need a lot of fucking sleep. I think that the whole sleep thinGHas been over-dramatized, really, to be honest with you. I've never been a big sleeper. I've been better with it now. I will say this since I pretty much have been on TRT or TRT plus for the last year, I'd say 200 to 300 milligrams of testosterone at any given point in time. I just started running an anabolic again recently, 100 to 150 milligrams of primobol, nothing crazy, but I will say that since I have been on lower doses, guess what? My sleep got a lot better. So there may be a fine line between pushing your doses up and reducing your dose load to improve sleep. So you sort of have to balance those two out. And then also compound selection too. Are you using compounds that are highly androgenic? The highly androgenic compounds are probably going to compromise sleep more than, say, the less androgenic compounds. 19-nors affect dopamine and serotonin balance, and that can also dramatically affect your sleep as well. Testosterone, maybe pushing the testosterone doses too high is not appropriate for you, potentially. Maybe you need to use something that's less androgenic like primobol or even masteron, if you can still find it fucking anywhere. As your primary compound that's maybe not going to affect sleep as much, the androgens are going to drive sympathetic nervous system more aggressively than, say, the less androgenic, more anabolic compounds. So that's another consideration to have. 19-nors are going to affect dopamine in such a way that's negatively going to impact sleep. So that's another thing to consider as well, compound selection. I found that I respond the best to just test primobol and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Those arecompounds I tolerate well, and those are the ones I stick with. I sleep well on those, so that's another consideration to make. But most of the time guys are throwing all these sleep aids at it when the simple solution is just to carefully consider your cycle. And also, do you really need that much sleep? Is your performance okay in the gym? Are you recovering well? Is your blood work okay? Are you actually growing? Maybe six hours of sleep or whatever you're getting might be adequate for you. That's another consideration to make as well. Anyway, that's my thoughts. All right, next question here is from Kevin G. Kevin asks, what factors did you consider when deciding to undergo plastic surgery for your midsection? Kevin's talking about, I had a mini tummy tuck done. Do you think you could have earned your IFBB pro card without it? Asking on behalf of middle-aged guys dealing with the stubborn fat and loose skin. I really was bothered by the loose skin and just flappiness. I could kick myself in the ass for letting myself get fat in my 30s. I was in great shape in my 20s, you know, perma-bulker, but I wasn't obese. And I got out of the gym and just let myself get sloppy in my 30s when I took an executive job and had kids. And you know the drill, if you're an older guy, that's probably the same shit that happened to you. And here I got to 40, I was fat, I was probably about 300 pounds and I had to lose all this fucking weight. And then when you're 40 years old, your collagen synthesis, all these other things that affect skin tone is not great. I had rapid weight gain when I got off PEDs. I quit cold turkey. I think I was 32 years old and I had this rapid fat gain. Probably was estrogen dominant and just stopped working out and ended up with all this loose fucking skin after I lost all that weight and stretch marks and whatnot. And it really fucking bothered me. It kept me up at night. I'm like, I look great, but my stomach doesn't fucking look great. So I finally bit the bullet and went and got a tummy tuck done. If you want to watch, I have a full video up about my tummy tuck surgery. If you want to go back through and see it and understand the process I went through. I will tell you that surgery was fucking brutal. They do not warn you adequately enough about how bad it is. So I would say proceed with caution, make sure you're well-informed, you understand what's going on. I had a bunch of side effects from the surgery. I had to go in and have a second surgery done to repair a massive hematoma that I had from the surgery. I've heard of other guys having infections. There's all sorts of risk. It is not a in and out cosmetic procedure. It is a major surgical procedure. You are removing a piece of your body and that comes with consequences sometimes. So carefully consider that. As in regards to whether or not I would have gotten my ProCard with the loose skin or without it, probably not. IMean, just being trensparent, beinGHonest, I have tight skin. I have, you know, a good waistline now because of it. I had some minor liposuction done when they did it to get rid of some of the stubborn areas. I had my gyno effect, so at least on the one side, I still need to get my right side redone at some point. No, I don't think I would have gotten my ProCard without it. I had my flanks lipoed. They removed the skin. They balanced out the area with a little bit of lipo around the midsection. I think a lot of bodybuilders end up getting lipo. They don't talk about it, but I think lipo suction is pretty common within the professional ranks of bodybuilding. But no, I don't think I would have gotten my ProCard without it. I go back and forth on whether or not I would have the surgery again if it was worth it. I'd say long term, yes, it was worth it. Short term, no. Here's what I would say. If you have no aspirations of being a professional bodybuilder and that loose skin doesn't keep you up at night, I would think twice about getting the surgery. It was expensive. I had a bunch of complications from it. It was a solid year, maybe year and a half before it actually looked right. I thought IMade a huge fucking mistake after I had it done because I looked worse for a good six months. And then I started to see some light at the end of the tunnel after the six months. It looked really bad in the initial 90 days after the surgery. I'm like, man, I really made a fucking bad choice here. I just spent 10 plus thousand dollars to make myself look worse and not be able to tren and have all these fucking complications. Long term, yes, the results are pretty good. Now, I think there's some things that could have been done better. I don't like where the incision site is. I think he made the incision site too high. If you're going to be a bodybuilder, I would make sure you carefully discuss it with the surgeon that you are a bodybuilder and you need the incision site low to hide under your posing trunks. Mine does not hide under the posing trunks. I can see the scar. Most people don't notice it. It bothers me. I'm like, damn it, I hate this fucking scar. It looks weird. I wish I didn't have the fucking scar, but there's only so much. I guess it's better than loose skin, so that's another consideration to have. But I would really carefully consider things before you get it. If it bothers you, if it keeps you up at night, then sure, anything that's going to make you feel better about yourself, go for it. If you are okay with it, it's just a minor annoyance, you don't care about being a pro bodybuilder, then I would think twice, maybe not even do it. If I had it to do over again and I decided I did not want to chase a pro card, I probably wouldn't have done it. At that time, getting a pro card wasn't even a consideration for me. I didn't think it was even possible. dehydration, radiation of the septum, hepatitis, epidemiosis, chlamydia, emulatetum, iaedema, aureuschaura, innehmenpm, Euhandine, Li-induin, neuro-freelans Wow, there are a lot, I have suer there. One of the things I need to point out is that Fotius and the other things, will become clear about, like I said earlier, the size of genes that we like, we're not interested in code guins. We like higher doses of secondary anabolics that some people on social media recommend. Whereas I see most people recommend and navigate for running testosterone higher than the secondary compounds. What do you think the reasoning is for the lower test and higher anabolics? Look, there are many different opinions on how to do things. There is no one right formula for everybody. I'd say a lot of it depends on your response to compounds, how you handle things. Each person is unique individually, but what I will tell you, if your goal is to be big, I don't know of one highly successful current pro bodybuilder that doesn't run testosterone high. They just don't exist. Now, can you get big without it? Sure, maybe. Guys back in the 70s and 80s, they didn't run testosterone at all. It was Deca and D-ball back in those days, bro. Or Premobolan and Winstrel, or Premobolan and Antiviral and Contest Prep. That's the Arnold era guys. They did not run testosterone at all. In the 90s, guys started shifting more towards testosterone, and then the early 2000s, when the advent of aromatase inhibitors came about, when we can carefully control the aromatization of testosterone, then guys started hammering more testosterone and found that they got even bigger running testosterone. Now, my thought process here, and any time we add secondary anabolics to our body, these arecompounds that are not bioidentical compounds, and we don't know for sure how each individual is going to react to it. We have pretty good data at this point. These things have been around for 50 or 60 years. Some people handle things well. Some people fucking don't. Whereas testosterone is a bioidentical compound, HGH is a bioidentical compound. We know what the downstream effects are of those. Testosterone, the main driver of side effects from testosterone is purely just managing your estrogen, estrogen conversion. And we can easily do that with an aromatase inhibitor now. And that's why guys started running testosterone higher. You'll hear the early 2000s, bodybuilders up through 2010, 2015, all of those bros said test is best. And I think a lot of people now, with the limited access to Masteron, are going back to the test is best philosophy, where they just run testosterone high using aromatase inhibitor. They have minimal side effects. They find that that's well tolerated, easily managed. The problem with keeping the testosterone low and running secondary compounds, a lot of times you end up in situations where, especially now, if you're, say you're running equipoise, you can't run equipoise higher than testosterone. IMean, I guess there are maybe some exceptions to the rule out there. I've heard of people, but if you run equipoise higher than testosterone, you're going to end up with no estrogen at all in most instances. Let's say 95% of the time, you're going to end up with no, if you run primobolan higher than testosterone, you're probably going to completely smash your estrogen. Now, sometimes we do that purposely on a contest prep. Deca, you know, maybe you can make an argument for running that higher, but Deca, 19-nors come with their own set of problems with how they affect dopamine and their synthetic progestins and how they affect mental health. IMean, you see the guys that run 19-nors at high doses and run low testosterone. They're all fucking mental basket cases. They just are. IMean, they're, they're fucking loopy in the head. Uh, and I think a lot of times, especially on social media, guys want to come up with some creative new way of doing things that's novel to them, that makes people think they have some secret that nobody else has figured out. I'm telling you, all the guys on the Olympia stage for the most part are running a gram or more test and you know, five, 600, 700 milligrams of whatever anabolic they tolerate the best and then sprinkling other shit in here and there. That is the formula. If you want to get big, the tried true time tested formula that is just been proven to work over and over and over and over and over and over again. And then every once in a while you'll get some guy comes along and says, I'm going to reinvent the wheel and come up with a novel idea that nobody else has come up with. That's good for clicks. That's good for getting you attention. People want to be on the inside of some secret that they think that somebody has that nobody else has figured out and they go to them for coaching consultations because they think that guy has the secret that nobody else has figured out. And at the end of the day, it's probably just bullshit. And I would, I would also suggest take a look at the people that are suggesting those types of protocols. Are they actually big? Are they actually getting any sort of results out of it? And usually the answer is no. Like I know there was some people that were talking about running six week only oral cycles. Nobody's getting big donut. Nobody's looking like pro bodybuilder donut. You're going to get big for a little bit and then it's all going to go away. The tried and true method for getting big, the one that works is test at high doses, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, and then whatever antibiotic you tolerate. If you want to go the other route, like I said, there are some exceptions to the rule. There are some people that just cannot run testosterone at higher doses and handle it. There are always outliers, but for the most part, that's how it's done. All right. The next question here is from Jerry T from the school, antibiotic bodybuilding members community. Jarrett says, what are your thoughts on tren hacks with a long Esther? Some people are microdosing it at 75 to a hundred milligrams every seven to 10 days and reporting strong effects. Well, I don't know that that's microdosing. That's is it a parabolic tren hacks and the old school bodybuilders back in the nineties. I think it was, I don't remember, it was like 77.5 milligrams. Then there's somebody who's going to come in and tell me that I'm wrong about that. It was 77.8 or whatever it was, but somewhere in that range was what parabolic was in the old school bodybuilders from the nineties would take one parabolic in a week on contest prep. That was what they did. That's what they used. That's what they had access to. They'd run that fucking parabolic tren hacks on contest prep to get, I think that's exactly what Dorian Yates said his protocol was. If I recall correctly, I apologized to Dorian if IMisspoke there, but that's what I recall hearinGHim say. That's what the old school methodology was. I, me personally, I think tren ACE is a better option. The problem with tren hacks that you run into is it is a very lonGHalf-life Esther. We're talking about eight to 10 days. If I recall correctly, somewhere in that ballpark, you're, you're going to, if you have problems, you're going to be stuck with it for a while because it takes five half-lives for a drug to fully eliminate and let's assume that it has a 10 day half-life. We're talking about 50 days for it to get out of your system. I prefer tren ACE and I think why people say that they have more side effects with tren ACE is because it hits quickly. If you think about it with the tren hex, it takes five half-lives for it to peak as well. So we have, we have five half-lives for it to hit, hit, hit peak. So you know, if you're only running it for eight weeks on a contest prep, it's probably just at peak concentration. IMean it's, it's going to be at 75% after, after 20 days or so, but um, yeah, so I'm trying to think, do the math on A-50 75 yeah, so it's going to be at 75% after 20 days, but still that's why guys don't feel side effects from it. And also the ester takes up a bunch of the compound weight as well. I think it's, I think it's close to a third of the comp compound weight. So I think in that 75 milligram dose, it's only really like 50 milligrams of active tren tren that you're getting. So whereas it's probably like 90 or 95% with tren ACE, I think it's like something like 95%. So you're really only taking about 50 milligrams of tren. Of course you're not going to have side effects. And if it takes, you know, if you're taking five half-lives to peak and five half-lives to come down, yeah, you're not going to have side effects. That's why people say that, I'm kidding, side effects with it. So now the, granted, pharmacokinetics do change how the drug performs there, there's the pharmacokinetics are going to have different effects on the compound of performance with the ester. The ester does change that dynamic. So we do have to consider that as well. I just like tren ACE because it's in quick, you get results. If you want to yank it, it's out of your system. It has a two to three day half-life. So we can have it fully cleared from our system within two week period of time. We can be at peak concentrations within two weeks, a week to two weeks. We can get in, we can get out quickly. We don't have it lingering and hanging around. blood c that's what's going on there and if you want to learn how to cycle correctly I do have my science of anabolics bodybuilding... science of anabolics e-course that you can pick up on anabolic bodybuilding.com I also have the cycle cheat sheet for 30 bucks i'll show you how to put cycles together correctly and what to take that's over there if you want to go pick that up all right next question here is from james G james asked what should change during a cruise phase backing off gear for 8 to 12 weeks obviously impacts recovery diet trening volume and cardio how do you typically approach it I don't change a thing when it comes to trening when I back off gear I think that's a mistake that a lot of guys make is they when they come down to TRT they think well I don't need the tren it's hard and then they end up kind of backsliding on their progress I keep the trening intensity as is I don't change a fucking thing when it comes there and a lot of times I find my performance continues to improve because the toxic load of the drugs has been reduced and you start to fucking feel better and you have an increase in performance in the gym at a bare minimum at least maintain but I think it's a mistake to back off now I do back off food a little bit because nutrient partitioning is affected by high doses of gear for runninGHigh doses of GH and androgens that's going to increase glycogen synthesis and how your body is metabolizing fat and all those other things so there's no reason to run super high food you know have your caloric intake all cranked up when you're on on cruise I usually try to go down to a maintenance phase for me and carb cycling I just pull down to one high day per week keep the diet at maintenance level lip it also gives you GI a break from pushing all that food that we're doing when we're in a mass phase so I do yank that back a bit but as far as trening goes I don't fucking change a thing as far as cardio does if anything I would increase it during it just just to improve cardiovascular health and maybe get some cheap fat loss you know recomposition a little bit while you're on your cruise phase but really like just don't change the thing with your trening unless you're beat up and you need a break if your joints are all beat up and that's a different a different reason to pull back but I don't change the thing when it comes to trening I keep treninGHard a lot of times I find that I can still eat got some progress even on TRT doses I've essentially just been on TRT or TRT plus now for quite some time and I'm making progress in the gym again so you don't need massive doses now I'm not saying they don't work as well as higher doses but don't let that be a predetermining factor shit remember your first cycle was probably what you consider a health phase now and you were making progress and excited about that then so don't feel like you are locked into pulling back at your trening and all that just just keep treninGHard unless you have some sort of joint or connective tissue injury that you need to let heal up all right last but not least another GH question and this has been the GH episode Maxwell in ask what are the goals in optimal HGH doses during a bulking versus a fat loss phase um if we think about it from a hypertrophy point of view the main thing we're looking for from growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is the increase in IGF-1 production that's going to be the primary driver of of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and hence whatnot when we're when we're in a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone phase so I honestly I've kind of changed my perspective on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone I think on a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone phase that maybe you're better off using more than you would during a contest prep really during a contest prep the only thing that we're using GH for during that time period is for the anti-catabolic effect and potentially some some fat burning because it does increase lipolysis while you're on it now what I've seen is is guys with with GH dosing during contest prep used to split it up throughout the day and they would take more on contest prep thinking that somehow that would increase fat burning which it does it does to a certain degree but GH really at the end of the day is a shitty expensive fat burning agent that just ends up just making you insulin resistant you'll see a lot of the bros that were splitting up their doses and taking iT4 or five times a day during contest prep to make sure they were maximizing the lipolytic effect end up making themselves fucking diabetic you see guys at the end of contest prep where their blood glucose levels are through the fucking roof and they didn't put two plus two together that maybe being in lipolysis all day fucking long and not having any sort of glucose metabolism available is not a smart idea and you can't really use insulin to force the issue when you're in a caloric deficit either because insulin is going to be counterproductive for fat burning and then also it just it you're risking goinGHypo when you're in a caloric deficit so that doesn't work that well either so my thought process is anymore at the time that you want to get a little more aggressive with the GH is during your offseason phase when you want high levels of IGF-1 during contest prep or your fat loss phase maybe break bring it back down a little bit use it just primarily for the anti-catabolic effect for recovery for you know and you will get some fat burning out of it I generally what I do with GH during contest prep as I'll split the dose in half I'll take half before bed and another half in the morning before my fasted cardio I know that that dose in the morning it's not going to have any effect on the fasted cardio because it does take about two hours to peak but that hopefully that dose that we took before bed is still present because it does last for about six to eight hours depending on how long you sleep there it's not like it's completely gone but in that way we have about half of our day about 12 hours of our day where we're in a in lipolysis now part of me is wondering especially like with me because I struggle with glucose control at times that maybe it isn't a smart idea maybe I should always keep the dosing pre-bed and I think that's the risk that you take when splitting up dosing as we talked about in the earlier question with GH that you're going to have problems with rising glucose levels as you split up your doses because of the shift to lipolysis throughout the day and with negative effects on insulin receptor sensitivity and all these other downstream negative effects and insulin and GH are counterregulatory hormones so we have all these problems so maybe maybe I don't know IMay IMay shift my opinion on it used to split up the doses on a contest prep phase maybe it's not so smart and now seeinGHow guys deal with the rising glucose levels especially I've seen a lot of guys come out of contest prep with high glucose levels and I think it's because of splitting the GH up throughout the day that's probably causing it maybe it's not the smartest approach I don't know and now we have better choices for fat burning anyway like I said GH is a shitty shitty expensive fat burner that can negatively affect metabolic health why not just use a GLP-1 that actually improves metabolic health and increases you know GLP-3 that's going to increase lipolysis through a different mechanism and improve insulin sensitivity and improve pancreatic function and improve lipids and has a more effective demonstrated effect on lowering body fat so I think we have better tools at our disposal now and maybe save the GH for the offseason and just run enough during contest prep isn't anti-catabolic and for joint and connective tissue health and maybe that's the shift that we need to make in modern bodybuilding. Alright folks that's all I got for you on this one I appreciate each and every one of you motherfuckers you all are awesome I'll see you on the next episode.