warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, gym bros, Big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A. This is where I answer your questions about trening, nutrition, and responsible performance enhancements, all while getting you better results and keeping you safe from the stupid shit I know you bros love to do. I've got some great questions today lined up from my school anabolic bodybuilding members community. You can go over there and join if you would like to. The link is in the video description below. Some of thEQuestions I havEQueued up include, how low should I get my body fat before I consider doing my first real cycle? At what dose does Primobolan really become effective? Does a two-week alcohol bender with no trening ruin your post-diet or post-show rebound? And what supplements make sense for young lifters before PEDs actually come into the mix? We'll dig into all thesEQuestions and a bunch more in just one second. All right, broskis, before we get into this one, please do me a favor, hit that thumbs up button if you like this video, of course. If you don't, you can push thumbs down. I don't really fucking care. And subscribe to my channel if you haven't already done so. That's the best way you can show your support for all this awesome free information that I'm giving out. All right, first question I've got up here today is from Marco M. Marco asks, would you ever stack Berberine with Metformin or do you think Metformin alone is the better option? Well, they have similar effects but they work through different mechanisms. It really just depends on if insulin sensitivity is an issue. IMean, if it's not, I probably would skip both of them. I do like to run a little bit of Berberine on my high-carbohydrate days. The only problem I've run into with Berberine is it has a strong antimicrobial effect and over time can kind of fuck up your gut biome. I have found that sometimes it gives me diarrhea. If you have IBS, if you tolerate it well, great. It's a good place to start. I probably would start with Berberine first. Use it around meals on high-carbohydrate days. Metformin is something I would probably use as a next resort. Probably where Metformin would come into play is if you start seeing your fasting insulin levels, I'm sorry, fasting glucose levels. I wouldn't consider Metformin until I had exhausted Berberine first and maybe addressed other issues. Hell, now with the GLP-1s that we have, especially the triple agonist one that everybody loves to run, maybe Metformin is not even something that you need at this point. Now, Metformin's going to work through a different mechanism. Metformin lowers AMPK. It's going to increase hepatic insulin sensitivity and lower gluconeogenesis. Most of the time, doctors will use it when they see rising fasting glucose levels. And a lot of times, if you have rising fasting glucose levels, you got other problems going on that you need to address. Probably just a diet and maybe a low-dose triple agonist GLP-1 would get the job done probably. I've been on Metformin for close to a decade myself because I just have always run it as part of my treatment for my type 1 1⁄2 diabetes. There's the big Paul Bingo card if you want to punch it now where IMentioned I have diabetes on each episode. You win. But yeah, Metformin works through a different mechanism. Now, one of the downsides of Metformin and you'll hear bros talk about it is the increased AMPK and lowered IGF-1 production that have been shown on studies with Metformin. Now, personally, I have not seen that be the case. I've been on 1,000 milligrams of Metformin for close to a decade now. And my IGF-1 levels, whenever I get my blood work done or have checked them, I've always been in the 400s, 300s when I'm running GH and insulin. And it's possible that just the high doses of stuff that we run as bodybuilders just overpower the effect that Metformin has on lowering IGF-1. And most of the studies that you see on IGF-1 being lowered in Metformin users are on guys that are over 40, probably over 50, over 60. The ones I, actually the one study I saw was the cohort was over 60 and they were diabetic, metabolically unhealthy. And probably if they had run GH, probably wouldn't have had IGF-1 levels anyway. So it wasn't done on our cohort of PED using weightlifting, eating six meals type kind of day, hopefully metabolically healthy bodybuilders. So I don't know how much we can read into the studies. I just have not seen that be the case. But if you wanted to play it safe, Berberine would probably be a good place to start. Berberine works through direct AMPK suppression and also increases GLUT4 trensport, which may be more beneficial to us. Like let's say if we're running a high carbohydrate day and would increase glucose uptake more so than directly than say Metformin. Metformin works by lowerinGHepatic gluconeogenesis, which is going to reduce blood sugar. From what I recall, Berberine has better muscle GLUT4 trenslocation than Metformin where Metformin mostly affects hepatic insulin sensitivity and gluconeogenesis at the liver. So if you have an issue, you know, let's say a lot of times doctors will use Metformin to treat the Dawn effect where diabetics will have high fasting glucose levels to suppress those glucose levels in the morning. Whereas Berberine would probably be better for a bodybuilding crowd, I would say. But you know, you start with Berberine first. I would consider the GLP3 that everybody's using right now as a alternative if you are actually havinGHigh fasting glucose levels throughout the day and address the underlying problems that are there, probably some sort of insulin resistance, really a hard diet, some sort of, you know, use of GLP-1, maybe some Berberine in there. Getting your insulin sensitivity improved would probably be the more prudent path. All right, next question I have here is from Paul B. Hey, we shared the same initials, BBs in the house. Some compounds like Deca raise prolactin. This one drives me nuts, folks. Instead of using Keverglyne, are there other anabolic compounds that help counter the prolactin the way Primo will help manage aromatization? Nandril, so here he's talking about the old school thing that Deca raises prolactin and then dudes will proactively use stuff like Kever, a dopamine agonist, which is wrought with problems. Literally, you can have withdrawal like you're fucking coming off heroin if you use a dopamine agonist. So, and bros are proactively using this as a just a way to counteract the side effects that they're getting from a poorly designed cycle. So, let's unpack this a little bit. So, here's the thing with 19-nors. 19-nors affect dopaminergic tone. They're synthetic progestins, which affects dopamine. And think of dopamine as the break for prolactin. And when that break is released, when there's suppression of dopaminergic tone, then you're gonna have a rise in prolactin. And to make problems even worse, it seems like 19-nors, specifically Deca, Deca itself, it seems to upregulate aromatase expression to a certain degree. IMean, I haven't found studies on it, but you can certainly see it when you run blood panels with people running Deca alone versus Deca on test together, you end up with basically an estrogen bomb. But estrogen seems to supercharge progestin. It increases the sensitivity of the progesterone receptor, making progesterone even more effective. That progesterone then causes an increase in dopamine inhibition. And then you end up with a situation where you have a rise in prolactin, or prolactin-like symptoms. A lot of times you'll see guys, when you look at their blood work, their prolactin's not even really that high. Or it might be the high and a normal, and they're having all these symptoms, like lactation, erectile dysfunction, gynecomastia. They're feeling all fucking anxious, and sex drives all weird. There's all sorts of refractory periods all fucked up. There's all sorts of things that are affected through how synthetic progestin's 19-nors affect dopamine, and it's all because of, really, it's because of lack of care of managing estrogen. You'll see it when guys run deca-only cycles. They say, hey, I don't get any side effects. I don't have any issues with progesterone, and none of this. It's not that there's some magic about running the cycle without testosterone. It's just that you haven't really, nandrolone doesn't really convert to estrogen at a very high rate. You're in a situation where estradiol conversion is lower, and you don't have the increased sensitization of the progesterone receptor, because of high estrogen levels. Then you don't have all this secondary effects with the dopamine, and then prolactin, that come downstream from basically just estrogen beinGHigh. If you wanna top it off even more, most dudes are smoking fucking weed on top of it, which also has an added compounding effect on dopamine. There's dopamine depletion from smoking too much weed. It does seem, although studies, I haven't really seen studies with hard evidence of it, but it also does seem that smoking weed also seems to have some effect on estrogen as well. IMean, you'll see it. You'll see the skinny pothead that's got gynecomastia. You see him all the time, the skinny flaked out dude that's, and look, I like smoking weed here and there, but I'm not trying to beat guys up. I'm not a chronic smoker, but you'll see the guys that are skinny fat that smoke weed and eat Doritos all day long, and they end up with man boobs, but they're 165 pounds. And so it's probably a downstream effect of all of this. So long story short here, it's just stupid cycle design, really, that causes the problem. You should never have to take cabergoline to deal with prolactin from 19-norris. And if you do, then you probably just need to fucking stop. And if your prolactin is actually that high, like you see once in a while, I'll see dudes that send me blood work, and they're two to three times the normal range. That's not from DECA. You probably have a prolactin secreting pituitary tumor or some other bigger problem going on. And people just completely mismanage this. And if you think about like the old school way of doing cycles when guys would do DECA, D-ball, and testosterone, Jesus fucking Christ, you're in a situation where you're in a nuclear bomb of estrogen situation, and just making all of this whole thing fucking worse. So really, it probably just starts with better cycle design. You wanna think about mitigatinGHigh estrogen if you're running a 19-door, if you choose to run 19-door. There's other compelling reasons why to keep your estrogen in check as well, such as water retention, increased blood pressure, increased risk of cancer that comes along with it. IMean, on top of that, but it's really the estrogen that's making the effects of the, the progestinic effects of the 19-door worse, and thus causing the prolactin-like side effects that guys get, or sometimes mild elevation of prolactin. I generally, when I look at blood work, very rarely do I see really high prolactin levels. You might see a few points over from running a 19-door, but very rarely. If you see super high, like I said, you probably need to get checked out for a prolactin-secreting pituitary tumor, but keep your estrogen in check. And if 19-doors bother you that much, to me, the juice isn't worth the squeeze anymore. I just don't fucking use them. All right, next question here is from Jared T. At what dose does primrovalin really start to shine? A lot of guys claim it's not even worth running under 600 milligrams a week. What is your take? I think that take is bogus. Probably originated from drug dealers trying to sell more primrovalin. Now look, primrovalin is not going to have as profound of an effect milligram per milligram, say, as trambolone or even testosterone. It is lower androgenic and anabolic than both, but that's not to say that it's not doing anything. And I think a lot of times people, bros, mistake the side effects as effects. You know, like, well, I don't feel anything, so it's not doing shit, and let's just keep cranking the doses up until I feel something. Well, those are just side effects you're feeling, my dude. It's like Trin, it's unmistakable when you're on Trin. You take Trin, you know you're on fucking Trin. You take D-ball, you know you're on fucking D-ball. You take Anadrol, you know you're on Anadrol, but how much of that is really the effects of it increasing muscle protein synthesis and accumulating new tissue over a time period? IMean, really? IMean, most of the effects that you get from Trin or from D-ball or from Anadrol from these other compounds, not saying they don't work, is acute. It's increased water retention, it's increased neural drive, it's all of these other things that come along with it. Now, that doesn't mean Primobolan is not working. Primobolan has other secondary effects that make your testosterone work better. And I, you know, currently, believe me or not, if you want, I'm running what I consider bodybuilding TRT, but I pushed up to 300 milligrams of testosterone a week, and I'm running 150 milligrams of Primobolan with it, roughly. IMean, you know, how accurate you can get with the fucking doses. But I use it that way because what the Primobolan does is help me keep my estrogen in line. It modulates estradiol conversion in a positive way. It's going to lower the aromatization of testosterone. It increases, or it lowers SHBG, which is going to increase free Testosterone. Now, it can crush your SHBG if you get too carried away with it, which comes with its own set of problems. But bringing down SHBG a little bit, it's going to cause more of your testosterone to convert into free Testosterone and making your testosterone work better. And here, you know, look, this is the way I look at it. I would rather use an anabolic agent to modulate my estrogen at a bare minimum than running an aromatase inhibitor that provides no additional benefit. It's purely just lowering estrogen. Now, sometimes they're necessary, but that's my take on it. IMean, look, if I'm going to be running drugs, I'd rather have something that's going to promote anabolism and take care of the estradiol conversion while improvinGHow my testosterone works. And that's why I love Primobolan. Primobolan, for me, when it comes to use, it's the lowest side effect steroid that I have used. Primobolan and Masteron, I would say, were the two, but Mesteron's extinct like the Tyrannosaurus Rex right now. So we've got that one on the shelf for the time being. It's on injured reserve. It'll probably be back at some point, but Primobolan, I love Primobolan. It's my favorite anabolic. IMean, you can call me a Primo princess, whatever you want. You can say it's weak. It doesn't do anything. I think I got pretty early running Primobolan. I was on stage at 250 pounds and there have been periods of time where I've run it high. There've been periods of time when I don't. I just found that for me personally, and this is just me, this is just my experience. You may have a different experience with it, that it's the best balance of benefits versus side effects. And it makes my testosterone work better. It takes care of estradiol conversion. It just makes everything about running testosterone better. And my blood work stays relatively in range while running it. You don't have to run it at 600 milligrams a week to get a benefit from it. All right, next question is from Jele Arts. I am on a low dose of TRT, 15 milligrams a day. So that's about a hundred milligrams a week. That's super low. My E2 still runs over 55 at 8% body fat. For long-term sustainability, would you introduce a small dose of Masteron or Primobolan or use an AI to manage the E2 side effects when they appear? Well, that's a continuation of the previous conversation I just had about Primobolan. One, that is a very low dose of TRT, I would say about creeping that up. And I would say, you know, make sure you're getting an ultrasensitive estradiol test done. I used to run the regular ones, but there's so many things that can throw it off. I've seen so much discrepancy between the ultrasensitive and the standard estradiol test. And generally the standard, the ultrasensitive reads lower than the standard. 19-nors, specifically Trembolone can blow it up, make it higher than what it really is. But as long, you know, look, if 55 for me, that's kind of getting at the upper end of where I can tolerate 55 to 60. And then I start having side effects. I would let side effects dictate. I know you mentioned that in there, but yes, I would consider, like I said before, man, this is my thought process. It could be completely me justified taking more steroids, but I would rather take a secondary anabolic compound that's going to have additional benefits besides just lowering my estrogen if I need estrogen mitigation. So yes, I would rather run Primobolone in there. You know, if you're on a hundred milligrams of testosterone a week, 50 to 75 milligrams of Primobolone would probably fix you right up. I would take that TRT up to 200, my personal opinion, and run a hundred milligrams of Primobolone with it. And you're going to get a lot out of it. Probably going to have your estrogen levels taken care of. They're likely, my guess would be, they're probably going to be lower than 55 on an ultrasensitive test. When you do that, you're going to feel a lot better. You're going to get great benefits from it. I, you know, look, I'm not telling you what to do. I'm just saying if it were me, that's how I would handle it. All right, next question here is from John W. about fucking up a rebound phase. I was four weeks into a rebound phase after a cut, normally aiming for six to eight weeks. We went on a two week holiday. I stayed on 250 milligrams of testosterone, great. Ate around maintenance, drank alcohol daily. Sleep wasn't great. When I do return and resume for week four of the rebound or is it time to treat it as week six? How does the physiology actually respond here? Well, IMean, if you're on TRT, you're not doing the rebound anymore. You're effectively on a cruise right now. So I don't know, I'd probably at this point, I probably would just continue your cruise since you're already back down to 250 milligrams of testosterone, I would just consider the rebound over. Look, if you'd stayed on the gear, then I would say keep pushing. But right now I would say it's probably pull back, treat it as the cruise that you're in. You know, if you've already been down to 250 milligrams, that's TRT doses effectively, bodybuilding TRT, I guess. And just get the diet clen back up, get back on track, get yourself back in the gym, get things back on track. Take six, probably another six weeks, five, six weeks, run a cruise and then start your off-season mass phase is probably how I would handle it. Since you've already dropped the doses down, there's no reason to push back up after only two weeks. Just let your body have the break. And you may even find, man, a lot of times I find that when I back down and give myself a break, go back down to TRT, lower the food a little bit, a lot of times I find that my body actually starts responding better. It's weird, man, it's bizarre. Sometimes when I pull back on a cruise, I end up having sort of like a second rebound sometimes. Now, body composition doesn't stay as hard when the anabolics are lower, that's just how it goes. But a lot of times I find that progress in the gym continues to go and I continually move up my weights. My workouts are great, especially because I think some of the stress and health impacts and the negative health impacts that being on cycle has start to wash off and your body becomes fresher and you start to perform better in the gym just from lowering doses and allowing yourself to get healthy. So yes, I would consider the rebound over, go into your cruise, listen to your body, take that additional four to six weeks, let your body heal up, get your mind fresh. All right, next question here is from Dave F. Dave's question is, I'm experiencing some mild peripheral neuropathy in two fingers on my left hand. I'm currently running 500 milligrams of tests per week with no GH and only using anastrozole as needed for aromatase inhibition. Should I end my cycle to avoid this becoming permanent or what should I do here? Well, dude, it just depends. IMean, there could be a bunch of things that are causing that. It might not even be your cycle. Depends on which fingers you are feeling that are numb. If it's the index and middle finger, it's likely the median nerve, which could be from carpal tunnel. Carpal tunnel from the GH is just water retention and cellular inflammation and that sheath that covers the nerve and tendon gets all inflamed that goes into the wrist and causes some numbness in the nerve. You can mostly, usually after time, it just kind of goes away. As your body balances out, water retention goes down. If it's in your pinky, your ring finger, then you got a different problem going on. That's the ulnar nerve and that's what I had when I fucked up my bicep tendon. I started, my pinky and my ring finger were going numb at night and at various times during the day. And I thought that it was from the GH and it was not. I went in for nerve testing. I saw the orthopedic and it turned out it was inflammation in my shoulder, pinching off the brachial plexus and the ulnar nerve and causing that to radiate down through my fingers. You wouldn't think that a shoulder problem can radiate all the way down through your fingers. Could also be elbow. More commonly, the ulnar nerve is, if there is pinky and ring finger numbness, that could be from elbow tendonitis, tennis elbow or golfer's elbow that could be potentially causing it. But if it's the median nerve that's from water retention, I would address the water retention first. You may need an ARB. You may need to adjust your sodium and potassium intake. You may even need to come off the GH or drop the GH down to an every other day dosing. That's a strategy that I have been using lately to deal with the water retention from growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormones, just to go to every other day dosing. The acute effect of GH seems to only last for about six to eight hours, as far as increasing lipogenesis and et cetera. But I've noticed the water retention's also, just an anecdote, water retention's also lower when I go to every other day dosing versus daily dosing. In the effect of IGF-1 elevation from the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, from what I've read and from what I understand, stays elevated from 48 to 72 hours. So you're still gonna have the elevation in IGF-1 that we're looking for without the constant battering of the acute effect of the GH. And it does seem to help with water retention. If you read the insert inside of a Serostim packet, you can see that they, I think it was on the Serostim packet, maybe it was in the study, but if side effects are encountered, they go to every other day dosing. And that seems to ameliorate any of the side effects that you get. But just listen to your body. It probably is nothing. It's probably nothing long-term. It could become long-term if that inflammation becomes, you know, leads to damage of the compartment in there and ends up building up scar tissue. That's how long-term carpal tunnel problems, usually it's from repetitive motion. It's not from inflammation, but I guess inflammation could exacerbate it and lead to laying down scar tissue and cause permanent problems. But most of the time, it's the carpal tunnel that you get from GH, if it truly is the GH, it's temporary. But you'll know if it's the index and ring finger, or sorry, the index and middle finger, it's probably the GH. If it's the pinky and ring finger, then you probably got something else going on, something with some elbow inflammation or shoulder problems going on would be my guess. All right, next question up here is from Christopher E. We continue down the water retention path here. Christopher asks, how should we really think about daily sodium intake? A lot of gym advice says more is better. Yeah, it's the dumb asses with the cutting boards, dumping the fucking sea salt all over everything. I just want to punch all of them in the face. Sorry, little rage hostility there. But when I ran 200 milligrams a day with higher sodium, I felt bloated and my blood pressure went up. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's gonna happen. Water follows sodium and the higher the sodium intake, it's really a ratio of sodium to potassium and how much sodium you're excreting throughout the day. And some of that's genetically predetermined. Some people have more sodium retention than others just genetically. I tend to have more sodium retention than most people and I've been on an angiotensin blocker since I was probably 18 years old. Not everybody has that problem, but really what I see is most of the time bros vastly over-consume sodium and under-consume potassium and for the sodium potassium pump to function correctly, you need a proper ratio of sodium and potassium. Ideally, I've seen numbers from two to one, to one to one, three to two. It's kind of where I live, I found, but two to one is what the general recommendation that you see. Now keep in mind, if you are using an ARB and run an angiotensin blocker, that that will cause additional potassium retention and then you need to be careful with your potassium intake, probably more in the one to one ratio. If sodium gets too high, then you end up with a situation where you're going to have water retention. Water is going to be retained in the body and you're gonna end up with inflammation, water retention, high blood pressure, all of these other things that are associated with sodium retention. Now there are other things that can affect sodium retention when you are taking synthetic androgens, such as the steroids that we fucking take, they're gonna stimulate the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and cause an increase in renin and then you're gonna end up with more potassium retention. Because of that, there are androgen receptors in the kidneys as well. Deca itself, nandrolone, seems to cause more water retention. There's some effect of, from what I understand, it affects the antidiuretic hormone, which is going to cause more sodium retention and more water retention. So it's really just a balance of things and you gotta think when you're using PEDs, it's going to affect sodium reabsorption. You're gonna have more sodium retention and therefore you're going to have increased water retention. Water follows sodium, sodium and water follow each other. So wherever the salt goes, the water's going to follow. Now, if you're doing a physical job and you're out sweating a lot during the day, potassium isn't excreted as easily as, say, sodium is. You sweat sodium out of your pores. If you're sweating a lot, you're going to need more sodium than, say, a person like me that's sedentary during the day. I probably can get away with three or 4,000 milligrams of sodium. That's more than enough for me because I'm really not sweating a lot to sit around on my ass all day long. I tend to be water-retensive as is, probably have more sodium retention than other people. Some people might need 10 grams or more if you're out sweating outside all day long. And it's also relative to fluid intake. I believe, if I recall correctly, it's about one gram of sodium per liter of water drank a day. So if you're drinking five or six liters of water a day, if you're really pounding the water down, then you may need five or six grams of sodium on top of it. But what I see is most people do not get enough potassium and they're deficient on potassium, they're overdoing the sodium, they got their pink Himalayan sea salt grinder out and dumping the sea salt all over their rib eye on their cutting board and then they end up with high blood pressure and pair that with the skewed lipids from PEDs and needing a high fat diet. And then they wonder why they end up having a fuckinGHeart attack and cardiovascular disease. So just keep all of that in mind. And potassium too has other benefits. Potassium is going to cause vasodilation, potassium is going to cause sodium excretion, potassium is going to help counterbalance some of the negative effects of sodium. It's not that one is better than the other. Too much of one and not enough of the other can kill you. So they need to be in balance. There's a harmony between sodium and potassium, but they have to be balanced out. And keep in mind, when we use certain PEDs, also when estrogen gets high, estrogen is another thing. When estrogen gets high, you're going to have more water retention because of estrogen beinGHigh as well. That's another issue too. Estrogen is going to cause more water retention. So it's another factor. Mitigating the, you know, if you're using Nangelone, it seems to upregulate aromatase expression and increase estradiol conversion. Once again, I don't know that there's any studies on this, just speculative what I've seen in action with people that I've worked with. But if your estradiol is high, you're going to have additional water retention. And if you're pounding a bunch of salt on top of being a dummy and letting your estrogen run through the roof, you're going to be a big old fucking water buffalo with high blood pressure and probably not live very long. So once again, it's balance. Nature is yang and yang. Everything is about balance, having things in balance, having a proper amount. And you may need an ARB to help out. You may need something to help out with that in picking your antibiotics properly, managing your cycle properly, managing your estrogen properly, having your diet balanced out, doing cardio, all these other things that can help attenuate water retention. All right, next question here is from William P. William says, I am in my health phase running 250 milligrams of testosterone, 100 milligrams of Primo, one milligram of RETA, and six I use of GH daily. I also use Suppressor Max, which is Justin Harris's Troponin Nutrition's Berberine product with carb meals and 500 milligrams of metformin at night. As a 55 year old, I am prepping for my first Men's Physique show. Should I be concerned about that metformin and berberine may blunt muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or IGF-1 signaling? I talked about this earlier. Also, that's a baby cycle. I guess it's a bodybuilding TRT. Look, I'm not one to cast a stone. That's my style of TRT. Look, if you're running the RETA, I would say the metformin and the berberine are unnecessary at that point. The RETA is going to affect the glucagon. In fact, the glucagon agonists and metformin, they're opposing actions. The glucagon agonists is going to cause your body to dump glucose, whereas the metformin is going to inhibit gluconeogenesis. So they're opposing actions, so probably counteracting each other to a certain degree. I would probably just run the RETA and call it a day. If you wanted to run the berberine on your high carbohydrate days, you certainly could, but the metformin is completely unnecessary and probably counterproductive when you're running RETA on top of it, so don't run both at the same time. And the whole IGF-1 thing, the blunting of IGF-1 in muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, I know Steve talks about this frequently and he swears by it and Steve's always smarter than me. I defer to Steve on that. I just have not seen that be the case with my own blood work. I've been on metformin for quite a bit of time. I did drop it when I was running the triple agonist, the RETA, for a while. I did drop it when I was running that, but I'm back on trazepatide now, so I had the metformin back in. I'm prescribed from my doctor, but I've never noticed that it affects my IGF-1 levels. And maybe it's just because when you run enough, you're taking insulin that it just kind of overpowers any negative effect that it's going to have on it. But metformin does raise AMPK and lower mTOR, which are going to affect muscle, could in theory affect muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, berberine too, could affect muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So, you know, any of these things that are going to make us live longer and increase insulin sensitivity probably run counter to what's necessary for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Just keep that in mind. But look, in your case, I'd say the metformin is unnecessary. You can drop it. Probably the berberine's probably, if you're running the RETA, drop both of them, or just run the berberine on the high-carbohydrate days. That's typically what I do. I just keep it in on my high days, and then the rest of the time, I just go with the GLP-1 is what I would do. But anyway, hopefully that's helpful. All right, next question here is from Eric L. Eric asks, can I use the same carb cycling structure I used during the cutting for maintenance, during a maintenance phase, just adjusting the calories to the maintenance while I varying the macros for daily activity? My goal is to hold size and condition until I'm ready to bulk. Yeah, I don't change a thing. I run the carb cycling year round with my clients. Typically what I do when you're in a cutting phase, I'll go down to zero carbs on low days. I'll go down to one high day per week, and I will leave carbs in around the workout window, but eventually I end up cutting carbs out around every area except for around the workout window. Now, if you're on a maintenance phase, I would put carbs back in your other meals, maybe or maybe not, depending on how your body's holding up. I would probably put a little bit of carbs back into your low days. 150 grams of carbs seems to be the minimum. What I've seen, if you go below 150 grams, you might as well just go to zero at that point because you're gonna feel like shit. So you might as well just go to zero. And then I would run one high day per week. And then when you get into your mass phase or your rebound phase, whichever, then you're gonna shift. Usually I just start off by adding one additional high carbohydrate day per week. I don't run those high carbohydrate days back to back because they're gonna be in a steep surplus. Any idea what the high carbohydrate day is, we're using that surplus to replenish glycogen that's been depleted throughout the week and push glycogen synthesis. And really it makes no sense to run that two days back to back because after you've had a high carbohydrate day, in theory, your glucose, your glycogen should be topped off at that point. So, and then you're just gonna have spillover and fat accumulation. So that's sort of the idea. And then what I'll do as I get into an off-season phase, I'll slowly start adding carbs. I'll probably start with adding a little bit, sprinkling a little bit more here and there into the high day, 15, 20 grams a day, nothing crazy. IMight sprinkle a little more into the medium days. Some guys that have really fast metabolisms, I'll go to three high days per week. I generally leave the low carbohydrate days, the low days in a deficit, even in the off-season. And the medium days, I'll sprinkle in a little more carbs as we go along and probably put a slight deficit on the, or a slight, sorry, surplus on the medium days and push a hard surplus on the high carbohydrate days while keeping the fats as low as humanly possible on the high carbohydrate days. Because when we're in a steep caloric surplus, any excess fats that we eat on top of the essential fatty acids that we need, which is probably a few grams per day, is likely going to be stored as adipose. So there's no point in having the extra fats in on those days. And I'll put a little bit of extra fats in on the medium days, and then I push the fats up even more on the low days, but that's typically how I structure the diets based on the three phases, cutting, maintenance, and a push phase. Maxwell N. asks, aside from barbell rows, what are your favorite back exercises for someone whose lower back can't tolerate the bent over positions? Dude, I don't do anything anymore that's not braced. I completely got rid of barbell rows, dumbbell rows, all that stuff. There are so many good machines now. If you have a good gym with a braced, I only do braced rows anymore. Everything I do is braced. There's so many good machines. And if you have a home gym, I can't remember if you do, I think maybe in your situation that you do, a good T-bar row would probably be a cheap one that you could get for home that would be a good way of doing a braced exercise. Dumbbell rows aren't too bad on your lower back if it's all you could do, or I forget what those, there was that one, Meadows rows, John Meadows had his one that you can look those up. You can do those with a barbell and those aren't too rough on your lower back. Those would probably be the ones that I would consider. Cable rows aren't too bad on your lower back. But right now, my favorites, what I like to use for my lower back, or sorry, for my lats right now, I use all braced stuff at this point. I do do some cable rows here and there. We have a prime cable, incline cable row machine that's pretty fucking cool. I use that. I, or sorry, I think it's Atlantis. It's Atlantis incline cable row that I use right now. We have a prime row that I love, a prime seated row where you sit in this machine, you have the brace and the prime machine has the three pins to load the weight on. If you have a home gym, you might want to consider buying one of those. You probably pick one up use for a few hundred bucks, I would imagine. The prime stuff is excellent. I can't recommend the prime stuff enough. You know, good cable pull down. I like narrow grip pull downs. I don't like wide grip pull downs or at least shoulder width. I feel like I get more lat activation from that. Some people might disagree with me. I feel like wide grip pull downs or any wide grip rows, in my opinion, all I feel is my fucking biceps. I don't really feel it in my back at all. So I stay away from those. But yeah, you know, and look, if you have the home gym, cheap piece of equipment that you can pick up would be a T-bar row. Just grab a T-bar row machine. That'd be a good one to start off with in with multiple grip angles that you have on it. And you can use it with your barbells. Sorry, you can use it with your plates, not your barbells, since you already have plates. All right, next question here is from Jamie T. An 18 year old who's trened seriously for two years asked me for some advice for stepping things up. Assuming nutrition and trening are solid, what supplements, if any, make sense before considering going on gear? IMean, probably the simplest and easiest supplement, the one that fucking works the best is just creatine. I'm not, you know, I don't use creatine mainly because I have IBS. It makes me shit my pants. But there's a ton of science on creatine and how effective creatine is for muscle performance in the gym. I would say out of supplements that actually work, I would put it on the top tier of my list of supplements that actually work and do something over-the-counter supplement stuff you can buy at GNC. Another, you know, probably another thing that I would consider adding into the mix, depending on how tight they have their diet, I would say, you know, really, that's kind of the next evolution. You learn how to tren, then usually you learn how to eat. Some guys get this backwards. They start the gear before they learn how to fucking eat. But I would say learn how to eat like a bodybuilder more so than taking supplements. And once they have that buttoned up, probably it's something that I would add in, you know, and we can debate on how much of a difference it would make, but a peri-workout nutrition, some amino acids in some sort of carbohydrate powder while you're working out. Some people will say that it doesn't make much of a difference. I beg to disagree, but, you know, but it's one of those things. It's probably a 1% or a 2% or where it makes a little bit of difference. But if you have your diet buttoned up and, you know, that can help a little bit too. And then just the basic over-the-counter supplements. I think there are some essentials that most people need to be taking. And that would be, I would start with probably a good multivitamin. Vitamin D with K2 would be an essential. What I would consider essential. Fish oil would be something that I would be, consider essential. Something with a good EHA and DPA, or sorry, EPA and DHA ratio. That would be something I would consider essential. Magnesium would be another one. Vitamin C, just to get all your bases covered up and start there. Just the basic essential. I think a lot of us end up overdoing supplements. So I would start off with the basic supplements that I talked about there. Some creatine. And if diet is locked up, then maybe consider an intra-workout, peri-nutrition type of thing. And I think that would be a good place for an 18-year-old to start. All right, last question here is from Westside Aaron. Westside asked, after increasing both T3 and Clen to 60 micrograms, I started feeling fatigue and achy. Almost like I have the flu. Are these common side effects? And do they usually resolve? Dude, I fuckinGHate T3. I don't know why people use it on guts. T3 is the worst, man. It's the worst possible choice that you could be using for losing body fat. T3 is equally good at burning muscle tissue as burning fat. I would only use T3 in a replacement dose if you actually have low thyroid T3 on your blood work. And I almost never see it in men. Occasionally I see it in women and they need a replacement dose. Or at the very end of a cut that you might need it at the end of the cut. But dude, drop the fucking T3. 60 micrograms of Clen is fine. And there's so much better, there's so many better options right now for fat burning. You have the triple agonist GLP-1 that we don't dare talk about on YouTube anymore. That one's fantastic. We have MOTC, we have SLU. I do still like Clenbuterol. Clenbuterol is fantastic. But I would not use T3. T3 is the worst, man. And it will make you feel sick. It'll make you feel like you have the flu. It's probably from the sympathetic nervous system drive that it causes. And then you end up having increased cortisol and you're gonna have all sorts of nasty side effects. You're gonna feel like shit. I remember how awful I felt once I got north of 50 micrograms of T3. I felt like fucking ass, man. It was the worst. I couldn't sleep. I was shaky. I was weak as fuck in the gym. All my muscle fell off of me. It's gonna give you body aches. It makes you feel malaise. I just, just, ugh, ugh. Throw that shit in the trash, man. Give it to your wife. Do something with it, man. I just would not fucking use it. And T3 upregulates beta adrenergic receptors. And then you end up in this situation where you have all this sympathetic nervous system drive, man. Adrenaline and noradrenaline are gonna hit harder. Cortisol's going to be increased. It just makes you feel yucky. And it doesn't provide any benefit. I just wish we could get past the T3 phase of bodybuilding and just put that shit in the trash can where it belongs. I do not use it on any of my contest prep with people except in rare extreme cases where I get somebody that can't fucking lose weight. And now with GLP-1s, in those situations where somebody can't lose weight, usually the GLP-1 gets the job done just fine. So look, man, I would take that shit, toss it in the trash can. Don't use the T3. If you run your blood work and you need a replacement dose, okay, I understand that. Just run 25 micrograms or so, 20 micrograms. I have seen situations where T4 is low from a heightened T3 uptake from taking GH. That's fine because your body's gonna self-regulate the conversion of T4 to T3. Not a problem there, but goddamn, just throw that T3 in the trash can, man. All right, folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. Hopefully you liked this. Hopefully you found it beneficial. Once again, hit that like button. Hit subscribe if you made it this far. And if you made it this far, thank you very much. Namaste. I love you, motherfuckers. See you on the next episode.