 z-ar-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r to be guaranteed to be asked on the Q&A. You can join over there for 30 bucks a month. I also respond to comments and answer questions there in our forum. And I have a bunch of cool coursework up there for free. It's a good value if you want to join up. Link is in the video description below. Some of the questions I have lined up today include, is there an optimal IGF-1 level for muscle growth? And when does IGF-1 become too high and become dangerous? Do you need insulin long-term to keep the muscle you build with it? Why do your hands go numb on HGH? And are there ways to fix it? What's the smartest way to manage prolactin while running TREN? I have all these questions and many more coming up in just one second. All right, my bros, hit that like button. Subscribe, all that jazz before we get into this. I've got some good questions lined up today. First question here is from Dave L. from the School Anabolic Bodybuilding Members Community. Dave asks, What do you bring backstage with you on competition day? Any must-haves people do not think about? I've literally seen people rolling to backstage with suitcases, tents, entire setups. I think most people bring way too much shit. They pack like they're going away for vacation. You should see the backstage when bikini competitors take the stage. Oh my God. I was at a national show last year and the amount of crap some of the bikini competitors, they literally would have their bro in tow bringing in a wagon full of shit. That's all these girls roll up with a wagon full of shit. You don't need all that stuff. Look, just have the basics, man. I think the less stuff, I'm a minimalist. I don't think you need a ton of stuff. Some stuff that people might not consider is some emergency items in case you start to cramp up. That's probably the biggest risk backstage is that you start to cramp up. I see people bringing all kinds of weird food and stuff backstage, thinking that they're going to do some sort of last minute carb up and drinking honey and doing all that fucking crazy shit. That literally does nothing. If you're ready for the show, you're going to be ready for the show. There's little stuff you can do that might make a 1% difference backstage. But for the most part, just chill and relax. What I like, honestly, man, I keep it simple. If I can't fit it in a backpack, I don't need it more than likely. I'll bring some gummy candy with me. I'll bring maybe some rice cakes and nut butter and a little bit of honey just in case I need some salt in case I start cramping. Tonic water with quinine is a must-have in your bag. It's a break glass in case of emergency. Quinine will stop muscle cramps if you have muscle cramps. So some tonic water with quinine, maybe Gatorade and some waters. And that's really all you need. A towel to lay down on the floor or a pillow to lay down on the floor. A lot of times I'm so amped up I can't lay down. I see dudes laying down on the floor and chilling out. That's great. That's awesome if you can relax like that. But I'm amped up, ready to go. Most shows you don't need to bring bands with you, but it might be a good idea to have an exercise band in there just to pump up a little bit. But most shows have bands backstage. I've literally seen dudes bring entire workouts. They had to tell guys at a national show I was at recently they couldn't bring dumbbells backstage. I saw some dudes literally pack dumbbells. We're backstage doing a whole fucking workout. That is not going to make any difference. If you're going to win, you're going to win. If you're not, you're not. I barely pump up when I'm backstage. I think most people pump up too early. To be honest with you, they start pumping up 45 minutes before they get on stage. And then they're all sweaty. They've blown out all their glycogen. They're all, you know, they're not ready to go when they get out there. They've cooled off by the time they get up on stage. Usually what I do is when I get in line up, and I know that we're about, they pull us backstage and we're about to get on stage. I'll start flexing a little bit and do a little bit of band work. Nothing crazy. But really, you don't need a whole lot of shit in your bag, man. It's people, people vastly overdo it. Most of the time, I just have my clients eat something a little salty. Anymore, I've been doing Rice Krispie Treats with a little bit of nut butter and salt on them. That's a simple solution. That way you don't need all the candy and all that other stuff. Just bring some Rice Krispie Treats, a little bit of nut butter, salt, a Gatorade, or a Pedialyte, and some Quinine with tonic water. That's in a towel to roll up and lay your head on down on the floor when you're laying down on the floor. And that's really it, man. That's maybe an exercise band. That's really it. You don't need a ton of stuff. People overthink it. I just like, I've seen all kinds of crazy shit backstage. It just makes me laugh, man. The carts, when people bring their whole fucking cart, they have to tow in shit backstage. It's like a caravan. It just cracks me up. But keep it simple. You don't need a lot of stuff. Don't overthink it. The more shit you have to bring with you, the more stuff that you worry about bringing. It's just another thing to fucking stress about. Just be chill on show day. There's not a whole lot that you need backstage, man. Just keep it simple. Some food, something to drink, maybe an exercise band. That's it. All right, next question here is from Westside Aaron. Westside ask, what is the most effective way to control prolactin when you're on trend? Oh, the old prolactin question. I feel like I've answered this one about 500 times, but we'll, we'll, we'll talk about it again. I almost never see anybody with actual high prolactin on their blood work. I'm talking about almost never. And, you know, sometimes you'll see a small elevation in trend and nandrolone don't directly raise prolactin. It's an indirect effect from how they affect dopamine. And it, it takes, it's a combination of factors that, that have to, have to go in, in, into play to actually raise the prolactin levels. What ends up happening is a lot of times guys have high estrogen. Estrogen amplifies the progestinic effects of the 19-nors. And then the 19-nors will, will lower dopamine. Dopamine acts as the brakes for prolactin and then prolactin will raise slightly. Now, if you have super high prolactin levels, you might want to get checked out for a prolactin secreting adenoma. I have seen a couple of dudes that had crazy high. Now, if you're slightly above the reference range, not the end of the fucking world, usually you can just adjust your dose and things will come back down. Not, not a big deal, but I almost never see guys with high prolactin on their blood work. That's, that's sort of like the bodybuilding boogeyman that, that people, it's this bro myth that people have invented. And, and it, it's not to say that doesn't happen. It does happen on occasion. I have seen it on occasion. And it's pretty easy fix. If you do, I just lower your doses, make sure your estrogen is under control. Use some P5P. If you're concerned about it, P5P does have a mild effect on lowering prolactin. Stay away from CABR. For God's sakes, everybody seems to proactively want to take CABR when they're on a 19 or, especially trend. It seems to be that that was the old bro way of proactively managing prolactin, which was just butt stupid because, CABR is a dopamine agonist. And if you, it can do some gnarly stuff to you. It's not to say, you know, look, if you have a dopamine, I mean, sorry, if you have a prolactin secreting pituitary tumor, you may need to be on a prescription of CABR, but let a doctor determine that man. Don't proactively take that shit. Dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome is almost comparable, to coming off a heroin, man. It's fucking crazy, man. People end up suicidal. They have withdrawal symptoms, all sorts of crazy things. So be careful fucking with your dopamine. And if trend bothers you that much there, just don't take trend. You know, that's a simple solution too. I won my pro card on contest prep. I did not use trend at all. You know, I just, I ran, I ran test Primo and Masteron. That was pretty much it for my entire contest prep. A little bit of wind straw at the end, you know, growth hormone, but I just kept it really fucking simple. I didn't do anything crazy. I don't like trend because I can't sleep on it. I don't have prolactin issues with it. There are guys that do have prolactin issues, but if you have truly high prolactin, you're going to be, you're going to be secreting milk from, from your boobies, man. Guys end up lactating. If when prolactin gets super high, I have seen that before. I, I, when I was in my twenties, um, I, I remember one time, the first time I ran trend and I ran it super high with testosterone and I'm sure my estrogen was through the roof because it was a high estradiol converter. I remember actually being able to squeeze milk out of my nipples. It was fucking crazy, man. It was fucking crazy. I mean, so yes, it can happen. It's not uncommon. You know, I mean, it is uncommon for it to happen, but if you are managing your estrogen, you should be fine. I, we did, did a terrible job of that when I was younger. Um, it shouldn't be that big of a deal, but yeah, prolactin is the boogeyman of bodybuilding. If you think you have high prolactin, go get your blood work done before you start treating anything and see if it's actually high prolactin. And most of the time, if you manage your estrogen well, while you're on cycle, you won't have any issues. All right. So next question here is from Richie in, if someone is using 10 units of verified growth hormone per day, but their serum IGF one is only at the top end of the normal physiological ranges, what factors could improve conversion? Assuming high carbs and post-workout insulin are already in place. Um, there are a bunch of factors that go into IGF one levels. It could be you're in a caloric deficit. It could be estradiol is low liver stress. If your liver is stressed out, IGF one conversion, um, systemic IGF one conversion happens through the liver. So if the liver is stressed out, that can mess up hepatic conversion of IGF one. There are a bunch of factors that are at play. High cortisol levels stress. If you're, you know, if your, uh, thyroid is off, you know, hypothyroidism could affect IGF one conversion. Most of the time with people in GH, it's not a problem. Usually I see the opposite. I usually see high T3, but you know, there are possible factors that could contribute to it from, uh, from these various aspects that we talked about. But yeah, usually, usually it's, it's look, people overanalyze the IGF one levels thing. There's very little evidence that systemic IGF one elevations is systemic IGF one have much of a contribution to muscle growth. It muscle growth is, is mostly done at the cellular level, at the muscle tissue. It's in, there's no real accurate way of measuring that, that other than doing a muscle biopsy. So we do have IGF one levels as an indicator that the GH that we're using is being converted properly, but really systemic IGF one doesn't have a whole lot of correlation between that and muscle growth. Now, what you will see, you will see an elevation when you're running IGF one, I mean, sorry, when you're running GH and IGF one, you will see an elevation. If everything's dialed in, if your food, you're in a co-x surplus, you're sleeping well, your estrogen is in range. You don't want it too high. Uh, estrogen is at the, usually at the top end of the reference range or slightly above. It's usually a good place to, good place to be when you're in a offseason growth phase. Usually you'll see some elevation in IGF one, and we don't want to see IGF one get too high either. Too high is going to increase the odds of acromegaly. Uh, it's going to increase the odds of a potential growth of an adenoma. It's not that IGF one causes cancer, but if you have an existing, um, cell, it's going to, it's going to, a cancer cell, it's going to potentially increase the rate of growth. It slows or stops apoptosis cell program, cell death, which is important. So we end up with replicating abnormal cells and then you end up with cancer growth. So that, that is a concern. I would say probably the top end I would take things is in that four to 500 range. It's usually what you see medical doctors that's slightly above reference range, or maybe even you want to keep it a little bit lower if longevity is concerned, but we don't want to spend long periods of time with highly elevated, elevated IGF one level. It's, it's dangerous. The big thing that you see with long-term use of GH and elevated IGF one levels and guys is increases in colon cancers. Um, you know, I, I've heard quite a few bodybuilders end up with colon cancer. So I'm sure the combination of that pushing food, all the things that we do that aren't great for you. Uh, anything that's going to increase in tour and lower MPK, increase IGF one, all these things that we do to grow probably aren't great for cancer long term. So we want to limit our exposure. And it's also why I think it's good to have a good hard cut once a year, too, because we're in a state where we do lower into into, into or increase a MPK. Uh, we are in a caloric deficit. We're restricting our calories. We're doing things that are going to improve our health, our insulin sensitivity, all of these things that are going to prevent the long-term damage from some of the shit that we do. So you can't continuously be blasting yourself with the super physiological levels of IGF one. It's just dangerous. Um, I, I would say, you know, just be cautious and don't go chasing higher IGF one levels. I see dudes all the time that aren't that big, that are obsessing about, and it doesn't seem like they've grown a whole lot that are obsessing about their IGF one levels, not being higher. And then it doesn't seem to correlate or translate into any appreciable growth. There are, there are other factors that go into growth as well. So just keep that in mind. I mean, it is a tool. It is something that we can measure. It's something that gives us some tangible information about what's going on in our body, but it's not the be all end all when it comes to growth. I've seen plenty of dudes get big with, with just at the top end of the reference range. Now, if you're 80, your IGF one levels are 80, then you probably have a problem. Something needs to be addressed. Uh, either your GH is fake or something. Something wrong is going on, you know, something, you know, in your formula for, for muscle growth is, is, is wrong. But I would say in an offseason setting, you probably want it at the higher end of reference range or slightly above reference range. You don't want to be plus 500. I think when you get plus 500 is when you get into the danger zone, especially it's duration of the exposure that really leads to the increased cancer risk. So we want to limit our times if we're at higher IGF one levels. Uh, and just be smart about it. Don't get obsessed with it. It is a number that, that has some merit, but it's not the be all end all. Don't obsess over it. All right. Next question here is from Joe D. He asked, uh, what is the purpose of adding something like anadron in the final four weeks of a book? Is that enough time to build new muscle tissue? Or is it mainly to push through strength plateaus and enhanced neuromuscular performance? Uh, the latter for me anyway. Um, I would not want to run anadrol for more than four, maybe six weeks tops. Uh, it's pretty, I don't know. It's, I think it gets a bad reputation. I don't think it's as toxic as some people think it is. Uh, but, but after a while, your appetite just starts to get smashed and you can't eat. And if you can't eat, you can't grow. It really, I'm more concerned about the hit on lipids than I am on the effects on the liver. The effects on the liver seem to be acute and resolve pretty quickly once you come off. Not to say that it doesn't come without some risk. Uh, anadrol, if I recall correctly, was the only anabolic steroid that actually was correlated with cancer growth. There was some liver cell or liver cancer correlated with anadrol use, heavy anadrol use. I don't remember the exact specifics on it, but I'll have to do a review on that study sometime. But there, there is a correlation between liver cancer and anadrol use to a certain degree. But I like an oral sometimes in the last four weeks of an offseason, if I just need to drive past a strength plateau, eat the last little bit of progress out of cycle. Now there are different people that have different philosophies. I've seen some people run, run orals at the beginning of cycle for the jumpstart. To me, that just never made much sense because just introducing even a low amount of anabolics usually at the beginning of the cycle on moderate, very moderate doses is when you make your best progress. I recently just upped my doses a bit. I'm not doing anything crazy. I'm doing 150 milligrams of testosterone and 50 milligrams of permabolin with, with eight units of GH every other day. So I don't know, something like 450, 500 tests a week, 150 to 200 primo, you know, eight units of GH every other day. And I'm making some crazy progress right now. I'm getting bigger and getting stronger. Why would I add an oral to that right now? I mean, what would be the point if I'm making progress? Why would I add the additional stress in my body? And so I look at the orals as a way to bust past plateaus. It's not necessarily that, I mean, you might want to use it in the middle of your cycle if you have a plateau, but I would, you do reach a point where with, with the injectables, you just get tired of shooting so much. And there's, um, you know, you just, you know, inflammation from the shots and stuff. And there's just only so much progress you can eat and eke out. And then, uh, the orals will something you can sprinkle on to get a little more out of it. Sometimes it's not even worth running them. I think most of my off seasons anymore, I don't even really run orals. Occasionally I'll take some Anivarp, 50 milligrams of Anivarp pre-workout, but I don't fuck with Anadrol or anything anymore. I'm just too old for that shit. It's, it's the bodybuilding equivalent of taking tequila shots. It's cool when you're 25. It's not cool when you're in your mid fifties. You just feel like shit. But yeah, I mean, it's more about neural drive, busting past plateaus, getting a little more muscle protein synthesis, um, all of the other, and Anadrol is non-genomic in effect. So it's all non-genomic factors that, that have an effect on growth. And sometimes it can be a fun little thing to do at the end of a cycle to squeeze a little more out. All right. Next question here is from Daniel B. Daniel asks, what are your thoughts on running trend and ethate from the start of a cycle and then adding trend ACE towards the end of a bus? Does that make sense? Or is it overkill? Yeah, I can't understand the logic why you would want to add trend ACE if you already have trend E on deck, because it's trenbolone at the end of the day. Now, granted the pharmacokinetics, pharmacokinetics of the, of the drugs are a little bit different, slightly different with the ester chain, but I, I would assume that if you're running trend E, it's already at peak, peak load by the time you're getting towards the end of cycle. All you're really doing is just adding additional load. I mean, you could, you could up, up the doses of the trend. Um, and ethate, or hypothetically, if one, one more effect, just, just increase the dose of what you're using currently versus adding a second different ester. And I just don't understand the logic behind that. I don't think it's going to, contribute a whole lot to the equation. Um, I would be curious to understand what the logic was, was there with that, but I've never heard of anybody doing that. I can't think of one off the top of my head. And maybe there's something I'm missing here. Reason why it would be of any benefits. All right. Next question here is from Gator gains Gator ask for someone around 10% body of fat using two milligrams of GLP three per week. You know what I'm talking about folks alongside TRT and GH. Is there a place for metformin or would you avoid it all together? Yeah. Look, I mean, metformin in the GLP three, the glucagon agonism specifically of the GLP three, um, are, are, we're kind of accomplishing similar goals here with the two, but they work through different mechanisms of action. Um, think of metformin as a, um, as a metabolic regulator. It's going to slow down production of, of glucose from the liver. So a lot of times, like when people have problems with high glucose levels in the morning, dawn effect. And, and, um, you know, some of this stuff gets dysregulated in diabetics. Uh, it helps with insulin sensitivity to a, to a minor degree. It seems mostly hepatic insulin sensitivity that it improves. Uh, um, whereas the glucagon agonism is a metabolic accelerator. It increases metabolism. It's going to cause the liver to dump glucose. Uh, but the other actions of the GIP and the GLP one kind of work in synergy to keep blood sugar regulated. But ultimately the goals with both in a performance enhancement context is to improve insulin sensitivity and crew improve metabolic regulation and the liver metabolic regulation, um, improve, uh, um, glucose control and all of these other things. And I just think that it seems like the GLP three overall, the combined action of all three of the agonists that are in there, the GLP one GIP and glucagon would have a more profound effect than metformin alone would. Now I know in a clinical setting, I am currently prescribed menjaro, which is trisepatide. I am prescribed metformin alongside of that because we don't have the glucagon agonism. So it's kind of filling in some of those gaps there. And I have been on metformin for close to a decade. Uh, I, I, people worry about it limiting growth. Metformin does lower mTOR and increase AMPK to a certain degree, but I've been able to grow just fine on it. I think through with enough anabolics, you can overpower any of those concerns. But I would say as far for a performance enhancing perspective, now we're still early on. We don't know a whole lot that the GLP three is probably going to be better at accomplishing the goals that we're trying to achieve as in performance enhancements. Um, it's going to provide better hepatic, uh, you know, it's reduces liver, better hepatic function. It's going to reduce liver fat. It's going to increase beta cell function and have more insulin production. It's going to increase insulin sensitivity. It's going to regulate hunger hormone signaling. There's just a bunch of other things. And it's basically, I mean, it does multiple things. It's, it's multiple drugs in one and achieves all of these goals that, you know, where people are trying to fix metabolic disorders and improve fat burning and all this other things that, that you're, it's really just going to do a better job than metformin would by itself. Now, if you weren't on the GLP three, uh, and you were using GH and, and situations where I think a lot of guys in the past had fucked up their insulin sensitivity and we're having high fasting glucose levels and things like that. Metformin is sort of a first line of defense for that. But I would suspect long-term, I don't know, but I would suspect long-term in a clinical setting that metformin will probably be replaced by the GLP three. There will probably will not be using trisepatide in the future either. I imagine that the GLP three is probably just going to replace both or the combination of both. I could be wrong. I, you know, look, I, I, I'm not a medical doctor. I'm not an expert on this. I'm not telling you what to do, but that is my suspicion. That is my speculation on this. If you disagree, let me know in the comment section below. All right. Next question here is from Marco M. Marco ask at 6.5 units of GH. I wake up every night with numb hands. I've tried pushing through it, but it's definitely affecting my sleep. Is lowering the dose the only solution? Are there any other strategies for managing this? All right. So GH increases water retention through increased sodium and mineral retention. And a lot of times people end up with peripheral edema swelling in the extremities, hands, feet, ankles, those areas, people end up with water retention in those areas. And the carpal tunnel is a very rigid pathway. The median nerve runs through there. And the additional water retention presses on that nerve and causes, causes numbness. And it's worse at night because a lot of times people will lay on their side side and they get more water retention on one side, more pressure on the nerve, and then they end up with numb hands. But ultimately it's water retention, not the growth hormones, an indirect effect of it that causes this, this hand numbness. If I recall correctly, when I read through the clinical trials and prescribing information for serestim, it was about one in five people ended up with peripheral edema and carpal, you know, temporary carpal tunnel, hand numbness as a result. Now, long-term it could, you know, I would say this chronic condition could probably long-term lead to scar tissue and buildup. And a lot of times I think orthopedics mistake that temporary hand numbness as a, as a problem, you know, scar tissue and permanent problems with the carpal tunnel. And they suggest that you actually need surgery probably unnecessarily. And a lot of times just fixing the water retention can address it. Now in the prescribing information, what they recommended for patients that were using serestim, keep in mind, I'm not a doctor, but this is what the prescribing information in the serestim pamphlet said was to go to every other day dosing. That was the, that was the, that was the suggested thing. And that was the researched way of dosing it. They tried 5-1-2 off. They tried every other day. They tried cutting doses in half. And from what I understand, the most effective way to, to fix some of the stuff was every other day dosing. There was a pretty significant reduction in the peripheral edema and side effects that were reported in patients that went to every other day dosing. While IGF-1 levels still stayed relatively elevated on that dosing, people had, had moderate, moderate drop in IGF-1 levels. But for the most part, the IGF-1 levels were pretty, pretty decent on that from, from what I recall from the study. So that is a way to do it. Another one is regulating your sodium, potassium, and magnesium intake. I find that most bros overdo the sodium, underdo the magnesium, or underdo the potassium. They don't get enough. Using light salt is something that I do, and it's really helped me with water retention. If it gets really bad, it's, it's something you could speak with your doctor about, and potentially have a, an ARB prescribed with, with a diuretic in it. They make telmosartan with hydrochlorothiazide in it, is something, if it gets really bad, you could just come off the GH for a couple of weeks. God forbid we do that. And see if it, it resolves. But what I found is over time, in my own experience, usually, that water retention goes away. Now, sometimes you have to come off, and let things settle back in. Some people, it's worse. It also seems to be worse, in a caloric surplus, when you're eating a lot of carbs, versus when you're in a caloric deficit, you're eating less carbs. Carbs are going to drive water retention also. So, those, these are some other things, that could potentially, affect things, as far as water retention goes. But, over time, as I've gotten adjusted to it, as I've gotten, been on growth hormone, for a period of time, I've noticed that those side effects, I don't get, really get the numb hands, anymore. It's not an issue anymore. I do have issues, with glucose control, sometimes, if I get a little too carried away, with the dosing. That's why, I am doing every other day, dosing currently, to help, with the, glucose control. My glucose control, has been a lot better, with the every other day dosing, that is for sure. I've seen pretty, pretty big improvements, with things, going to the every other day dosing. But, I would start there, and it might be, that you just need to come off, for a period of time, and let your body settle in. You know, so that, that's, that's something that, you know, that you need to consider, as well, that maybe, maybe that's, maybe you just need a break from it. Anyway, I hope that helps. All right, next question here, is from Christopher E. He says, what causes calf cramps, while running, clenbuterol, and what's the best way, to prevent them? I get both calf, and ab cramps, when I'm running, clenbuterol. It usually goes away, after a couple weeks. But, clenbuterol, is a very potent, beta, agonist, more specifically, to the beta 2 receptor, which is important, for fat loss. It is a very, potent, central nervous system, stimulant. It also, seems to, cause depletion, of, of, certain minerals, in the body. It causes electrolyte, depletion, to a certain degree. The central nervous system, stimulation, is going to, cause, a more, potent firing, of the motor, units, in the muscle cell. And specifically, it seems to be, from what I recall, I think it's, slow twitch. Don't, quote me if I'm wrong, about this. You know, you guys can kill me, in the comment section. But, from what I remember, it causes more, more, intense firing, of the motor units, in the slow twitch muscles, which the calves, are predominantly, slow twitch muscles. So, the motor units, are firing, more closely, to their threshold. And then you end up, with this really, highly, active contraction. But, it also seems to cause, electrolyte imbalances. It seems to, cause a depletion, of electrolytes. People sweat more, that whatnot. One of the things, that you can use, when you're on, clinbuterol, that will help with this, is, taurine. Taurine, stabilizes, calcium handling, and thus, nerve firing, in the, muscle cell, which, taurine, I mean sorry, which, clinbuterol disrupts. And it's going to help, with how, those motor units fire, and it's going to, ease up things a little bit, and make things work better. Magnesium, seems to get depleted, when you're, especially if you're, doing a bunch of cardio, and sweating, potassium, gets depleted, and all these electrolyte, imbalances, cause issues as well. So, I would usually, supplement in something like, two to three grams, of taurine, while you're on, clinbuterol. You can go up, to as high as five, as long as it doesn't, upset your stomach. I would use light salt, when you're on, contest prep. You may need, a little extra sodium, but most people, I see, bros, that I see, are deficient, in potassium, and do way too much sodium. Now, if you're sweating a lot, you may need more sodium as well. Sodium, is depleted, as you lose water. So, it's possible, you need to make sure, you're staying well hydrated. Magnesium glycinate, is going to help, with this as well. All of these things, are going to help, with proper muscle contraction, but, usually you settle in, after a couple weeks. It seems like the, muscle cramps, happen initially, and then they kind of go away, as your body gets, adjusted to, the, clinbuterol. But, adding in a little bit of taurine, some magnesium, some potassium. Just keep in mind, if you're running an ARB, such as, telmosartan, that you have to be mindful, of potassium intake, because, ARB is specifically, specifically, telmosartan, can cause, potassium retention, so that's just something, that you need to keep, in mind, when you're using, climbuterol. All right, next question here, is from Joshua Perry, for guys, who used insulin, during their growth phases, once they retire, is insulin necessary, to maintain that muscle tissue, or was it only needed, for building it? Also, do you think, GH plus insulin combination, is why enhanced bodybuilders, tend to have that stretched, muscle look, that naturals, are all, lifters are all the time, talking about? I'm assuming you're talking about, the roundness, the 3D look, the fullness, um, yeah, that, that to me, is just the, forced glycogen retention, that happens, when you're using, insulin, insulin is going to, help with glycogen synthesis, amino acid uptake, it's not directly, anabolic, it's indirectly, anabolic, uh, and then, you know, here's what I speculate, you look at a guy, like Dorian Yates, I mean, I don't know what Dorian is now, he's mid 60s, you can see, just looking at him, I, I assume Dorian's, just on TRT now, it would be my guess, TRT and probably a little GH, I can't speak for him, but I would assume, he has that look, that that's what he's doing, and I know he doesn't work out, a ton like he used to, I know he's not eating, a ton of food like he used to, but if you look at him, you can see, the density of muscle, the contractile tissue, is still there, it's just empty, it's devoid of glycogen, or, or lower levels of glycogen, it doesn't have all the, the nitrogen retention, that you would, when you're, using something like insulin, but I would, I would be willing to bet, if he ate more food, probably doesn't even need, a bunch of antibiotics, could potentially, just use a little bit, of growth hormone, and some insulin, and ate more food, he would probably fill out, very quickly, because the infrastructure, so to speak, for a lack of better, wording, is still there, the capacity to hold, all of that is still there, and what insulin is going to do, and what I've seen insulin do, and this is just, once again, is bro science speculation, after using insulin, with training over a period of time, it seems to be, more specifically, paired up with higher volume training, I know that's not what Dorian does, but, it, it seems to, force the issue, as far as glycogen synthesis, it seems like, over a period of time, that guys are able to, upregulate, and enhance their ability, to store more glycogen, and, I don't care, what the science gurus say, you know, that carbs don't make any difference, in muscle size, glycogen is, when, when you force all that glycogen, in the muscle tissue, it affects your appearance, that's what you get, that round 3D bubbly, look, when you have a bunch of glycogen, and nitrogen retention, amino acid uptake, all, all of these things, that, that give you that big, round, full, bubbly look, that the, the 3D look, so to speak, that they like to talk about, with bodybuilders, and that goes away, when you're not, eating as much food, and when you're not, using insulin, and GH, but the infrastructure, the actual contractile tissue, is very hard to lose, as long as you're eating, adequate protein, you're still training, to a certain degree, and having a minimum, a minimal amount, of hormones on deck, you can maintain, almost that, I mean, I, I put up some progress pictures, the other day, I've basically been on, just, 200 to 300 milligrams, of tests, for the last, six, 15 months, something like that, and I just, recently turned things, back up a little bit, I blew right back up, went from 250, back up to 275, in a month, it, you know, it's, I didn't gain, 25 pounds of muscle, it's, that, glycogen retention, that comes back, now, I'm not lean by any, you know, by any stretch of the imagination, right now, but, that's what we see, with the additional, glycogen retention, and that, that, that, that's the effect that I, that, that insulin is going to, supercharge and enhance, now, that's temporary, and, it does go away, when you come off, but it doesn't mean, that you have lost, contractile tissue, and I think that's something, that you, you know, you can easily maintain, if you have real, contractile tissue, I see guys talking about, losing all their muscle, when they come off, and losing all this weight, I don't think they ever, had real muscle, to begin with, I think they were just, a fucking, big ass, bloated mess, from the shitty, deep ball cycle, they ran, they don't actually have, real contractile tissue, I mean, like I said, just look at Dorian, the same thing with, Roddy Coleman, or Jay Cutler, any of these old guys, that were huge, at one point, even Arnold, look at Arnold, you can see, like you can look at Arnold's, arms, and you can see, kind of looks like a balloon, that somebody let the air out of, but you can see, that the actual, muscle tissue, is still there, it's just flat, that, that's what bodybuilders, mean by flat and full, and insulin, helps push that full, look, that you get, and you know, there, there is some other, downstream effects, of insulin, that help with hypertrophy, increased, IGF-1 production, increased mTOR as a result, yada, yada, yada, increased muscle protein synthesis, from the, amino acid uptake, and increased, you know, all these downstream effects, that happen, but, just look at these old guys, it's still there, and it probably wouldn't take much, for them to blow right back up, to where they were, before, if they turn things back up, even at an advanced age, all right, next question here, is from LA Arts, when using GH, is there an optimal, IGF-1 level, to aim, or to maximize muscle growth, without, while still considering longevity, and what IGF-1 level, should someone start out, to be concerned, with potential health risks, well sort of answered, this one earlier, I don't want you to think, I disregarded your question, but, we can go back, and revisit, what I said earlier, once again, I just want to, rehash this, and just emphasize this, for everybody, I do not, think that, IGF-1 levels, systemic IGF-1 levels, have a whole lot of correlation, with muscle growth, that's not to say, they aren't an indicator, that's not to say, they don't have some validity, but I think guys, get overly obsessed with it, and I think some dudes, are pushing their IGF-1 levels, a little too high, and are taking unnecessary risk, once again, over 500, you're probably, in the danger zone, that's a high risk, and I would want to, limit my exposure, to having IGF-1 levels, that high, limit the amount of time, that you're exposed, exposed to that, you know, just, just reemphasizing, this again, I would say, the high end of normal, or, or slightly above, the normal ranges, I, you know, high 300s, low 400s, that's probably, the ideal place, to be for hypertrophy, it's a nice balance, of hypertrophy, and risk, this is once again, thinking about, taking risk factors, and I go back, to emphasize again, it's localized, IGF-1 production, MGF, and all the other, downstream effects, of, of this, that actually have an effect, on growth, and we can't really measure that, without a muscle biopsy, so we're left with, IGF-1 testing, which is the best thing, that we have, right now, that we can use, as an indicator, of what's going on, but, once again, just reemphasizing this, don't get too obsessed, with IGF-1 levels, I would say, look, 400, 450, you know, this is probably, as high as I'd want to take it, not, no more than 500, probably, really, I think, the safer place would be, it would be at the high end, of the normal range, or slightly above, the normal range, we're always taking chances, when we're trying, to grow muscle, all the things, that we do, to grow muscle, increase, long-term risk, of other things, growing like your heart, or a cancer cell, so, just keep that in mind, be careful, be smart about things, don't get too obsessed, with some of these numbers, alright folks, that's all I got, for you on this one, I appreciate each, and every one of you, I'll see you on the next episode, you rock, I'll be at the Arnold, this weekend, so, if you are at the Arnold, you see this before, the Arnold happens, come say hi, if you see me around, you, Thank you.