Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up, gym bros? Big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A. This is where I break down your questions on trening, nutrition, and performance enhancement with a focus on keeping you safe while improving your results in the gym. I have some great questions today from the school anabolic bodybuilding members community site. You can join for 30 bucks a month where you get your questions answered on thEQ&A. Link is in the video description below if you wanna check it out. What's a safe and effective dosage for mint and how do you manage its side effects? How does EQ really compare to primobolan in an off-season massing cycle? Does raising SHBG actually help you grow or is that just a bunch of hype? Evaluating IGF-1 levels while on cycle. I have thesEQuestions and a bunch more. We're gonna dig into all those in just one second. All right, first question I got here is from the school anabolic bodybuilding members community from John W. John asks, mint looks powerful but harsh. What dosage ranges give the benefits without overwhelming side effects? And what are the best ways to manage estrogen, prolactin, and blood pressure while you're on it? I have a lot of mixed feelings about mint. I would say 98% of the time, it's not applicable for what we're trying to do. There are some rare situations where I would consider using it. If you have someone who is an extremely low estrogen converter, mint or a short run of D-Ball can be a powerful tool to use to get through those periods of time when estrogen is super low and crushed and you might need some help there. But I find the guys that don't convert much estrogen are very rare and uncommon. They're like maybe one out of 30 people, maybe even less than that. I almost always, I see dudes, their issue is high estrogen, it's not low estrogen. I do run into guys occasionally, a small handful of them that I work with, but the majority of people have high estrogen issues. And if you're a high estrogen converter, then mint is probably going to be big problems for you. Mint is a 19-nor-nandrolone derivative. It's commonly known as MENTolone. If you get on the forums and read about it, I don't know if it's commonly known as MENTolone anymore. Everybody just fucking calls it mint these days. But back in the day, we used to call it MENTolone and it was kind of a mysterious compound that you only heard about and nobody ever took. It was sort of like the pink unicorn in the forest. You knew it was out there somewhere. You knew somebody saw it, somebody had ridden it, but you didn't know anybody personally that was aware of it. But now it's these days, pretty much everything's available except for Masteron right now. But mint is a tool that's in the toolbox. It's one that I wouldn't pull out very often because it is wrought with a lot of side effects. If we want to get into the nitty gritty of it, it's 7-alpha-methyl-nor-testosterone. It's a 19-nor-testosterone derivative. As IMentioned earlier, I know there's some people who get upset about the semantics of derivatives, but whatever. You know what I'm saying, folks. It is a 19-nor. It converts to a very potent form of estrogen, which can be problemsome in some dudes. Actually, not just some, but a lot of guys. It converts to 7-alpha-methyl-estradiol. We have D-ball that converts to methyl estradiol. It is a very potent form of estrogen that's extremely powerful in a man's body and causes all sorts of problems. So if you're prone to gyno, if you're prone to water retention, if you're prone to all the side effects that come along with estrogen, you probably want to steer away from this stuff. The 17-alpha-methyl group on the compound prevents it from reducing. So it doesn't reduce to dihydronandrolone, which makes it even more potent. This is why we don't use a 5-AR inhibitor with nandrolone, because the 5-AR inhibitor prevents the reduction, which actually causes more hair loss and other problems. So I'm just speculatinGHere. I don't know for a fact, but I would speculate if you're prone to hair loss, that mint is probably going to be very aggressive at causinGHair loss. Once again, just a speculation because of the blocking of the conversion to DHN, which is a weaker version of the nandrolone molecule. But I could be completely wrong about that, but that's just my speculation on how it would react. So since it doesn't reduce, that also makes it more potent anabolic, but I would imagine that it probably increases side effects and risk of hair loss and other issues that come along with that more aggressive form of nandrolone. It is also a synthetic progestin, so it comes along with those set of side effects as well. If you're familiar with the other side effects that come along with 19-NORs, how they affect the brain and mental health and dopamine, that's another potential issue that we're going to deal with. It is basically what DACA would be if it took steroids. It's a very potent derivative of 19-nor testosterone. I honestly, I would just fucking stay away from it for the most part. In very rare circumstances, like I said, if you have a guy that is a high or a low estrogen converter that needs some help in that department, you could probably sprinkle a little bit in to help with some things. For guys who grow like crazy on it, I would be worried about growing titties if I was on it, and havinGHigh blood pressure and water retention and all the other problems that come along with it. Doses, I don't know how much I want to go down that rabbit hole. I've heard guys running 100 milligrams plus a day, which is insane to me. Probably 10 to 30 milligrams, somewhere in that range, if you were going to consider it. But once again, I would probably leave that out of the equation. For me, I just go back to the whole fucking thing with this stuff. Why run things like this when you can have safer compounds that you can run at higher doses for longer durations? You're probably going to get better results. Cumulative results, guys are always trying to chase exotic compounds to get some sort of edge. And really, when you talk to the guys that are the top pros, they just run basic shit for the most part. Tests, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, either Masteron or Primobol and maybe Aquapoise now that those are in short supply. Sprinkle in an oral here and there. But then, and that's really it. It's very basic, straightforward, simple stuff. They eat a shit ton of food. They tren hard. That's it. That's really all you need. You don't need to run these exotic compounds. There's nothing really that's going to be of an additional benefit that would warrant risking that, in my opinion. I would just probably stay away from it and run something else. If you're having issues with estrogen conversion, you just run more tests or throw in some D-Ball. That's an option as well for guys that have trouble with estrogen conversion. I've only had my estrogen smashed one time and that was last fall. It was a miserable experience. And then I threw in some D-Ball to deal with it and it worked like a charm. Anyway, my two cents on it. Just stay away from it. You don't need it. I've never run it. I wouldn't say that most everybody I've talked to never run it. It's just an obscurecompound that guys like to experiment with. I just don't know that it provides any real additional benefit that warrants it. All right, next question here is from Chase C. Chase asks, with Primo in a mask, harder to source now. EQ is becoming the go-to compound for off-season. Substitute for bros. How does EQ compare to Primo for off-season massing, both pros and cons? I would say that EQ is a dirtier version of Primo Bolin. I know a lot of people are gonna debate me on that, but I am on team Primo. I am a Primo princess. I enjoy Primo Bolin. It works very well for me. The side effect versus benefit profile is fantastic. I would say EQ is probably the closest substitute for Primo Bolin because both seem to lower estrogen through some sort of aromatase and inhibition. EQ seems to be, in my experience, more aggressive at lowering estrogen than Primo Bolin is. I'd notice a pretty significant lowering of my estradiol when I ran EQ compared to running Primo Bolin. So I would say you need to keep the doses a little bit lower in comparison to what the ratios are. I usually run Primo Bolin somewhere like 60 to 70% of my testosterone, that dose. That puts me right perfectly in range when it comes to my estradiol. Not everybody's like that, though. Some people can't run it and it will absolutely, run it that high and it will absolutely smash their estrogen and they have to keep things a little bit lower or not run it at all. I find that EQ is a bit more aggressive, at least in my situation. So what I do with the EQ is I will run it at about half the dose of my testosterone. That puts me about where I want to be. Now keep in mind, it has a very slow half-life, depending on who you ask, something like 10 to 12 days. I don't recall off the top of my head, but it's in that ballpark. So we're talking about close to two months before it fully peaks. IMean, you're definitely going to notice it within three or four weeks, but before you notice that significant effect that it has on estradiol, it might be a little bit of time, man. So you got to keep that into consideration. I would have something on hand, like a quick fix, like we talked about in the previous question, maybe like some D-ball or something, just in case your estrogen does get smashed while you're on it. I know the old school bodybuilders love to pair it up with DECA, so they would run EQ something like half what their testosterone dose is. And then again, they would run DECA like, or NPP at half what the EQ dose is. And that will help with the estrogen conversion since nangelone seems to increase aromatase expression to a certain degree or has some sort of positive effect on estrogen conversion, whatever mechanism that that works through. But that's generally what I've seen. So what I would say with EQ, look, there are some downsides to it. I prefer primobolin if you can find primobolin, but EQ is probably the closest approximation that we have. Some other areas where it's not quite as good as primobolin, from what I have seen, it is the most aggressive steroid at raisinGHemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell count outside of some of the orals like anadrol. I think it's the most aggressive injectable that I have seen for raisinGHemoglobin, hematocrit, and red blood cell count. At least that's been my experience with it. So if you're prone to high RBC and hematocrit, it might be a problem for you. It's just something to consider when you add it into the equation. There is also some evidence, there was an old study, I think it was a rabbit study done back in the 70s or maybe even the 60s, I don't recall directly. I think where they were running really high doses of it and it was causing kidney toxicity, it seemed to be directly kidney toxic in rabbits. Now, in real life, I don't know. There's some speculation that that doesn't trenslate to human beings, but it is a consideration. I would put primobolin in that A tier as far as safety goes. I would put it up there with Masteron, maybe, I don't know. I would say A tier would be testosterone, primobolin, and GH, in my opinion, and I would probably put EQ in that B tier of safety, maybe like a B minus. It just would be my opinion on it. It also seems to elevate blood pressure more aggressively than other ones. That probably has to do with the hemoglobin and hematocrit elevations that you do see with it. It's the only thing that really took my hematocrit up over what I would consider my threshold, which is 55. I don't like to exceed 55. It's the only thing outside of Anadrol that took me over that limit. And I was running a pretty spicy dose of it if I remember at the time, but yeah, EQ will do that. It also increases appetite, so if you're a guy that struggles with appetite, or maybe you're somebody who needs the appetite increase, that was what the old school bodybuilders would do. They'd run it in the offseason because they wanted an increase of appetite. It's funny because all the old guys used to say that it was weak and it didn't do shit. Now everybody wants to be on EQ, but those are the considerations I would make. But right now with the shortage of Masteron and Premobolan, it might be your only choice. I would probably opt for either Masteron or Premobolan first over EQ, but if you don't have any other choice, then EQ might be the only thing. I would take it over top of Deca for sure. Or if you were going to run Deca, run it in combination with the EQ at a much lower dose. Since you have something in there to help with estradiol conversion, that would be how I would structure it. But that's my two cents on EQ. All right, next question here is from Colton R. Colton asks, some coaches are suggesting that raising SHBGHelps people feel and grow better. While low SHBG feels worse, what's your personal take on the SHBG levels? I never really gave much consideration to SHBG recently. I think that's more the TRT kind of performance. I guess we would put it like the vital human optimization kind of crowd. Guys that are looking to get the most out of their performance as far as just as life in general. They're not looking to be some big 270 pound, super heavyweight Mr. Olympia contender. Those are the guys that I hear mostly talk about SHBG. Low SHBG, when you have low SHBG, you don't feel so hot. You feel lethargic, sex drive is kind of messed up, even when your testosterone levels are higher. So for those dudes, if you want to be clear, if you want to have better sex drive, if you want to just have overall cognitive performance, having SHBG in range makes a lot more sense. Now, for those of us that arecompetitive bodybuilders, the old school notion was a smash that motherfucker, get it as low as you can, and we're gonna get our free Testosterone levels through the fucking roof. And ultimately it's free Testosterone levels that matter the most. total Testosterone is not that important. And guys would deliberately smash their SHBG to get their free Testosterone levels higher. Now, certain compounds are more aggressive at lowering SHBG, specifically the DHT analogs, even more so the orals, things like proviron is going to drastically lower it. Primavalin and Masteron are both going to aggressively lower its antivar to a certain degree. And when you combine all these things up, it has a compounding effect where it's going to lower SHBG as well. Low SHBGHas also been associated with some insulin resistance as well. I don't know how well that correlates with our crowd of people with bodybuilders. Higher SHBG generally means better metabolic health. And think of it this way, SHBG is a globulin that binds with sex hormones, mainly with testosterone and some of the estradiol, and it regulates how much free hormone that we actually have running through the body. It's essentially the brake. And so when you look at free Testosterone versus total Testosterone, total Testosterone and free Testosterone are a function of SHBG. So the lower the SHBG, the more free Testosterone there is, the more usable free Testosterone there is. It's essentially the brake. And we lower it, we push the gas pedal down, and we're going to have more free hormone floating around. Low SHBGHas also been correlated with liver issues and inflammation in some individuals. I don't know how much of that really applies to us in the bodybuilding community, but if you look at the medical literature, that's what it says. That's what it indicates with low SHBG. It could be other disorders that are associated with the low SHBG that are causing this, but in our community, I don't see that being a big problem. But anyway, I would say if you are looking to get big as fuck, if you're a guy that's going to be blasting a shit ton of gear, especially DHT analogs, such as test, you know, such as Masteron, Anolvar, Primavol, and shit like that, you are going to just have to accept some low SHBG as cost of doing business. That's just how it goes. All right, next question here is from Simon E. Simon asks, most beginner cycles focus on bulking, but what about cutting? For someone starting around 15 to 20% body fat, the drop under 10% is test, GH, and a fat burner enough, or should other compounds be considered? I would say if you're a brand new newbie and have never run a cycle before, I just start with the bioidentical hormones first. We know how they're going to be handled by the body. We know what the downstream metabolites are of them. You're going to need some DHT and estrogen conversion, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, to help you be a healthy, functioning person. So I would just start with test, GH. And if you are looking to throw in some metabolic aids, now we can stay away from the stem-based fat burners and run things like a GLP-1, say Retitrutide, or even some sort of mitochondrial enhancer like SLUPP332, or MOTC, which are very popular right now in the bro community. It seems like everybody has shifted away from stimulants to these. It used to be the old school, let's run Clin, a beta agonist, or Ephedrine, also a beta agonist, a non-selective one, Johanbein, et cetera. Let's get ourselves lit up like we're methamphetamine addicts and burn some fat off that way. And they do work, they do work very well, but potentially I would say some of the metabolic enhancers that we have available now are probably a safer bet. I would say for a beginner fat loss cycle, I would just take a look at test, some GH, and maybe running a GLP-1, whichever your choice of GLP-1 would be. Get that body fat off. If you're over 20% body fat, get yourself down to 10 or a little bit leaner than 10. Once you get there, then you can recalibrate and reconsider things when you do your next go-around, or if you're going to do a rebound after that first 16 to 20 week cutting cycle, I would maybe consider adding in something like Primovolone or Mastron or Equipoise that would probably be the first secondary choices that I would look at outside of the primary sex hormones and anything that's going to be, you know, endogenously produce the bioidentical stuff, test GH, those would be where I would start, you know, even the GLP-1s are modified to a certain degree. You know, GLP-1s are a naturally occurring thing in the human body. But I would probably start there first, get the weight off, get yourself lean. You're going to have a better hormonal response once you are lean, less estrogen conversion because aromatase is made in the fat tissue in a man's body. So the lower the body fat, the less estrogen conversion that we're going to have and the more free Testosterone we're going to have as a result. And probably overall, during that time period when we're leaner, we're probably just going to have better overall results, you know, because our estrogen is going to be managed by our body fat being lower. That's another thing to consider too, if you do this cycle and your body fat is high, there's only going to be only so high that we can push the testosterone before you're going to need an aromatase inhibitor. So get that fat off first, keep the cycle smart, reasonable, work with bio-identical hormones or, you know, something that the body, you know, renitrutide isn't exactly bio-identical, but you know what I'm saying. Test, GH, start there first and work your way back. All right, next question here is from Westside A. I inject into the outer glute with a one-inch needle and sometimes I get nickel-sized lumps that last over a week. They aren't sore or infected. Is this normal? And how do I prevent it? I've always had that issue with the glutes. And in fact, I've seen guys at bodybuilding shows. There was a guy recently at a bodybuilding show, I was at, I won't name names, but his glutes, his ventral glute was so swollen up. It looked like he had a softball in either one of them. It looked ridiculous in his posing suit. And like, the judges have to see that and be like, what the fuck? I would rotate injection sites regularly. What you're seeing there is the depot, the deposit of oil. And potentially, there are many reasons why maybe it doesn't dissipate scar tissue. Maybe there's too much, you've just been injecting in that area too much. There's too much scar tissue and impaired blood flow. So the depot is not being used up as rapidly in that area. And you end up with a huge pocket of oil in there. And if you think about it, if you have this massive pocket of oil that's just sitting there, so big that it looks like you got a baseball or half a baseball on your ass, that oil is not even being used anyway or utilized in any way by the body. So it's a waste of even taking it. I rotate sites. I typically rotate glute, glute, quad, quad, delt, delt, tricep, tricep. And as I get closer to a contest, I eliminate the triceps and the delts because I don't want lumps on either one of them. It's very ugly looking. And you may even cut down injection load as you get closer to a show so you don't have these big ass lumps on here. But it's just not a good look going into a show. Now, the cause of the lumps, who fucking knows. In the real world scenario, I think the reason why doctors prefer glutes is because the glutes are supposed to have great blood flow. But if you got a bunch of fucking scar tissue back there or you have small glutes, like I have white man ass, there's not much there to inject the oil into. I have better time with my quads. My quads are pretty big. My triceps are pretty big. My ass is not. So I take it easy with the injections in the ass, but I would say no more than once a week per site with injections would be my two cents. Let that oil dissipate. Let your body get acclimated to it and be ready for the next injection. And that's typically how I handle this. All right, next one here is from William P. from the School of Antibiotic Bodybuilding members community. William said, after stopping tren-E and Anivar, my liver enzymes are still elevated eight weeks later, despite NAC and Tycho. How long can this last? And are there other support mechanisms such as glutathione that could help? IMean, NAC is a precursor to glutathione. So in theory, that should cover you in that area. Although a lot of guys that I work with go get glutathione and Myers cocktail IVs post-show, and it does seem to help to a certain degree. I go back and forth on whether or not it's just a placebo or not, but the guys that get them swear by them. And I have seen improvements in blood work from those. It depends on how high your markers are. There's going to be some elevation of ALT and AST most likely in most people that are on PEDs just from treninGHard. You know, if we're talking about, you know, you're in the 50s or low 60s or something like that, I wouldn't lose any sleep over it. Also of consideration is, are you a recreational drinker? If you're a guy that's going out and having some beers post-show, that may be impairing your liver recovery, sorry, from all the damage that you did running this other stuff. But that would be a consideration that I would make as well. So look, man, here's what I would say. Take it with a grain of salt, depending on where your numbers are at. If you're like in the 50s or 60s, I wouldn't worry about it too much. I would also get a GGT test done to make sure that there's no actual liver damage. ALT and AST themselves are poor indicators of actual liver damage. It could be just your liver is under stress. Like I said, it could be just that you're just fucking treninGHard and you have those waste product metabolites that show up on blood panel tests as ALT and AST. You can look up studies. There are several studies that show that hard trening mimics a pathological issue with the liver as far as the current standard for diagnostic testing is. You'll see other things that would be off as well if your liver is really under stress like alkaline phosphatase, belly rubin, some of these other things that generally are thrown off. But I would say best guess is that there's probably nothing going on with your liver. If these suggestions that IMade do not correct it, then you may want to get further testing done, get a liver ultrasound, make sure there's no scarring, cirrhosis of the liver, other issues like that. You just kind of want to get that checked out just to see where you're at. And you know, just don't run tren all the fucking time. Or ANTIVAR. Really, I haven't seen ANTIVAR. Mess up liver values that dramatically. ANTIVAR's pretty mild. I'm more worried about the lipid skewing from ANTIVAR. And sure, you can run a glutathione IV and see if that helps them. Sometimes it does, sometimes it doesn't. All right, next question here is from Adam T. When adding GH, what's the ideal IGF-1 target? Middle of the reference range, top end, or slightly above? I don't get hyper-focused on these IGF-1 numbers. I know everybody's got a boner for it now. They want to test everything and see what's going on. There's so many different things that can affect systemic IGF-1. IMean, simply just being in a caloric deficit will bring it down. And I get guys all the time that freak out and think their GH is fake because their IGF-1 isn't that elevated, or is on the lower end of elevated, or slightly, you know, just, or in range. And they're running a keto diet and not eating carbohydrates. And then, of course, you're not going to have high IGF-1 because you don't have no insulin present. You know, none of the other factors that are required to elevate IGF-1. Estradiol levels can have an impact on it. And then also the systemic IGF-1 level is a poor indicator for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone anyway. There's really no direct correlation between high systemic IGF-1 levels and actual muscle tissue growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. It's pancreon versus autocrine. The localized IGF-1 production in the muscle is actually what causes growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, not systemic. We have other things that can affect this as well and make a lot of that systemic IGF-1 inert. IGF-1 binding proteins. I hear guys all the time running their estrogen high in a quest to get their systemic IGF-1 levels up. And then they end up growing titties and having temper tantrums because of it on social media because their estrogen levels are too high and they're all emotional and getting a lot of whack about shit because they have a 200 estradiol chasing an IGF-1 level. And then they end up not looking any better than anybody else that doesn't give a fuck about their IGF-1 level. If you're concerned about your GH being real and that's what you're testing for, just send your GH off for testing. Just send it off for lab testing. Or you can take your GH in the morning, go get lab work done two or three hours later and get a systemic growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone level test and see where you're at and see if it's elevated. That'll give you a better indication of whether or not your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is real. Or just send it off to a lab and have it fucking tested and find out what's actually in there and what potency it is. That's probably the better option than that. I would just say, look, I don't target any IGF-1 level. I find it to be absolutely useless. It doesn't really matter. It's sort of like free Testosterone. Who gives a fuck about free Testosterone? It just, you know, or sorry, total Testosterone. Who gives a fuck about total Testosterone? It's meaningless to me. It doesn't really mean much of anything. free Testosterone matters more than total Testosterone. And even then, I've seen guys that don't have crazy high testosterone levels that make a shit ton of progress. Ultimately, it's about your progress. Don't get hyper-focused on these hormone levels. If you're making progress, you're growing, your weights are going up, you look leaner, you look better in the mirror, your check-in pics are improving. That's what matters the most. I think guys are getting too hung up on some of these hormone levels that are really just meaningless in the grand scheme of things. And look, hey, if you got the money to burn and you are a tinkerer and you like keeping an eye on these things, by all means, go for it. You're not hurting anybody except for your wallet and your kid's college fund. You know, if you wanna spend $300 on a full hormone panel every other week, you know, by all means, go do it. Or you could go buy a Corvette instead for what that costs. I don't know. It's just the thought, or buy some stocks and get way more out of it. It's just kind of my thought process. The only thing I care about on blood work, to be honest with you, is making sure I'm not dying. Those are the things. I really have not found there's a whole lot on blood work that you can evaluate to optimize trening and hypertrophy results a whole lot. If you're sick, of course, you're not going to grow optimally. So we need to look out for certain blood markers and make sure that you're actually healthy enough to grow. If you're not healthy, you're not gonna grow. But those are the things I'm primarily concerned with, making sure that we're not dying from the stupid shit that we do. I really don't care about IGF-1 levels. Estradiol can be something that is somewhat beneficial to monitor because there are a lot of side effects that are associated with it. So, you know, we might want to keep an eye on that. If you do have some weird gyno symptoms or whatnot, you might want to check progesterone once in a while, or prolactin, I'm sorry, prolactin once in a while. I very rarely see people with high prolactin, but if there are indications that are symptoms related to it, it might be worth checking out. But otherwise, I would probably just not worry about any of that shit. Don't worry about your IGF-1 levels. Get your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone tested. If it's real, then who gives a fuck? It doesn't matter. The guys that are stressed about getting their IGF-1 levels high never end up looking better on stage in my experience. IMean, there's plenty of people out there you can look at that, you know, they spend all their time obsessing over this shit, then it produces no additional real-world results that amount to anything. Just tren hard, eat a bunch of food, take your gear, worry about what the pics, the progress pics look like. Those are ultimately what matter as far as results go. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. We'll see you on the next episode. Thank you very much for all your support. I appreciate each and every one of you. You are the best. I love you guys. I'll see you on the next episode.