WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today and I've got an update for you on my off-season progression or lack of off-season progression. I'm going to dig into all that. I'm going to talk about my plans for doing a pro show. What I'm doing, there's just been a bunch of obstacles this year and I've got another one I'm encountering now with my shoulder. I'm going to talk about that. I've got some decisions to make on what my future is going to look like and I'm going to dig into all that in just one second. Before I do so though, I want to remind you guys about the cycle cheat sheet that I have up on my website. It's half off. It's 30 bucks. It's 30 coupled pages. It's basically the clip notes version of the anabolics course. I have PED profiles in there, how to do cycles, you know, my methodology anyway of blast and cruise. I have information on how insulin works, GH, peptides, everything else that goes along with your cycle and you can get that now for $30 on my website. There is a link in the video description below. It's normally 60 bucks. It's half off. So grab it while it's still half off and we're going to dig into my update in just one second. All right. I apologize in advance if I'm stuffed up and breathinGHeavy. I've got some sort of respiratory thing. Well, more like aromasinus infection. I have the world's worst sinuses. This is another thing that I just have been putting off for fucking ever. I have a deviated septum. I've seen the ear, nose and throat specialist and she's told me a million times that I need to have my sinuses fixed. Surgery. Put that on another list of surgeries that I need to have done and that that would prevent me from getting the two or three sinus infections I get every winter. Uh, it kind of sucks, but that's low on the totem pole right now for me. I started my cycle back up this week or actually last week. I take that back. I was going to come out of the gate with 900 tests and 600 primo. I do a combo of primo and mast. So it would be half and half 300 primo, 300 mast. But I decided to go a little bit lower, stay at 600 test and 400, um, 200 each of primo and mast to start off my cycle. Nine units of GH. I was running six when I was cruising. Pretty much have been cruising the majority of the last seven months since my pro card win. Um, I did have a false start cycle there for about six weeks where I started a test EQ cycle and then I got really sick. I had that HMPV virus. A bunch of my clients have had it. It's really been going around and knocked the shit out of me for like two weeks. At least I think that's what it was. It wasn't the flu. It wasn't COVID. I tested negative for both. So I think that's what it was. I've had probably about a dozen of my clients, something like that, that have had it. And it's been pretty fucking brutal, man. People have been sick for like two weeks when they get it. And then I had this finger infection where I was on antibiotics for six weeks and had to have surgery on my finger. And my finger was in really bad shape. I wasn't sure if I was going to lose it there for a little bit, or at least part of it. I had the flesh eating bacteria that really fucked me up. And so long story short, I haven't been really following a structured diet. I have been getting into the gym pretty consistently and I haven't really been on cycles since my show. Just cruising on tests. Bodybuilding TRT. People get upset when I say TRT, so I call it bodybuilding TRT. So I've been running mostly 300 milligrams a test and like five or six units of GH. The GH I have is 18 units per bottle, if you know, you know. And so I do six units per day. Just take it all before bed. I don't break the doses up unless I'm on contest prep. There's just no reason to really for me. GH is released in a pulsatile nature in people. I do a shot before bed subqtaneously, like the package says you're supposed to do. Don't overthink it. And it helps me sleep at night. If I take it in the morning, I find that it makes me lethargic throughout the day. But anyway, that's where the cycle is at right now. And I'm probably just going to leave it there. I'm going to the Arnold Classic. I have a booth. I want to look somewhat respectable, at least look like a bodybuilder when I'm there. But I'm not doing a full blown blast like I did last year. IMean, these people think I run high doses of shit year round. I don't do that. I did get aggressive with my contest prep cycle last year. I got up to, I don't know, three grams total, close to three grams total. I don't know, somewhere around there. I have another video up about my complete cycle for my contest prep from last year if you want to check that out. I also go into details about my cycle in the school member site that I have. If you want to go in there and check, if you're a member, you can go there and check it out. But it's something that's up there. But anyway, I got aggressive with my contest prep cycle. I figured this was my probably, I had to take a home run swing last year. My thought process was that this is going to maybe be my last chance or next to last chance to take a crack at getting a pro card at a national show. So I loaded up. I swung the bat hard and hoped I hit a home run, which I did. You know, sometimes you swing and miss, but that was the plan. Last year, I've always been, I think, moderate in my cycles. Typical cycle for me in the past when I blast is like 750 tests, 600 of an anabolic. I don't run a ton of orals. I pretty much stay away from orals. So right now, 600 tests, 200 primo, 200 masteron the combination of both. You might ask, why am I running the combination of both? I don't know. I like the combination. They are, there are subtle differences between test and primo, and there's certain reasons why I like both. Primo makes me feel great. IMean, sorry, mass makes me feel great when I'm on masteron. I have great sex drive. My mood's great when I'm on masteron, uh, prima bone makes me a little bit harder and fuller. So I like that, that look to masteron keeps me drier. Primo bone helps put a little bit of fullness on masteron acts as a serum. Primo bone acts as an AI. I had crashed estrogen last fall. That seems to be back to normal now. It took me like four or five months to get it back up. I did run some dbol for a short period of time to get that back up. Um, you know, so, you know, that's where I'm at right now. I'm also experimenting with retrotide. I am two weeks into retrotide, just running one milligram, nothing crazy. There are several people I know and have worked with that are work running retrotide and I've seen blood work that they are, they are sending me from using retrotide and the improvements in lipids, A1c, C-reactive protein that I have seen are stunning. Even running low one to two milligram doses. I have seen guys half their LDL running retrotide, half their triglycerides running retrotide at two milligrams per week. I've seen some insane numbers, A1c coming down, C-reactive protein coming down, lowering overall systemic inflammation. I am a type 1b diabetic. I have pancreatic insufficiency. I don't make enough insulin at times. So I have been running it mainly for that purpose. I don't need any appetite suppression. My appetite already kind of sucks. So that's the reason why I'm using retrotide. My high day last week, I normally, on my high days, I normally run Lantus every day. I have to being a type 1b diabetic. Usually Lantus is enough to get me through the day. On my low days, I don't run it because a lot of times I'm close to low carb or zero carbs or, you know, 150 grams or less. If I'm eating less than 150 grams, I find that I don't need insulin. So on my low days, sometimes I'll take a break from the insulin. But last week on my high day, I took my normal, whatever it is for my weight. I think it's 25 units of Lantus. Before you freak out, that's over a 24 hour period. Lantus lasts for about 24 hours. So that's a little over like right around a unit per hour. It's nothing. You have a background insulin that's running at all time. That's what Lantus, a basal insulin, is designed to replace. And then you sub in Humalog or a rapid acting insulin at mealtime as needed to deal with a bolus of carbs at mealtime. So on my high days, usually what I do is take my Lantus, then run my Humalog every other meal. I'll do a thousand grams of carbs on my high day. So I need something like an additional 30 to 40 units of Humalog throughout the day, usually spaced out every other meal to deal with the carbs on the high day. This past high day, I kept it a little more conservative because my fasting glucose levels have dramatically dropped since I've been on the retrotreat diet. They dropped down from, usually I'm, you know, and if people that are diabetics, you know what I'm talking about. IMean like if I can keep it around 100, low 100s, high 90s as a diabetic, that's about as good as it gets. It's a fine line. You have to walk as a diabetic to, you know, to keep from goinGHypo. So that's usually about as good as it gets for me. And so I, you know, I noticed that it was drastically lowering. I was going down to like 80 in the low 80s from 100. So going from around 100 down into the low 80s, that's a pretty radical drop. So obviously it has increased my insulin sensitivity and pancreatic function, some combination or a bit of both or one or the other. I don't know, but it is radically changed. So my last high day, last Friday, I was a little more conservative with my insulin. I took five grams of Humalog with 100, IMean, sorry, five units of Humalog. Don't take five grams, Jesus Christ. I took five units of Humalog with 150 grams of carbs and I went hypo. So clearly the retrotreat diet works and it works well with my diabetes. So maybe I need to keep some of that in. I, you know, we'll see long-term. Side effects that I've had so far, I did have rapid pulse. I guess a little bit of tachycardia the first week I was on it. Normally my resting pulse is in the high 60s, I don't know, 67, something like that, which is pretty good for my size. A guy that's, you know, 250, 260 pounds. And it went up, you know, a good 10 to 15 beats per minute. But then it seemed like after about a week, week and a half, it came back down. IMean, right now I'm sittinGHere. It's, what is it? 72 right now. Yeah. 72 is what my watch says. It's sittinGHere right now doing this video. Okay. You know, that's fine. I can deal with that. 72. I did get some gas, like some weird gas. I had this, these sulfur farts, these really noxious gas the first few days. I felt a bit lethargic at first, tired. I didn't notice a whole lot of appetite suppression. I already have a low appetite to begin with, so I don't need any help there. But I did notice that it seemed to lower my cravings. I am a sugar junkie, Swedish fish, for anybody who knows me. I love candy. That's just like my one weakness. I love sugar. I love sugary breakfast cereals. I love candy. It has nothing to do with my diabetes that, causing my diabetes. The type 1B is either autoimmune or genetic. But anyway, I digress. But it seems to have slowed down the cravings for that stuff. I will say this. I've felt, and it could be placebo, I've felt a little bit numb since I've been on it. Like my mood has been a little, my anxiety has been a little higher. I felt a little bit numb emotionally. I've heard some people mentioning that and it does affect the serotonin. I believe it's serotonin. Don't quote me on that. Yeah, I think it's serotonin. But anyway, so far so good. I'm taking a very moderate dose. I just increased this week. I'm going up to two milligrams. So this would be my third week actually on it. So I'm going up to two milligrams and I'm going to stay there and see how that goes for a while. Now here comes the fun part. The decision time I got to make and where I'm at right now. And I don't think I'm going to be able to compete this year. I love competing. I love getting on stage. I don't give a fuck about the pro card. It's whatever. I just love competing. I love the process. I love being up there with people. I love being backstage with the guys. I love just, I enjoy contest prep. I like having a goal in front of me. I like having a task that I can grind at. I like structure. I enjoy all those things. When I'm in the offseason, like this past six months, I honestly have just felt kind of lost. I'm like, what am I doing with my trening? I don't have a big goal in front of me. I do want to get on a pro stage at least once. I don't feel like a pro until I've competed on a pro stage. It's sort of like getting drafted into the NFL and then never playing an NFL game. Are you really an NFL player if you don't play an NFL game? I don't know. IMean, that's sort of how I feel about it. I know there's been a lot of controversy lately about people getting pro cards and IMade a video about it if you want to check it out. There's not as many pro cards as people think. But still, I think if you want to feel like a pro and call yourself a pro, you probably need to compete as a pro. And I would like to do that. If for nothing else, I just enjoy going through the process and I want to be up there on stage with people that I can be competitive with. That's it. So, but this year it doesn't look like it's going to happen. I don't know. I haven't made a final decision yet. Long story short, I fucked my shoulder up years ago and it's just progressively gotten worse. I was seriously debating last year getting surgery and getting it fixed. There's a bunch wrong with it. There's even more wrong with it now than what it was before. It was initially a torn labrum. Now that torn labrum has progressed, I saw the orthopedic today. I have arthritis in the joints. I'm basically almost bone on bone in the joint. Not quite there. He said probably within the next two years I'm going to be bone on bone with cartilage in that joint. It's my left shoulder. I have a bone spur and my bicep tendon is frayed. So basically the medical term for this is all fucked up. He presented me three different options for the shoulder and none of them sound that appealing. He told me ultimately I'm going to need a shoulder replacement sometime probably in the nexT3 to five years. I'm going to need a shoulder replacement. Anybody who knows anything about shoulder replacements, once you have that there is no more heavy overhead pressing movements. That's done. You're not liftinGHeavy shit over your head anymore. Those days are done. He told me we have a couple options. He said stem cells aren't going to do shit. I was looking into the stem cell thing, but things are so fucked up right now according to this orthopedic that stem cells are no-go right now with the bone spur, with the joint issues, the arthritis, the torn labrum, the frayed bicep tendon. Stem cells aren't going to help. So I was hoping that maybe stem cells would be a path that I could go to put things off. Maybe I'll try them. I don't know. But he says it's going to be a waste of money. That's the guy that did my knee before. He's done professional athletes. He's one of the best. He's probably the best in the DC area when it comes to knees and shoulders. Anyway, so the other option I have is to just do physical therapy and just kind of put it off. He said the immediate thing that he is worried about is my bicep tendon rupturing. And that does not sound very appealing. I don't want to rupture my bicep tendon. So bicep, you know, just put it off. He said he can't really do cortisone shots because he said that increases the chances of a tendon rupture. So that's sort of out of the option list. So it's no surgery, physical therapy, and just hope I don't rupture a bicep tendon. That's option one. Option two is I go in and get surgery done, fix the labrum, remove the bone spur, fix the bicep tendon, clen everything up, and hope I can buy myself a few more years before I need a shoulder replacement, which means no competing this year and six to eight months of recovery time. And then there's option three that I just say, fuck it and go ahead and get the shoulder replacement done now and not have to deal with it again in the future. None of those sound very, very appealing at this time, really not very appealing at all. So my thought process here on this one is I'm just going to get it clened up. I'm just going to fucking bite the bullet. I don't know. I'm going to take, I'm going to take a month or two and think about it. There's no rush. It's going to take, take a little while. I'm trying to tighten my diet back up. I've been trening a little bit harder. The issue I've been running into now, and I pushed through it before, and I think I've pushed through it for as long as I can. I've gotten to the point where I can only tren about 75% of my upper body movements. And it's not just shoulders at this point. It's gotten to the point where everythinGHurts. Even when I tren back, my shoulder and my bicep are in pain. Even when I do just lateral raises in lightweight, when I sleep at night, it's been waking me up at night. My shoulder hurts so bad. It's been waking me up at night. It's become disruptive, very disruptive at this point. So I, if I want to compete realistically, I've got to be able to do some overhead pressing where I'm not going to be able to maintain shoulder mass adequate enough to be competitive on a pro stage, even at the master's level. I would like to at least compete at once. So it sounds like the only option for me is just to get the fucker clened up. I'm going to think about it. I'm going to get a second opinion. I'm going to go see a regenerative sports orthopedic person as well, and at least evaluate the stem cell option. But my doctor that I've had multiple orthopedic surgeries with that has worked on professional athletes, NFL guys, NHL guys, NBA guys, he's operated on many, told me don't waste my time. So there you have it. That's where I'm at. It's just been one obstacle after another this fall, being sick. Then I had the finger infection and now this shit with my shoulder. All I can do is just laugh. It just, you know, what are you going to do? IMean, life throws curve balls at you. I'm just glad I was able to hang on long enough to get on a national stage and compete with the best guys in my age group and win a pro card. That part I was, you know, not that it defines me as a person. I really don't care whether or not I got it, but it was, it was a cool experience. You know, anybody who is a bodybuilder can attest that winning a show is a cool experience, especially winning a national show. That's a very cool experience. Even an old guy pro card. That was a cool, cool experience. So I'm glad I had that experience, but it doesn't define me. And if I don't get to compete again, I'd be disappointed. I won't lie about that. But right now I'm going to try to figure out a way to make it happen. I have always been a battler. People tell me all the time that I can't do stuff. I've spent my entire life proving people wrong. I've had people tell me many times, you can't do this in business. You can't do this in bodybuilding. You can't do this in sports. And every time I double down, work my balls off and try to prove people wrong. Nothing motivates me more than somebody telling me I can't do something. So the plan I think is to get my shoulder fixed and forget about competing this year. So that's why I'm doing a baby cycle right now. I would like to get leaned up a little bit. Not that I'm fat by any means, but I'm probably 12% body fat right now. I'd like to get leaned up a little bit before surgery. If I do end up having surgery, if I do end up having surgery, probably April or May before it actually happens. And then go from there. But once again, I'm going to get another opinion, see what the other doctor says, go from there. I always consider all options and I don't make rash emotional decisions. I think when you make emotional decisions, you make bad decisions. So I'm going to collect all the data, sit on it, think about it, go with the, talk to some people that I trust and make the decision that makes the most sense for my future and go from there. Anyway, folks, that's all I've got for you. If anybody's interested in coaching or consultations, I still have those available. It is get lean, get shredded season. So if you want to get shredded for the summer, now's the time to do it, man. It's 16 weeks from today, or if you're going to do contest prep, 16 weeks from today is going to be June-ish, you know, May, end of May. So if you want to look good for the summer, now's the time to get started. All right, folks, I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. I'll see you on the next episode. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.