warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, it's big Paul here today with another anabolic Q and a, I've got some good ones lined up for you today. I have somEQuestions from my school members, community, and also some user questions from YouTube. ThEQuestions I have today are I've got a couple about read a true tide. That is the hot topic right now. A lot of people talking about GLP ones and read a true tide. I am using read a true tide myself right now. I've had pretty amazing results with it and I'm going to do a separate video about that. I have another question about a 70 year old using PEDs. We're going to talk about that one. That's a spicy question. Before we get into that, I want to let you guys know about my school members community, the team anabolic bodybuilding members community that I have up on school. Questions from this Q and a get top priority from school members. So if you're a member of my school community, your questions get answered first. Also, I answer questions on the school community in the forum section. So if you havEQuestions you want to answer, answer directly and you're not really looking for a consultation or just something simple or quick, I have that up there on the school members community. And it's in there. There's a really good group of people we have on there. I don't know. I think we're close to a hundred members or so on the community right now. I also have some free videos and stuff up there for his or how to build cycles, things like that. Anyway, enough of that. We're going to dig in to all thEQuestions in just one seconds. All right. Before we start thEQuestions, I want to let you guys know about my anabolic email list. I have an email that goes out every couple of weeks, sometimes once a week where I write articles based off my research that I've done for some of the deep dive videos I have. And you'll get those articles for free if you're signed up for the email list. I also have free stuff on my website too. You can grab workout programs if you sign up for the email list as well and exclusive content and stuff that I can't really talk about on YouTube is up there too. So we have all of that on the email list. Go over to the anabolicbodybuilding.com website, sign up for the email list. There's a link in the video description below. All right. First question I have here is from Dave Fleischer. He is a member of the team anabolic bodybuilding school members site and he asked, Hey Paul, I'm 70 years old. I've never used exogenous testosterone until I started TRT two years ago. I've only been using meaningful meaning and noticeable testosterone dose the last few months. My doc had me start slow. Clomid only, which was a total waste of time. Jesus Christ. I can't believe a doctor put a 70 hold on. Clomid only. IMean they might as well use leeches. This is just archaic. I have no idea why they would do something like that. Your testosterone is probably not working and Clomid is like the worst possible choice to even try to get it working again anyway. Yeah, I'm sure that was a waste of time. Doctor's an idiot. Then finally about testosterone, 50 milligrams a week and then to 100 I'm not even sure what 50 milligrams a week is going to do. It's not even a replacement dose. Likely these, these TRT are these doctors that prescribe this stuff. I just have no idea where they come up with this shit on my own. I slowly and iteratively have increased over the last few months and now I'm eight weeks in a 400 milligrams. There was a modest impact when I got to two 50 and a bit better at 300 and now I'm at 400. I can see slow improvement in lean body mass. Even with my testosterone, my body still needs more recovery, fewer work sets and more days off from trening than I was in my forties, fifties and sixties, but it's hard to gauge how much I'm open to advice on how to judge whether I'm over trening. I'm also open to advice whether I should figure that five or 600 is much more likely to be what I'm trying, what I need to try given what I want to do, but maybe some of it's just ridiculous. I want to get 10 pounds of muscle on before at age 70, but I've always wanted to do this, but I was just reluctant to go the route until low T in my sixties was called in thEQuestion. Okay. Yeah. So there's a lot to unravel here. First of all, whatever doctor prescribed that to you, no offense to the doctor. I don't know what the fuck they were doing. That's just ridiculous doses. Here in the U S I believe they recently changed the guidelines were up to 400 milligrams a week is considered replacement. Typically what you see at TRT clinics and stuff, what they do for a replacement dose is 200 milligrams a week. Super physiological dosing of testosterone for me, I think starts somewhere around 300 milligrams. That's when you're going to start seeing performance enhancement benefits and you pretty much just lay that out here where you really didn't notice much of a change until you hit around 300. Um, that, that seems pretty accurate. Clomid's useless in this situation. And I think a big limiting factor when guys get older, I'm not telling you you should do this. This is not medical advice is not just the synthetic androgens and anabolics. It's also the limit of stem cell production and IGF one. So you also need to address that pathway. You're, we're putting in exogenous androgens in an anabolic compound to help with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, but you also need to stimulate IGF one production and stem cell proliferation. The only way you're going to do that is with HGH. And I think what I see a lot of these guys, like say in Hollywood, I'm going to use Sylvester Stallone as an example. I'm just guessing I don't have any inside information, but I would have to speculate that that dude is running testosterone and some HGH. That's the only way that he would be able to maintain that type of physique at his age at almost 80 years old. He looks fantastic. There's probably some sort of anabolic that gets used in there. Um, likely if he's getting a prescribed clinics, they're probably just going to give Anolvar. Although I think an injectable DHT would probably be a better option. Something like Primobolan or Masteron as an adjunct to the testosterone, you hit a limit with the testosterone where it just becomes the benefit doesn't really pile up. I, I also think, you know, this is just my, my, my take on it. When you add a DHT derived compound in with the testosterone, you're going to lower SHBG a bit. You're going to increase free Testosterone. You're going to help with estrogen modulation and just make the testosterone work better. So something like a combination of test Masteron or Primobolan and HGH is the old guy approved stack. If you want to grow, you don't even need to run that much. I am not suggesting that you do this, but like if for me, I'm just saying if I were personally, you know, when I, when I age and get a little older, something like 300 test, 200 Masteron or Primobolan and like four to five units of GH is probably what I would run to maintain a decent looking physique as I age or to even make some gains. I think you can probably make some gains on that. And I have worked with masters competitors, guys that are over 70 that do exactly that, that actually grow, look better, end up putting on some muscle that, and I would speculate that that's probably what you see these older guys in Hollywood that they're doing. Now, once again, not medical advice, but I would say that that's probably the route to take. Now when it comes to overtrening, you're not 40 years old or 25 years old anymore. You're probably going to need a little more recovery when it comes to trening. I've changed my trening up personally. I don't tren anything to failure anymore. I like being in the gym. I don't go super intense. I probably keep a rep or two in the tank on everything that I do. I also am very selective with my exercises that I choose to prevent injuries. So IMostly use machines these days because you're going to have a controlled range of motion. You're going to have a controlled plane of motion where there's minimized risk of injury. That's not to say that you still can't get hurt, but it's not like doing a bench press or squat or dead lifts or something like that. You probably don't want to be doing that shit when you're 70 years old. I wouldn't want to risk a spine injury from doing squats or dead lifts. I wouldn't want to risk a pec tear from doing or shoulder injury. I'm dealing with one right now myself from doing dumbbell presses or bench presses. So stick with machines, mostly light dumbbell work. Keep a few reps in reserve. Listen to your body when it comes to volume. You'll find that you can do a little more volume if you keep reps in the tank and just tren intelligently. tren to, you know, live to tren another day. I think that's my motto with older guys. Anyway, I hope that advice helps. That's how I would handle it. That's my two cents. If it were me, that's how I would do it. All right. Next question here is from username, a very unique username. Listening to a podcast and the guest claims they put on 30 pounds of muscle in five weeks. Are they full of shit or just an extreme genetic anomaly? Now you're not going to gain 30 pounds of contractile tissue in that amount of time. It's just impossible. I think it takes something like 90 days for satellite cells to fully proliferate. Don't quote me on that. Somebody who's a physiologist or biochemist would know better than me, but I think that's what I recall reading something like that. So you're, you're not even going to grow tissue in that time. Now, is it possible to put on 30 pounds in five weeks? Absolutely. I've done it before in the post show rebound phase and I've had clients do it before. Now is that new contractile tissue? No, it's other stuff. It's glycogen synthesis. It's water retention. Um, you know, mineral retention and all this stuff ultimately probably lays down the framework for new contractile tissue in the long run, but it's not new contractile tissue. You're not going to accumulate new contractile tissue. Kevin Lerone back in the nineties in early two thousands, that dude would shrink up to like 200 pounds I think in the offseason and then he would get back on cycle and blow back up to like two 40 to 50 to compete at the Olympia in just a matter of weeks. Um, it's just like letting the air out of a balloon and you fill it back up. It's just the other stuff that's in there. You're not actually going to grow real tissue. You can take a dbol cycle, eat a high sodium diet and put on 30 pounds in a few weeks. That's why bros love dbol. But long story short, no, it's not possible to put on that much real contractile tissue in that short amount of time. But yes, you can blow up like that with additional glycogen retention. You can do the math on it. If you'recompletely glycogen retention depleted and you're a big dude, somebody like me, I know I can push upwards of 1500 to 2000 grams of carbohydrates and not gain fat. The glycogen is one is three parts water, one part glucose. So you're talking about if you, let's do simple math. If I did 1000 grams of glycogen synthesized and I retained 3000 grams of water, that's four kilos. That's almost nine pounds just right there. And you can do that in a day or a couple of days of additional glycogen synthesis that's going to accumulate and make muscles bigger, rounder, fuller. That's not new tissue. That's just you filled the gas tank up. All right. Bradley Pfizer asked, how many sets do you typically keep each workout to in the peak volume of your trening? Um, when I was doing progressive volume, I've just, I just been doing flat volume right now because my shoulders messed up. I've been doing a little less volume, just trying to keep my shoulder from getting worse before I have surgery. But when I was doing the more of the higher volume trening, I find that between 20 to 25 sets per week per body part is kind of where I cap out at some body parts, less 15 some more, you know, things like arms. I can, you know, do a crap ton of volume. You know, I could probably do even more than that. Big body parts likEQuads or hamstrings or something like that, or even back. I, it's a little less volume. I do a push pull legs routine. So I split the volume up. So for example, like let's take back, I peak out at 20 to 25 sets a week. It would be something like nine, 10, 12 sets per workout, you know, three exercises, let's say three exercises, four sets each, three exercises, three sets each, something along that line. That's what I would do in my peak volume. And I work up to that over a six week block and then back off and then work up to it again. I know some people will disagree with that style of trening. It's worked well for me. I enjoy trening like that if nothing else. Uh, but that's typically where I find IMax out and it's different from body part to body part. Like hamstrings seem for me to handle the least amount of volume. I can blast a ton of volume for arms, shoulders. I seem to be able to blast with a ton of volume. So it really just depends on the body part. All right, next question here. We got our first Red or True TidEQuestion. We got two of them in this Q and A. Jason Hollis, I just started Red or True Tide one milligram a week and I've experienced what feels like cognitive enhancement, just more focused, so much more accomplished each day. Is there a science behind this or is it just placebo? No, there is some science behind how GLP-1s can affect cognition. Now, if you had glucose control problems before, improved glucose metabolism is by itself going to help with cognition. You're going to feel better. The brain runs on glucose primarily. You're going to feel a lot better if your glucose metabolism is improved. If you'd had insulin in some sort of insulin resistance or running glucose levels a little too high, that can really mess with you. You get tired and lethargic feeling. Um, and there is some long-term studies that are coming out showing that GLP-1s improve neural health and reduce oxidative stress and apoptosis, which is cell death, which improves long-term cognition. You wouldn't feel that probably in the immediate short term. There's also studies that show that, um, GLP-1s improve synaptic plasticity, which essentially is for memory and learning, improved memory and learning while on a GLP-1. Some animal and early human studies on like lariglutide show that people, or that there was improved cognitive performance, potential benefits for Alzheimer's disease. It's also being explored for benefits of Alzheimer's disease. GLP-1s may reduce amyloid beta plaque buildup in the brain, which is a hallmark of Alzheimer's. Also from, you know, it's one of the nasty side effects from runninGHigh glucose and diabetes. Lariglutide and semiglutide are currently being tested in clinical trials for their role in slowing cognitive decline. That's going on right now. And retitrutide I'm sure will be looked at as well. It's still in phase two. I think it's phase three clinical trials. Sorry. It also increases brain and energy metabolism. These drugs improve glucose metabolism in the brain, as IMentioned earlier, which is crucial to brain health. If you have impaired glucose metabolism, like IMentioned earlier, you're just not going to function as well as you would if your glucose metabolism is great, fully functional. If you're metabolically healthy, all these things will help out. All right. Next one I got here, I'm going to probably botch this one. This is going to test my dyslexia to the limit. It is from MVMV1433. I think I got that. What are some exercises you use for your massive shoulders considering you've got a bad shoulder? Would love some exercise ideas to get those, besides pressing, to get those bolder shoulders. Yeah. Some of it's just genetics, man. I've always had big shoulders. I think a lot of it goes back to my dad when I was a kid making me split wood and stack hay bales in the summer. I grew up as a country boy. I did all that shit and I ended up with the big shoulders as a result. Really for shoulder trening. I've always had a good connection with my shoulders. My shoulders always seem to be the easiest body part to get a pump in. I found that, you know, I know, I know that there's, you know, there's a bunch of information that the pump doesn't necessarily mean that you're growing anything at a better rate. But I will say this, I think what it's good for is cue that you actually are activating those muscles and getting growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone out of that area. If you're not feeling it, you're probably not getting optimal mechanical tension in that area. And I think a lot of times where guys have lack of progress, it's because they're cheating the weight up using shitty form and they are not actually activating the muscle with optimal mechanical tension in that area. Now we know that mechanical tension is required for hypertrophy. If you can't feel it and you're not getting a good pump, you probably aren't getting great mechanical tension in that area. So that's kind of where I would start. Now with shoulders, what I've always done with shoulders is the way I've always trened shoulders. I shit probably going back 20 plus years. A big mistake that guys make, they don't think about the shoulder. They think of it as just one muscle. There's actually three, well, there's more, but there's really three primary muscles. You have the anterior, posterior and lateral head of the deltoids. They're three different muscles. So you need specific exercises that are going to target those different heads. I also hit my shoulders with a fair amount of volume. I don't do a lot of pressing. I find that pressing is mostly front deltoid. I used to do some shoulder presses. I still do some machine shoulder presses, but I look at front pressing or shoulder pressing as a front deltoid activity. Also bench press is probably more front deltoids actually than it is pecs to be truthful with you. Um, I, what I, what I do is, so I split it up three different ways. I want to work all three heads. So pressing movements are going to be for the front deltoid. Lateral head is going to be any sort of lateral raise or upright row movements. I love upright row movements. I think there are very overlooked in routines. Guys don't do upright row movements. I very rarely see dudes doing upright row movements. If you want your delts to scream your, your lateral deltoid head, do some lateral raises and then go to, um, go to, you know, some upright rows as a secondary movement right after. And you will have those lateral heads screaming. I never see anybody working rear delts. You can do bent over lateral raises. You can do a modified version of a face pull. You can do rear pec deck. Those are some options for the lateral head and then just front front presses for the, for the anterior head of the deltoid. So I, IMix all three in my workout. IMake sure that I have all three. I usually start off with lateral raises first because that's the, the head that's going to give you the most width. Um, sometimes I'll start with rear delts first, just depends. And then I do my pressing movements last, because my front delts seem to dominate. Uh, they are the biggest part of my, my deltoid. So I want to make sure I do them last in my workout routine. Most people have big front delts from what I've seen. It's usually the lateral and posterior deltoids that are lacking in development. So prioritize the areas that are lacking first and then work your way backwards from there. All right. Next question is from seaballgetball937. I love that username. Uh, would retrotrutide give a bodybuilder a similar boost as using insulin? Uh, I wouldn't say exactly the same, but it is going to increase in theory, increase a beta cell function. So you're going to have increased insulin output and you're going to have some improvement in insulin sensitivity, uh, when using retrotrutide. So yes, it's going to help. I will say this a word of caution. And if you're using insulin, exogenous insulin, be very, very cautious with it with retrotrutide because I've seen a lot of guys go hypo trying to do that. You may not even need the exogenous insulin anymore. Yeah. So the answer is yeah. Yeah. It might benefit some. I, I do worry about and not why I know glucagon only mediates, um, liver glycogen in theory. I, I do worry about glycogen synthesis while on, on retrotrutide and some of the GLP ones I've seen guys, they seem to flatten out when they're on them, at least from what I've seen. It, I don't know if it's having some sort of impact on glycogen synthesis. That's my speculation. I've heard other dudes mentioned that, that they seem, they feel flat. They can't get pumps when they are on a GLP one. And my speculation would be that it's probably something to do with how it affects glycogen synthesis. Uh, gee, the retrotrutide is a triple agonist. It is a GLP one, JIP and a GIP, JIP, whatever the fuck you want to call it. Uh, probably GIP. And glucagon agonist and glucagon, uh, the glucagon action affects glycogen synthesis in the liver. I don't know if that has some sort of downstream effect on muscle glycogen synthesis. Maybe, maybe not, probably not. But there does seem to be something I, I, all I have is anecdote and observation that happens when on retrotrutide that seems to affect glycogen synthesis and fullness. And maybe it's just, you just need to pound more food. I have no idea. Or maybe it's just that guys are eating less while they're on it. That could be a possibility. But in theory, yeah, I could have similar effects in because you're going to have increased insulin production and better use of your body's own insulin systems. Your, your metabolic health should be improved. And if metabolic health is improved, that should help gains. All right, next question here from Embrose 98. Besides the HCG, what can we use as a bridge between cycling off and starting PCT? Also, is there anything we can take during post during cycle and post PCT to make it suck less? Well, I tell you the way to make it suck less is to not come off and do PCT. I've never understood why dudes come off, create a hormonal crash, then go right back on a couple of months later. There's literally zero benefit for doing that. That is just the old bro logic way of doing it. Just come down to TRT. If you're going to be on gear, don't let your hormones crash. You feel like shit. You're going to be in an estrogen dominant environment where you're going to have no testosterone, high estrogen. You're going to feel like crap. You're going to look like crap. Jim's going to suck. You're going to probably have a poor mood on top of it and you're going to be just a bloated, weak, pathetic mess. I wouldn't come off and do a PCT unless I was just going to come off permanently or be off for a long period of time. Maybe like say six months or more. There's no compelling reason to come completely off. You're probably doing more harm than good. This is just my speculation. This is not medical advice, but you're probably doing more harm than good for by coming down or coming off or coming off completely and then just going right back on. You're creating a hormonal yo-yo. You're creating stress. You're creating inflammation when your body is in an estrogen dominant environment. Your diet's probably going to suck because you're going to have food cravings. You're going to be inflamed and bloated from all the estrogen and lack of testosterone. It's probably not the greatest for your cardiovascular health. I just don't understand why dudes still think this is a thing that you need to do. It's, it's mind boggling to me. Just do TRT between if you want to get healthy, if it's for health and recovery phase, come down to a minimal TRT, you know, 150, 200 milligrams of testosterone, probably 200 is plenty for most people. That's enough. So you don't feel like absolute dog crap. You're not going to lose all your gains. You're not going to create a hormonal crash. And if you're coming off for fertility reasons, just come off. You're going to have, it's going to suck for a while. Just do it, do it the way it's supposed to be done. And that's it. All right. Last question here I got is an HGH one. It's for my friend MVMV again. I didn't realize I got him in for two questions. I usually try to give everybody onEQuestion. So you got the bonus one, dude. Finally placed an order for HGH after trying peptides with little benefit, planning on starting two units nightly and titrating up. How long, how long until one starts to feel or see any changes or benefits? Well, running 350 tests and 250 premable, and I'm assuming that is, well, I notice any changes quickly. Uh, GH is a slow burn, man. GH is not one of these things you're going to notice overnight differences. IMean, you may get some numb hands, you may get a little bit of water retention. You may be a little drowsy, sleep a little bit better, but that doesn't necessarily mean that it's doing a whole lot for you. Remember side effects are not effects. They're, they'recompletely positive effects. They'recompletely different things. What I see over a longterm use of GH is you tend to stay leaner. You tend to get harder. You tend to get that more three dimensional look. You tend to accumulate new tissue there. I think a lot of times the limiting factor, if you go back and look at the old bodybuilders from the eighties and seventies pre GH, there was a limit on how big they could get. They couldn't get up past, you know, you know, I think Arnold was like 225 at his last Olympia. Like his peak size was 240. I'm the same height as him, man. I was bigger on stage. Not saying I'm Arnold. I'm not trying to compare myself to Arnold, but I was definitely bigger on stage than he was, which is wild to think about. Now that doesn't happen without GH. That probably wouldn't have been that big. Arnold probably would have been 280, 290, maybe 300 pounds with GH and insulin. Now, whether that would have been a good look, I don't know. He'd probably be a classic physique guy today, not an open bodybuilder, but GH is a slow burn. And then when it comes to the GH secreting peptides, they look great on paper. They might be good for younger guys. This is just my thought on it. If you look at the studies for most of the secretogogs, you see anywhere between a 20 to 40% increase in endogenous test or GH production. Now you can do the math on that. I'm just using, I'm throwing out arbitrary numbers, but let's just say you're a 40 year old dude and you're makinGHalf a unit a day and you have a 40%, you had the maximum, you have a 40% increase in your HGH production. What is that going to take you up to? You know, 0.7 units per day. Are you even going to notice that? Probably not. Now, if you are 25 years old and you're making four units a day and it takes you up to five or six, that might be a little more noticeable. You might get some of the fat loss effects from it. I'm not saying they'recompletely useless, but it's not going to be the same as taking GH. They are an option. For somebody who doesn't want to blow all the money on GH, there's something that you could use. Something like HGH fragment, which has the fat burning effects of HGH might be an option if you need it to save money when you're on contest prep and you just want the fat burning effects of GH. It is an option, but nothing's going to replace real HGH. Now, like I said, dude, you're not going to feel the effects of HGH immediately outside of just some numb hands. You're not going to have an overnight change. It's not like taking D-ball or Anadrol or Tren where you know you're on it right away and you feel it and you see it. It's very subtle. It's very mild. It's a long burn. It's something that you have to commit to for a period of time to actually see any benefit from it. All right, folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. Remember, go sign up for my email list. I am going to be sharing some cool news and stuff over my email list. Uh, things, things that we can't talk about on here. Other stuff I'm going to share with you as well. I'm going to share with you my, my research notes from these videos, some of these videos that I do in blog format. So you have access to that. Um, also special discounts and things when they come up. I'll try not to spam people too much with junk. Anyway, I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. I'll see you on the next episode for coaching or consultations. Head over to www dot anabolic bodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at big P three Rd at gmail.com.