warning this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, folks, Big Paul here today. It is contest prep season. A lot of bros are doing bodybuilding shows. I've got some tips and tricks for you on what to expect at the bodybuilding show that you're doing. A lot of people go in and are blindsided and not ready for everything that's happening at a bodybuilding show, and it's sort of a whirlwind. I'm going to fill you in on all the little things that you can expect that will happen at the bodybuilding show. All right, so first thing, if you're traveling to your bodybuilding show, I would say get in a couple days early so you can get settled in, get your food set up, make sure that you have everything organized and ready to go for the show. You know where you're going, scope out the venue, all that good jazz. I see dudes that show up the day before the show and then they miss weigh-ins. Crap happens. I know people several times that have missed weigh-ins or registration for the show, and then they can't compete. They get booted out of the show because they waited until the last minute to show up. So I would get in a couple days early, find out what's going on, see where everything is at. Tanning, this is a big one going into the shows. I hear a lot of dudes that say, well, I'm going to save 200 bucks and do the tan myself. It is not worth it in my opinion. Buying the supplies to do your own tan is probably going to be 100 to 150 bucks anyway, maybe a little bit cheaper. It's only like $200 to have the professionals do the tan. I can't tell you how many guys I've seen at shows that have completely screwed up tans doing them themselves. They get on stage and they look like an orange pylon. They look weird. Their tan's uneven. They look like a greased pig. It's just ridiculous. Color doesn't match what everybody else has on stage. Just spend the money and have them take care of it for you, and it's one less thing that you have to stress about. Now with the tan, a couple things to keep in mind with the tan going into a show. Most tanning places are going to give you preparation instructions for the tan. You want to make sure that you are not using any soap, deodorant, or lotions the few days before you get your tan that may interfere with the tan. You'll see that guy every once in a while that turns out green because there is something in his soap or deodorant that messed up the tan. I was at the New York Pro last year and there was a dude that looked green on stage. Not sure what happened, but he looked green. It was totally goofed up. I will tell you this. Most pro bodybuilders, in fact I think all pro bodybuilders, they do their own tan. They don't take a risk with doing it themselves. It's just you spend 16 weeks getting ready for a show. You spend all that money on a coach, everything. Just spend the extra money and have them do the tan. Usually they're going to do two coats. So be prepared for this. They're going to do a coat the night before. They're going to do a coat early in the morning the next morning. Make sure you set your alarm and you don't miss that second coat of tan. And then they'll also be there backstage to touch you up. So that's another added benefit of not doing the tan yourself. Another thing I'll see too is guys, for some reason, there's always one or two dudes at every show that thinks they should coat themselves in baby oil before they go out on stage. They will put a shine on you backstage. You don't not need to put baby oil all over yourself. You end up making everything slippery for the other competitors. You get oil all over the stage and you look like a shiny clown when you get out on the stage. It's ridiculous. Do not oil yourself up. They will put a coat on you before you go out on stage. Bring extra sheets with you to the hotel or the Airbnb. The tan is going to come off on the sheets. Do not use the sheets wherever you're staying. Provides you're going to ruin their sheets. You're going to have a pissed off person. It's also going to get all over their shower. So I would bring some clening supplies to clen out the shower as well. Another thing in regards to the tan, bring a raincoat. Bring an umbrella. I've been to so many shows where it starts raining and then people come in with tans that are run and look ridiculous. So make sure that you bring a raincoat or an umbrella just in case it rains. Another thing, the jock sock. You know what I'm talking about. Get yourself a little ankle sock to make sure you can cover up your junk when you get a tan. A lot of times the tanning places will have some socks to cover up your pp with but they often run out. Then dudes are in the tanning booth with girls. It's usually girls that do the tans with their wing-wanGHanging out and it's a very embarrassing situation. So bring your own jock sock with you so you don't have your wing-wanGHanging out and have a very awkward situation with the tanning ladies. One last thing on the tanning too, be aware if you sit directly on the toilet seat you're going to have a ring on your butt. Usually what the thing to do is to set down some towels or washcloths or something like that on the toilet seat or just do a high altitude bombing run if you need to sit on the toilet seat. Keep your butt levitated off the seat. The tan will stick and come off when you pee and you dribble. It's going to run so be very careful with that as well. Alright folks, I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, The Scientific Principles of Antibiotics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. As far as where to stay when you do a show, this is another thing. I have typically stayed at Airbnb so I have a full blown kitchen so I can cook for myself. I will tell you this, it's sort of lame, a lot of the host hotels at bodybuilding shows take the microwaves and refrigerators out of the room because they don't want bodybuilders cooking and eating in the room. Be prepared for that. There may not be a way to cook your food. I've seen some bodybuilders brinGHot plates, rice cookers and their own microwave with them to shows so they can take care of cooking in the hotel room but that is an issue at a lot of bodybuilding events at the host hotel. A lot of times they do not have any place to cook your food and you get stuck with no way to prepare your food. No microwave, no nothing. They'll have like a microwave on the third floor that everybody's sharing and you got a line of people standing at the microwave to warm up their food so be aware of that. Now let's talk about show day. You want to be prepared for show day. I encourage everybody to bring two pairs of posing trunks with you in case somethinGHappens. In case you tear one, in case you lose one of them, in case the officials say that's color or that cut you can't wear. I've never seen that happen. Supposedly they inspect the trunks and they're supposed to be official trunks that you wear but I would bring two pairs of trunks with you just in case somethinGHappens. I've seen dudes where they can't find their trunks the day of the show and then there's a full-blown panic. Your number, a lot of people don't realize where you're supposed to put your number on your trunks. It goes typically on the left hand side of your trunks. You want it to be visible with your trunks too. Make sure you pull them up and fit them properly. You want to try on your trunks before you get to the show. I see dudes all the time that buy posing trunks at the beginning of the show and they never wear them again until the day of the show and guess what happens? They've lost weight and those posing trunks don't fit anymore. So whatever trunks you're going to wear on stage I would probably practice in them the last few weeks going into the show. Do your posing practice with those on. Make sure they fit. Make sure that you know how to get them on properly. Make sure that they look good and bring two pairs of posing trunks with you to the day of the show. The day of the show, the morning of, you usually want to get there early. There's going to be an athlete's meeting where they run through the details of the show. There's always bros that come in late. They aren't prepared. They'll tell you how things go. I will tell you once shows start things movEQuickly. They move very quickly. A lot of times it's quicker than what you think. You may be standing around. I've had situations where you're standing around too. My last national show I was standing around way longer than we anticipated but at most shows that I've been to before things movEQuicker than you think and guys are not ready. They're trying to time up eating their gummy bears and rice cakes and all that stuff before they get on stage and they end up missing it and then they freak out and then you go out on stage without it. It's not really going to make a difference if you don't eat your your gummy bears and your rice cakes with nut butter before you go on stage. Don't freak out. It's not the end of the world. That stuff is more psychological than it is physiological. It's not really going to make much of a difference before you go out on stage. Me personally I usually bring a little bit of candy maybe some potato chips to munch on some Gatorade something like that backstage. Nothing crazy. Last year at finals at my show I didn't even eat anything. I just sipped on a Gatorade. That was it. Everybody else was munching on all their snacks and stuff. I don't want any distention. I don't want any upset stomach when I get on stage. Just be careful with that stuff and another thing when you're backstage getting ready to go out don't start pumping up one hour before you get on stage. I see dudes all the time that are I guess it's nerves or whatever they're back there pumping up like an hour before they actually go on the lineup. Bring some bands with you. Sometimes the shows have bands. Be prepared to lose them. Other people to take them so make sure they're bands that you don't mind losing and then when you get in lineup and you're almost ready to go on the stage you can do a little bit of flexing. You can use the bands a bit. You don't have to do anything crazy. Don't blow yourself out before you go on stage. What I see is guys start pumping up and then they lose their pump and they flatten out because they burn up all their glycogen before they get out on stage. Another huge goof that I see bros make at shows is wearing their headphones backstage. Every show that I've ever been to there's some bro that gets dialed in to listening to his psych up music before he goes on stage. He's got his headphones on with the noise canceling. He's getting tuned in. He's getting ready to go out on stage and you'll hear the the official back there yelling number 43 in the lineup number 43 in the lineup. Where's number 43? Last call for number 43. Number 43 is over on the corner laying with his feet kicked up on his towel his eyes closed psyching up listening to his music and he misses going on stage. Every show I've ever been to I've seen one or two dudes that do that. If you're switching from classes from classic to bodybuilding or whatever be prepared to change your trunks as well. Don't wait to the last minute to do that. I don't know how people do multiple classes at shows. I would find it too stressful but there are guys that do it that can get a little bit nuts. Most of the time they don't want you dropping your pants and changing with your wang out backstage because there are women back there too. Sometimes they have little boosts that you can go change in. They'll give you instructions on how to do that. When you're on stage things movEQuickly. I think a lot of times people are shocked at how quickly they're on and off stage. It seems like you're barely out there. A lot of standing around waiting to get on stage but then once you get on stage things go by quick. That's why it's important to make sure that you have your posing buttoned up and you've practiced a ton before you do a show because there are no do-overs. You get one chance when you get out there and you want to make sure you have all of your posing committed to muscle memory so you don't have to think about it when you get on stage. You can just you know autopilot and go straight through without having to think about it and put on a good performance. Don't stress about your posing routine. I see a lot of guys get flipped out and stressed out about their posing routine. They don't judge it. They don't care. The judges at amateur shows don't even look at the posing routine. A lot of times when you're up there doing your posing routine you can look down at the judges and see they're already they're looking down at sheets they're tabulating the scores when you're doing your posing routine. They're not even looking at you. I'm not saying that you shouldn't work on it. It's for you. It's for your family. It's not for the judges. If you start cramping up backstage don't worry about it. Just drink some fluids. Having a little bit of food and a little bit of fluids is not going to wreck your look on stage at that point. You're either ready or you're not. There's always that one ding-dong that's 12% body fat and thinks that slamming a bunch of diazide the day of the show is going to get him ready and peel off six percent body fat to have him stage ready. And he's backstage laying in a quarter cramping up. Says he's thirsty and he wished he could drink water. Like bro you're 12% body fat. Go ahead and drink the water. It's not going to change anything. If you are not ready the day of the show there's not much you can do to make yourself look better. There are no Hail Mary passes that you can throw on the day of the show to really dial in your look. There's little small little tweaks if you're in condition that you can do. A good coach will know what to do if you're flat. If you can't get a pump there's little things that you can do backstage that can help. But all in all the hard work is done. There's not a whole lot that you can do. Just relax and enjoy doing the show. All right folks that's all I got for you on this one. If you think IMissed anything please let me know in the comments section below. Check out our anabolics e-course at anabolicbodybuilding.com. It is the best performance enhancing drug e-course out there. There's a free preview. Several free courses on there. Go check it out. Thank you for watching. I appreciate each and every one of you. For coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com