 This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright boys, we are going to, I guess there's some girls that watch my channel now, I didn't realize that, starting to broaden my spectrums. We are going to make a Costco, trip today, I want to take you with me as we go to Costco. I go to Costco, I go to Costco like once every two weeks to stock up on stuff that I, big item stuff, I usually don't buy my meat there because it's just, oh damn, it just hit my fucking door, can't have nice things. I stock up on things like meat, dog food, meal prep supplies, uh, sometimes like, uh, sometimes like, uh, sometimes like, uh, sometimes like, uh, sometimes like, I'll get, like, things I eat everyday, usually just get at the grocery store. Here lately, I have been skipping the meats at Costco because I just don't eat them fast enough. I'm gonna go bad, I do like getting steaks at Costco, they got awesome flank steak, but you have to buy like, $60 of it a time, so, I don't know if it's worth getting or not, but, I'm pretty well stocked up on meat today, so it's just going to be things like, um, um, it's just going to be things like, uh, I think I'm out of rice, I need some more rice, it's always a bodybuilder staple, I'm gonna get some dog food, some other shit that I normally get at Costco, so we're gonna go into the gates of hell, I'm gonna show you guys when I drive the Tesla, people all the time ask me about the Tesla, there's a lot of Tesla haters out there, it is the coolest car I've ever had, but, I'm gonna show you guys how the self-driving works, so you get to see that for first hand, it's pretty, pretty freaking cool, um, but I'll show you the Tesla, I have the Model S, which is a cool ass, cool ass car, hopefully it lets me do the self-driving with the camera, because, uh, they don't like you being distracted when you're using the self-driving, so it's not truly autonomous driving just yet, um, it's gonna be a while before that happens, um, I think, I don't know, it's getting closer, but every iteration of it they put out, there's, um, it just gets better and better and better stuff that I did that was stupid a couple years ago, uh, it seems to be doing better now, uh, it's AI based, I'm gonna, for those of you that don't know, IMajored in computer science in college, so I'm a computer nerd, I've run an IT company for the last, uh, 16, 17 years, something like that, and this is, uh, I just love technology, it's a big part of my life, I also have another degree in music, the car's not driving itself yet, so I'll show you how that works, navigate to Costco, let's see if it grabs the right Costco, uh, yeah, we want the one over here, and we'll see, we got some kids here at the stoplight that are, I don't know what the fuck they're doing, no idea what they're doing, all right, and so I'm gonna engage the self-driving, you can see here, how it recognizes everything, it sees the stupid kids sitting over here, I just honked at them, and there they go, boys, I have a boy at home, teenage boys, they're morons, I don't know, I like to think I wasn't that big of a moron when I was a teenage boy, but who the fuck knows, I probably was, I deal with boys all the time on social media, so, you'll see here, the car's gonna recognize when the light turns green, so you'll see it when it turns green here in just a second, and then it's gonna take off, and you can see all the traffic in the, in the thinGHere where it recognizes it, who, who thought you would be learning about technology on a bodybuilding channel, but you'll get to see what happens when it takes off, so, I got the advanced green for the lane across of us, it still recognizes that the light's still red, and it'll go here in a second, people asked me about this yoke, if I'd like the yoke, now that I'm used to it, it was a weird to get, here you go, the car's driving itself now, it was weird to get used to at first, you can see it yelling at me, that flashing light, it wants me to pay attention to the road, the yoke was really weird to get used to at first, having the signal lights on the, when the thing was really weird, and all your controls are over here, your windshield wipers, and your horn, your horn's not in the center, it's over here on the right, that took me a while to get the muscle memory used to it, I got another exact same model of Tesla in front of me, looks like, or maybe that's a model 3, I can't tell, I drive a model S, no, that's, I think that's a model 3, looks like I got a wrap on it, but anyway, you can see the car driving itself, it's pretty smooth, it's a little weird in town, sometimes, like, I don't 100% trust it around pedestrians, so I'll take control, you can see no hands on the wheel, it's doing its own thing, you do have to touch the wheel every so often, like every minute or so, you can see it's yelling at me now, to touch the wheel, but, you can see it's, it's pretty smooth, it works pretty well, and we'll get over to Costco, and we'll go in there, and here in just a second, now it's yelling at me for not touching the wheel, so I gotta touch the wheel and focus on driving. Alright folks, I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, the Scientific Principles of Anabolics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together, with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out, link is in the video description below. Alright, I'm pulling into the Costco parking lot, we'll see how stupid this place is today. You gotta do battle in the fucking parking lot first. And Costco, it's like printing money, man. Every, watch out dude, every fucking parking space is full. I usually come right when they open, there might be a potential spot there. I usually come early. Go ahead and do it with the cart. I'm gonna let you by, because I'm gonna be nice today. I do not see any open spots. Costco's crazy. It's always, always full. Wait a minute, what do we got here? Buy this big old pickup truck. Yep, here's one. Let me see if I can get this without crunching this car. You can see here the Tesla. It shows you parking spaces and how you fit in the parking space. I'm a little... Let me back up a little bit. You can see here. There we go. Now I'm perfectly in the space. It will park for you, but it does a janky job of doing it. I don't know. It's the park. I don't trust it in the parking lot to drive itself. There's a lot going on in the parking lot. It's not quite there yet. So I take over when I get in the parking lot. It will park for you, but it parks so damn slow. It's like my grandma parking. I just park myself. It does do a good job of getting in a square in the spot. For parallel parking, it's nice because I'm a hick. I'm from the country originally, and I can't parallel park for fuck, and I live in the city now. So I do let it parallel park for me. I am going to take my jacket off, and we'll see how many people ask me if I lift weights when we go into Costco. That's always a fun game to play. My daughter gets embarrassed when I wear my tank cap in public. I always have fun because I love people. I'll get thEQuestion, how much do you bench press? Sometimes. Sometimes. I'm sure you bros that lift weights get that shit too. And, you know, how long you been lifting weights? Every once in a while, somebody will get ballsy enough to ask me if I take steroids, and I always like to surprise them and say, yeah, they're fucking awesome when people ask me that question. It's hilarious the looks I get when I tell them, yeah, steroids are awesome. They, they kind of give me a blank stare. I don't think they expect you to be honest and own up to taking them. That is the, I think, most part, most people are just going to deny that. I saw Phil Heath on Pierce Morgan the, I don't know, what was it, last week, IMeant to talk about it in the recent live stream, but, but, but Phil Heath was being such a weenie about talking about taking steroids. Pierce Morgan asked him if he'd taken them. He's like, yeah, I dabbled in them. You know, it was natural for a long time and then I figured out other guys were taking them so I took, I took a little bit and I'm like, calm the fuck on dude, really? That's not helping our cause in bodybuilding and this is why I see why people get upset that pros lie. You know, now I've heard stories about Phil. I know people that know him personally and that he was definitely gifted and very, he was very little I think, but, when he first started, but, we all know what the truth is. We all know what the truth is. Alright, so, people are getting fucking stupid here in Costco honking at each other. It's a good thing I'm not on tren right now because, if I were on tren and somebody's honking at me, some asshole honking at me to get out of my parking space he thinks I'm leaving. I'm like, bro, come on, chill out. I'd tell somebody something if I were on tren they did that shit to me. But, this place you can see here it is a fucking zoo today. The parking lot's packed. What is this place never packed? This is why I, this is like super close to my house it's only like a mile away but I never come here because it's just not worth the pain in the ass of dealing with coming in and out of here although they're pretty efficient at running you through but we'll see what it's like when we get in here. How's it going? Alright. Into the gates of hell. Hopefully the camera is not vibrating too bad. So, I always come in here and end up buying more shit than I intend on buying. I think that's typical for people coming into Costco. I always look at the clothes on Costco. If you've ever seen the Shang Wang comedy special on Netflix it's hilarious. He talks about don't mess with a man who wears Costco pants because you know IMean it was Kirkland pants that's right because he he is a man who gives no fucks. And I guess IMust be a man who gives no fucks because I wear Kirkland pants. I wear sweatpants and athletic shorts 365 days a year. Just seasonally change from sweatpants to shorts. It doesn't look like they have anything interesting in here today. I have my trademark black shirts I get from Costco that I wear everywhere. it's my uniform black shirt. IMight get a set of these if I can find them. Here they are. They're 32 degree cool stretchy shirts. Try not to talk too loud in here because people look at me like I'm a goddamn weirdo. I do get fruit from Costco sometimes but the issue with Costco thEQuantities of food that they have of anything that's fresh it's so much damn food that I can't eat it all before it goes bad. I will say this I did screw up one time post contest prep. I'll see if I can find them back here. I don't know why the first thing I wanted to do when I got done with the show I did a local show here a few years ago was to come to Costco and I bought the biggest pack of fucking chocolate chip cookies I could find and I ate the whole damn thing myself. There must have been 10,000 calories of cookies in this pack of cookies. Sorry. Let's see if I can find these things. Yeah, they're over here. Those of you that know the Costco pack of cookies. Here we go. Costco cookies. I'm going to get in here. They're let's see eight in a row. So I had 24 chocolate chip cookies post-workout or post-show and then I think I let's see what I had some pizza on top of that. So believe me when I talk about losing your shit post-show I always tell myself every year I'm going to keep it together and not go apeshit. I think this year was the first year I didn't lose my shit and go apeshit because I had a goddamn IBS flare up post-show. Actually the day of my show. I also get my jelly here that I put on my high day stuff. So it looks like today. Oh I need paper towels and teepee today. Just got to look. This woman said did you see that guy? It's always fun. You can never have enough paper towels right? These giant Costco size things with paper towels are ridiculous. bodybuilder and I'm constantly wiping my ass. So toilet paper is a must. Alright. Got that. Alright I need some dog food. Get that. English masters and they eat a shit ton of food. Oh I wanted to see if they have this. I get the sugar free lemonade mix. Sometimes they have it. Sometimes they don't. I drink the fuck out of that one on one prep. When people ask me all the time is it okay to drink sugar free or artificially sweetened drinks on prep. I don't see why not. I've always drank a ton of them. As long as it doesn't upset your stomach. Some people the artificial sweeteners will jack up their stomach. upset their stomach. But if it doesn't upset your stomach I say go for it. I was drinking. I don't know last year on prep. I was drinking two three Coke zeros a day. And I was drinking this sugar free lemonade. I was filling out 48 ounce bottles full of that sugar free lemonade and just drinking that shit all day long too. It helps deal. It helps you deal with cravings. I say it's better than cheating. So. You do what you gotta do to get shit done. Alright. Nah I don't see it. I don't think they have it. Damn it. And we're gonna get some dog food for the Mastiffs. Let's see here. I get the chicken and rice and vegetable mix for my dogs. I also mix it with puppy food because my one dog Mastiffs are usually big dogs but my one who's always been skinny and a light eater. He just doesn't eat much. Mastiffs are supposed to have huge appetites so IMix puppy food which is higher calorie in with half his food to try to get him some more calories in because he just doesn't want to eat. it's a game I have to play because my younger puppy he just wants to eat all the time and then the other the other dude does not eat at all so it's just back and forth with two different dogs with two very different appetites. My old guy he's a skinny Mastiff sometimes I get olive oil from here where I talked about in the shopping video last time they do have extra virgin olive oil this one's from Spain. Another thing too like if it's good olive oil usually it'll have some sediment in it I don't see any in this but let's look at the ingredients and stuff on this so it says let's see product of Spain let's see yep this is made from pure olives so it's a superior category of olive oil obtained solely from olives and by mechanical means that's what you want to look for so versus let's see here let's look at this betoli that's in the plastic jug let's see what we got here see what it says on this one olive oil has become composed of refined olive oils whatever that means and virgin olive oils so that olive oil was pressed it does not seem that this is alright so just something to look out for for here's Italian extra virgin olive oil in this one let's see what this one says extra virgin is it traceable to its origin according to standards ensure authenticity outstanding flavor it does not say the manufacturing process in this so it's also in a plastic bottle I know oils from what I understand can leach chemicals from the plastic that they're stored in especially if they were heated when they were put in the bottle so I'm not 100% familiar with the manufacturing process but I think it's safest and best up with a glass bottle although it's a very small thing IMake fun of bros for getting obsessed with little things like that when they're taking tren made in somebody's bathtub but at the same time if you can reduce risk anywhere you might as well do it the food you put in your body is a big poison here's another thing that I get in the offseason that they have at Costco and IMay do this towards the end of prep but they I get these madras lentils and these lentils they have per pack let's see how many servings there is per pack so it looks like two servings per pack so it's per pouch 280 calories 11 grams of fat and 35 grams of carbs it's a little bit extra fat 11 grams of protein too so sometimes I'll do that in the offseason not during prep there's too much fat in that I don't know what the added fat they put in it is too that's the problem with buying foods that have fats already added to them because you don't know what it's probably going to be some sort of shitty type of fat that they put in it I get the giant bags of gas and rice at Costco these are 35 pounds 25 pounds okay and depends on how much I'm eating in the offseason I'll go through one a month something like that and they're $19 for 25 pound bag of rice I get see dudes all the time buying these little 3 and 5 pound bags of rice at the grocery store for 10 bucks you're an idiot get that shit at Costco sometimes I'll eat pasta in the offseason I don't do a whole lot of it right now and I get these big packs of organic pasta as well so I got the Costco guy behind me with this microphone on and for my high day this is where I get the Bon Mamam Jan I don't know if you can see this over here but it's $10.99 for this giant jar the little ass jars at the grocery store like eight bucks so I'll get a couple of these I use those on my high days I get my nut butter at Costco too I get this stuff called Nutso it is a blend of seven nuts it's cashews almonds Brazil nuts flax seeds chaya seeds hazelnuts pumpkin and it has Celtic sea salt in it those are the only ingredients no added sugar no added fats it is all organic and I will mix this up and put it in my I'll put it in my cream of rice sometimes for my added fats it's a good source of EFAs I will tell you a lot of the nut bitters that do not separate you'll see the ones that separate the reason they don't separate is because they take the good oils out and they put palm oil in it and the palm oil keeps it creamy and from separating and palm oil is a shitty oil so that's why you want the ones that have I try to stay away from the ones that have added palm oil on it and yes it's a pain in the ass they do separate but the way you deal with that to keep it from pulling back apart is I've heard some people say they turn the containers upside down what I do is I just mix it up and then I put it in the refrigerator and it'll stay together I'm going to see if they have any food prep containers because I'm just about out of those they have these cheap ass food prep containers yeah they're over here I get these food prep containers that are super cheap you get 50 of them for 8 bucks and they're good for like when I'm traveling or have to go places sometimes I just eat my meals out of them 50 of them for 8 bucks and so you don't feel guilty about throwing them in the trash you can wash them I get a few washes out of them and then they just kind of fall apart so they don't last super long you can get a few washes out of them they're BPA free so for bros that are worried about eating out of the dish it just cracks me up I get guys that'll ask me how they can take DNP safely and in the same breath ask me if red dye number 40 or whatever the fuck it is is going to kill them like really you're you're worried about red dye number 40 when you're you're considering taking BPP or or NPP sorry not NPP but DN DNP Jesus Christ if I can talk you're worried about you're worried about red dye number 40 but you're not worried about DNP I do sometimes get some of my supplements from Costco they have a pretty if I can navigate through here they have a pretty broad selection of supplements I get these I get these vitamins the men's one a day they're $14.99 at Costco Costco is a great place to get supplements for cheap if you're worried about getting supplements so they have B12 B complex let's see what else would I get from here D3 they have the D3 here I use the nature's may which is kind of trashy I get the nature's from what I've heard the Kirkland D3 is just fine too fish oil I usually get from here as well I don't know if they let's see it although I've been getting this triple strength I've been getting this triple strength fish oil lately from Amazon I don't where the fuck is the fish oil I don't see maybe they don't sell it anymore check on the next aisle over here you still have all this stuff over in one aisle we'll look down this next aisle they got CoQ10 so a lot of times you can get stuff cheaper here oh ubiquinol that's another thing that I use I use the ubiquinol CoQ10 you can you know Q10 which is a ubiquinol three times better absorption that's usually what I get for guys that you want to know about let's see what else they've got here they've got berberine I've never seen berberine at Costco now so that is a that is a new thing they also have red yeast rice extract which is good for lowering your cholesterol it'll help get your LDL down and push your HDL up just a little bit you can see your fish oil they have omega-3 fish oil let's see let's see what this the breakdown of this fish oil is this one let's see it has EPA it has 600 milligrams of EPA 300 milligrams of DHA and 55 milligrams of added other omega-3 added acids whatever that means I think the triple strength ones I've been getting are better but that is an option they have Nature's Bounty I get krill oil as well I don't know if it makes any difference but let's take a look at the this krill oil you can't see the breakdown on but let's look at one of these so krill oil this one this krill oil has EPA 60 milligrams DHA 30 milligrams phospholipids 200 milligrams estafiride esonexin I don't know if I'm seeing that 150 micrograms so yeah it's a little bit different the big thing that you'll see here from krill oil to fish oil is the phospholipids phospholipids are for cellular health all right we have magnesium I think it's the magnesium glycinate it's the one that you want to get not the citrate I think the citrate is the one that will make you shit your pants if I recall correctly this calm vitality natural it's just magnesium so I don't know what the hell that is oh and this is something that everybody but always got to have in his tool bag gas x when you get the protein farts you need some gas x I also get my psyllium fiber from here so you'll see 28 bucks and you have this two giant packs of fiber supplement and this stuff here is if you look at it it's see one servinGHas six grams of dietary fiber in it so and a serving size is two rounded teaspoons so I'll do a full table two full tablespoons per day so getting 12 grams of as Dr. Todd would say this stuff makes you poop like a dog your poops just slide out of your but hole when you have this stuff you don't need expensive fiber powder this is plenty all right I guess we should go through the checkout now I'll spare you guys of that disaster all right we made it out of Costco alive no one asked me how much I bench press and roll what down you get a lot of stairs all these weird people staring at you I don't know part of me likes it part of me hates it I don't know I can see why a lot of guys put the pump cover on it is it is a little odd getting stared at I'm an introvert and I don't really crave a lot of attention that's where this whole social media thinGHas been weird for me is I really had to adjust to getting used to having people approach me and getting out of my shell and actually talking to people themselves that's been difficult but I've gotten better at it I don't want to be a dick I don't want to throw people off so try to just be myself but honestly my preferred stage is just to hide at home be with my kids be with my dogs play some video games now and then that's really my life play my guitar when I when I can that's pretty much how I live all right we got the Costco run here we'll pop the tessel open get the get the food in here I got the toilet paper rice it's 160 bucks today from Costco just for dog food paper towels jelly pack of t-shirts some food prep containers that's it never make it out of Costco that's running north of 100 bucks that is the minimum expected cost at Costco the reason why they call it Costco because it costs you an arm and a leg to go there while shit is cheaper Costco membership is definitely worth it for a body builder spend the money and get one there we go did you hear my car quack I've said it thEQuack it freaks people out so when it locks it makes a duck quacking sound you can do all kinds of cool stuff like that too I get people walk by my car and they hear it quack and they're like what the fuck was that whack that's my car yeah I'm a goofball like that makes me laugh when my car quacks at them alright folks that's a wrap head back home and record some videos and do some check ins some clients that are waiting on hearing from me so should probably talk to them and that's it for my costco run thank you for watching for coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today I can help you with optimizinGHormones fat loss muscle gain! for more information shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com