warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, big Paul here with you today. I've got a great one for you. This is an interview with IFBB pro and master's competitor, Vinny Galani. Vinny is one of the best masters competitors, hands down in the world. I think he's won something like 10 IFBB shows, something like that. Uh, Vinny is the king of masters bodybuilding. And there's a couple of other guys that I would consider are sort of my masters bodybuildinGHeroes. And it was an honor to get Vinny on to interview him and talk about his approach to masters bodybuilding and some similarities and things, conclusions that we both sort of came to about trening and diet that we both sort of share and taking a intelligent approach to things as we age and to continue our journey and bodybuilding, uh, in the masters category. Vinny is getting ready for the masters Olympia in Tokyo, Japan here in a, uh, another month or so. And it's exciting to see Vinny and to talk about his prep and what's going on in his approach to trening and his philosophy on things. It's a great interview. I think you're going to enjoy it before we dig into all that. I want to remind you folks about the science of anabolics and PEDZ course, which is on sale right now. I have a hundred dollars off on it. If you want to pick it up for fourth of July, use the code USA at checkout. Link is in the video description below. If you want to grab it out, grab it. It is 100 plus modules with 60 or so hours of content. Uh, researcher Kurt Havens and I put a lot of effort into this course. I think you're going to enjoy it if you haven't picked it up already. It's a great, great deep dive into the science of PEDs and it's all relevant it's all relevant information to our demographic bodybuilding and physique enhancement. I think you're going to enjoy it. Anyway, enough of that. Let's dig into this interview in just one second. All right, folks, big Paul here today with the one and only Vinnie Galante. How are you, man? I'm great, Paul. Thanks for having me. I appreciate it. Yeah, man. Vinnie is prepping for the masters Olympia IFBB pro year. You're kind of the idol for us older guys that are masters, uh, bodybuilders, man. You're, you're, you're, you're one, you're one of the best out there to do it. Oh, I appreciate that. Thanks for the kind words. Yeah. You have a, a freaky physique that looks 20 years younger than what, what you are. IMean, you, you look like a younger guy. You can hang out there with the younger, younger guys. What, what's your secret, man? Oh, I wish I had a secret to tell you, but you know, just really just, I think, um, really I, I have to chalk it up to really taking the time out to one, have a really good offseason staying a little bit leaner than I was able to when I was younger. You know, when I was younger, I could blow up a little bit and, you know, balloon up and body fat would come off easy. But you know, now it's a little harder. So I stay a little leaner, a lot leaner, not to say I don't have my share of pizza in the offseason, but I do, I do keep my body fat low. I pay attention, a great deal of attention, which is annoying sometimes for myself, to properly warm up before each workout. You know, but I think, I think stayinGHydrated, drinking a lot of water, you know, I live a healthy lifestyle other than what we do with our body building. Um, but you know, and, and on that note, I, I've, in my career, I've never abused any anabolics or any substance. I don't do anything outside of what we do for bodybuilding. And when I, whatever I do is very, like, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I'm very like, I don't, I don't do anything stupid. And I think having the physique I have and being around for so many years, you know, my first contest was 1984. You do the math. That's 42 years. I love the sport. You know, just like we said, before we got on the air, you know, we meet heads, we still love, we do. And you know, I just, we come from a different era, an era where conversations started with how's your diet and how's your trening and last was steroid use. And today the conversation starts out with, I'm on this and nobody pays attention to how they should approach their trening and how they should approach their nutrition. And I think, you know, all these years I've, I, I focused more on my nutrition and my trening. And if I did a steroid, it was the back burner. It was, it was a second thought, third thought, you know? So I think, I think that the look I have, the longevity I have stems from being respectful to what everything is all about. Yeah. It's funny as we get older, man, it's like, I definitely have found staying leaner. I, it just, you know, I, I have a rule. I never get to the point where I can't see my abs. IMean, it's just, if, if, if you get to the point where you can't see your abs, it's just such hard work at our age, really for anybody like my younger guys, I'm working with, I keep them leaner. And you're so right about the focus on the diet and the trening. IMean, that's all we ever, I remember back in the nineties, that's all we, we, we talked about. Yeah. Yeah. How are you trening? What did your diet look like? And I think some of it was, it's just, IMean, we didn't know a whole lot about PEDs back then and it was just really basic shit. And I think like when I coach people, I think that's something that gets like some of the young guys disappointed. There really is no secret cycle. It's just basic testosterone growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or whatever. Antibiotic that you tolerate. Well, you keep yourself healthy. That's important. If you're sick, if you make yourself sick, you can't last long enough to, to compete. Absolutely. IMean, you have to, you have to respect the whole entire process of what goes into what we do. And if you don't, and if you pay attention to one thing that you think that's going to get you the golden, you know, rail, it's you're, you're mistaken and you're going to come up short. And in the end, you're going to have either injuries or you're going to burn out quick and you're not going to produce the physique that you think you're going to produce. And that's what a lot of the young guys think today, unfortunately. Well, I think like, you know, we have, I've said this before, I'll say it again. We have a lot of people on social media who are amazing salesmen. They don't know what they're talking about selling their ideas to people who don't know what they're talking about. You've got idiots teaching people who are uneducated and they believe the bullshit they hear. And that's unfortunate for guys like us, because we have the truth. We know that we know what goes into the, into the recipe. We know the ingredients and yet we're kind of, we're sometimes invisible to these young guys. They don't like it and they get to be in your right. They get disappointed. Like, no, there's gotta be more to it than what you just said. Yeah. And I really have been trying to spread that word. I've been making more of my content lately geared towards that where it's just really, it's doing the basics and doing them really well and just grinding. It's really, really the, the, the hard part, the, the secret that nobody ever wants to hear. It's really just about consistency and hard work. You know, like just give you an example. I literally just had this conversation with a 16 year old kid who loves everything about Nicole. Right. And you know, and when I was 16 years old, 17 years old, Juswari was my guy. I understand, you know, I understand how you fall into a group of, you know, following somebody you enjoy watching. And you know, he says to me, he asked me, okay, then I'm using sea salt in all my meals. And my last meal before the gym, because of school, I eat it 45 minutes before I get to the gym and I use a little sea salt in it. Is that okay? I'm like, absolutely. It's perfect. He goes, well, Nick Walker also tells me that while I watch him on a podcast, he says in his intro workout, he uses sea salt also. And I said, well, you can, you don't have to. IMean, you're using a lot of sea salt throughout the entire day. You're pretty hydrated. I think it's a little overkill if you're putting it that close together. And the kid like looked at me like, you don't know what you're talking about. And I'm trying to explain to him, like, it's just too close together. I was just trying to say, and so I finally had to say to him, if you're eating your meal prior to the gym, two hours before the gym, not 45 minutes, then I can see you putting sea salt in your intro workout. And, and it doesn't like, I feel like there's no common sense applied. Nobody's thinking outside the box that everyone is just following the herd and I'm going to do whatever anyone says I'm doing it. And I don't care if it's right or wrong. And it's kind of crazy today. Yeah, it's really, and this is the, the part that I've, I see a lot of young guys and look, I've been that young guy before they get focused on the minutia, like the little shit that just doesn't matter. Like, like that sea salt in your intro workout shape probably doesn't make fuck all the difference of anything, to be honest with you, just eat your food, tren hard, take basic PEDs, get up and do it consistently, day in and day out. I call it worrying about the 5% when you don't have the 95 buttoned up. Exactly. I use the same term when I say you're more concerned about decorating the house than building the house. Yeah. Right? So it's like you and I built a foundation all these years. Like you go back, you're 52, I'm 58, we're in the same ballpark of age bracket. And you were up and coming. You probably had 10 years under your belt while you were entering a show. And you know, I was only working out like maybe a year, I did my first show. But then I was trening with bodybuilders and powerlifters and just grinding it out with guys who were ahead of me. And I listened. And I did whatever they said to do. I didn't like, you know, go outside and say, I'm going to listen to, you know, five different people. Where today, these guys are listening to probably five people every hour on the hour, different advice. And they get to the gym and they're confused. They're confused about how to tren, they're confused about how to eat. They're hearing one guy say, you know, like the tren twins boasting about tren. And it's like, are you nuts? You're teaching a whole generation of kids to think it's just okay to pound tren down. I'm seeing now a couple of kids that I come across, I've had some issues with, with some health issues because of that. And they're like, hey, this is real. Yes, it's real. You guys got to take this serious. It's mental health too. I just talked about that today. I see a lot of guys that have just completely lost their shit from from going crazy with tren and stuff like that. The irony is like I talked to Nick, Nick's a great kid. He's a super hard worker. Nick really just does the basics. He's just a grinder. And he's, I think Nick knows that he has a following of kids are going to hang on to every word he says. He knows that he does, he does the basics and he's just a super, super humble, hard working guy. And I think that's the message that most people miss. They just get focused in on the little things. And I think that's kind of, and you remember back in the day, man, all we had were the magazines and the big guy in the gym. We knew, we knew there was some stuff missing in the magazines they weren't telling us, but you had to earn your way into the trust of that guy. The guys in the gym that were the advanced bodybuilders, they just didn't automatically tell you everything. They wanted to see you work hard. They wanted to see you in the gym regularly. And then like after a while you could kind of like start to crack in, crack them a little bit and get in with them a little bit. But you had to earn your way in. Oh God, yeah. I remember I trened at Billy's Gym in Bayonne, New Jersey when I first started. And those guys, IMean, I had my balls broke for about probably two or three years. You know, I think they took me serious, but they knew we got, we got to break them in. We got to, we got to, we got to, excuse my language, we got to fuck with them to see how much you could take. And that's just the way it was back in the early, late eighties and early nineties. It was, I can't even imagine, like I try to do it today. I tease some kids and it doesn't go over. They look at me like I'm... Yeah, we're Gen X, man. The ball, ball busting was part, part of our, our culture growing up. Yeah, no, I remember I started working out at a hardcore, it was more of a powerlifting gym and man, those guys were, they did not fuck around. And when you were the new guy, you, you, you know, you, they, they looked at you like you were, you know, fresh meat, man, you, you, you had to, you had to earn your way in with those dudes. And then after a while though, they kind of warmed up to you and then would kind of let you in and let you work out with them. Like I, at first they wouldn't even let me work out with them. I got a couple of guys, I work at powerhouse in Saddlebrook, New Jersey. And every, every morning I get, I go in there and there's a couple of guys that tren, there's two guys and a girl and they tren hard. They tren hard. And, and when I walk in, the first thing they do is they look at me to see if I'm going to critique them because they know I'm going to tell them the truth. And I think that a lot of times today is you, the young guys don't understand the truth opposed to an insult. And it, but it's true. You, you walk up to somebody, they'll, they get all excited. Like, Hey, we're working, treninGHard. Really? We're grinding it out. And I'm like, you did the entire set horrible. You you're sloppy, you're, you're, you're not doing anything correct. tren harder. And like, we are treninGHarder. Like no, you're not. You're not treninGHarder. You're not. You're trening stupid. And I just say that to them. I'm like, stop trening stupid and start trening smarter. And that'll be hard. And then, and then, and you know, sometimes they get confused. They're like, what are you talking about? And I have to show them. And then they fall into place. There's like probably like five or six in total down a powerhouse that actually get it. And they appreciate what I have to say sometimes a lot of times. And then there's a lot of guys down there that don't even talk to me. Like literally don't even talk to me. They don't want to hear it. I got this one guy right now who we used to be so cool with each other. One day he just stopped sayinGHello to me because he didn't, doesn't want me to walk up to him and say, you're not treninGHard enough. He doesn't want to hear it. Yeah. Whatever. I, you know, it bothered me at first and I started thinking like, all right, whatever. Sometimes you're invited to the party and sometimes you're not. So I'm not invited to the party. I'm not, I guess I'm not one of the cool kids, so whatever. IMean, it's, it is fun though when it clicks with people like I have, I do have some young kids I work with that are, that it takes some time, but they get it after a while. And it is fun when you, when you get some guys that work hard and, and really like, that's really like the lesson I try to impart on people when I, when I work with them, it's really, it really starts with pushing yourself and workinGHard and you have to, you can't be focused on the, I don't know, this is kind of my thought on it too. Like, like I think too many guys get caught up in the results and the accolades and it's, you have to fall in love with the gym first. It has to be about that. It has to be about the process and falling in love with the gym. If you don't love the gym, you're not, you're not, you're not gonna, you're not gonna succeed at this. You can stay on a treadmill and look out the window and you see them, anybody walking in from their car to the door, front door. And I would say not everybody, but nine out of 10 times that anybody, anybody they're walking into the gym focused on their phone, they're looking at their phone, they don't see their surroundings. They're not walking into the gym to tren. They're walking into the gym to exercise. And you and I, and we were up and coming because we didn't have that device. We didn't have the phone. We either, you were shit scared getting to the gym because you knew what the fuck you were about to do, right? You were either a fuck. I got to put 400 pounds on my back today and I got to squat. I got to challenge myself. I goT3 guys waiting for me. They're going to break my balls. If I don't tren hard, I'm going to break their balls. If I, if they don't tren hard, you're going to battle, you go to war and there's no battle or no war. When I see people walking in the door, how many people walk in your bullshit with their other friends? They don't tren hard. There's nobody. I don't see anybody like zone did like really. And then you see a guy like me walking into the gym, leave me the fuck alone. I don't want to talk to you. And you're like, well, you're an asshole. I'm like, no, dude, I'm focused on what I want to do. Guy walks up to this true story yesterday, middle of my set, taps me on my shoulder. What are you on? You look amazing. I'm like, what am I on? Yeah. What are you on? Are you on animal? You're on one. Sure. What are you doing? I'm like, that's your fucking first fucking question to me. You know, when am I getting up in the morning to do cardio? How long I'm doing cardio? What's my second session of cardio? What's my diet like? That's the first fucking question. I like lost my shit. He walked away. I had to go. And I know the guy. And I had to go apologize to him afterwards. I'm like, dude, man, like you just triggered me. It's a Sunday morning. I don't want to be here. I have to be here right now. And I got to do extra work. I got I'm doing my shit that I don't, you know, like I call it like, you know, like tucking the corners in, in a sense, like I got to do things that you skip kind of during the week, you know. And so I do that on Sundays. And he just set me off. And I said to him, I listen, I apologize, but like, think of like, you think that's really respectful walking up to me, stopping me in the middle of my set to ask me what I'm on. Like, and then you're going to be really nice about like, let's have a conversation. Let me stop my workout to talk to you. No, you fucking moron. Don't fucking bother me during my workout. And that's the attitude I get. Like, you know, people like, Whoa, calm down. But it's not like that or anything. It's just like, I don't get the mindset when you walk into the gym and like, think like you see somebody trening or in their mind, they don't know that somebody's trening. They're just doing an exercise and it's okay to stop them and start talking to them. You and I would never have done that 20 years ago, walking into the gym, you'd get punched in the face. Yeah, no. Yeah. You would get punched in the face. We definitely would get punched in the face.  So let's talk about trening a little bit, man. How, you know, as we get older, it's definitely something I've struggled with is I definitely can't do the crazy shit I did in my 20s. I've had to evolve my trening. You know, you talked about it, alluded to it a little bit, but trening smarter as you're getting older, how has your trening evolved? How do you tren now? So give you an example, like today, I did chess today, and I have a certain warmup that I do where I lay on a bench and I bring my arms in a circle and I just do that for about 10 minutes where I'm just loosening up my shoulders and I'm just, you know, laying on the bench. It looks like I'm doing a shoulder press laying on a bench. And I do about 10 minutes of that combined. And then I went into dumbbell flies and I probably picked, I think I started out with 10 pound dumbbell flies for three sets of 10, where I think some people look at that, that you're wasting your time, but I got to get blood in the muscle. I got to get that flowing. I look at isolation movements as my bread and butter right now, as I'm older, than my compound movements. I've already built the house. I've already done years of compound movements, the incline bench pressing and dead lifting and squatting. So I can actually save those exercises for last in the workouts now, because I need to warm up properly. So I started out with, like today I started out with flies and then IMoved into a Smith machine. When I did the flies, I only went up to fifties. Now I say only, but back in the day, I can go up to nineties. So now it's fifties and I'm staying in the 12 rep range. I can go heavier, but I know that would be foolish because I got 14 anchors in my shoulders and I shouldn't be challenging any heavier weight. When I got to the Smith machine, Paul, I literally just put a 10 pound plate on each side. I did a set of 20, really super slow, get some more blood in the upper chest, another 10 for about 12 to 15, took those off, put a quarter on. And I think I did three sets, working sets with just a 45 on each side, really super slow for eight to 10 reps. And the third set, I did a rest pause set. So now I'm getting really warmed up. Blood's a lot, a lot of blood into the muscle. And IMoved over back into the flat dumbbell, where now my elbows are warmed up and the ancillary muscles in my shoulders are now lubricated and warmed up and they can help me control the dumbbells. Cause then on a Smith machine, you don't need to control anything. So now IMove over over into the dumbbells. I teamed up with a guy named Pat down South Jersey last few weeks. And we were doing a lot of menstrual kind of trening where we're doing like compound movements followed, backed up by isolation moves. And because I have the shoulder, the former shoulder surgeries, I can't take a lot of volume for my shoulders and my chest and shoulder trening. So I have to keep it at a minimum where it's high volume, but like I tap and go with it a little bit. I can't do super sets more than two weeks. I got to call it a day after about probably like eight to 10 workouts. And then I got to go back to trening like in between a, like almost like a six to 12 rep range. But that comes after warming up for a long time. A guy said to me today, this guy, a long time friend, you really pay attention to the detail of warming up. I'm like, yeah, I'm 58 years old. That's why I'm here. So I'm still doing what I'm doing. However, I did, if I never had my injuries, I don't know if I would one, be competing today. Two, if I was in trening, I don't know if I would still be trening kind of like reckless, which would have been how every guy you talk to in your fifties say, I wish I could do what I used to do. And they still try to do that. Yeah. It doesn't work. Huh? It doesn't work. It doesn't work. No. So I'm, in one way I listen, I don't wish rotator cuff surgery on my worst enemy. I have 14 anchors throughout both my shoulders and it took me a while to get through all of that. Not just physically, but also mentally. I went through a mind fuck for a while. I, you know, I suffered a little depression and I got all through that. And now here I am. I'm so grateful that I've been able to, you know, win 11 Masters Pro Shows and now heading to Japan and going into a Masters Olympia. I know what I'm up against. You know, these guys are just bigger and they're fuller and rounder. So I have to present a physique that's grainier, denser. And I gotta bring this old man body, you know, I got this old muscle, you know? And so I just gotta make sure it's detailed. And, you know, when I tren back, especially too, I'm on the assisted pull-up for probably 15 minutes. And so my arms don't get tired before my back. I'm staying in a, like a six to eight rep range, not like a 15 to 20 rep range, which I could do, but then my shoulders get tired, my arms get tired, and then I can't do back. So I do like probably 10 to 12 sets of like five to eight rep range, just to like loosen everything up and keep it going and moving it and get the blood in there and wake up the lats and wake up the back without having to tire out my arms. So I just approach everything slow. And I think it's like kind of like when I get people who tren with me, especially on leg day, I actually, this past Saturday, I trened with this girl, Michelle, who came up to me, you know, cute girl. She's like, can I tren legs with you? I'm like, are you serious? You want to tren legs with me? I go, why? She's like, I want to learn from you. I'm like, look, I'm trening for the Manchester Olympia. I'm not holding back. So I'm going balls out. If you can keep up, you can keep up. I'm not expecting you to lift the same weights, but if you can keep up. So for 30 minutes before she got there, I did my thing. I warmed up. I was on a bike. I stretch. I did my thing of what my normal protocol that I usually use for warming up. And this girl kicked my fucking ass. She kept up with me. I was like, she's using the same weights I'm using. And she wasn't even struggling. I'm like, Michelle, you can go a lot harder. She's like, I am goinGHard. She wasn't flinching. She didn't make any faces. She just grinded it out. I'm like, I can't believe like, it's like we're living in an era of like, guys don't tren as hard as the girls. Like I see this all the time, all the time. Some of the female competitors get after it. You know, it's crazy. They can go hard. They go hard, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I was going to say, I sort of had the same realization as you, man. I really, I used to be really like a heavy, hardcore, like hit style, high intensity type of trener when I was younger. And I kind of got to the point where I just kept hurting myself. And I kind of came to that realization where you have to get more out of less. Yeah. And really just, it's amazing what you can do if you really just focus on the weight and learn how to control it and manage that weight and control that weight and get a really good squeeze and feel everything. Like really focus on feeling the weight. It's amazing what you can get out of style. Like I was the biggest on stage last year I've ever been. I was 250 pounds on stage last year. And it's probably the weakest I've ever been to coming in. But it's amazing like how you can really, if you're really focused with how you tren and you are intelligent with how you tren, you can really do a lot. You know, I'll be the first, I will admit this, I'll say this. Probably the injuries that I've suffered from, worse from, trying to tren too heavy, thinking that's what I should have been doing when my body worked better on volume all those years. Now, volume that I used to, that I should be doing, let me rephrase that. It's gonna sound like I'm contradicting myself. My muscles work, my muscles respond to 12 to 15 rep range. Mm-hmm. et al. , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , etc. I don't know if you've noticed this too, as I've gotten older, my ability to stay disciplined on the diet and just eat the same boring shit over and over is a lot better. It's easier for me to get locked in now that it was in my twenties. writingetuber.com Absolutely, like I'm gonna contradict myself with what you just said a moment ago. Like yes, I'm eating the same foods, it's tiring and it's annoying, however I don't need to cheat on the diet. We have family in from Italy and yesterday we had a really big, big party, big barbecue at my sister's house and I was joking, Jason Hubert, I'm sayinGHis name wrong, Jason Hubert is helping me with my diet and I was messaginGHim and I said, this is gonna suck on Sunday because my family's coming in from Italy and the food is gonna be amazing. He's like, how's that gonna suck? You're trening for the Olympia. And I was like, just joking, like, you're like, you know, like if you're an Italian from Jersey and you got family coming in from Italy, you'll know what I'm talking about. So I'm looking at all the food and I'm like, nah, if this was 10 years ago, I'd have a hard time being there and I have to leave and eat the food, you know, but yesterday now I didn't have a, I don't have a, I don't have that desire. I think maybe it has to do with, we know our time is ticking and we know that we don't have many more contests left in our, maybe subconsciously. So why cheat on a diet? It doesn't make sense because this might be my last show and I, listen, I know what I'm up against. I said it earlier in the podcast, these guys are built different and so I have to come in and in crazy grainy condition. I have to come in and the detail of, you know, another level, but I'm not used to, I'm doing car, I'm doing more cardio than I've ever done. How much are you doing right now? What are you doing? So literally up until last year, my whole entire career of bodybuilding, 30 minutes, four times a week on the treadmill, sometimes the stairs and I got away with it. Not that I don't want to say like I got away with it. Like I was looking for a shortcut. I got away with it because that's the, I got the results that I was supposed to get. When I did the hurricane pro last year, I was looking for the change. When is this, when is it going to snap into gear? When is the metabolism going to kick in? Like you, you know, when you're doing your thing and everything's just clicking. I got in condition. I won the contest, but I had to look at, okay, what was wrong? What, what just wasn't working? And I had to be honest with myself. I'm like, okay, my offseason needs to be even better than it usually is. I need to have some kind of cardio because I never do cardio in the offseason. And this time I did cardio, but I did it in small amounts, 20 minutes, three days a week just to keep it going. And then once I was like 20 weeks out, I bumped it up to 30, four days a week. And it was, it was moving. My metabolism was working. It was, I'm like, I think as much as I don't want to do it and as much as I don't believe in it, I got to see if it works. I got to do fasted cardio. So I started doing fasted cardio 4 a.m. every day for 30 minutes, four days a week. And then between my last two meals, before my last meal, I should say, I would do another 30 minutes and my body just started changing and I'm like, all right, I'm on the right track here. And now I'm just used to it. I get up and I have my coffee and by the time it'S4.30, I'm on a treadmill for 30 minutes and an hour, four to five times a week. I know the science behind the fasted cardio says it doesn't make any difference, but it's one of those bro things. I don't give a fuck what the science says. If it works, it 100% works. My skin is starting to look the way it used to look like. I'm getting this thin skin that I definitely did not have my last show. I had it, I think, because I was in condition, but there was something missing and I couldn't figure out what the hell it was. And I'm like, I'm looking at the pictures of when I was in the Legion and when I was in my earlier shows, like the Masters Pittsburgh Pro, and my skin's not looking the way it was when I was 52. Now I'm 57. I'm like, this is not, nah, something's got to change. All right. I am definitely on a decline. And you have to, it's very hard to admit when you're getting older that it's just not working anymore. You need another change. You need to implement more. Now, you know, I just turned 58 in April and you know, like how much more work do I have to do to get in better shape? So I'm doing what I got to do. And we'll see if I will be so blessed if I could crack the top 10 in the Masters Olympia and call it a career. I don't know if I'm going to do another show afterwards. I, you know, I got family and friends coming with me to Japan. And the day after the show, we're going to go sightseeing. So I don't know how much I can stay on my diet in Japan. I would like to, you know, do the Masters World, which is three weeks later. We'll see. Maybe I'll do the Atlantic Coast at the end of November. I'm not 100% sure yet. I say that now because I'm in it. But once, you know, I have some really good sushi in Japan, that might hopefully change. I was going to do the Masters Worlds last year after Masters Nationals after I won there. And then I went on vacation the week after and I'm like, nah, I'm done for the year. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. We'll see. We'll see how much I could stay disciplined while we're in, you know, because I remember one of the shows I did a while back in the last couple of years, I had not planned on competing three weeks later. And for one whole week, I stayed on my diet. But every night I ate something bad. And by the time Saturday rolled around, I looked crazy. I'm like, I'm in better shape. And I just- That's wild how that works sometimes. Your metabolism will just spin up. So we'll see. We'll see. I'd like to do the Masters World. I'd like to go. It's a great show down in Pittsburgh. And I've had success there in the past for winning the Masters Nationals. And I just, you know, I like that show. I like how it's run. You could just leave your hotel room, take the elevator down and walk to the, like literally walk through the lobby and go to the- Gary's shows are always the best. His shows are amazing. North Americans, Masters Nationals, Masters Worlds, they're just, they're just amazingly run. His shows are always run really well. Yeah. Yeah. And I think now we're seeing, you know, when you and I were younger, we saw a very deep teenage bodybuilding era. Like it was deep. You had 10 to 20 kids in a weight class. Now we're not seeing that anymore. We're seeing a really deep Masters division. And you know, the Masters guys are growing. You know, I've been fortunate where I've made bodybuilding my career. I've been a personal trener. I've owned businesses, gyms, and I have always taken bodybuilding as my profession. I've always took it as, you know, very serious and applyinGHow to make money within the confines of like, you know, trying to guest pose, travel around the world, magazine covers, all that stuff. I did all of that. And now we're seeing guys, I'm seeing guys catching up to me who werecompeting with me as a teenager who started a family after college and they'd stop because they had to do their thing with life. Right. I did the same thing. Right. Yeah. So I got a couple of guys that I've met on a pro stage, like, dude, we competed against each other in 1991 and on the Jersey or the suburban bodybuilding championships in Jersey. And I don't remember them, but they remember me. And it's kind of cool. You know, you were seeing guys reemerge and compete because their finances are all set. That's the one reason why I could do to do Japan because I don't know if I could do this if I was a younger man, you know, I couldn't afford it. I took a full 12 years off from competing and then came back in my forties and I don't know. I just got bit by the bug. You know, it's just family business. Shit just happened. You know, you know, you know, the whole deal. I got married and had two kids and those are running a business and just other things took priority. And then I, I kind of got back into the gym and I forgot how much, how much I loved it and missed it. Sure. Yeah. You know, and we're living in a, here's the thing too, which I don't say often enough. What we've learned from the years of grinding it out in hardcore gyms, learning from guys who were there before us and now like you said a moment ago about like fasted cardio and, and bro science, okay, there's a, there's a place for bro science and there's a place now where we're taking. deca dick, dehydrated dicks, deca dicks, d màyyyyyyyyyy dickssss. ommax tweet, momma vomguard, lambda, Medicare. 함 beğvgroaning or getting up in your coffeehouse like the fuck you wanna get for work being a pussy on my pussy and eating like a biscuit, disappointment in an at-home approaching trening in a way where you're, you're, you know, listen, I'll be the first to admit. I never gave two shits about how I trened. I just walked into the gym. I trened, I got a result, I ate good, and I went home and I competed. And, and, and I took it for granted. I'll be the first to admit. I won many shows not knowing what the fuck I was doing. I just did the work. But now that I have these 14 anchors throughout my shoulders, I've had to reemerge as a whole new competitor. I have to come back and go, okay, what I did is not going to work. Let me listen to this kid who's 28 years old. Let me see if what he's got to say, I can apply. And my nephew, Stefan, who's in his 30s was shocked, not shocked. He was like, kind of like impressed. He said, Jason, your coach is in his 30s. And you're listening to him. I'm like, yeah, the guy's got a lot of knowledge. And, you know, when I was on my way back, and coming back into competing, I started to, you know, we're Tom Brady. I'm a Dallas Cowboy fan. But I'm a Tom Brady fan. And I'm a Tom Brady fan, because he was an older athlete, trying to figure out how to stay relevant as an athlete, getting older. So when I started to read up and listen to all the things that he was doing, as the first thing I said, my offseason sucks. I need to have a way better offseason. Because back in the day, I could blow up and do whatever I wanted to do and get in shape. It didn't it did nothing. Nothing went wrong. When I went and trened for a show, I could be fat, out of shape and 12 weeks out, tren for a show, win a show, not a problem. Can't do that when you're a Masters competitor, you got to have a better offseason. And, you know, I started to implement, as everyone does, deep tissue massage, cupping, any modality that I found that worked for me, I applied. And then I also started to look at it another way, where, okay, we're beating the shit out of ourselves in the gym, then we're going into what we call a recovery phase. And we're going to go and beat the shit out of ourselves by somebody pounding us with a metal rod and scraping our bodies and your cupping and now you're all beat up from that. When do you recover? So I started to look at like recovery in a different way to where I would say, okay, every ninth week, I'm gonna go eight weeks, and every ninth week, I'm completely taking off from the gym. And after three days, I'm going to get some work done some body work done. And then two days before I go back to the gym, I'm going to do it again. So that way, I can recover from the body work. Because when we're beating ourselves up in the gym, and doing body work, when are we recovering? It's almost impossible. So I started to apply that rule for me. And I found that I don't like cupping. I don't think personally, I don't think it does anything for me. And I don't know if it's a bro science thing. I don't know if it's a real science thing. I don't know what it's really doing, except making you look like you're a pepperoni on pizza. You know, I don't know if it's really doing anything. It feels good sometimes. And sometimes I feel like I'm claustrophobic from having all these things on my body. Get them off, get them off. I'm like, get them off. I got to get them off now. You know, I start freaking out. So I go to this guy, Anthony in Nutley, New Jersey, at fit Nutley, this gym over there. And Anthony works on me, at least probably once a month, and some real deep tissue stuff. And I just I just find like the whole, I have to encompass everything I've gotten, the trening, the recovery, the rest periods, all of that has to be 100% or I'm not doing what I'm doing. Yeah, getting older, having injuries, going through all those things forces you to be a better bodybuilder, or you're going to go extinct. If you keep trying to do things the way you used to. I think that's what happens to a lot of older bodybuilders and why they can't keep going is they just try to keep doing the same things they could when, when they were younger. The way I look at it, you know, when I was 22, I could drink a fifth of tequila, go out and party and play a backyard tackle football game and go lift and be just fine. If I tried to do the shit I did in my 20s now, I'd be in the hospital. Yep. Yep. So IMean, and you know, and that's another thing too, like, I don't mean to shit on everybody young, there's a lot of really good, super smart, young people out there. It's just sometimes it's hard to discern what's BS and what's real on social media. Oh, absolutely. That's the difficult part. But I have met some incredibly intelligent and very smart people that have helped me out immensely to be a better bodybuilder. And I try to share that information. I try to cut through the BS and share the information. But yeah, IMean, it's, it's cool to see how that you've evolved. And that's why you're still going. Thank you. I appreciate that. You know, I say now, like, this is my last show, right? And we always say that when we're we always say it's our last show. I say, every show is my last show Vinny show. Yeah, they've been you said that last year. I'm like, no, but if the Olympia wasn't here, I wouldn't do it. Like you'd find a show to do. Shut up. Yeah, every, every, every show. I told myself I won my pro card. I was done. And then like, Oh, man, no, no, I want to get back. Yeah, back into it. I got a good friend, Billy Sarnati, who really inspired the hell out of me this past year where he tore both he's 67 years old. And he and I both won our pro cards. He won the over 50 and I won the over 40 at the Masters Nationals back in 2008. We've been friends for a really long time. And, you know, he tore both his quads. He's a teacher and he had a teacher student game. And he went up for a layup came down came down for both squads four years ago. And he made a comeback this year at 67. And, you know, we were talking about how disciplined he had to be for that comes harder. It was harder, but and he was miserable doing it. But he was so grateful that he did it because it got got him back to being on, you know, disciplined and just just having a what's the term I'm looking for just being regimented again, because when we're regimented as bodybuilders, we accomplish a lot more, I think, because that's how we operate. That's how we're wired. I think it's just good for the human spirit in general, to have a purpose and have a goal to be working on something. I think I think we're meant to work, really. And it's when you're just aimlessly just sitting around drifting and doing nothing people people lose their way in life. Oh, sure, sure. And you're going back to talking about like offseason and, and learning from people and seeing, you know, and I appreciate that people are are messaging me and coming up to me in gyms and saying I'm an inspiration. But there's so many people out there that have inspired me. And one of them was Billy from his comeback with his quad tears. And then my friend Eric Berger, and Jimmy Bryan were masters competitors, who, if they weren't competing, Vinny wouldn't be probably Vinny is right now, because they dug so deep in their offseasons and and just the way they were trening. That made me start thinking, wait a minute, these guys are going to pass me up. And these are really good guys and good competitors, where I'm like, wait a minute. I'm not I'm not doing what these guys are doing. I got to get on the ball here. So, you know, you you learn from your peers, and you learn from outside influences that you don't even know who they are, that come up with some really good stuff. Like you say, Hey, are they full of shit? Is it is it true stuff? Are they really got today really bring something to the plate to the table. But we have enough experience to know. It's really the basic stuff that gets you know, give it you can't do a gimmick. There's no gimmicks. When you start hearing somebody saying, Oh, I want to do this, this and this and implement it, because that'll override cardio, and I'm going to take this supplement. No, it really just boils down to consistency and hard work. I feel like I beat that message to death, even if you use new methods and techniques, and those still are applied within the context of just working your butt off. Really? I remember a couple years ago, I was I was tired and burnt out. I probably should not have competed. I don't remember what year this was. But I did the world Masters world land up in fifth. And I can't remember who the competitor was. But he was on social media, putting up that he eats English muffins, it's carbohydrates. And I'm like, fuck, I eat English muffins in the offseason, right? I'll do that. So I applied it during my prep. It didn't work. I took a shortcut because I didn't want to do the work. It's really easy to slice an English muffin up put in a toast. Golanty underscore fitness, and I try not to only in the Olympics, but also every other sport that's going on around the world. But this just makes it difficult. Oh, yeah, we totally, totally do that, totally do that to ourselves. All right, Vinny, where can people get a hold of you? Anything you want to promote what you got going on, man? So yeah, I'm on Instagram, Golanty underscore fitness, and reach me there. I I've been trying to really just focus and hone in on trening and whatever whatever videos I'm putting up. It's really somebody one of my friends saying, dude, do a video you haven't done a video because I'm so focused on the trening right now that I'm not focused on doing anything else. So, you know, follow me for the journey to the Masters Olympia in Japan. I leave August 2nd and, you know, I want to give a big shout out to Thomas Anderson, who introduced you and I, where he I think he just put out a new book called the anabolic encyclopedia 20 to five, which has a lot of great information on anything and everything under the sun. And he's very knowledgeable. You can contact Thomas Anderson on social media. And I want to give a big shout out to my sponsor G code nutrition, who has been with me since my comeback when they started their company, and they've been backing me and that's it. Just, you know, hopefully, I can have a good showing in Japan and get a chance to do a really good posing routine for the fans in Japan and, you know, have fun and get some good sushi there. So we'll see. Well, I'll be rooting for you and living vicariously through you. Hopefully I'll be there at some point. Yeah, man. That's awesome. I appreciate you coming on today. Vinny. Thank you very much. Thank you. 