warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, Jim bros, big Paul here today and we're going to talk about insulin use a little bit. This is one where I think there's a lot of bad information that floats around on how to use insulin and what insulin's role is in bodybuilding. I usually steer away from this. I have some stuff up on the anabolics e-course where we go into detail about insulin protocols. I kind of not don't like talking about this one because most bros can't even calculate macros when it comes to diets, much less how many units of insulin they should take and how to keep an eye on their blood sugar. But I think there is some confusion on which insulin does what and there's, I see a lot of guys using Atlantis in hoping to get gains out of it and performance enhancement and Atlantis doesn't really work that way. It's a basal insulin. I'm going to dig into how Atlantis works and talk to you about that and how rapid acting insulins work and why rapid editing insulins are likely a better choice for performance enhancement. I'm not really sure where the whole Atlantis thing came from. Um, I have some thoughts on Atlantis. I do use Atlantis. I have type one and a half diabetes. I have pancreatic insufficiency, so I have to use Atlantis to replace my pancreatic output of insulin. I'm deficient in that area. Most people don't have that, so they don't really need Atlantis for their bodybuilding purposes. But I'm going to talk about why I am going to go into how insulin should properly be used. I'm not saying that you should use it, but how professional bodybuilders use it and why you see guys do it a certain way. And also my thoughts on why there's so many people using Atlantis now. Before we dig into that, I do want to remind you about the anabolic E course. I have some detailed information in there on insulin use. I have also stuff. I'm putting up a new section on peptides. I'm slowly adding stuff there as well. Have a very detailed breakdown of how to do cycles, the blast and cruise methodology, also side effect mitigation and other things. PED profiles, et cetera. Kurt Havens and I have put this course together. There's over 60 hours worth of content on PEDs and a hundred plus modules. I think it's the most in depth PED course that you can find out there. I haven't found anything that has more content than this and more detailed content. So if you want to learn about PEDs, you want to go deep down the rabbit hole. You can go check out the anabolic C course and we keep adding more stuff to it. I keep putting more things up there as I go along and I find things that I think are interesting and people want to learn about. It gets added to the course. All right, enough of that folks. We're going to dig into Atlantis. We're going to talk about Atlantis in just one second. All right, so let's talk about types of insulin and what they're used for. I'm very familiar with this. I'm a diabetic. I've been for quite some time. Uh, we have, we have multiple types of insulin that do different things. A lot of people are using Atlantis now. There's this notion that Atlantis can somehow be a substitute for rapid acting insulin like Humalog or nolvalog and they do very different things and they're designed to do different things. Atlantis is a basal insulin. There's, there are other basal insulins, but the idea with Atlantis is it's designed to replace the background insulin that's always present in your body. There is a baseline level of insulin that is always there throughout the day. Even if your keto, I hate to break it to you, keto and carnivore guys, insulin is still present in your body. You would die without it if it wasn't there. So you insulin make you fat bros. There's insulin in there even when you're not eating carbohydrates. Your body makes a small amount of insulin, something like, you know, like a unit or two per hour, even when you're not eating carbohydrates. And when you have pancreatic insufficiency or type one diabetes where your pancreas just doesn't work at all, that you have complete loss of beta cell function, there is no baseline insulin present and a basal insulin, a basal insulin, i.e. baseline like Lantus. We have Levemire is another type of baseline insulin that we could use as well. I think Levemire has a bit of a longer, a bit of a longer life. I don't recall exactly. I've always been on Lantus. Lantus is something like 20 to 24 hours of an active life with Lantus. Basal insulin does not peak. It stays level and it sort of tails off at the end. So I take 25 units of Lantus per day. That's what's prescribed to me by my doctor. 25 units of Lantus per day. It works out to be about one unit of Lantus of insulin per hour. Now here's the thing. When you go and do your workout and you're doing a bro thing where you're eating 100 grams of carbs pre-workout, 50 intra, 100 post-workout, and you've got your 250 grams of carbs during that pre-intra and post-workout window, that insulin is not going to be enough to cover that. It's not going to be enough, especially if you're a type one diabetic or somebody with pancreatic insufficiency. This is where your rapid acting insulin, something like Humalog or Novolog come into play, or an intermediate acting insulin. The rapid acting insulins like Novolog and Humalog give you a quick push of insulin that fades after something like three to five hours. Onset of Humalog, I'm looking at the diagram here for Humalog is about 15 minutes. It peaks at 60 to 90 minutes and then it tails off at after three to five hours. So if you have diabetes, you have, if you're a type one diabetic, you use Lantus to cover your background insulin, the basal baseline insulin that's always present. And then you use a rapid insulin to deal with mealtimes. Most of the time they are used together. You have your Lantus in the background, rapid acting insulin that's used to deal with large boluses of carbohydrates. Now what I've seen most gym bros do over the last decade or so is they've moved to using Lantus every day. If you have normal pancreatic function and you're throwing Lantus in the mix, there is this theory. I don't know if there's any justification to it. I've kind of come full circle on it that potentially when you use Lantus, you're taking pressure off your pancreas and preventing longterm beta cell burnout. There is an argument to be made for that. I have seen some studies that potentially show that, but here's the thing with insulin. And I think a lot of times guys will use a basal insulin when they start to see their fasting glucose levels rise. I hear of dudes saying, you know, I'm waking up with my glucose levels 115, 120, and I need to throw some Lantus in to deal with that. What that tells us most of the time, if that starts to happen out of nowhere, is that we have some sort of underlying issue going on, that there might be some insulin resistance, potentially some beta cell burnout and throwing, here's the problem with throwing more insulin at this problem and using a basal insulin to deal with high fasting glucose levels. You're masking the underlying problem. You're actually using more insulin to deal with the issue. So let's say your body is making a normal amount of insulin and you're throwing Lantus on top of it to force the issue when you're already insulin resistant, you get into the spiral where you're actually creating more insulin resistance. More insulin equals more insulin resistance and worsened metabolic disorders. And I think that's a huge mistake that a lot of guys are making. They are, they're going about everything incorrectly. And not only that, if you think about this logically, if you're doing a large bolus of carbohydrates, a pre and post-workout or you're doing some sort of carb cycling diet where you're having specific days during the week where you're pushing carbohydrates high to, to force glycogen synthesis, what is Lantus really going to do in that equation? If like, let's say if you're running sort of a Milo Sarchev style of protocol where you're banging a bunch of carbohydrates around your workout and you're forcing muscle protein synthesis and glycogen synthesis and all of the cool effects that happen from, from using insulin, increased IGF one, increased mTOR, all of these other things that happen when you use insulin with carbohydrates around a workout window. What is, what is the, if you're taking like, for somebody like me, if you're taking 25 units of Lantus and you're eating 250 grams of carbs during that workout window and you only have like two units of insulin present during that two hour window, what is that really doing? Is that going to help force your, force the carbohydrates into the muscle? Is that really going to do anything additional provide any additional benefit? It is not enough to deal with that huge bolus of carbohydrates. If you're using carb, if you're using insulin for performance enhancements. Now, like I said, one could make the argument that potentially, potentially that it is alleviating some pancreatic burnout, but it's not really providing any sort of performance enhancing effect other than keeping your glucose levels lower. And ultimately we may be creating more insulin resistance by, by just pounding these basal insulins year round. It seems to be pretty commonplace with guys now. And I see a lot of guys that come to me for coaching and for consultations that have high A1Cs, that have a high fasting insulin levels. The guys that have some seem to be metabolically disordered and haven't taken an offseason forever and their permabalking, their fasting glucose is on the rise. So they're using basal insulins to deal with it and just mask the underlying issue. That probably the more intelligent way to do things would be to carb cycle or to take periodic breaks throughout the year where you diet down and get your insulin sensitivity back in place. Periods of time where you limit your exposure to insulin because the more you're exposed to insulin, the more insulin resistance that you're going to have. It is true that forcing the issue with insulin, it works. IMean it, it definitely works. I've seen it work. It's worked on me. I've seen Milo Sarchoff clearly has had success with his clients with when he does it around the workout window. But you also have to keep in mind that there's a lot of other variables that are going on here. Like with Milo's protocols, I've seen them before. There's a high volume of workload that's happening during these, these workout windows that are helping shuttle these carbs and nutrients into the muscle when you're using insulin. If you're doing some sort of bro high intensity trening where you're only doing a couple sets, the likely result from eating all these carbohydrates and taking insulin is just that you're going to become fat and you'll see that all the time with guys. Guys will just say, I just got fat from taking insulin. Well, the reason you got fat is probably because you're trening and your diet didn't line up with the protocols that you're running. And I think a lot of times dudes will take insulin with, they think more is better just like they would with, with PEDs and insulin doesn't work that way. You need an appropriate amount to help with glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent and you have to keep in mind if you're going to use insulin that you need to be intelligent with your diet. You have to keep the fats low and the carbohydrates need to be matched to the insulin intake or actually the insulin intake needs to be matched to the carbohydrates that you use so you don't go hypo. So you have to accurately measure everything with a glucose monitor. You have to know how your body responds to those things. If you're eating a bunch of fat around that window when you're using rapid acting insulin, you're just going to store body fat. Yes, you're going to have some glycogen synthesis, but when you're in a high carbohydrate state, any dietary fat that you eat is likely just going to be stored as adipose and your body is going to prioritize those carbohydrates for fuel and for storage as glycogen. So any excess fats that are eaten during that window are going to be stored as fat and you're just going to get fat. So that a lot of times when I hear dudes say, I just got fat when I ate insulin or took insulin, not ate it, uh, is just from shitty diet, shitty protocols. They aren't doing enough volume to actually facilitate any sort of nutrient uptake during the workout. And yes, you do have increased glute for trensport from lifting weights and it doesn't seem to take a whole lot. And I know there's an argument to be made there that yes, you could probably just lift heavy and get sort of, sort of the stimulus, but I just have not seen it be the case. I have, what I have seen is that if you are going to take insulin, if you're going to eat a shit ton of carbs, you need to do some volume to facilitate that nutrient trensport effectively. That is another variable that a lot of guys don't consider when they're eating a high carbohydrates and taking insulin, that their trening needs to be dialed in to line up with that as well. Any of the dudes that you see that are taking insulin and getting bigger are almost always doing volume style trening with it. So in summary, let's think about this thing critically. Lantus basal insulin is designed to replace your background insulin. If you are metabolically functional and your body is operating normally, you have sufficient pancreatic function. You don't have insulin resistance. Your fasting glucose levels should be normal. If your fasting glucose aren't levels aren't normal, then there's some sort of underlying issue that's going on that needs to be evaluated and treated appropriately. If it's insulin resistance, you probably need to go in a diet phase. There are other tools that you can use to help with it. Things like berberine, metformin. Even now it seems that, um, you know, things like retitutide and GLP ones help with metabolic disorders through different pathways. Those are other tools to use, but really kind of the simple approach if you want to get your insulin sensitivity improved is to do a little more trening volume. It's to go on a diet, do some cardio, get some weight off and then your insulin sensitivity will be up and you're better going to be better able to use those carbohydrates. If you are going to put insulin into play, I know a lot of coaches like to put guys on Lantus and they just don't truly understand how it works. I think the reason why they tell guys to use Lantus is because bro wants to be on Slin and Lantus is not, you're not likely not going to go hypo and die from taking Lantus. It's pretty hard to go hypo taking Lantus. One unit of insulin per hour is not going to kill you in most situations. I'm not recommending that you go out and do that, but it's unlikely. It's probably the safer way to go and tiptoe your way into insulin use, but you're not going to get the big performance enhancement benefits from it. You're not going to have that increased driving of nutrients into the muscle cell during the workout. One to two units per hour is not going to be enough to really do much of anything. You need a rapid acting insulin to really force the issue if that's what you're looking for. And if you're chronically using Lantus, there's definitely something else going on there. There's something going on with your, with your insulin resistance and other issues. You guys just have this all twisted up and incorrect. Think of it this way. Lantus is sort of like the cruise control on your car. You set it and it stays steady. And if you want to pass another car, if you, this is probably a shitty metaphor, but if you want to pass another car, if you need a boost, you got to push the accelerator down and that's what the rapid insulin does. All right, folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. Hopefully that clears up some confusion on rapid versus long acting insulins. Why most dudes are just wasting their time taking that rapid insulin or that long acting insulin. And likely you're just creating more insulin resistance and making things worse if you are taking Lantus daily. If your blood sugar is high, fix the reason why your blood sugar is dry. Don't, hi, don't throw another drug at it to fix the problem. That is something that drives me absolutely nuts guys. When they start having side effects and issues and manifestations of health problems rather than adjusting the drugs that they're currently taking or fixing their diet or doing more cardio or losing some fat, they just throw more drugs at it and eventually that catches up with you. Your health declines and you're not going to be able to sustain things and that's not a sustainable approach. It's probably better to pull back, take a look at what the underlying problem is and fix that problem. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you. I'll see you next time. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.