 Minnesota Minnesota, Minnesota, Minnesota, Minnesota, Minnesota, Minnesota, Minnesota, This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Bodybuilding in a success mindset. Coach Colton and I talk through the mentality that's required to be a successful bodybuilder and how you can take that skill set that you learn from bodybuilding, tracking and measuring everything in detail, being disciplined, working hard and how you can apply that to your life in many areas, business, whatever it may be and have success at anything that you do. If you can be a good bodybuilder, you can be successful in anything. We're going to talk about that in just one second. I mean, I wouldn't be here talking to you right now if it wasn't for bodybuilding. So there is that side of it too. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I had a lot of people know, but I had like a really shitty childhood. And so like bodybuilding pulled me from that and I give it everything I got because of that. It's just, it saved me literally like you mentioned, but I, I know it's still like, if I invested as much time as I do into this, I would be whatever endeavor I decided to partake in. I know I'd be really good at that, but I'm a really good, decent bodybuilder at least. So, you know, who's to say that there's not some payback there, but yeah. Well, I think it teaches you how to run a business. I do know that. Yeah. I mean, it's the same. We've talked about it before, but it's the same sort of mindset that, that progressive improvement mindset. Yeah. You just got attention to detail, measuring things, yada, yada. I mean, all that stuff translates well to business. I don't know why more bodybuilders don't get into business. I know they'd be really good. Like, you know, I always say like data doesn't show you emotion. Data is not, it's not subjective. It's always right. It's always, it's never going to lie. And it's like, that relates to bodybuilding. That relates to fucking the business too. Like if you're, if you're doing the stuff and due diligence that you do in a bodybuilding for a business, like, Oh, you realize you could see all the numbers you need to, you could see the ins and outs and like how much you need to put in to get a certain amount of outs and like do the basic head math to get a resolution, like quickly, you know, it's like bodybuilders do that every day. We measure ourselves. We do, you know, caliper reading. Sometimes we do body, tape measurements. We do all sorts of crazy shit, progressive overload tracking or volume tracking, periodization. It's like, we just applied those concepts to a business. Holy fuck. I do apply them to a business. It's a couple of them. Yeah. Yeah. It works really well. I mean, you see a guy like Jay Cutler, he's, he's made it work. Oh my God. Yeah. I wish I, he is like, people don't realize how rich that man is. Like he's got so much dough, dude. It's, it's nuts. I've, I've heard North of a hundred million. I don't know if that's true or not, but he owns like, he owns like the weirdest businesses. Like you'd never know. He owns like a, a shaving business. Like he has like shaving supplies, men's grooming supplies. He has like a soap business. It's, it's like he owns all these little things. Cause he just, he kind of invests in it and just buys these businesses. It's like a, a venture capital is just like, well, I'm going to do this now. And it's, I think it's admirable, man. Like he basically got in the game, got to the top of the game and he's like, all right, see you later. Deuces. As soon as he started not being at the top, left at the perfect time. And then like just spent all the money to reaccumulate more money. It's brilliant. Had his, had his health and reputation intact and got out. Yeah. Whereas like dudes now they'll go until they're like 50 deflated and have zero money. Cause they're like, they spent it all, you know, it's fucking stupid. Well, there's this whole, uh, I don't, I can't remember which business book it was, but they talk about wealth being a state of your mind, not a state of your wallet. Yeah. It's one of the really, uh, how, um, how to think and grow rich. I think it was the book. Yeah. I, yeah, I know that book. Yeah. But it's a really old book. It's like a hundred years old. There, there was, um, fuck, I can't remember what book I read so many damn books, man. There was a book where a guy was, he was talking about like, like if you worked at McDonald's, um, it would only take you and you could do the math. Like if you're making minimum wage and you invested that minimum wage into an S and P fund, it would realistically only take you 25 years. Like if you want to be a millionaire, it would take you 25 million years to be a millionaire, essentially working at McDonald's full time, investing in an S and P fund. And I was like, damn, it's, that's really a fucking true. Like, it's just people misuse their money and like buy cars. They can't afford to then have like these $600 a month car payments and shit. And it's, it's wild to me, like how much you could realistically procure. If you didn't, like you said, have that mindset of wealth as opposed to just buying because we're consumers. Yeah. I mean that whole mindset, you sort of touched on it, but that the wealth is a state of mind, not of your wallet. I mean, you can look at it with people that have won the lottery. Yeah. You almost always end up going broke. Great. Yeah. Whereas you can take somebody who is a millionaire, have them lose everything. And they usually end up being a millionaire. It's just like, I mean, I had completely lost my ass in 2007 in the financial crisis. I had a mortgage business. I was involved in. I had close to a hundred people working for me. I had, I had, I had a, I was pretty successful in my early days, lost everything. And then just rebuilt myself back up from scratch. Uh, but it's a, it's a different mentality. I, I worked, uh, with a social media consultant last year and this guy had talked to me about training. And then this goes along with that mindset, changing my relationship with social, social media from being a consumer to a creator. And he was, he was just talking about being a creator and all things in your life. And when you're a creator, instead of a consumer, you usually end up with financial rewards because of it. Yeah. And that's dude, I preach that shit all the time when I'm with people and they're just like scrolling through Tik TOK. I'm like, take the same time you do to scroll through it, to post things. It just, just post things like, and it forces you to learn. It forces you to think in people following you because of it. And that's a revenue stream. And it's like, I'm, I'm this, I post and ghost, like people comment on my posts or they DM me. I rarely see it because I just post. And then I do work for the rest of the day. And that's, that's my prerogative. I think that's, it's so true because people, one of the big things I'll do with the client is if they're like, why don't I have time to eat six meals a day or whatever the fucking case might be. I'm like, what's your screen time on your phone? Like, let's look at there first. And it's, you know, it's like 10 fucking hours. It's like, dude, you have plenty of time. You're just misusing your time. Yeah. I always laugh when people say they don't have time. I'm like, I'm running, I'm literally running multiple businesses. I am a single parent. I have two kids. I'm in the gym six days a week. And it's still five times to play video games and watch Netflix. Yeah. It's, it's funny, man. It's like the, the difference between, you know, Steve jobs or, or whoever you want to point out, right? Any of the millionaires in the past, Warren Buffett, they don't have any more time than you or I, they still have 24 hours each and every day. They just spend their time doing things that you are doing. Don't not doing things that you are doing. You know, like they decided that's not worth my time. So they stopped doing that thing and they decided that, instead of that, I'm going to spend my time doing this. Or they hired someone to do the thing for them and they do the other high value thing. It's like, yeah, that, that is a huge, huge lesson I have learned, um, over the years is how valuable, time is. It is the most valuable asset that you have. Yeah. And how you spend it is, is critically important. Yeah. And it's like, especially do the modern era is just kids that are getting stuck into these like loopholes of tick tock scrolling and, and, and YouTube wandering. It's, it's sad because those times can be spent just like, just open a business bank account, start an LLC and get a payment processor and go out there and like, do something right. Like learn just doing it. Right. And you could use the same, like six hours of fucking week and do that. I know coaches in the industry who coach like general population people who maybe work eight hours a week on the business, but you know, gross, like 40 K a month, like doing very minimal work. And it's just like, man, if you literally just take the most like tiny infinitesimal amount of your time out of the comforts that you have, applying them to something that's a little discomfortable, but in the long runs, more than investment is just so worth it. Like there's almost no angle in which you could point out, well, I want to have fun. Well, I bet you'd have more fun on a fucking jet ski in Miami, like chilling, you know, or whatever the case might be. It's, it's just the stupidest thing. People will try to justify like being fat, for example. Well, I like food and I want to have fun by eating food. It's like, you're gonna have fun for 10 years before you have, you know, coronary artery issues. And it's just like, whatever. I don't know. I mean, short-term fulfillment never leads to long-term success. It just doesn't. No, there's, there's that. That's never, never the case. It's just been my experience. It's never the case. I don't know if you've followed Jocko Wilnick at all. Yeah. I love the dude. Yeah. I mean, I, his whole discipline equals freedom thing. I mean, that's, that's, that's so true. The more disciplined and structured you are with your life, actually the more freedom you have to do things. Like I literally could just say, screw working tomorrow if I wanted to. Yeah. I mean, how many people have that liberty to do that? Right. Right. Not that I would, it's not how I'm built. I enjoy working and enjoy progressing at things, but I, I have that, that freedom. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, I can go on my calendar. I was talking to, I was at a friend's birthday party the other night and I was talking to their friends at the table, asking what they do. And they worked normal jobs, if you would like nine to five type things. And I just, for a moment, I kind of forgot because all my friends own their own businesses or do something of the nature of what we're doing. And I realized for a second, how terrifying that thought is to me, like sticking myself into like a structured schedule that isn't mine. And I don't have capacity to either grow or shrink. Like I can, I have no control over my trajectory, essentially. Like that's a scary thought. And there's, it's true. Like you can do your own thing and make a fuck ton of money, but you have to be really disciplined. And there's going to be seasons where you're working more than a nine to five, whatever work, but it's your work. And it's like, you choose the rate and strength and what you put into it. As opposed to just like, I just know what that feeling is. Like going to a nine to five, just being like, got to clock in and just fucking do the busy work. You know, it's not passionate. It's not fun. It's, it's not, I just, it like scared me. The thought genuinely scared me. I have not done that since I was in college. I have not done a nine to five since then. I've pretty much have done entrepreneurial things ever since, ever since college. And there's been some lean times. There's been some. Yeah. Believe me. Out of disparity creates, you know, prosperity, right? Like you, you learn more about yourself and how to leverage more things. Once you're like, I left the military. It completely scared me the fuck away from any job with a structure that isn't my own. And I was making a fuck ton of money to making zero dollars, like zero fucking dollars. And that was scary as shit. But like that drove me to where I'm at now, which is like in a way better position. Yeah. I mean, you have to take risk if you want reward. I mean, this is how it goes. I mean, for me, the ultimate fear, like you said, is being strapped to that desk from nine to five with no hope of, of any, you know, just making enough just to get by. Right. Right. And hoping I get my annual 3% raise. Yeah. Exactly. Just to match inflation. Not really. Yeah. Or not even match inflation. Yeah. Yeah. It's scary. And having 40 hours of my week, plus a commute, just vaporize that have going to nothing. Right. Right. The only nice part about it, the only argument I can support it with is the fact you get a shut off when you leave. Like there's. Yeah. On your phone or whatever, but it's, I still don't choose that. No, I don't choose that. I mean, whatever path brings you fulfillment, I guess is what ultimately what matters. But that, that to me, that's a nightmare. That's like being in prison. Yeah. That's literally, that's what I thought. Like, as soon as I left that dinner, I was like, fuck man, that, that would suck. Like that. That's literally like an imprisonment. It's like a, I just think about like the bell ringing in school and then you have to go to the next class. And it's just like, that's the cycle you live in. It's yeah, dude, I just want to do it and control. And you know, whatever is it's a human kind of concept. That's whether you have it or not, and actually is hard to say, but I'd rather have an, at least perception of my control than none at all. And I don't like people telling me what to do. My, my dad told me this a long time ago. He was like, there's only one boss I like. And I'm like, who's that? And he goes, if I'm paying someone for their advice, I'll listen to whatever the fuck they say, or I'm listening to myself. Like that's, that's what it fucking works, you know? All right, folks, hopefully you found that inspirational. Go out there, kick some ass, work hard. Don't give up. Keep grinding. Take your skills from bodybuilding and use it in other areas of your life and be successful. I want to give a quick shout out to my sponsor, First Detachment Nutrition, quality supplements formulated by the man himself, Justin Harris. If you want to support me, support them. Discount code is AB10. Link to their products is in the video description below. Thank you for watching guys. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.