 liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, liemis, li development in a certain body part. This is probably the most common training question that I get asked is, hey bro, how do I bring up my biceps? Hey bro, how do I bring up my back? And I'm going to tell you my thoughts on it and how you fix these problems in just one second. All right, so let's unpack all of this. Why do you have a weak body part? So first off, is the body part actually weak or is it just a weird shape that's not conducive to bodybuilding? A shape that may not be aesthetically pleasing. So let's think about the genetic factor here. High calves would be a perfect example. The guys that have the small, really high calves, they have the short muscle belly. And we used to call that back in the day, the sprinter's calf. These are guys that can jump through the roof that are usually fast and they have a high calf muscle. I don't understand the biomechanics behind it. I am not a person that is well-versed in biomechanics, but I would suspect that it has something to do with how the Achilles attaches to the ankle or to the foot. And then how high up the calf is that it probably has more leverage and allows that person with the high calf insertion to have more power when it comes to sprinting and jumping. Now, while that's good for a sport like basketball or being a NFL player where you have to be quick, it's probably not so great for bodybuilding. It's not aesthetically pleasing. On the flip side, we have the dude that has what I call the fat man calves. That would be me. I never trained my calves with any sort of effort in my life. And I have 22, 23 inch calves. They're just gigantic. They're long. They're big, round and full. And I call them the fat man calves because it seems like everybody that was a fat kid has the big giant calves like I do. I was a fat kid. Then I got skinny later on. That's a story for another day. But muscle shape is something that you can't change. Like I have really long bicep heads. My biceps, I have these long flat biceps. I have big arms, but I will never have a bicep peak like Arnold Schwarzenegger did. He has a shorter bicep head and that allows for the big, tall peak. Dorian Yates, on the other hand, had a really long biceps and he did not have the big, tall peak, but he had plenty, his arms were plenty big. Those are things that you cannot change. Those are just what you were given from the gods at birth and you have to work with those. Now, with that said, you can make any muscle in your body bigger with training. You can't change the fundamental shape of it the way that it was gifted to you from the heavens. That is something that's there with you for life, but you can make that muscle bigger. And we do see guys with deficient body parts with body parts that are lagging. Now, there is this obsession with young guys. It's usually guys that are just starting with lifting. They want to focus on and prioritize certain body parts like, hey, my arms are small. I want my arms to be bigger. Or, hey, my shoulders are small. I want my shoulders to be bigger. When you're 170 pounds, 180 pounds, you don't have any lagging body parts. Your entire body is your lagging body part. Now, that's not to say that you shouldn't focus on good form and learn how to train correctly. But when I worked with Dante Trudell back in the day, he used to always say that a guy that's 240 pounds is going to have bigger biceps than a dude that's 180 pounds. That's just the way it is. So, if you progress from 180 up to 240 or 220, everything's going to be bigger. Your back's going to be bigger. Your calves are going to be bigger. Your legs are going to be bigger. Now, with that said, you still have to have intelligent training. We're going to talk about that in just one second. But focus on getting bigger when you're at the beginner stage. You know, get your form down. That is important. Getting bigger is the ultimate way to bring up a lagging body part, and that means eating more food. That means getting your supplementation straightened out. That means training correctly. So, first and foremost, don't worry about a lagging body part when you are a beginner bodybuilder. Learn how to train correctly, focus on getting bigger, and everything will improve. With that said, there are dudes that don't know how to train certain body parts, and those body parts lag behind. Almost every time I see a deficient body part on a trainer, there's something wrong with how they're training that muscle. Their form sucks. They're using way too much weight. They're not training it properly, and they're not getting the stimulus that they need for hypertrophy. It 100% guaranteed that that is what's going on a lot of times when somebody has a lagging body part. The prime example I'm going to give you is back. Almost nobody in a gym has big, impressive backs. I very rarely see people with big, impressive backs, and I have found in training people over the years that back is one of the hardest muscle groups to get a mind-muscle connection with to learn how to activate properly. Now, some of this is ego. Some of this is just it's a difficult muscle to activate. It's not one that we use every day in our life. It takes some work to learn how to activate them and to feel them, and I'll give you the example. Almost every time I see some dude doing barbell rows or dumbbell rows in the gym, dumbbell rows would be a perfect example. All I see them doing is 120-pound bicep curls. They're not actually activating their lats at all. I love to watch people train in the gym. I love to look at them and see if I actually see the muscle that they're targeting working and activating while they're lifting. You can look. You can take your time the next time you're in the gym and watch people lift and see if the muscle that they're actually trying to target is actually contracting fully. And you'll see it all the time on backs, more specifically with rowing exercises where it's just their arms moving. They're heaving the weight around. They're putting all the load on connective tissue in their joints, and they're not putting any load or stimulus on their actual lats. It's very little, very minimal. You'll see that it's not actually working at all. And to me, there is a direct one-to-one correlation between activating a muscle and having hypertrophy. You need to hit that muscle with the proper stimulus to cause an adaptation to stimulate hypertrophy. If you're not getting a full contraction, if you're not placing load on that muscle, it is not going to grow. And most people in the gym, I see ego lift. They ego lift. They don't train properly to stimulate muscle growth. Bicep curls would be another example of this, of ones where guys train like idiots. I see it all the time. I recently, I rolled up to the dumbbell rack to do my curls with my 35 or maybe 40 pound dumbbells. I don't remember what it was. And some kid goes up next to me and grabs the 55s and is slinging them around. I have 20 inch arms. I'm 275 pounds. He's 175 pounds with 14 inch arms. Why is he curling more than me? It's a valley question. And I just saw him swinging the weights around and not actually placing any load on the muscle that he was trying to target for hypertrophy. So if we take a step back and think about it, and this drives me nuts with gym bros. Most gym bros say they want to get bigger, but they don't train with the type of spasticity needed to produce hypertrophy. Your training should be geared towards hypertrophy. If you want to be a power lifter, go be a power lifter. If you want to be a crossfitter, go be a crossfitter. And this is a distinction that a lot of people don't think about when you're a power lifter or when you're a crossfitter, your goal is to get the weight from point A to point B in the most efficient way possible. You don't care about placing load on the muscle. You're not worried about getting a pump. You're not worried about any of that stuff. You're just trying to move the weight from point A to point B and doing it the most efficient way possible, which means maximum leverage, probably placing the least amount of load on the muscle that you're trying to target for hypertrophy. And really, when you think about it for hypertrophy purposes, all you're doing when you're doing that is placing more load on joint and connective tissue and using technique to get the weight from point A to point B. I'm not saying that that is wrong. If your goal is to be strong, if your goal is to move around the most weight as possible, fine, do that. But if your goal is hypertrophy, that is not the most efficient way to stimulate hypertrophy. For hypertrophy, for bodybuilding purposes, the most efficient way to produce hypertrophy is to provide an adequate stimulus on the muscle, placing load on the target muscle that we're trying to grow in the least efficient way possible. We want to use the least amount of weight and place the most amount of load on the muscle that we possibly can. So really, you know, it's not to say that you don't progress in bodybuilding. It's not to say that you're not beating the logbook, but you're doing it within the constraints of good form and placing load on the muscle that you're trying to stimulate hypertrophy on. Now, a good cue for this is if you can't feel a pump in the muscle, if you don't feel the muscle you're working, you're not stimulating it more than likely. Now, pumps aren't always, you know, you know, a surefire way to know that you're stimulating a muscle, but it is a good cue to give you the right information to know that you're placing the load on the muscle. You should feel a good hard contraction when you're doing a curl. It shouldn't be, doing this number, you're really not getting any load on the muscle. For bodybuilding, we want to place the most amount of load that we possibly can on the muscle while stimulating hypertrophy and progressing that load within the constraints of good form for hypertrophy. I don't know why guys don't think about this. You know, so if you, here's a perfect example. Go into any gym and you'll see dudes deadlifting crazy amounts of weight, six, 700 pounds. Every gym now has guys, you know, deadlifting six or seven wheels, but they aren't that big. A lot of them aren't that big. Some guys are big. So you clearly don't have to be big to be strong. You know, so, you know, strong guys are not always big, but big guys can be strong. So there's a delineation between the two. So lift like a bodybuilder. If you're not growing a muscle, first and foremost, take a look at your form and see if that form is correct. And I know a lot of newbies, here's what they want to do. They think the answer is throwing more volume at a muscle that they're, that's not growing. That doesn't fix the underlying problem. If your form sucks, if your form sucks and you're not providing the proper stimulus to get growth now, why do you think doing more of that is going to make the muscle grow? You're just doing more of the same shitty thing that you were doing before that wasn't working anyway. So fix your form first, eat more food, you know, grow your whole body, make sure your form is correct, progress within the constraints of that, of that good form. And, you know, you will have hypertrophy. Any muscle can grow. Now you can't change, once again, you can't change the underlying genetics that God gifted you with. You can't make a muscle shaped differently than what it is shaped, but you can grow that muscle and make it look bigger. You can definitely make that muscle look bigger. And sometimes you can create the illusion of fixing things. Like I'll see guys that don't have a lot of shoulder width, but they put a lot of work into growing their shoulders and their back and they make themselves look wider. You see it all the time with men's physique guys. They train specifically for width and they end up getting that very wide look. They don't have big legs. They don't focus on that. So you can bring up certain body parts to create an illusion of width or whatever it is that you're trying to achieve. Now you can't fix a body part that, you know, you can't fix a high calf. You can't fix a bicep that doesn't have a peak to a certain degree. So, so guys think about this logically. We'll, we'll back up and do it again. Form and feeling the muscle and activating the muscle first and foremost, if you want to grow weak and deficient body parts, if you have a body part that's lagging behind, it's probably your form that's broken. All right, dudes, let me know what you think in the comments section below. I want to give a shout out to my sponsor first detachment nutrition. They helped me pay for this channel. And if you want to support me, support them, go over to firstdetachment.com and pick up some of their awesome supplements formulated by the man himself, Justin Harrison, use my discount code AB10 for 10% off for coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you.