WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Alright folks, Big Paul here today and I have the one and only Broderick Chavez on my podcast. I've been bothering Broderick for a while to try to get him on to do interviews. I know Broderick is not a fan of social media or doing interviews but I have been a fan of Broderick for a long time and I've listened to his work and bought all of his sticky notes and was a member of his site for quite a while. Shit, going back seven, eight years I think. I don't know. I don't recall. But if you don't give Broderick a follow, Broderick has a lot of great information. He is a lovable grump. I enjoy Broderick's content and he's a very sharp guy, a biologist, and has a lot of really interesting and useful information. I think you're going to like this interview. We touch on everything from the history of how PEDs became illegal in the United States, the ties to baseball and the political stuff behind that. We talk about the history of testosterone and PEDs, how they were developed. And we also go into performance enhancement in other sports and trening, the effectiveness of trening versus PEDs in diet. It's a very interesting conversation. I think you're going to enjoy it. We're going to dig into all of it in just one second. All right, folks. Big Paul here today with the one and only Broderick Chavez. What's going on, man? Nice sunny morning. Happy to be here. So tell me what's going on with the coffee lately, man. I always enjoy your talks on coffee. What's good in the coffee world? Wow. Holy hell. I didn't expect you to start there. Actually, there's fucking vast doings in the coffee world. But the short answer is, much like trening and drugs, the sort of original and simple is still fucking fantastic. I just finished the last sip of, I think what the lingo would be my daily driver, which is a roaster out of Chicago, Intelligentsia. This was Illumination Blend. I'm not sure it's their very best coffee, but I'm a sucker for metaphor. And so first thing in the morning, Illumination Blend. It just seems to work. And I love it. But just to give you an idea of how ridiculous I am with coffee. I literally read botanical journals and genetics journals, and there's lots going on with coffee. There's actually new species of coffee being discovered and a couple being bred. If you haven't read, there's a lot of hubbub about decaf coffee and actually potentially beinGHarmful. The way it's decaffeinated, it could actually be causing some health issues. And so there's a real strong push to breed the actual caffeine out of coffee. And there's some progress. It's interesting. So yeah, coffee is exciting. It's probably the only other thing than sports pharmacopoeia that interests me. So I do keep abreast. Yeah, I enjoy your coffee talks. If you had to pick one right now, what's the top of your list? To find a question, like one roaster or like one product? One roaster. One roaster. God, it depends on the day you ask because I have, in North America, I have two favorite roasters that are on opposite sides of the country. In Las Vegas, Vesta Coffee. Probably four out of seven days. I tell you they're my absolute favorite. Go there. Never change. The other three days, I'd probably say Kookaburra from St. Augustine, Florida. I've actually had the Kookaburra before. Kookaburra's amazing. It's really good. Yeah, we have friends in St. Augustine. It's a neat little town. It's a corny thing for somebody like me to say, but just a cute little location. Just kind of right in the mix. The coffee is magnificent. And you can always tell a good coffee shop by the caliber of the person serving it. And you can ask them questions. What are these beans? Where were they roasted? When were they roasted? They know. And that's the fucking tell. Yeah, I've actually been there. It's a neat place. Yeah, I've actually been there. It's a neat place. I want to continue the conversation we started before it came on. And this has always been something I've kind of talked about and usually stirs up some controversy, but how trening is probably the least important thing out of the variables that we consider when we are in body building or hypertrophy, muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, getting bigger. And I've always found that PEDs and food to be probably the top of the pyramid when it comes to hypertrophy. Yeah, I would 100% agree with that. I would put a couple caveats into that. I, when you say, you know, the least important. And we didn't even speak on this a little bit off camera. I don't necessarily mean that as to say like, you don't need to do it. I think trening is immensely relevant. But the specific variety or all of this nonsensical yammering about optimal, what's optimal? I don't think the people talking about that really understand the width of birth of what that might mean. I think the thus quote, big secret to trening is that it is in and of itself coherent. That if you're going to tren this hard, then it has to be below a certain volume threshold. If you're going to tren this easy, it has to be above a certain volume threshold. Those sorts of things. I think there's a certain equation that needs to be met. But beyond that, like this idea that like there's a correct way to tren, I literally defy that on every level. One, I'm a biologist. Two, I have no advanced degrees, but my undergraduate degree is in biology. But I spent an awful lot of time around the evolutionary biology graduate students and really absorbed that. The secret to the survival of our race has been our width and birth adaptability. We can exist in almost any climate, we can exist on almost any diet, and we can respond to almost any trening stimulus. Again, I don't think that there's a secret way to tren. If I had to personally say what's the best way to tren, I would more give you a psychological interview than a physiological interview. Because I think that commitment and buy-in to the style of trening is really the thing that gets you over. If that makes any sense. Yeah, it makes sense. What was revelatory to me, I always, when I was younger, tended to gravitate towards the Arthur Jones style of trening. That's how I trened when I was younger. Heavy, progressive overload, get in, get it out, get the job done. And then as I got older, I couldn't sustain that because I kept gettinGHurt. Psychologically, I got married to that style of trening. I had to completely blow it up and go to more of a higher volume, lower intensity, still progressing. I started to progress again. Ultimately, it came to my belief that it's really just about providing stimulus and the rest of the stuff just did the work. Yeah. And it's funny to me how few people know the history. And yes, there's marketing and yes, there's hyperbole in the middle, but go all the way back to 1972. Former Mr. Olympia at the time, Sergio Oliva, was just absolutely infamous for absurdly voluminous workouts. To the point where there were stories of him spending six and eight hours at the gym and he viewed it as his job. Just trened all goddamn day long. and then went on the payroll for Arthur Jones, worked for Nautilus, trened theoretically in Nautilus, you know, high intensity fashion. So he went from trening six hours a day to perhaps an hour a week and was as good or better than he ever was. And then retired and then made a comeback in 84 and trened volumous as can be. And each time presented an Olympia caliber physique. Now it's only one person, but it's pretty indicative of what I've experienced all of my career and all of my life. If you apply a coherent, manageable system, hard, take drugs, eat food, you look like you look. Yeah, that's been my experience too. And I ultimately what I've kind of found is like you said, the psychology of it, you have to marry yourself to something that you enjoy. It keeps you motivated and gets you in the gym. It also needs to be sustainable too if you're getting beat up and hurt. But even that is a kind of a unique thing because there are people, well, again, seemingly obviously they're just tough. They just seem to be very resistant to some of the negatives. You know, you can point to Ronnie Coleman in his infirmity, but keep in mind, Ronnie Coleman trened like an absolute demon way into his forties. Most people can't do that, but you can't tell him he was wrong. He was the best in the fucking world. Yep. Go over to England, look at guys like JP, like no one, no one, no one can tren like that. But him and it fucking obviously works. He might be the most muscular human being to ever walk the goddamn planet. Yeah, he's a big dude. Yeah, so again, it's, yes, there must be serendipitous synchronicities. Like you have to want to tren that way. You have to be able to survive trening that way. Yeah, of course. And many people like yourself and even myself have to make compromises to get in the right place. But this idea that there is some secret correct way to optimize, like that's just not a thing. It's just not a thing. And ultimately, I think a lot of this is, IMean, I want to get your opinion. You're the biologist, but a lot of it's just predetermined by your genetics. Of course, but also, and interestingly, even the subject of genetics is evolving, bad pun, but I really didn't mean that. But yeah, even the subjects of genetics is evolving at a pretty rapid pace lately. There are genetics as in the absolute blueprint you're born with. But now we've come to realize that epigenetics and environmental influences, even at early development, can influence the outcome. So yes, it's kind of lumped in the heading of genetics, but if you take two identical twins, raise one at the equator and one at the North Pole, they will actually have slightly different responses through their life to environmental stimuli simply because minor mechanisms adjust to the local environment. I've noticed this too, and this is kind of a controversial take, but what I've seen is the guys that tend to get to the top of the bodybuilding pro stage are the guys that started out with the PEDs at a very young age. Yep, absolutely. Yeah, and again, you can take your cues from the Eastern Europeans who were infinitely smarter and further ahead of us, at least in the beginning. Now, probably not a coincidence that that's where those things started. So they had a head start in many ways, not just in the application, but also in the research and development aspect. But there's not a lot of controversy around the concept of muscle memory. I think even non-drug using people are pretty comfortable with the idea that there's something that once you accrue an amount of muscle, it's easier to return to that the second time if you de-drain for some reason. And there's a slew of complicated biological reasons. Myself, Mike Gizertel, 10 other people could prattle on about nuclei and myonuclear donation and satellite cells. It's not important. The important part is it's pretty well acknowledged. That's a real thing. It's also pretty well acknowledged that drugs fucking work. So we've got a situation where if you build muscle, it's easier to return to that state. And we know fucking well, drugs build muscle. So weirdly, were you to combine those two gears into a cog, you build the fucking muscle early, and then it's always easier to get back to that stage for the rest of your fucking career. So who knew? Yeah, it's fascinating because I started trening when I was 16 and started dabbling in PEDs long after. And then I hit my early 30s and life got ahold of me, career, business, kids, shit. And I took 10 years off from the gym, turned into mashed potatoes. And within a couple of years of returning in my 40s, I was pretty much back, even exceeding where I was at in my 20s. It was wild how quick it came back. Yeah, again, between just observational anecdotal evidence and then the actual science that we know, or at least we're, again, we know is really a bad term. That's not really how science works. That we're very confident in. People love to talk about science in terms of facts. And the reality is there aren't an awful lot of facts in science. There's just a lot of highly repeatable, highly supportable ideas. Yeah, and that seems to be the case in biology and I'm a computer scientist by background, but computer science is a little more absolute. But- Well, yeah, it's a bit more mechanistic, but even then, computer science starts to slide laterally into programming, networking, and even to this new world of AI. And it's a dynamic thing that we know that we, we being not me, but like we as a species or a race, like we know the constituents, but we don't necessarily know the whole. Yeah, I want to talk a little bit about the, go down the PED path. IMean, that's the stuff that everybody loves. And honestly, that's kind of where I found you years ago. I started listening to your Q and A's, your Sunday morning coffee talks. And- And I appreciate that, by the way, thank you. Yeah, I've listened to you. You pop up on Instagram for years and I've listened to it and I've always enjoyed your thoughts on stuff. But what are, just basics, if you wanted to put it that way, where somebody would start off. Let's talk about the basics of PEDs for hypertrophy and performance enhancement. Wow. Your core fundamentals. Yeah, and that's, and I never know where to begin that conversation. It always reminds me of that Richard Feynman interview where he was actually, and I'm not saying that I am, but he was frustrated with the interviewer. I think it was like 60 minutes or something. And he basically spenT4 or five minutes just chastising the interviewer for asking a lot of questions. I love Feynman. Yeah, I love Feynman. And he was frustrated with the interviewer. For asking a why question. And it was, he's like, his ultimate premise was to ask a why question, we have to know where to start. At what level do we agree? And then we can start why-ing from there. But like a little kid knows nothing. So no matter what you tell him, like, why is the sky blue? Oh, well, it's oxygen. Well, why? Well, because trees make it. Well, why? Well, fucking photosynthesis. Well, why? Oh, fuck, I don't know. And then you just, you wind up losing your shit and running off. So when you say the fundamentals, IMean, how fundamental do we need to be? Do we need to talk about like, the ancient Greeks understood that there was something about the male anatomy that generated maleness and that that was pursued for literally a thousand years. Until it was isolated, even before it was named and understood. And that ultimately was deemed to be testosterone. That was then manufactured in the lab in the early, late 20s, early 30s, depending on who you ask. The patent for that was I think 1933. The patent for the actual methodology of making synthetic testosterone. And then since then, the goal of PEDs being steroids. by the way, PEDs are basically all drugs. You can find a performance enhancement benefit on almost any drug under the right application. So momentarily, I'm narrowing it to just steroids. But the goal of steroid science from that moment of, we now have testosterone in a bottle. And boys and girls, by the way, that was fucking pre-World War II. This idea that like steroids are new, fucking no, fucking no, okay? The patent for manufacturing testosterone was in the 30s. We have it, we don't know what the fuck it is. That was the late 1800s, okay? So anyway, ever since then, the goal has been to slowly bifurcate the actions of testosterone. The masculinizing and the muscularizing, if you will, into different ratios, if you will, to varying successes, some very poor and some very good. And by the way, the goal wasn't exclusively muscular. People have this deluded belief that like steroids were invented for bodybuilding. No, they were invented for medicine. And there are medical reasons why you would want a highly masculinizing steroid. For instance, a developmental defect in a child that's not masculinizing, you would fucking want that. Now, female, you absolutely would not want that. So there was reason to pursue both sides of that tree. So IMean, like that's the hyper basics is testosterone was kind of identified as the template that made men men and was responsible for the masculinizing and the muscularizing. And then all steroid science from there was trying to bifurcate those actions and find applications for them. Is that? Yeah, no, that's excellent. So we know that all PEDs are, IMean, all steroids are derivatives of testosterone, correct? That would have been correct up until the early 90s. When you get into like the Balco era, and for instance, like the clear, technically that was actually a progestin. So there's actually a very, very narrow, but weird little off-ramp that makes that statement not entirely true. But when you talk about the ones everyone knows about, all of your, you know, pregnenbolimesterone, nandrolone, tredbolone, ment, THB. Yes, they're all, and when you say derivative, that's not really fair, but they're all fundamentally the four-ringed structure that testosterone started as, yes. Yeah, it's interesting, it doesn't seem, and I don't know what's going on behind the scenes in the world of research, but it seems like pretty much all that ceased in the 70s for the most part. Yes, again, and this is not meant to be sexist in the slightest. I am the furthest thing from sexist. I'm, you know, I'm married, I have three daughters, and I actually prefer to work with female athletes over male athletes. This is not a sexist remark in the slightest, but I have often said that when the dollar input moved from anabolic steroids to birth control-related steroids, had that not happened, and it happened for a good reason, and I'm not complaining, I'm simply saying, had that not happened, and the amount of money that went into birth control stayed in anabolic steroids, we would have fantastically effective, absurdly safe steroids. Yeah, it's kind of interesting to think about that because the stuff that we're using is 50-year-old-plus technology at this point, science. Primobolan, Strenabol, and comically Trenbolone, probably, probably, reverse order, probably Primobolan, Trenbolone, and then Strenabol would be, Strenabol being, I think, probably the last commercial steroid to be put on the market. That might've been like 1980. So yeah, we're talking about very, very old products. Yeah, I have a friend of mine who works in pharmaceutical research. There does seem to be a rekindling of interest in researching these things from what I understand. And it's a comedy, and if IMay be a little, somewhere between sarcastic and political, one of, if not the fundamental figure that really oppressed steroids was singularly the demented, floppy dick imbecile known as Joe Biden. He's the guy who stood in Congress and wagged his finger at professional fucking baseball players and said that I was pretty good at baseball and I'm pretty sure I would've played on the team if there weren't for people taking steroids. Really, really fucking Joe? And he personally put an enormous amount of leverage political leverage in play to demonize steroids because he was a shit athlete and he could not fucking cheerleader. And he got stuck with that ugly goat-faced wife of his. And that's a huge amount of why the world is the way it is. So now that he's a million years old and needs TRT, all of a sudden it's not quite as bad. So I find that tragic. Yeah, it's interesting that baseball was the, I remember that whole, we're essentially the same age, but I remember that whole witch hunt with baseball. It was crazy. Yeah, and even that wasn't really the true story. I was very much right in the mix of that. I don't wanna make more of it than it needs to be, but I was very much right in the mix of that. I just missed, as in decline, but IMean, I just started actually working with and for Belco. So I was right fucking there. The reality is, and this is almost always the reality with steroids, including the current steroid drought, it's always collateral damage. The reality is the problem in baseball was amphetamines, but they really didn't wanna say that word out loud. That's wild. That's why they pursued steroids so hard, was it was a way to implement drug management and get rid of amphetamines because they knew full well, someone was gonna fucking die. Wow, that's wild, I didn't know that. Yes, yes, that is 100% the case. And back in the early 80s with the WWF, now E, it was the same thing. They didn't give a shit about steroids. It was opioids. They had such an opioid problem because the job was just so fuckinGHard and damaging that again, they were convinced someone was gonna die. They didn't want somebody dying on fucking television. And so they went on this witch hunt and steroids were a much easier, more obvious, more PR acceptable demon. And ultimately the guys probably would have been safer if they had used some stuff rather than going down the opioid route. Yeah, 100%, but nonetheless, that's a very separate and very weird conversation, but steroids are almost always the collateral damage and rarely the actual target of the hire. I work with a handful of professional athletes. I do some nutrition for guys, but it's always wild to me, like I see professional football and I've worked with some guys in that arena that how they'll throw all sorts of painkillers and crazy stuff at those guys. And then the freak out if the guys are using a little bit of GH and testosterone. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah, that is very, very strenge. Somehow that Vicodin is more clinically relevant than two to four to six, I use a pharma grade GH. Like that doesn't make a drop of sense to me, but hey. The GH could help with recovery and keeping these guys healthier and probably their long-term health versus covering up things with painkillers. Yeah, 100%. Getting these guys out, it's wild, wild to me. That's been my argument really since GH started. Momentarily take bodybuilding as a separate thing because in all reality, I really think bodybuilding is very much a separate thing. But in sports, consider this. And again, I really press people to go behind me and verify the things I say. Do some of your own research. Don't just listen to me like a talkinGHead. But you can go to, IMean, Wikipedia is the bastion of information, but it's got some basic timeline stuff, right? You can literally look up the timeline of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, like when there was none. And then when it was. extracted from cadavers, and then the first generation of synthetic, and then the second generation of synthetic, and then truly recombinant growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And you can literally track when it entered the market and in what volumes. And the short answer is in volume, recombinant growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, very, very early 1990s, like 1990, 92, right in there. If you then plot the age of professional athletes, it literally goes like that. In the 1980s, there were zero 40-year-old professional athletes. I'm beinGHyperbolic. There was probably a handful, but they were a fucking punter here and a whatever, an ice curler there. But in general, there were zero 40-year-old athletes. In today's world, every famous athlete you can think of is 40. Coincidence? Maybe. Maybe they all just suddenly learned to tren really orthopedically safe. Maybe helmet technology got so good. But maybe they were taken to fucking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Maybe it's that. Maybe. IMean, you can clearly see it in bodybuilding. There were no competent masters bodybuilding competitors. Correct. And now, IMean, I just. I actually got cold blooded. I don't mean to be a dick, but I will call bullshit because I know the man, and I have a huge respect for him. Save Albert Beckles. Albert Beckles, yeah. I don't know how or why, but Albert is a fucking immortal. And his physique was top fucking notch. Way into infirmity. He won't approach you, I think, at 60 years old, if I remember right. Yeah, yeah, he was. And the craziest thing, you would just, I think you would just assume that somebody with that level of, quote, longevity, trened very delicate and dainty, and he was, quote, safe. He did not. We're talking 150-pound flat dumbbell presses. Like, he was a bad man every minute of every day for his whole career. And I have nothing but respect for that. He's still alive, isn't he? I believe so. I think he's in his 90s. Yeah, he's in his 90s. Some people are just built different. They're anomalies. There's just anomalies, and he's one. Like, I'm not, yeah, I'm not claiming any secret inside knowledge. I just, I know, because I was there, and he was a badass man. Yeah, it was wild, though. Like, I just got back from Masters Nationals. I had a bunch of guys competing, but just seeing, like, I've been going to bodybuilding shows for 30 years, and just the level of increase in guys over 40 that are, I competed in the 50s last year, and the competition was stiff. Yes. That didn't exist before growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And the weird part, if you, IMean, being as old as I am, you remember back in the 80s, teen competitors were so tough. And that's seemingly gone. Well, IMean, that could be a societal thing, too. Probably, probably. But yeah, again, very likely, but it's just very interestinGHow that has split. IMean, you go back to like 1980, you know, 88, 86, 88, like, the teen nationals was like watching a fucking pro show. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it was. There's also, IMean, that's a whole other separate thing. Rabbit hole, you could go down, but the decline in testosterone levels in young men as well. Yeah, there's that. But IMean, it's not as if drugs weren't in play then and there. So I honestly don't necessarily think it's that. I think it's more society. I do, I agree. I actually think it might also be information overload. Like, again, being my age, you probably remember maybe not a time before the internet, but a time before the flood of just nonsense and the volume of nonsense. You know, originally the internet was a research tool, not just anyone spouting your opinion. And finding legitimate information was challenging and usually required travel and actual dialogue. You had to actually go somewhere and talk to somebody or pick up a telephone and hope they did. And so I think the, I don't wanna say thEQuality, but I would certainly say the clarity of information was much more, was much superior. Yeah, and you had to, it was interesting. I remember starting in the gym in the late eighties, early nineties, you had to earn your way. Yes. Yes, like it wasn't- There was definitely gatekeeping. Yeah. It wasn't just Amazon world of, you just get a couple of Bitcoin and you can just have drugs sent to your home. Like that absolutely did not happen. You had to find the person with the drugs, ingratiate yourself, show that you trened hard enough to have a reason for fucking drugs. It was a whole, whole different thing. It wasn't even just the drugs too, it was the information. The guys didn't share information until they knew they could trust you and they saw that you were working. Agreed. I remember I started off, I think, I don't know, 16 at a pretty, pretty hardcore power lifting gym. And the guys were brutal. IMean, they were brutal. When you got in there, there was definitely a period of hazing and you had to earn your way in and you get slapped in the back of the head if you did something wrong. And then once you proved that you could hang and were there for a while, then they would start slowly opening the gate up a little bit and letting you know some stuff. Yep. I am very aware, well, on one hand self-deprecating, on one hand self-aggrandizing. I'm well aware that I'm a little brighter than the average. I'm also well aware that I've worked really hard collecting the knowledge that I have. But in that same breath, I'm also aware that just by luck, if you believe in such a thing, I had the opportunity to be around some really, really special people. And I'm not gonna lie, I had the opportunity to be around some really, really special people very early. And again, as you said, sort of ingratiate myself and have a platform in which to start that many people just did not. Yeah, I definitely have lucked into some good people over the years. IMean, that's part of it too. But now there's just such a flood of information out there and so much of it's bad. And I almost feel bad for some of the younger guys because it's really hard for them to discern what's good and what's not. Because it's usually the guy that screams the loudest that gets the most attention. Yeah, and also, unfortunately, I think like most things, people gravitate, I don't wanna say to what they want to hear, but people have tastes and they tend to gravitate toward whatever kind of macabre meets their taste. And unfortunately, then that's the information that they're given. And it may not necessarily be appropriate to them. Even if it's appropriate to the person speaking, it may not be necessarily appropriate to the person it's being delivered to. And there's also, IMean, the computer scientist in me, but the way the algorithms on social media work, it feeds you more of the stuff that you engage with. So if you engage with- Right, so it's sort of self bias generating, yeah, for sure. Yeah, it is literally engineered to be confirmation bias because that's what keeps you engaged and so they can sell more ads and keep you on the platform. For sure, for sure. And I think that if I were to give a young guy a piece of advice, I would say to be acutely aware of that and seek out other stuff. Yeah, I think if I had to give advice, well, starting with trening because that kind of a little bit where we started, I would say that, again, pick something that appeals to you, commit to it. I think one of, if not the biggest evil right now is people expecting something to work much quicker than it possibly can and then abandoning it, moving on to the next thing, thinking they didn't make a good choice. I think that whatever it is you commit to, I think a year is a sensible filtering duration. If you're not doing it for a year, you haven't learned the ins and outs of it. You really, you aren't driving that car well yet to even decide if that's the car to keep. What was the, there was the story with Ronnie Coleman. I had heard that Brian Dobson gave him a trening program when he came into Metroflex and Ronnie used that same one for his entire career. Yeah, I've heard something very, very similar. I don't necessarily know how true it is, but probably because, IMean, again, deca dick, gluteus maximus, glutidium, gladtium, gluteus maximus, glutebacus, gluteus maximus, fibrid oblique, steroid, epinephrine colon, spazuli, spazipherm. YouTube, UFC, PhysX, dopamine Expell. Right, it's total martial arts infomercials, pilating, Kung Fu. Wait. Are you serious? Can you show me a demonstration of Doctor Filek? Oh, no, I taught while you were saving some dough. Right, you're actually saying. Keep going. Dr. Filek's had a ton of equipment, it's for variability anyway. It was pretty limited. Well, again, I think largely, and I hope I'm not making a false assumption here, but I think largely your interest and specialization is bodybuilding. I think you referenced you do work with some football players and things, but I think bodybuilding is kind of where you live. Yeah, I'm a bodybuilding nerd for sure. Yeah. But I was an athlete too. I played basketball when I was younger, so I do enjoy sports. I did some power lifting. Not very well. On a professional level is really what IMeant, and my point is on a professional level, bodybuilding is by far my smallest interest and also revenue. I really do more stuff in other sports, an awful lot of it unpublicized and unspoken for reasons. I'm aware. Yeah. And the interesting thing is this whole concept of variability really only resides in bodybuilding. Most sports, you do the same shit for 30 years. This idea of like, oh, I got to change it up, what are you going to speed skate on your fuckinGHands? No, you're going to fucking put the skates on and you're going to skate. This idea that variability is necessary for progress is really just not relevant or even demonstrably true. Maybe in bodybuilding because it's such an unsport, but certainly in sports, you do pretty much what you do and that's kind of it. Yeah. And that's always what's kind of, you know, I hate to pull it back to bodybuilding, but that's always been something that drove me nuts as guys tend to overcomplicate it. And it's like, like you, you look at any other sport, basketball, for example, would, you know, it's kind of where my background is. Guys specialize in trening for their sport and they just repeat the same shit over and over and over and progressively get better at it. Yep. And the only time they would change it, they had a repetitive use injury or some dynamic on the court changed. Right. But yeah. IMean, like a football player wouldn't go out and start suddenly trening like a, uh, a soccer player or table tennis or whatever they specialize in their sport. It even within football, their specialization. A hundred percent. An outside linebacker is not going to tren the same as a center or a nose guard. Yep. Of course. And, and why would they, they have different job descriptions. Yeah. That's why I find football so fascinating because there's so many, there's, there's strength, there's speed, um, and you know, so many different, whereas basketball, it's, it's essentially the same skill sets on the court, but football is really, there's so many different sub specializations of football. It's really, really fascinating. I don't spend a lot of time in the world of football, but just mostly because I actually just don't like it as a sport. It doesn't entertain me. So I don't, I'm not gravitated to it, but football shares an interesting thing with track and field, which does super interest me and I do specialize in. And one of the most valuable traits in American football is something that's probably literally unknown to bodybuilders. And that is a subset of fitness called repeatability. It's not so much how strong are you or how fit are you, but how many times can you perform exactly like that in a row, that ability to repeatably reliably perform at that level? Because there's play after play, after play, after play. That is a really unique characteristic. And again, bodybuilders like just don't have that. They don't want, they, they tren almost for the opposite of that. Like I do every step to failure and just consistently get worse. Yeah. No, that, that is, that is true. There is also, it seems to be a lot of crossover from track and field to football. Yeah. Yes. For a number of reasons, some of them good, some of the bad, the good is there are some similarities and then the bad is university coaching is, at least in America, is just, just absolute fucking garbage. And so they just, the kind of the coaching staff just kind of intermingle and mill around and you get a lot of just crossover simply because nobody really has a home or a brain. I don't know a ton about track and field. Never really was my, my, my thing, but it's, it's, it's amazing athletes and just some crazy stuff that goes, goes on track and field. Yes. I find track and field one of the highest, if not perhaps I even do value it as the highest demonstration of human capabilities. You really stop and think about, you know, a human accelerating to more than 10 meters per second, linearly, like that's really fucking staggering. You hear these power lifters talk, I'm explosive, I'm doing a speed day and they're pulling a deadlift at, you know, a half a meter a second, maybe that may be not even, you know, they're squatting at, you know, it takes three and four seconds to lock out a squat and they move perhaps a meter, you know, whereas you got, you know, guys like Ben Johnson who were accelerating from zero to 10 meters per second in three footfalls. Yeah. Ben Johnson's crazy. I was, I went to an NFL trening facility one time and there was a guy, I can't remember his name. He was not only a quarterback, but also a track and field guy. And he was challenging, there was some guys in the audience talking about how fast they were and he was challenging guys to race 40 yard dashes running backwards. He was beating guys off the street running backwards. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. IMean, again, you know, track and field carryover, weird, weird little thing, power lifting is only 50 something years old. Like the first world championship was 1971. I didn't know that. I don't, I don't actually say this very often because it just sounds too weird and coincidental. The very first world powerlifting championship was held in New York, Pennsylvania. Lifting started at 9am, November 6th, 1971, weirdly, coincidentally, possibly even serendipitously that is exact moment that I was born. That's crazy. IMean, in Camp Lejeune, I was born at exactly the same time as the, literally the birth of powerlifting and was the moment of my birth. It's super weird, but also super true and super verifiable fuckers. But anyway, where I'm going with that is a guy named George Friend was an Olympic hammer thrower. He was a fucking, not, not a power lifter. He was a track and field guy and just on a fucking goof, put on fucking swatches and ace bandages on his knees and swatted 800 at 220. Holy crap. That is wild. Yeah. Yeah. Some, some, some people are just gifted. It seems like, uh, uh, you know, I, I really kind of gotten fascinated with strong man. They, they seem to be sort of the crossover between powerlifting and track and field. Absolutely. Those guys are impressive. Yes. Yes. Yes. On so many levels, um, like the, the sheer feet, but the, you know, the sheer feets, but the, um, unfortunately, unfortunately, unfortunately, it depends how you look at it. Um, it is like basketball becomes such a genetic subset. Yeah. And there are just really, really unique individuals that then have to tren and eat and do all these things. But just the number of people of that size with any measure of structural integrity and coordination, that's a small subset of humanity. And they all seem to be Scandinavian. I don't know, you go back to the Kazmaier days, not so much. Um, Pudzianowski, you reigned supreme, although strongman was a little different during that era. It was a little more fitness driven, a little less absolute strength, um, little self-serving to say it, but my wife is, um, top 10. посмотр q.5 in the US and she's of Welsh extraction. Well, the Scandinavians were all throughout that region. The Vikings. Yes. She's comically, I don't know if we've ever actually met, but the camera doesn't do me justice in terms of how fucking small person I am. I'm a little tiny fucker. I saw you at Masters Nationals last year. IMeant to say hi, but I was so wrapped up in what was going on. Sure, I'm sure we both were. Yeah, I'm 5 foot 4, maybe 5, maybe 5 foot 5. Maybe the height of my life, I was 5 foot 5. I think I currently weigh like 135 or something, 130, or 230 rather, I'm sorry. So you look a lot bigger than 135. My first instinct is to speak in metric. I was like, I'm like 164 centimeters and 105 kilos, but that to most people doesn't mean anything. So yeah, I'm like, whatever, 5'5", 235, something like that. My wife is 6 foot 265. Wow. Yeah. She's bigger than me. She is a big girl. I have her hand tattooed on my arm, and it's sincerely much bigger than my shoulder. She can pull them in NBA basketball. Humans are fascinating. I'm genetically a tall, thin guy. I've had to fight and scrape to get any size on me. My default mode, my body just wants to go back to being 185 pounds and 6'2". OK, we've never talked about this, but I'm just going to say, just based on that remark, I'm going to say that Nandrone and Andrew were probably your best friends in your developmental window. Yeah, they worked well when I was younger. I can't tolerate Nandrone anymore for some reason. It just doesn't agree with me. I get really bad anxiety when I'm on Nandrone. But yeah, Nandrone and Andrew did work very well. Yeah, again, people really need to go back and learn about people like Daniel Shandler, and Paul Morrison, and they all made that remark. They all made that remark at different points in their careers, at different times, they all made that remark that the fuller, rounder, more aggressive drugs get you there. But then sooner or later, you're going to have to default to less volumous, sort of more substantial, was often a word that they used, or Dan had another word he would use. Basically, moving toward the Primo and Mastron, you Winstroll type, sort of solidifying that volume. Yeah, I've graduated, you know, anymore. It's just Test, Primo, and GH is kind of where I live. Yeah, but when I was younger, yeah, it was definitely Deca and Antidrome were my go-tos. They put size on me like nothing else. Yeah, just out of curiosity, how liberal or not, how liberal are you? I'm a liberal. I'm a liberal. I'm a liberal. I'm a liberal. I'm a liberal. I'm a liberal. I'm a liberal. I'm a liberal. I'm a liberal. I'm a liberal. Out of curiosity, how liberal or not were you with testosterone use through your career? Kind of my upper limit. I'm an idiot, and I like to find out where I can go to. But 1,500 is probably about as high as I could ever go without major issues. I kind of settled in around 1,000 milligrams is kind of where I found to be my sweet spot. Fair enough. Considerably more than I would probably forget. 750 maybe. I don't disbelieve you in the slightest. Yeah. My typical offseason, when I was, I had a major growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone spurt in my 40s, which was kind of anomalous. But a 750 test and 600 Primo were kind of where I lived in my offseason. Again, I super don't disbelieve that. Universally, what I find is that people, well, fine, I'm interpreting. I'm suspecting. I have no godlike powers to know exactly what's going on. But my experience leads me to the assumption that the people that can consistently tolerate those 1,000 to 2,000 milligram testosterone values are one of two subsets or both. They're either people that just really don't convert androgens to estrogens very well, a.k.a. aromatized. Such people exist. Or people that are using something like Primobolin or Masteron, and they get an exaggerated anti-estrogen effect from those. Yeah. And therefore, they can do that. I think most people don't have those two superpowers. And therefore, their sensible upper limit for testosterone is considerably lower. Yeah. I should caveat that. I cannot run testosterone that high alone. Well, there you go. Yeah. Yeah. I would say testosterone by itself. IMean, honestly, I get much above 300 milligrams, I start having aromatization issues. So I need Primobolin with it to balance that out. Comedically, both Primobolin and Masteron really never gave me particularly much estrogen suppression. Now, I never went crazy with the testosterone like ever. I think maybe 600 milligrams might be the most I ever used. Most of my career, it was more like 300. But even at that value, my estrogen was well above the reference range, sometimes even like 200. Yeah. I tend to be a high aromatizer. Yeah. It's been interesting since I really haven't trened in three or four months. I had a bicep tendon tear. I had to have that repaired. Just wear and tear over the years. But essentially, my default state was to be skinny. But now, at an older age, I hold 240, 250 just on TRT. Yeah, homeostasis. Yeah, that's my new homeostasis now. It's my set point. I run 150, 200 milligrams of tests, and I can stay there even without trening. Yeah. And it's funny because that kind of, I don't know if it's a segue you meant, but it's a segue that I find that I would like to use as an opportunity. I hear a lot of that. Kind of these, I won't use a name, but you can insert almost any name. This 50-, 40- to 60-year-old former pro, just like, I don't understand these young people. I can look like this on 500 milligrams. I hate that. I'm like, yes, but that has nothing to do with how you got there. You're not lying, but I don't know. Are you so dumb you don't know what you did in the past? Or are you intentionally misrepresenting that? I'll give you a similar but different example of that, and this person was definitely not dumb, was very much a mentor to me and somebody I spent a lot of time with and had a very high level of respect for, but we had more than a handful of conversations that bordered on arguments about this very topic. And that was Dr. Fred Hatfield. He was always writing a book about the latest, greatest way to tren, and I know because I was there. He was not lying. For instance, compensatory acceleration. That is truly the thing that moved his squat from 900 pounds to 1,000 pounds. That is not inaccurate. That is absolutely true, but he was selling it as if it was this magical thing that everyone needed to do, and I'm like, no. No one that buys this book squats 900 pounds. No people do that. Like, the book you need to write is for what took you from 300 pounds to 600 pounds because that's the journey that everyone buying a book is looking for. I remember readinGHis hardcore bodybuilding book. Oh, yeah. I had to look it up. Yeah, I remember. I ordered it out of the back of a magazine. And a great book and one I would recommend everyone read. By the way, there's two versions of that. That was then later republished under Titan Sports when he worked for the WWF. During that, what was it? The WBF, the Bodybuilding Federation. That same book was republished with some minor changes. I'd recommend people buy both of those versions. Yeah, I remember that. I bought Dan Duchesne's book out of the back of a magazine to remember. You can't go wrong with Dan material. IMean, body office is probably the most seminal piece of material in modern bodybuilding. Read all of them. Excellent books. Still have them on my shelf. Yeah, Hatfield. implosive. And they have, I have, like, a couple of guys from Stanford taking their traumatic blood and trensaminin so they're taking bloods from close to like profoundrapid straps and beams and stuff. And so they're running the tests, and they're analyzing the test points very closely. And they're on green hills and they're thinking, how do we do this? And so they were like, it's possible to take respiratory blood and trensaminin right there Actually, I just closed Facebook. I don't even fucking dick with Facebook anymore. Instagram is kind of the only thing I even have going as a commercial enterprise. And I, you know, just in case you're interested, folks, I don't fucking look at the comments. I don't. I just don't. I don't care. Your mental health is better. You really have to understand how much I don't care. I care just enough to post the material. And even that's fucking waning. So just know. For some reason, I remember, actually it was my assistant pointed out a comment to me. That's why I remember it. I did a seminar in the UK and I was talking about my personal journey to an 800-pound squat. I squatted 800 pounds. And somebody asked me, what was your drug use for that? And I laid it out exactly. And it was obscenely simple. I literally was taking 300 milligrams of testosterone. And I linearly added masteron week over week up to four grams. I'm not proud of that. I'm not. It's not like that was a goal. It's simply that's how much it took to get there. It wasn't like I set out to find out how much masteron I could take or whatever. It's just every week there was more weight on the bar and every week I felt like I was going to fucking die. So I needed more anabolic stimulus to fucking survive to the next workout. And that's how it went. And then after I squatted the 800, the dose came way the fuck back down because I wasn't doing that anymore. And some fucking chuckle dick in the comments was like, it does not take four grams to squat 800. And I actually interacted with that person and I was like, I don't disbelieve that you squatted 800 pounds with less than four grams. But for you to say that would be the same as telling my wife, oh, it absolutely doesn't take 10 chemotherapy sessions to meet cervical cancer like that. That's ridiculous. Like most people do it six. That's the dumbest thing I've ever heard. It takes how much it fucking takes. That's it. That's the answer. The option is death. You fucking dimwit. What the fuck's wrong with you? Yeah, people are stupid, man. IMean, that's not even stupid, but just self-awareness and ignorance. That's a level that exceeds even my expectations. And I think everyone's shit. Like, that's just really, like, can you imagine that if the medical community actually worked that way? Like, oh, you have bronchitis, here's your penicillin, and you come back coughing a couple weeks later and you're like, oh, no, we gave you your shit, you're on your own, fuck off. Like, really? Does anybody think it works that way? Ever? Nope. What the fuck? Yeah, there's some dimwits on social media, that's for sure. Oh, my God. I don't know why, but that particular one sticks with me. And it wasn't even because it was, like, about me. It was just, like, the level of, like, just the level of stupid to talk yourself into that loop. Like, I just, oh, oh, my goodness. Yeah, it takes what it takes. That is exactly true. Right. IMean, and if you're a lucky asshole and you super respond, like, IMean, like, fantastic. Like, I love that. But to denigrate someone else because it took more, you know, like, I passed most of my university exams without studying. But for me to, like, make fun of the people that had to fucking study, that's dumb. Again, it's just stupid. It's just stupid. People, I don't know what this obsession is, but people love to point to outliers as examples. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, well, this guy did that. And I'm like, yeah, but you're not that fucking guy. Yeah. You know, and it's also funny because the exact opposite also applies, too, is people will always do the, like, well, you know, Ronnie Coleman was a freak. Like, really? First of all, has anyone seen pictures of him pre-Olympia run? Not that fucking freaky. And two, has anybody mentioned the fuck that he was up before the sun every day making oatmeal and fucking grits and whatever the fuck he was doing? And, you know, every night when you were fucking jerking off playing Xbox, he was on the fucking stair mill. Like, nobody mentions that shit. It's just, oh, he was a freak. A fucking freaky, dedicated, grinded motherfucker is what he was. Yeah. IMean, there is that aspect of it, too. There are many variables in that equation. That is for sure. Yeah. Now, did he have some physiological quirks? Actually, yes. The answer to that is yes. But he also earned every goddamn trophy and injury that he's got. Well, he is the example of when potential meets hard work. 100%. Yes. Yes. You know, I go back to basketball. Michael Jordan would be that example for me. Yeah. Well, yeah. And even Larry Bird. He was gifted, but I don't know if anyone worked harder at their craft. Believe me, I played a lot of basketball over the years. There are a lot of 6'8 guys playing on public courts that never did anything. Yep. 100%. 100%. So, you know, you have to actually take those gifts and do something with them. Yep. I'm sure, you know, in the world you came from, you've met a lot of very smart people that didn't do a damn thing with it. Absolutely. Absolutely. Honestly, in some ways, I almost feel that way about myself. No, I'm not joking. I'm not joking. Again, I don't want to sound wildly full of myself, but I often wonder if I applied my intellect to a thing of high enough value to warrant it. Making a handful of assholes slightly better bodybuilders, I wonder if that's really the outlet for an intellect that could have maybe done something a bit grander. I don't know. Well, it's your journey. That's for sure. Broderick, I appreciate you coming on, man. I got to wrap this up. Thank you very much. You're entertaining and informational as always. I really appreciate you. Where can people get a hold of you if they want to get in contact with you? People can find a website. Well, first of all, everything we have, the one great piece of useful advice I got in business that I actually listened to was branding. So everything we are is at Team Evil GSB. So Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, and website, Team Evil GSB. You can find us. So there's that. And then the whole reach me, that's a shady thing. You're welcome to join a member site. You're welcome to absorb as much information as you like. But actually getting to and in front of me, that's probably a trickier road because I'm at a stage in my life and my career where I do very, very, very little one-on-one coaching just because I don't want to. Well, folks, buy the Sticky Notes. I love your Sticky Notes series. They're great, man. On that front, there's a couple more coming and a couple I think you actually really will appreciate. I'll get you advanced copies as soon as they're wrapped up. Yeah, I bought all of them. I love it. It's fantastic. Sincerely, I appreciate that. It's nice to know every once in a while that, one, people are paying attention and, two, that people are worthy of having an opinion, offer it, and it's positive. So I do sincerely appreciate that. The information is presented in a succinct and easy-to-understand format, and it's excellent on top of it. All right, thank you very much.