WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right folks, Big Paul here. Today we're going to talk about carb cycling and how I can eat 1200 grams of carbs on a diet and still get shredded. Remember folks, carbs make you fat. I'm going to dispel some of that and I'm going to talk to you about how the carb cycling method works for a cutting phase. I've been carb cycling for about 4 years now and I've run every diet known to man. I've done Keto, I've done Backwards, I've done Carb Cycling, I've done Carb Cycling, I've done Backloading, I've done Carb Backloading, I've done South Beach, I've done everything you can possibly imagine. I am not a diet cult person, one-size-fits-all diet type of person. Definitely there are some clients that I have on different types of diets. I have a few clients that I've run some Keto style diets or shit-loading style of diets. I have some people that where I just have them try to eat clen and count macros. But for guys that are into bodybuilding, sports, powerlifting, I think carb cycling is probably the most beneficial for performance enhancement I have found. Now, that's not to say this is the healthiest way to eat. It's not to say that it's the only way to eat. There are many different ways. And carb cycling I've found to be fantastic for me and for most people. There are some people that can't do carb cycling, some people that can't tolerate carbs, that don't handle them well. I've seen that. Some guys that just won't lose weight when there's carbs in play. I need carbs to stay full. I need carbs to fuel my workouts. And so with carb cycling, it's essentially calorie cycling. We're rotating through calories. We're going to have days where we're in surpluses. We're going to have days where we're in a slight deficit. We're going to have days where we're in a harder deficit. And that allows for you to have refeed days, essentially. I know some people don't buy into the whole refeed day thing. So I'm going to explain why it makes sense in the context of carb cycling, why we do it, why we have a high carb day, which is essentially a refeed day. You're not going to be burning fat, obviously, when you're in a caloric surplus on that day, but there are ways to cheat the energy management systems of the body during that day where we can add calories in a surplus and potentially not store much, if any, fat. Now, at the end of the day, it's about net energy balance for the whole week. Thermodynamics reigns supreme, and we know that you have to be in a net negative energy balance for the week to burn fat. But there is some trickery with the carb cycling system where we are manipulating the energy management systems of the body. All right, folks, I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, the Cycle of the Body. The Scientific Principles of Antibiotics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. So what we do and how I do it, during a contest prep or a cutting phase, we'll have one high-calorie surplus day a week, a refeed day, whatever you want to call it. And during that day, my calories will go up significantly. For me, to be in a fat-burning state, my maintenance calories are somewhere around 4,000 calories per day. So I need to be below 4,000 calories a day to burn fat. You can do the math on it. A-500-calorie deficit per day over seven days is going to be 3,500 calories. 3,500 calories roughly equals a pound of fat burned. So for me, somewhere around 3,500, if you throw in some, it's going to be a deficit to lose about a pound of fat per week. If you throw in some cardio, it may be a tad more than that. So my medium days are somewhere around there. My low days are 3,000, 3,200, maybe slightly higher, slightly lower, somewhere around there. So the way I am structured right now with my diet, I'm burning about a pound of fat a week, somewhere around there. On the high day, I will go super high in calories. I will go almost double my maintenance calories. Now you ask, wouldn't that make up the difference? If we do the math here, I'm going to be probably somewhere in about a 3,000-calorie surplus, 2,500-3,000 calories on my high day. Wouldn't that defeat any fat loss that I had throughout the rest of the week? In theory, yes, because the net energy balance, if we do the math on it, would say that I am storing those calories and then I am burning those calories back off throughout the week. Now here is where the trickery comes. We are manipulating the energy management systems, the energy storage systems of the body. Your body stores carbohydrates in three ways primarily, liver glycogen, muscle glycogen, and then the third place that is probably going to have, you're going to go through liponeogenesis and store it as fat. Your body likes to burn carbohydrates as fuel first. Your body is going to use carbohydrates as a central nervous system for your brain activity. You can run off of ketones. That's a whole other discussion. If you're a fat-based diet, that is a possibility. For the carnivore guys, you can go through the process of gluconeogenesis where your body is going to make carbohydrates or glucose out of proteins. That is a possibility. But we do know that muscles and strength trening are a very demanding activity when it comes to using glucose for fuel. In fact, your muscles can storEQuite a bit of glucose as muscle glycogen as a reserve for strength activities. A large athlete such as me, a guy like me, I think an average guy will say from what I've read in studies is somewhere around 400 to 500 grams of glycogen that can be stored. A large guy like me or a large bodybuilder, maybe it's 1,200 grams, maybe it's 1,500 grams, maybe it's 2,000 grams of glycogen. There was a guy back in the early 2000s, those of you that have been around will remember Dennis Wolf. I heard him carving up on something like 2,500 grams of carbs or 3,000 grams of carbs and he would just fill out. Some guys have a higher capacity for glycogen storage than others. Obviously, the bigger you are, the more capacity that you're going to have. So here's where the trickery comes in with the carb cycling diet. If we keep the fats low, we know that if you're in a caloric surplus and you're eating a ton of carbohydrates, your body is going to prioritize glucose as its fuel source. Any excess fats that you eat and beyond what you need for EFAs or whatever is likely going to be stored as body fat in theory. We're getting into some bro science here. So what we do, we keep the fats as low as humanly possible on that high day and we eat a crap ton of carbs. I'll eat somewhere between 1,000 to 1,500 grams of carbs sometimes. Sometimes Justin will give me unlimited high carb days and just tell me to pound as many carbs as I can if I can pound. And there are times where I'll spill over and go a little too hard and then we have to pull it back. But what happens, that surplus, let's say that I store, let's just use some simple math here. Let's say that I become glycogen depleted over the week from being in a caloric deficit. You're going to have to be glycogen depleted as the week goes on. Your body's going to deplete glycogen as you go on a calorie deficit that just happens. You'll know it if you're a big guy, you get flat. Everybody hears about the bodybuilder getting flat. That's what being flat is, is your glycogen depleted. So what happens on this high day, we're shoving glycogen back into the muscle so we can, in theory, eat in a calorie surplus and not store body fat. So that 1,000 grams of carbs, we'll go back to the simple math again. Let's say I'm eating 1,000 grams of carbs and we are in that caloric surplus, that'S4,000 calories in carbs that we're eating that day. And I keep the fats low. Let's say that something like 90% of that gets stored as muscle glycogen. We're going to have some demand with exercise and whatever, something like 200, 150 to 200 grams of carbs a day, probably just to maintain daily activity. So we can be in a caloric surplus on that day. We can refill our glycogen and potentially minimize fat storage if we keep the added fats in the diet or the fat content in the diet as low as humanly possible. There are other things that we can do to push it even further, such as GH and insulin use to supercompensate with the glycogen storage. You'll hear guys like Milos Sarchev that do something like that where they'll power shove carbs. Now, you do take a risk that you can spill over. You hear about spilling over and you eat too many carbs and you end up looking watery and spill over. It's a lot of times what guys are talking about, spilling over. There's other things that cause water retention, but that is one of the downsides of eating a shit ton of carbs that you can have some water retention afterwards. We do know that glycogen pulls water into the muscles. It's something like a three to one ratio. I don't remember the exact number, so don't slaughter me if I'm off base with this, but it's something like for every gram of glycogen store, there's something like two to three grams of water that are pulled into the muscle. So you get a nice full muscle, you get a metabolic spike. It does seem to keep thyroid up. I've noticed this on blood work and blood panels that when you hit that day and you'll feel it, you'll be hot, sweaty. When I'm sleeping at night, I'm burning up from the excess calories that I have eaten. After that high carb day, I wake up the next day, probably a little full and watery and then it's two days after I look my best and then it's sort of flattening out from them because I go back into a calorie deficit. A lot of times I'll take one day a week where I'll push the calories lower to really push fat burning and get myself depleted and then refill again and just repeat this process over and over and over and you'll see it on charts with people when I do fat loss with people. You'll see the zigzag. Weight spikes up, goes down. Weight spikes up, goes down. Weight spikes up, goes down. And a lot of times people will get stuck or they get flat towards the end of contests and sometimes I'll throw in two days, two refeed days, maybe like a half high day and get people even harder and have further fat loss. This is what I've seen. This is very bro sciency. All I can say is try it out for yourself and see what happens. I have another video up on how to structure a carb cycling diet if you want to check it out. I'm going to have some cool new resources cominGHere soon. Keep your eye out for those. If you haven't signed up for my mailing list, go sign up for it. I'm going to have some exciting things coming up here soon that will help you guys do this stuff yourself. Also, I just put out the PED or steroid cycle cheat sheet if you want to pick that up. Shows you how to do your own cycle. It's a five page document with side effects, compound choices, etc. It's only 15 bucks. It's so cheap, it's almost free. Go pick it up. But anyway, that is the premise of how a high day works on carb cycling. That's how I can eat 1200 grams of carbs and get shredded. It is a trick of the energy management systems of the body. We are manipulating things. We are not violating thermodynamics. Calories in and calories out still rule supreme. Science has not been violated here. We're actually taking advantage of how the body stores calories and we are leveraging that for better body composition to maintain fullness, keep metabolism high, and further fat loss. Alright folks, thank you for watching. I appreciate each and every one of you. Take care. Boobie bounce before I go.