 warning, warning, naringin,alez, randini, this video is brought to you by, first, detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. How's the, uh, how's the Sarah's Dem experiment going? Looks like it's going well. It's going pretty good. You're looking unreal, dude. It's going pretty good. Um, yeah, no, well, so last week when I was talking to you guys, I was talking about like my hands were so numb that they hurt when I was sleeping. Uh, that was Saturday. So like, I didn't do it Saturday night. I didn't pin a vial Saturday night, Sunday, completely gone. Uh, five days straight, zero numb hands. Two days ago, I started feeling it again. Last night, uh, you know, felt it significantly. So I'm probably going to take another day off today and then start back tomorrow. And that seems to keep all the negative, like that's the only negative that I'm experiencing. So, so to clarify, you're saying you took one day off. One day off. Zoomed every day. And it took four days for the levels to accumulate to such a point that you have edema in your hands. I mean, I wouldn't call it edema because like my hands aren't like swollen or anything. It's like, I feel like something like with my nerves, something gets impinged in like my armpit and my whole arm. The brachial plexus gets compressed. Yeah. And then, yeah. So one day off, it goes completely away and it takes about four or five days for it to come back. Well, I guess I should have said, um, carpal tunnel. Yeah. Because pregnant women often get carpal tunnel. Yeah. And that's from edema, but it's not localized edema. It's just, they're holding so much extra water that they end up getting carpal tunnel. Yeah. And I think the mechanism is the same. It's just sodium retention at the kidneys. That takes you five days to build up. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. But yeah, so doing that, doing six days on one day off, that's been, uh, I think that's going to be kind of the way forward. But I mean, I've got, uh, what, five, five or six weeks left of it. So I think I'm at like the halfway point, but yeah, so I, uh, this last week I backed off on carbs a little bit, um, just so I can like legitimately start dieting. And, uh, today I was two 55. Um, but yeah, I mean, it's, it's just, it's crazy. I just feel like some, something's different every single day. Just like, as far as like leanness goes or, or fullness somewhere. It's just, it's very, things change fast. It's very weird, man. I tell you what, I bought a Tesla and a puppy this week. And then I was rethinking my buying decisions. I'm like, God damn it, man. Maybe I should have bought Sarah's demons. Puppy car Sarah's. I don't know, man. It's a hard choice. I want to get that pro card. I mean, uh, it's, it's, I don't know. Like, like I said, I'm gonna, I'm gonna run it until. You go bankrupt. Till the end of May. I'm going to take June off of it. And then, you know, I see what happens in June as far as like, you know, how much water weight comes out or how, how much, you know, how flat I get from coming off of it. But I'm going to take, uh, June off when we go on vacation and then, you know, see, make a decision whether or not to continue or, or whatever. So I won't name who, but I had a, uh, a friend who is a, has a friend that's a pro bodybuilder and said that's the exact protocol they run with the, uh, with the, uh, HGH. It's a camp. I won't name a name. I know. We all know the camp. That's the protocol. Yeah. It's just to follow the directions. Yeah. Yeah. Just, just follow the pamphlet. Yeah. So I brought it in cause I was re looking at it today and it's, it's, it's really interesting. Like they put a bunch of different like studies that they did on it showing like, you know, it, it, it seems for, I mean, all of the ideas are for HIV patients, but it seems that like most of the results go up until 12 weeks. And then that kind of like stabilizes at that for these people, you know, not for us, but it's just interesting to see that on average they gained, what was it? It was, I think it said four. Yeah. Yeah. They gained in 12 weeks, four kilograms of, uh, body weight, lean body mass is what it was. Lean body mass and lost and lost two kilograms of fat. That is crazy. So that is because the study was 12 weeks or was the study longer than 12 weeks? It went, it went 24 weeks. So at 24 weeks, it's the same. It's a flat line. Yeah. Okay. So in other words, you should do a 12 week run and then go off of it and then go back on after another period. That's what it seems like. Yeah. Yeah. And that's something that I also heard. I've heard Phil this talk about that before to do just like a 12 week blast of it and then take some time off and then go back on it to, to get, you know, that, that result from it, but I wonder if that has something to do with it. That study that's in the pamphlet. Yeah. It sounds like this is the, the mystery. The secret of bodybuilding is to read the drug pamphlet. Read the damn pamphlet. Follow the instructions. Well, yeah, it's funny though. Cause it like says, um, it says dosage and administration. It says, um, let's see. The, the starting dose of sarostem should be 0.1 milligrams per kilogram subcutaneously. And it has a little chart. It says if you're over 121 pounds, you do six milligrams subcutaneous, uh, daily. Um, so the whole vial 18 I use, and that's at 121 pounds, you know, like that's half of me. So it's like, should we do two a day? No. Um, but so it says that, and then it says, uh, treatment with sarostem at this dose every other day was associated with fewer side effects and resulted in a similar improvement in work output as compared to daily. Interesting. Yeah. Yeah. So, cause it also has studies in here on, uh, work output on like a treadmill and a bike showing the difference between every other day and every day. And it was very similar as far as work output goes, but, um, yeah, I don't think that applies to like the lean body, lean body mass gains and fat loss. So the athletic skill level of the test subjects was that they were capable of walking on a treadmill or riding a bike in a stationary position, their actual performance with weights was not tested because even a leg extension is probably beyond their capabilities. Probably. Yeah. That's a good point too. Yeah. Yeah. That's the other thing is all this is on HIV patients. Their patients are 121 pounds. I remember once I was reading this study and it was like saying, well, they're what do you call it? Trained athletes. I'm like, did you look at their starting bench press? And they're like, no. I'm like, their, their starting bench press was 130 pounds. Yeah. It's like, that's not a trained athlete. That's like an 11 year old child. That, that, that brings up something else. Like I, I've, I've had, uh, people message me. They're like, I just did my first cycle and I gained 80 pounds. Whoa. Oh, Ron Burgundy. What's up, dude? Max, you just ate a whole wheel of cheese. That'll, that'll get me one, one 18 unit. Right. About half a one. About half a one. There we go. Thanks. Thanks, Ron. Not even a question. It's just giving money. Appreciate it, buddy. Yeah. Um, shit. I forgot what I was saying. San Diego means Wales vagina. Oh, yeah. No, I was, I was talking about, um, guys that are like 120 pounds being like my first cycle. I gained like 80 pounds. And it's like, well, you weren't even close. You, you went from a completely like nothing state. Like you're not even close to the natty potential. You know, you use nitrous to get up to 60. Yeah. Yeah. But it's, uh, zero to 60 was one second. That's okay. You hit the nitrous to go one up to 60. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's interesting, man. I'm, I'm curious now. So it makes me wonder, I mean, I usually run generics. I want like, now I'm wondering if like, like I should just pin the whole thing and like do every other day. Well, that's, that too is like, why does it have to be serostim? If, if the magic isn't the drug, because the drug's still the same molecular length. I mean, it's either a 191 amino acid or not, right? It's a binary. Why, why even bother getting the serostim? Just shoot 18 units, which is basically what another pro I was talking to who actually, you know, I'm a pro, but I'm not this type of pro. I'm like, he's like one of the real famous pros. He's like, all my friends are doing 20. So I just started doing 20. Of the generics. Yeah. I mean, I think I could just ask him right now if he takes a recall at night, but. Yeah. So that, I mean, that's, that's, it's definitely something, but, um, cause like Skipp Hill was talking about, he just started serostim. And he said he had been on generics the ever forever. And he said his issue with generics was he could only take the dose up so high before the edema all over that. The side effects were just entirely too strong to be able to go up any higher. And he said, he's titrating up his serostim dose. Like he talked about this on the thing big, uh, podcast, but, um, he said he was titrating up his serostim dose. And he's like, I'm not seeing the same thing that I'm experiencing. Like I didn't zero. Like the thing that I was really scared about was, am I going to get like lower extremity edema, like hitting edema in my feet, my ankles, my shins. Cause I've had that before a long time ago, but, um, I'm, I'm really surprised that I was able to just go straight to 18. I use, and I don't, I don't see any of that. Like my feet, if anything, they look, you know, as, as dry as ever. So it's really weird. With humid tropon, they added in mannitol, which is a diuretic. And I didn't know that until I read the insert. Maybe if you check on that insert where it looks at inactive ingredients, you might see that it's got a diuretic in there. Then we've got a question from Aladdin. How can you list the diuretic under inactive ingredients? Because they don't want you to know. It might be listed under other ingredients. But, um, so the answer is, uh, the idea behind GH is that either, I think it's through the IGF-1. Um, it, it can, it causes satellite cells to migrate to the muscle fiber itself, donate a nucleus. And once a cell has enough nuclei to support two cells, once you've got twice the number of nucleuses you need, then you can, um, split. And you have hyperplasia and it splits into two cells. And that's something that's supposed to occur only with GH as a drug. Although in theory, MGF, which is mechano-growth factor, is a paracrine hormone released by muscle, similar to IGF. And the, it's actually the same exons and introns. It's just when the introns get cleaved out and only the exons are left, it's a different pattern of the exons. And I know people are probably going to be like, what the fuck is he talking about? And we don't have to actually talk about how we create the mRNA from the DNA. But basically it comes from the same DNA as IGF. It's just a different piece of mRNA created. So Aladdin, the short story is, yes, your coach is correct. That's what caused it. Oh. So I can't find the ingredients on the pamphlet. I know they're on the box. I'm pretty sure I've seen them on the box before. But, so I'm trying to find them. I'm looking on the Saraston website. I don't. Because it wouldn't. Why else? Because the number one side effect, and then they've got 12 side effects that all basically mean water retention. Yeah. Like this, the downstream symptom of the symptom of water retention. So they added mannitol to be able to control that. I had one of my clients, a previous coach that he was working with, had him running a low dose of hydrochlorothiazide when he was on it. That makes sense. That's a smart move, too. Assuming you can titrate it just right. And that it's the exact amount of HCTZ to match the exact amount of G. I think it was Tom Massard with a little bit of hydrochlorothiazide in it is what he was doing. I've seen that blend. I don't trust blends. I'd want to manage it myself. Yeah. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.