warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, gym bros, Big Paul here with you. And I have a Big Paul reacts today. I haven't done one of these in a while. This one is an interview with Chris Bumstead and Chris Williamson. And this one sort of resonated with me. This is just a 10 minute segment from the long video where Chris talks about his shoulder procedure and losing muscle mass, his life after retirement from bodybuilding. But the part about overcoming the shoulder procedure and dealing with that kind of resonated with me since I'm going through sort of the same shit right now. Can identify with that. But I wanted to go through and listen to what Chris and Chris had to say in this video and give my thoughts and reaction to it. And we'll dig into all that in just one second. ♪♪♪ I'm interested, and I'm sure a lot of other people are, in how quickly an Olympia level physique falls apart when you stop trening? It's tough to answer because of my injury I had this year. As a whole, it was holding on like real good until I had like the shoulder surgery. And then I took abouT3 months off trening. And in the midst of that- Three full months, basically. Yeah, I couldn't lift my arm for like a week or two. And then I was using like those fat grips because I couldn't hold the weight to try and do like a external rotator cuff with like a three inch range of motion. It was like a serious rehab back to moving my arm. And in the midst of that, I'm like, I'm going to do a 80 hour fast because I have never been able to do this as a bodybuilder. And it's great for my health. I lost like eight pounds doing that alone. And then I only ended up losing like, IMean, at that point I'd lost about 25 pounds of muscle, of like pure muscle, which was drastic on my physique, the chain. Yeah, so I didn't have that much of an experience with losing that much muscle. I believe Chris, I'm not sure what his shoulder injury was, but I believe he had a stem cell procedure. I'm surprised he took three full months off from trening completely. There are studies out there that show if you do, you know, lateral trening that you can maintain muscle size on the side with the procedure done on it to a pretty decent extent. I'm not sure what he was doing with his cycle. You know, I don't think they really talked about that that much. I would assume he was probably on some sort of hormone replacement therapy. That's what I did. I ran TRT. I had my procedure, my labrum supraspinatus and a bicep tendon repair done in April. And I just got clearance from the doctor to go back to the gym in early November. So it's been abouT3 weeks now. And I did unilateral trening. I stayed on TRT. I tried to keep my diet together. He talks about doing the fast. I like doing fast periodically, but when we think about it, depriving yourself of protein and protein, your amino acid pool in your body is very limited. And when you're deprived of protein, your body will start, especially a guy like Chris, that's probably lean already, your body is going to start breaking down protein structures for glucose. Chris doesn't have a lot of body fat to pull from. I don't know, basically it's not like he did a three and a half day fast, something like that, would probably be very catabolic for someone like Chris, I would assume, that's already lean. If you have a bunch of body fat you can tap into, probably you'd be fine. You probably wouldn't have much atrophy. But I would imagine for a guy like him, there is going to be a shift to gluconeogenesis. It's probably, you're going to start breaking down protein structures for glucose. Probably not a good state to be in, especially when you're recovering from an injury. And this is another thing that I would think, and this is not a criticism of Chris, I'm sure he had his reasons for doing so. But when you're recovering from an injury, going into a deep deficit, especially a fast, is probably a bad idea. You're going to need amino acids for healing and for recovery from that procedure. So probably, if I were advisinGHim, and I'm not telling the guy what to do, Chris is clearly a way better bodybuilder than I ever was or ever will be. But I would think a three day, three and a half day fast, whatever it turned out to be, would be a bad idea for somebody recovering from an injury. It's going to impact your healing. It's going to, you need protein for collagen synthesis, all these things that important mechanisms for healing and you're going to be in a heightened state of catabolism, which is just going to be bad for your recovery. I don't know what the thought process was there, but probably not the way I would go about it. When I have guys recovering from injuries or from surgery, usually I will put them at net neutral or a slight surplus during that phase. We'll deploy some peptides, probably keep a base level of hormone replacement therapy. You don't need to be blasting a bunch of gear. There could be a compelling reason to use maybe a little bit of Anolvar. Anolvar was used in wound healing originally, potentially, but at a bare minimum, probably some TRT or growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone would make more sense and keep your protein high. So you have the substrate there for repairing and recovering from that injury. You can play around with carbs. If you're not moving, if you're not trening at all, then there's not going to be a big demand for energy and the carbohydrates probably could be kept at a minimum if you're worried about body composition. But I'm curious to understand what his thought process was for doing a three-day fast when he's trying to recover. Change it was and I was like, damn, that was a lot. But then it bounced back quick too. I think muscle memory is absolutely insane. I think it's harder than people realize to really lose that muscle. Obviously, there's the PED side of things and I'm not doing that shit anymore. I'm still on TRT because once you run that kind of stuff, you kind of need to, which is the dangers of doing it at a young age, but it's life. So me not doing all that stuff anymore and just eatinGHealthy and treninGHard because I love it, I can still be 250 pounds like no problem. Yeah, okay, so he touched on it. He was doing TRT, which I would suspect. And that's what I found too. IMean, I've pretty much just been hanging out around 250 while I was recovering from the surgery on TRT. I ran 200 milligrams of testosterone over the last eight months or so. Now, it's not to say that I'm the same size. And he talks about the muscle memory thing. I think a lot of the initial weight that you lose is not actual contractile tissue. It's glycogen loss and the fullness that comes along with trening. I found it pretty hard to actually lose muscle tissue. I do see guys that have been trening for a long time. I think Ian Valieri, not to speak for Ian, but from what I recall, he was deliberately trying to downsize so he couldn't get the muscle off of himself. And I've heard of other guys having that issue where it just takes a long time for them to actually lose the contractile tissue. Now, you're not gonna look like a top level IFBB competitor without running the gear, treninGHard, and eating a bunch of food, but you can hang on to quite a bit. IMean, I was surprised. My doctor was surprised how much I hung on to through my surgery recovery. Not to say that I'm stage ready at this point, but yeah, you can, and I'm an old dude. I'm an old fucker. Chris is still pretty young. IMean, he's in his early 30s, I believe, and it's going to be easier to maintain. But it's, you know, if you stop trening, if you stopped eating correctly, if you stopped all the PEDs, of course, over time, you're gonna lose that tissue. It's going to slowly fade away. But the whole thing about losing muscle overnight when you stop is just, I just have not seen that to be the case. And if you lose a bunch of weight quickly from stopping gear and whatnot, it likely was not real tissue. It was just a bunch of bloat, whatever tension or whatever that you had from the shitty new ball cycle that you were doing. You can maintain that. It's on Olympia level physique, but I could bounce back in like six months, you know? You think? If push came to shove, do you think that, how long do you think you could take off before it would be really, really tough to come back within the space of a year? I have no idea. Not an interesting question. It's very interesting. And I'm like, a lot of bodybuilders, IMean, classic physique is still a new division, but most open bodybuilders peak when they're like 35. And it's different for classic because we need less muscle. Your waist get bigger over time. So it would be a younger age, but still like your ability to put on muscle like that continues into your mid thirties. Well, look at the strong man, Brian. Oh, it continues longer than in your mid thirties. IMean, I put on shit, 60, 70 pounds of stage weight from 45 to 50. IMean, you can continue to gain weight. IMean, I, you know, of course I thought the same thing when I was younger. I thought life was over when you hit 40 that you couldn't gain muscle. I understand why Chris is pulling back. IMean, from what I'm seeing is health issues. I think it's some sort of autoimmune disorder that he has, if I recall correctly, don't quote me on that. So it makes sense for him to pull back at this point. And Sean, these guys, you know, who's the huge black guy that did that really lonGHold? He's in his forties. And yeah, strength sports, but endurance sports too. Endurance, yeah. Is it, I guess, fast twitchy stuff. I'm going to guess weightlifters, probably not so great, like Olympic weightlifters, not so great into later life. Sprinters, I'm going to guess once you get past 40, probably not quite the same. I wonder if that's an injury thing too. There's a lot more likely to be injury. More kinetic stuff. Yeah, it's just an attrition rate. It's just that these people have been like headshotted out of the, rotator cuff shotted out of the thing. So your bloods and stuff coming back down into normal life, what have you learned about the post competition physiology of someone that's done to their body what you did to it? Well, I assume we're going to talk about steroids now. Let's see what he has to say about this. Like health wise in general? And hormones and all the rest of this stuff. Because I know that you were already being as gentle as possible trying to get as much out of as little from PD standpoint, trying to just take a month off each year from like even dieting and kind of aggressive trening type stuff. It was like a stretch of three rows in lowering and ramping up, yeah. So yeah, I'm just interested in what your health after the Olympians looked like. Feeling very grateful that I had that mindset of not trying to do too much and getting the least out of the most. Because I had like health issues in the past that were unrelated to bodybuilding, autoimmune and stuff. And that affected my health. And then it feels like bodybuilding wasn't declining it. It was kind of keeping it at a level. And now I'm at a point now where I've worked with a bunch of doctors and they're like, you're actually healthier than I thought you would be given what you've done to your body. And I was like, well, thank God I retired at 30 because I don't want to hear like, oh, like shit. You pushed it too far. You pushed it too far, you know? And obviously the longer you do something, the better. And a few doctors have told me like, in your 30s, your body is a lot more likely, IMean, obvious to recover than in your 40s or in your 35 or whatever it may be. So there definitely is some damage that happened to my health. And with another huge reason of why it was easy for me to retire, because I wasn't willing to make that sacrifice anymore. Just I was very conscious of bodybuilding is not good for your health. And I don't want to continue to do this to me with a family now and priorities and different values shifting. So there's a lot of focus on my health now. And I'm realizing you can't really attack everything at once. Like, hey, I want to fix this, this, this, this. Well, you can only take so many vitamins and do so many things a week. So like, take it easy. Speak to the crowd here. Exactly, yeah. Yeah, IMean, that makes total sense to me. IMean, what does this dude have left to prove at this point? Unless he's just out therecompeting for the love of sport, which I get. IMean, I, shit, I'm a mediocre master's competitor. I, you know, it's like, I just love being out there. That's why I go out there and why we do this stupid stuff. But yeah, for a guy like him, that's had health issues, it would make sense. I know that he's probably not going to talk about specific dosages, but I would imagine he spends a good portion of the year on TRT. You have to do what you have to do when you go on contest prep. That's just a given. There's no way you can step on the Olympia stage without getting on the gas a little bit. Now, with that said, do you need to run crazy shit like tren and Superdraw and DHB and you name it, all these other toxic compounds and still achieve a high level physique? No, you can get up there and look great. In fact, I know quite a few top guys that just run test, primo, maybe a little wind straw at the end, GH, and that's it. That's basically what I did last year when I won my pro card. Now, I ran the doses pretty high, but it's also compound choice. Compound choice has a big factor in the health outcomes when you are running stuff that is toxic, even at lower doses, that it can have a compounding effect on your health long-term. And contest prep seems to be the most dangerous part of the bodybuilding life cycle. That's where most of the damage to me seems to be done is during contest prep. It's not the offseason, like you would think, you know, getting dehydrated, taking all these toxic compounds, pushing your body to the limit, being at a caloric deficit, setting yourself up where you, you know, in a constant fatigue state where you're not recovering from your, it's really just not great for you. And if you look at the window of when guys have health problems, it's usually that last few weeks before a show and that couple months post-show is generally when the major acute health issues that bodybuilders run into happen for the most part. And I can understand why he would step away. And at this point, you know, he probably wouldn't need to do much to hang on to most of what he had, probably TRT or TRT+. If I were in his shoes, I'd probably run testosterone growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, maybe sprinkling a little primobolin or Masteron if you can fucking find it here and there. And just call it a day, stay away from the oral, stay away from the toxic shit. You can get in quite great shape not running, especially, you know, I don't know what he ran for his contest prep, but it is certainly feasible to prep for a show on test, primobolin or Masteron and Anolvar and call it a day. That is certainly a, especially, you know, somebody who's genetically as gifted as Chris, that is certainly a possibility. Now you might have to be a little more aggressive with the doses, but, you know, once again, contest prep though, you do have to get on the gas a little bit. There's just no two ways around it. You can do it in a safer manner. I've worked with guys that have done it that way. So, but still, you know, every time you prep for a show, you are, it's like driving a race car 180 miles around the track. There's only so safe you can do it. You are mashing the gas pedal down. You can take all the precautions in the world, but when you'recompeting at the highest level like that, there are risks that are associated with it. So right now it's, I'm trying to fix my gut, which is something that had gotten beat up for a while. You know, bodybuilders eat constantly. I have SIBO, mold, leaky gut, some heavy metals and all this stuff kind of affecting. Aw, my gut brothers. Hell yeah. Are you doing the antibiotic or are you trying to do the natural route? A combination of both. So I'm using minocycline, but minocycline's a quite a high dose now. It's like 200 milligrams a day. A lot of herbal antivirals, some peptides. I'm using LL37, SS31, BPC, plus I was using oral BPC for a while. Yeah, it's interesting because if you're doing the antibiotic thing, you can't do the rebuild the gut thing at the same time. The probiotic thing. Yeah, so it's, bro, it's a nightmare. It's so hard. I don't even know what the words are. I didn't do it. Like the kill, restore, re-inoculate, rebuild, like all this, you have to go through these phases of like kill everything and slowly rebuild. What are you doing? Are you doing kill? No, the guy helping me wanted me to build a little bit of like resilience in my gut first and then kill and then rebuild just so the kill wasn't so like. Yeah, IMean, you see this all the time with bodybuilders, their guts are all fucked up and I have theories on why that happens. I've had my own gut issues, but they were mostly predating my bodybuilding adventures. I think a lot of the gut issues that guys have in bodybuilding, it's a combination of factors. It's force feeding. It is running orals. It seems like all the orals absolutely just smash your stomach and wreck your gut microbiome. Eating the same foods over and over and over and over again. I know I joke about chicken, rice, repeat, but you do need some diversity in your foods. Eating the same two or three things over and over again, which is what a lot of bodybuilders end up doing. Sorry, that's my acid reflux talking to me right now. I'm talking about gut issues, but doing the same two or three things over and over and over again aren't the greatest situation for your gut health. And then you toss in all of the oral steroids that guys take and then they end up wrecking their gut long-term and force feeding, eating six times a day is probably not great for your gut too. All of the other shit that we take. Another thing too, a lot of people don't consider is a lot of the over-the-counter supplements too. There are some over-the-counter supplements that we take on the frequent that will really fuck your stomach up. And I think guys get carried away with the over-the-counter supplements sometimes too. Like tough on my body. So when I get back from this, I start the antibiotics. Yeah, fun talk. Yeah, no, I get it. You mentioned TRT. Is that, I don't know how it works with the suppression of sort of natural stuff. Easier and simpler than trying to completely go off and survive and see if it comes back online naturally with a ton of gentle supplementation. It's just easier to sit at a low dose, the therapeutic dose of replacement. Is that kind of the philosophy that you've come to? I still haven't really fully decided what my goals are in that in the future, but I do know or have at least seen anecdotally through others that if you drop it too hard after being so high for so long, then it's really bad on your body and your mind. People go through some intense, people go through depression from natural low test versus like having insane to just dropping it down. So getting your body used to slowly decreasing over time is a lot better for your body to not have that like big shock of change. So, but yeah, it's difficult. And I like people to be aware of the fact that putting an exogenous hormone in your body stops your body's natural production of it means you may have to take it for the rest of your life. It's reality, so kind of going through. Yeah, IMean, that's the trade off with bodybuilding. It's the devil's deal. I warn young guys this all the time. Once you start, there's no stopping. IMean, there is potential to stop if you catch it early enough, but assuming Chris, I would assume that he probably started taking PEDs when he was a teenager. I'm not speaking for him, but I would imagine judging from his, the way he looked and the way he progressed in his early success, probably late teens, early 20s, I would venture a guess that he probably got on the program, so to speak, and was a decade of blasting and cruising, I would suspect. Once again, don't know, just speculatinGHere. There was probably a time where he was pressing doses higher before he found out about his autoimmune disorder. To get to where he's at, once you get to a certain place, it's easier to maintain, probably didn't need as high of doses. And then, you know, contest prep, we talked about it before, being contest prep is what it is. And at this point, it is highly unlikely that he would ever achieve a true functioning natural testosterone level that would have been the equivalent of what it would have been if he had never used PEDs. You know, anything's possible, but I ran gear, I'm trying to think, off and on through my 20s into my early 30s. I came off cold turkey, which was monumentally stupid, and I did not take anything for a decade, I think from 32 to 42, roughly. Maybe I started a little early. I think maybe I started TRT around 40. I don't remember exactly, but, you know, eight to 10 years, I was completely off. And I remember going to the doctor and telling the doctor I didn't feel good and found out that my testosterone levels were like 200, something like that. It was pretty bad. And I'd been like that for a long time. I was fat, I was depressed, I was mushy. So coming off completely after this, probably a bad idea. I would imagine he's probably going to be on some TRT, some level of TRT, and probably, I would say what would be smart would be TRT and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone replacement for the rest of his life. Think through if I'm even gonna try to go that road or not, right now. Well, dude, people say that testosterone decreases sperm count, and you just continue to pump kids out. You win some, you lose some, you know? Well, I'm glad that the table's so long so that I don't get pregnant from being over here. I woke up close. But yeah, dude, pregnant again. Congratulations. Thank you, yeah. That's another myth I see is that you're not gonna be able to have kids on gear. I got my ex-wife pregnant with my first kid on blast. So, you know, it is, certainly there are certainly, there is suppression of fertility while you're on gear, and some people experience it worse than others. Some guys do become infertile after gear, but I have had quite a few clients come to me that have gotten their ladies knocked up, and they're like, I didn't think this could happen. I'm like, bro, I never said that shit. You assumed that. So, bros be warned. I think Ronnie Coleman had like 12 kids or some shit. So, clearly, some dude's shit still works while they're on cycle. Chris being one of them. And there are things you can do. There's fertility protocols that you can run to keep your fertility intact while you're on gear. Certainly, there are things you can do to counteract some of that suppression. But it is, I didn't do anything. And I got my ex-wife pregnant, and then I came off cold turkey and did not do any kind of PCT whatsoever, and they got her pregnant again with my son, ex-wife. So, yeah, don't make assumptions that you can't get your lady pregnant, boys. That's a lesson for you. All right, folks, that's all on that one. This was a pretty interesting interview. If you wanna watch the whole thing, it is on Chris Williamson's YouTube channel. It's a really good listen. I listen to it when I was driving. I like listening to podcasts when I'm driving. I really don't watch that much of other people's content, so if you guys think there's something I should watch and comment on, please share it with me. I'd be happy to do so. But this is a really great interview. I wish Chris Bumstead all the best in his retirement. I would think at some point, the itch is gonna strike him again. He's a young guy. It's really hard being a top-performing athlete and walking away for good when you know you're in your prime. Chris is still in his prime, and I, man, maybe he can do it. I know I wouldn't be wired that way. I would want to get out there and compete again. Competitors compete, and it is super hard to put that in a, IMean, you see it all the time in professional sports. IMean, you see guys that should've retired. They play a couple years, especially in football. You see that quarterback that should've retired two years ago, and he gets back out there, or that basketball player that's in his 40s still out there trying to hang. Some of them do it at a high level, and then eventually you just fall off on a cliff. I totally get it, man. You wanna do this shit as long as you can possibly do it. It's a rush beinGHighly competitive. It's your life. It's what you're built to do. I would imagine it's gonna be really hard for the dude to walk away, but I understand the reasons why. He's got an autoimmune disorder. He's got a young family. He probably wants to prioritize that, and at this point, IMean, that's kinda why I stepped away from bodybuilding and other stuff in my early 30s and really focused on building, really focused on raising my kids. My kids are pretty much adults now, and then got back to it later on when it was too late. I'm never gonna be vying for a Mr. Olympia contest, but I would imagine for Chris, a guy like Chris, I don't know him personally, but I assume from the level that he's competed at that he's a highly competitive person and loves doing this shit. If I were to put the over or under on his retirement being permanent, I wouldn't be surprised if the dude came back at some point. All right, bros, enough on this one. Let me know what you think in the comment section below. I love each and every one of you. You rock. Thank you for your support.