WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, Big Paul here today for another muscle rant. We are going to talk about intensity versus consistency. Which wins in the battle of bodybuilding and in life? The guy who is hardcore and intense or the guy who just slogs away and keeps his consistency up over a long period of time. We are going to dig into my thoughts on that in just one second. Alright, before we get started, I want to take a quick second and talk to you about Team Antibiotic Bodybuilding, my new member site that is up and running. We are going to have live exclusive content over there plus a forum with other coursework on PEDs. If you want to join, I have an introductory special right now, 40% off. For people that follow my channel, head over to the link in the video description below to check it out. It is a chance to access me in a private setting where we have unfiltered video content where you can ask whatever you want. And enough of that, let's talk about intensity versus consistency. Alright, this is one that drives me nuts. Absolutely nuts. I am not saying that intensity is not important. It certainly is. You need to have some sort of intent when you are trying to do something and do it successfully. But I get in arguments with guys all the time talking about how intensity is king if you want to be a pro bodybuilder and if you want to progress in the gym. If you want to be successful in life, yada, yada, yada. I will tell you, I see a lot of dudes that scream and yell, heave weights around, make an obscene scene about themselves in the gym and they never look any different. They look the same year after year. Every single year, I never see any progress. They are noisy, they yell a lot, they attract a lot of attention in the gym but they never progress. And I think the key thinGHere is consistency. Consistency beats intensity all day, every year, every week in my book. Man, there's nothing that you can do to beat consistency. The guy who just consistently grinds away at a goal, that's not to say that he doesn't have some intensity and intent to how he does it. But that guy who's in the gym consistently, that guy who follows his diet consistently, that guy who does everything correctly inside and outside of the gym is going to beat the bro that's in there screaming and yelling but only shows up three days a week and half-asses his diet and goes out and parties with his friends on the weekend and kind of measures things, kind of doesn't measure things, kind of has his hormones optimized, kind of doesn't have his hormones optimized. That guy is not going to beat the dude who is consistent at all times. I love dudes that are hardcore, intense people. I'm just in the gym keeping my head down. I'm focused on what my goals are. I'm grinding away at my goals. I'm doing all the little things that they aren't doing. I'm going to beat that dude seven days a week and I have over and over and over again. It's the same thing in business. I'll see guys that come out of the gate with a bunch of enthusiasm, I'm going to be a millionaire. They don't put in the work. They go at it at first, they're hardcore, they get a month in, then they bail out. It's the same thing too. I hear guys all the time, I'm ready to be a pro bodybuilder and they're screaming and yelling in their workouts and they come out of the gate ripping and roaring. It's almost always the guys that tell me I've got what it takes and then they bail on a contest prep after four weeks. I'm going to be the next Mr. Olympia and then they can't even make iT4 weeks until a contest prep. The most difficult part of grinding away at a goal, especially bodybuilding, is getting up every day and doing the little, boring, nuanced shit that nobody wants to do. It sucks doing food prep. It sucks weighing and measuring your food. It sucks taking your food dishes with you to your girlfriend's house. It sucks skipping out on partying with your friends. It sucks not going to that birthday dinner and eating the cake. It sucks getting up early in the morning doing cardio. Anybody can show up in the gym and scream and yell while they lift weights and go to failure and beyond failure. That is only one small little piece of the puzzle to making a successful physique athlete or to make a successful person in anything. It takes time. It takes effort and that time and effort has to be delivered over a long period of time to produce results. Time plus effort plus consistency equals results. I'll take the guy that goes 90% 100% of the time over the dude that goes 100% 30% of the time. That guy is never going to go anywhere in anything. I can already feel the butt hurts comments coming on this one. I know this is going to offend and upset some people and it's something that I know some dudes that need to hear this. You can't make up for lack of consistency with temporary effort. You just can't. It doesn't work that way. It does not work that way. You have to sustain that effort over a long period of time. You have to do it consistently if you want to produce results. IMean, just think about it with anything. I studied music in college originally and I think it was Malcolm Gladwell that talked about the 10,000 hours to perfection. Under this premise, it takes 10,000 hours of working at a craft consistently to perfect it and it applies to music. We used to talk about how it takes 10,000 hours worth of effort to master a musical instrument. 10,000 hours worth of rehearsal and practice. If you work at something 40 hours a week, there's 2,080 hours in a year. That's a full-time job. We're talking about 5 years of full-time effort to perfect a craft. Nobody's practicing their guitar 8 hours a day, 5 days a week. It's very rare. Nobody's going to the gym consistently that much either. So, it just takes a long time. I don't know why people can't figure this out. I tell guys all the time, I go to the gym 7 days a week. Usually, I'm at the gym. I'm doing something 7 days a week. That's not to say that I lift weights 7 days a week. I usually lift 5 to 6 days a week, typically 6. On my 7th day, I'll go in and do some cardio and practice some posing. I'm constantly researching stuff and learninGHow to perfect things in the gym such as my nutrition, my form when it comes to exercise, optimizing recovery, perfecting and getting my hormones optimized, all of these things that come together to produce results. I am going to beat the guy that's in the gym 3 days a week and only thinking about this stuff 3 hours a week. Every day, all day, all the time. And I've proven it over and over and over again. I don't know why this is a mystery to people. I feel like IMake sort of versions of this same video over and over and over again. And every time people get upset saying that more work is not, doesn't produce more results. I will agree with that to a certain degree. If your game plan sucks, if you're just doing more of a shitty game plan, of course you're not going to have results. But if you have your game plan locked in and you work harder at it than other people, you are going to have better results. It's simple. It's just simple math at the end of the day. If I put more hours into something, and I continue to do it over a period of time, let's say if I spend 9 hours a week in the gym, and then I spend another 10 hours a week focused on my diets, that's 20 hours a week. For the guy who's only coming into the gym 3 hours a week, I am doing as much work in 1 week as that guy does in 2 months. Who do you think is going to win? Who do you think is going to have better results? It's going to be me every time. It's going to be you if you put in that effort. Now that's not to say you can't overwork. There are people that overwork, but I think it is way harder to overwork than you think it is. And it's really a simple formula. The person who consistently works at something and does it over and over and over again, doesn't get deterred, doesn't get too high, doesn't get too low, stays medium, and just keeps grinding away at that goal, they are going to beat the dude that comes in, screams and yells, and is going intense 2 or 3 days a week all the time. It's just no ifs, ands, or buts about it. I can't emphasize this enough. I don't know why this is a mystery to people. I don't know why guys have a hard time wrapping their head around this, and I know I'm going to get all the dudes coming at me with the overtrening stuff, and you know, you can work too hard. I got better results when I pulled back and I did less. I have yet to see anybody show me a before and after picture of where they have worked less and got better results. You might feel better, you might feel less worked, but that doesn't often equal better results. So if you want better results, be consistent. Don't worry about intensity. It does matter to a certain degree, but consistent effort, sustained effort with intent over a long period of time is always going to beat short-term bursts of intensity every single time. All right folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. I'm sure there's going to be a lot of people that think I'm way wrong about this. It just bothers me that somehow people have deluded themselves into believing that less work equals better results. It almost never trenslates like that. There are occasions where people do overwork, and I have had clients that do overwork, and I have to pull them back, but it is always easier to pull somebody back than it is to push them forward. If you're going to err on the side of anything, err on the side of doing too much work if you want the best results. All right folks, let me know what you think in the comment section below. I appreciate each and every one of you. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.