 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, Big Paul here today with another contest prep update. I'm 12 weeks out from Masters National too humalog at meal one, three, and five. I don't really need it otherwise. And then a bit of an astrozole for some estrogen management. I take a half a milligram every other day. Some people will be crashed with estrogen with that much DHT derivatives in their cycle. I'm not one of those people. I'm a high estrogen converter, so I have to be careful with my estradiol. But that's where I'm at. IMean, there's no oral. I don't know why this idiot that posted my cycle, my supposed cycle up. I don't even know where he got it from. He just made it up really. It's just made it up to get clicks and views. So don't believe what people say. He's a moron. Posted my cycle up. Supposedly what, you know, I'm running all these orals and just crazy nonsense that's just not true. Why would I run orals this far out from a show? Why would I be running tren this far out from a show? Said I was taking something like 200 micrograms of Climbuterol. Why would I be running Climbuterol already if I'm getting leaner without it? I save it for when I need it. And yeah, IMay run some tren when I get close to the show. I'm just going to listen to my body and see what I need. If I don't need it, I won't run it. You know, it's just like, it's just common sense. And the last time I checked, 2.8 grams is a pretty spicy cycle. If you can't grow and be big on that much, then you need to play golf or something. I don't know what to tell you. It's you're, you're choosing the wrong sport. Estrogen management. Like I said, nastrozole peptides are running 15 units of generic GH. I am going to be lowering it to nine soon because I'm switching to pharma. And those of you that know, know what nine units of pharma means. Humanoid high day only, as IMentioned the fat burners. Yes, there is some fat burners in an ECY stack of ephedrine, caffeine, Yohimbine. I added that in starting Sunday and I had to drop it already. I just, the ephedrine and Yohimbine just do not agree with me. I don't know what it is. They make me feel sick. They make me feel nauseous. I feel unwell. And I think it's the Yohimbine more, more than it is the ephedrine. I don't know. So maybe it would just be Clinbeard all this year. I just do not feel good on the ECY stack. It makes me feel like absolute dog shit. So anyway, don't believe what you people are saying on the internet. It's just not freaking true. You generally, if you find it on Reddit about bodybuilding, it's probably the dumbest advice you could possibly get. I have been completely open and trensparent about everything that I do. Probably to my own detriment, I don't really, there's really no personal benefit to me other than educating and in trying to help guys that are coming up because I always felt like bodybuilders hid this shit when I was younger and it was like you had to play a guessing game, a whack-a-mole and just sort of figure it out yourself and there's a lot of missteps and doing the wrong thing and wasting your time on stuff that doesn't work. And the same guy, I was telling me that D-ball is the best, the best, you know, best oral out there. IMean, okay, maybe it is for you. I just haven't found D-ball to be that effective for me. I don't like it. It doesn't agree with me. Makes me grow gyno, makes me bloated mess, makes my blood pressure go through the roof, converts to methyl estradiol, it's liver toxic, tanks my appetite. So if something like that causes me all these issues, why would I run it? I want to be healthy and I want to pick quality stuff and run it as high as I possibly can at safe doses. Anyway, that's my rant on the PEDs. Health supplements. I did a full video on my health supplement stack. If you want to check it out, it's up on the YouTube channel. Glucose management. I run the suppressor max Burberry and product on high days only right now in the offseason. IMay run it every day. General health, whole food, multivitamin Two times a day, 2000 milligrams of vitamin C, 5000 units of vitamin D. I've had some people tell me I should be running that higher. My vitamin D is in line. I don't know. It's probably not worth runninGHigher. There is vitamin D toxicity. Cardiovascular health, I run 3000 milligrams of fish oil per day. I get the double strength fish oil pills, 2000 milligrams of flax oil. Why the flax versus the fish? They have different fatty acid profiles, slightly different. I don't know how much of a difference it makes. You could probably just pick one or the other and run it. But that's what I've been doing just to make sure I get a nice mix of fatty acids in my diet. 100 milligrams of ubiquinol per day. 1200 milligrams of citrus bergamot for cholesterol lipids. 1200 milligrams of red rice yeast extract. I have all these things in here to help keep my heart healthy and manage lipids while on PEDs. That is something as you start slamming PEDs, especially the DHT derivatives, it seems to have a negative effect on your lipids. And I try to be mindful of this by limiting saturated fats in my diet and being very, very careful with, with my supplements and food choices. And sometimes I do run a statin if it gets a little too high. I don't like the way the statin makes me feel. So just, it's sort of play it by ear for liver health. I'm running milk, thistle and tuck up. Somebody was telling me tuck. I can kind of mess up your stomach. I don't know. First attachment has a liver product called QRF that has milk, thistle, NAC and tuck all in it. That's really great. I've been running that at one occasion for kidney. I run the Reno reset product from first attachment. If you pick up these products from first attachment, I have a discount code of EB10. There is a link in the profile below. That works very well for digestion, ox biol and high day, digestive enzymes and psyllium husk at night. I have to be very careful with fiber. This is why I don't eat a ton of vegetables. Fiber tends to flare up my IBS if I'm not careful with it. Rx meds, 40 milligrams of telmosardin. That'll probably come out at some point on prep just because my blood pressure will get too low towards the end of prep. trening, I'm running an RP style PPL. I am putting more trening videos up so you can see how I tren. People are always very disappointed with how I tren because I just, I don't use a ton of weight. IMean, I would say I use moderate amount of weights. My split is a modified PPL. I tren six days a week. First day is chest and tris and quads, then ham and calves. Uh, then I do a pull day for back delts and tris. Then I do an adductor's glutes and hams leg day. So I split my leg days up where it's more of a quad focused leg workout and then an adductor and ham focused workout. And then I do another back day and then take a day off. So six days on one day off rep scheme, 10 to 12 reps on compound movements, 12 to 15 on isolations. I go to what I consider sort of mechanical failure, which is really like one to two RIR. If I am struggling on the last rep, then I rack it afterwards. As far as volume goes somewhere in the 10 to 20 sets per week, depending on the body part, I just kind of go by feel with that anymore. If I'm feeling very fatigued and run down, I'll maybe pull the volume back on a night. If I'm feeling great, IMay up the volume just a little bit. I'm not really programming it out on contest prep. Really my goal on contest prep as I have up here is to not lose muscle. Don't get hurt and lose fat. People think they're going to advance their weights, get stronger, all that jazz on contest prep. When do you hear of most bodybuilders tearing muscles? It is always the second half of contest prep. Always. That's when they fuck themselves up. So you have to be very careful with your trening. Cardio right now, I need to change this one here, but it's 20 minutes of lifts four times a week. I've been doing a little bit more than that, but I just try to go for a walk. I just do a walk every day. I don't do anything crazy. You know, five days a week, you know, four or five days a week, I go for a 20, 30 minute walk, something like that. Plans and thoughts, diet adherence. I had the day missed because of the IBS flare up. I'm definitely flat. So we'll have to fill back out at some point. Coach's feedback. He added the fat burners in this week. He and I are going to have to talk about that. I don't think I can do this ECY stack. This shit bothers me. Other than that, the diet's the same. Cardio's the same. Plans are for two shows. Masters, Nationals, July 18th. My backup show, if things don't go the way I want, at North Americans, or at Nationals, would be North Americans at the end of August. All right, folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. Thank you for watching. I appreciate each and every one of you. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you.