WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right bros, Big Paul here today and I've got a clip from a recent Canadian Beef podcast where they talk about some insane Brazilian cycles. I've heard stories about the Brazilian cycles and this seems to be some first-hand information. The legend of the Brazilians is that they don't tren very hard and they take a shit ton of gear. We're going to listen to this. I'm going to give you my reaction. I have not watched this full video yet. One of my friends sent me a clip of it and said, Paul, you should make a video about this. Josh, thank you for the tip. When I listen to it, I listen to a little piece of it, but we'll do the whole thing together and see what I think. Before we get started, I want to remind you guys about the Team Antibiotic Bodybuilding community member site. I have that up and running now. We're doing a live call this Thursday on how to structure a carb cycling diet for fat loss with a Q&A at the end of it. If you want to catch that, go sign up. Link is in the video description below if you want to get signed up for the member site. It's pretty cheap. We do weekly livEQ&As and there's a message board where we share things and there's some free coursework in there too. There's some stuff on anabolics and etc. Anyway, enough of that. We're going to dig into all this in just one second. Hey, I got a question. You mentioned down in Brazil there's not like a culture of trening super hard and they make up for it with drugs. Based on what we've been talking about here, do they take more shit than people do in the States? Oh, 100%. I can show you right now. It is a common thing to be on a gram of tren 200 MCGs of T3 and stuff like that. I've heard even more than that. I've actually heard them talk about 1400 milligrams of tren. 200 micrograms of T3 is insane to me. Here's the thing with T3, what I've seen over the years. T3 is equally as good at melting muscle as it is at losing fat. It's burning fat. You have to be careful with T3. I've had experiences with it where it has run away and I've just lost a catastrophic amount of muscle and then you have to regain it afterwards. What's the point of dieting and getting ready to look good for a show if you're going to lose all your muscle? I just don't see any point in that. I see guys all the time that severely over diet and they'll run things down. I guess if you're taking enough tren, all things are possible. tren is the ultimate anti-catabolic. If you're running 200, 150 milligrams of tren a day. If you're seeing a gram a week, I'm going to assume that it's 150 milligrams of tren ACE per day, but 200 micrograms of T3 is just absolutely nutty to me. I don't know why in the world you would run that much T3. Plus with that much tren, is it even necessary? I would be a furnace on that much tren. I didn't even use any tren on this diet. I didn't use any T3 and I don't think my calories ever got below on my low days, like 3,000, 3,200 calories, something like that. I don't know why a big open class bodybuilder would need to run 200 micrograms of T3 with that much tren. It just seems, I don't know, unless you're just eating like complete trash, which is possible. You never know if guys are super lazy and they're letting the drugs do all the work. That is possible. My fucking brains are all over the wall. Why? Just listen to this. Even nowadays when I live in Canada, my worst movements are dumbbell movements because my gym there, like all the gyms in my city, and my city is a big-ass city, the dumbbells don't go above 50 kilos, which is like 100 pounds. Most gyms you won't be allowed. So I don't mean to speak shit of anyone because I love all Brazilian guys, but look at the weakest body part of like Rafael Brandão, like horse. Their weakest body part is always the back. People there don't even deadlift at all. I haven't ever seen one of those guys deadlifting or even like barbell rowing. Well, I don't deadlift or barbell row. Maybe that's why I got a week back, but I don't blame guys for not deadlifting and barbell rowing. They are very high-risk exercises, especially as you get older. I don't see guys over 40 doing barbell rows or deadlifts anymore for the most part on a regular basis. You're young, you can do that shit. So I don't know. IMean, yes, probably contributes to some of the back density that guys have, but I don't necessarily think that barbell rows or deadlifts are a requirement for bodybuilding. Well, look, I'm old. I'm not young. If I were in my 20s or early 30s like these guys, I probably wouldn't be doing it. If you can get away with it, do it. But I don't think it's that uncommon for bodybuilders to not do barbell rows or deadlifts. Tons of bodybuilders I know don't do barbell rows or deadlifts. That's not that uncommon. Stuff like that. So it's just... I see Horst putting like fucking 2,000 pounds on a leg press though. I'm sure there's enough, like Horst, I'm sure there's enough weight. I just don't know, man. I feel like I don't think a deadlift necessarily is going to build a big back. No, I'm just like saying... See, he agreed with me. Deadlift doesn't necessarily build a big back. I don't think deadlift provides that much stimulus, honestly, for lat size. And also I think a lot of times maybe it's why guys end up with all the fuckinGHernias and the diastasis from the abdominal pressure that it creates. Same thing with squats. Just a theory. I don't know. But I don't know that it's necessary. And yeah, Horst doing 2,000 pound leg presses, that's crazy. I'm thankful for the culture itself. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, deadlifting is hard and that's a lot why a lot of people don't do it. Hey Robin, open this up. I'm going to see you on IG again. I don't know if you're going to lose muscle faster or gain muscle faster. Just open the link I sent you. This is the protocol of like William Martini. IMean, exactly what he was saying. I don't know if you're going to lose muscle or gain muscle faster with that much T3 and TREN. I would probably not look that good if I did that. I don't think I would. That much T3 is just insane. And with the TREN, it's probably, you're probably going to, yeah, it's a real chance that you might lose some muscle. You guys maybe know him. I know him, yeah. He's gigantic. Yeah, look at his cycle. I competed with William. Yeah, he's big, man. Okay. You're one of Chad's guys, too, eh? Or he was at one point. Well, this would be good for views. Yeah. Just open it up. Yeah, it was, it was like this. I'm not sure what he does right now, but. Yeah, but dude, who's, oh, he's posting this. Yeah, he's posting it. All right, so what do we got here? We got, well, we see a split here. This is all in Portuguese, I guess. 700 milligrams of testinanthate, I think. 300 milligrams of Prop. 500 milligrams of Mastron. It's such a low dose. 700 milligrams of Stanzanol. 1.2 milligrams or grams of TREN. I don't know how he would come up with 1.2 grams of TREN if it's dosed at 100 or 150 milligrams. I'd have to do some math on that. 80 milligrams of Voxangelone tablets. So, Antivar. 1 microgram of Anastrozole today. Thermos. I guess it's thermogenics. 200 micrograms of T3. Jesus Christ. 600 micrograms of T4. I don't know what this trenslates into. 60 milligrams of Phrenol. I don't know what that is. I don't know. 900 milligrams of caffeine. IMean, if you're drinking a bunch of energy drinks, you can hit that. I'm trying to think. 900 or 600 milligrams of Phrenol. Maybe that's Ephedrine? I don't know. This is all, I guess, in Portuguese if they're from Brazil. Let's see what they say. Okay, 700. Okay, so a gram of TAST. 700 stanzazole. Winnie. 500 mast. 1.2 grams of TREN. That's uh... It's funny. These big boys reacting to 1.2 grams of TREN. I take it that they don't run that much. IMean, I've heard of guys running more. I've heard of guys running 1,400 milligrams of TREN. Some pros that I've talked to. I would never be able to run that much myself, but it's not unheard of. The most I think I've ever run is 100 milligrams a day, and I did that a long time ago. I did that shit. I don't know, but I, man, I was like a goddamn furnace. Like a blast furnace. And I couldn't sleep. Go up. Look at the T3. Well, look. IMean, fucking look at the results, bro. What do you think? That's what... IMean, he's thick, so yeah, it's working. Like, yes, yes. The drugs work. They work. Look at the T3 right there. Like 200 mcgs. Oh, it must be a type. 600 T4. Why, dude? Yeah, I don't understand the T4 when you're taking a T3. It just doesn't make any sense. 100 caffeine. When is that? Like, I hope that's like spaced out over some time. If you go above, are you going to see the trening? There's no rest. Okay, so that was ephedrine, I guess. At least that's what I think they said. You know at all. I don't know what this means. Chest, quads, delts, bicep, triceps, hamstrings. Well, you don't need to rest. He probably doesn't need to rest or sleep. I'm 50 years old, and I tren six days a week, sometimes seven. IMean, it all depends on how you're trening, too. IMean, you might not be trening failure. If you're not trening absolute failure, you're not doing deadlifts, you're not doing squats, you're not doinGHigh fatigue exercises. I don't think it's that uncommon to tren six, seven days a week. You can get away with it if you're keeping reps in reserve. It really just depends on how you're trening, so that doesn't shock me that much. These guys probably all tren heavy and hard and go to failure, and then, you know, thus you're going to need more time to recover. Or just... You can just tren all day, and how are you going to get enough sleep with that much tren, you know? Wow. Just redlining. That's crazy. What's the most amount of caffeine that you guys have used in one day, like on like a prepper, like when you're really using, like, stents? I never really think in, like, isolate. Probably like 700 or 800 milligrams. IMean, it doesn't do anything at the end, though. Like, you're drinking energy drinks, you don't feel a damn thing. Dude, that Anarchy Labs, like, Ninja pre-workout fat burn or whatever it is, one scoop is like 700 milligrams. Yeah, IMean, they seem shocked at 900 milligrams, but 900 milligrams isn't crazy. IMean, your average frat boy gamer is probably drinking that much in Monsters. IMean, there's only, IMean, there's 200, 250 milligrams. Depending on how big the Monsters are, there's like 200, I think 240 milligrams. Or in a, maybe in a, not a Monster, but the other energy drink, I can't think of it right now. A Rockstar, yeah, I think there might be 240 milligrams. So, IMean, three of those things, IMean, you're there. It's not, and I've seen some pre-workouts that are, IMean, the average pre-workout's like 400 milligrams of caffeine, so 900 isn't anything crazy. I've probably consumed more than that before. Just, you know, drinking fucking coffee and drinking energy drinks. I don't think that's that out of the realm. Out of the things on here, that's not that shocking. I would say that this cycle, to me, I'm not that shocked by this cycle. I'm just surprised that these guys are shocked by it. I'm sure they've, IMean, maybe they're, I don't know, maybe they don't run that crazy stuff, but I would imagine that they've seen crazier, but who knows? Reading it, I was like, adding it up. I'm like, that doesn't make, that can't be, I'm like, really? Wow. Dead ass. I've only like done two thirds of a scoop on that. It's a lot. Accidentally, you take two scoops of that and like, you're dead. You're gone. A gram and a half. I think the lethal dose of caffeine, I can't remember, it's somewhere around 10,000 milligrams. Don't go and try this, young men. You'll kill yourself, but it may even be more than that. I don't remember. It's something ridiculous. I'm at a half a caffeine in two scoops. That's, I feel like I've probably come close to maybe a gram in one day, you know? I did when I was younger, like when I was a kid. Nowadays, man, I didn't go over 400. I just feel like a crackhead and anxious as hell. Yeah, I've definitely gone over 400. Yeah, I've definitely gone over a gram of caffeine. I'm sure most of you probably have too. I try to back off of it in the offseason. I've been much better. I take caffeine breaks completely where I come off of it completely to try to help with my sleep, my rest, and my recovery, but I don't, IMean, you know, if you're drinking coffee and energy drinks all day long, you can easily hit a gram. Yeah, there's a fine line, right? Especially like, especially pre-workout, because once you take too much pre-workout, you get like no pump. You lose your pump. I think when you're taking that much caffeine, you're probably at the end of a prep and you're like flat anyways, so it's hard to say what's causing that, you know? That's true. Yeah, that's a lot though, man. I think there's way better stimulants than caffeine, you know? Like, ephedrine is great, I'm assuming. Actually, dude, I was about to mention, I personally prefer ephedrine over caffeine. I like ephedrine a lot. I would rather take 20, 25 milligrams of ephedrine than drink a cup of coffee, although I take breaks from it. I only limit it to contest prep, or if I really need to dial in and get some work done, that's the only time I would ever use it. I started using these every once in a while, the soft gels that you sent me. Oh, yo, I want to talk to you guys about those, actually, yeah. So, what are you using? Are you using Ascend or Descend? All right, I guess they're getting into some other stuff now. They're finished up with that portion of it. Yeah, I'm honestly, I'm not that shocked by the cycle here. It's, IMean, I've, like I said, I've heard of guys taking 1,400 milligrams of Trent. I know of guys that do. You know, it's not out of the realm of reality. I'm not saying that you should go out and do that. I would never do that. I don't think I could, man, I couldn't even handle 150 milligrams of Trent on this contest prep. I had to drop it completely. Couldn't sleep, couldn't, you know, function. I felt like complete dog shit. But, you know, I'm not shocked by this. As a big boy, I am kind of, you know, surprised that it wasn't more, to be honest with you. But the, really the part on here that shocked me was the T3 and the T4. I don't understand. They didn't talk about growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone either. I didn't see any growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone on there. The T3 and T4 seems crazy to me, though. That part, I don't know how you maintain any muscle mass. Was that a misprint? I don't know. But, you know, the numbers add up because they come in 25 milligram increments. So I've never heard of anybody using 200. I've maxed out at 100. I've heard people using 100 before and even that is sort of uncommon. But T3, as IMentioned earlier, is equally as good at melting muscle as it is at melting fat. So unless you have a really shitty metabolism, I wouldn't run T3 at all. You don't need it. 90% of people, 95% of people that prep don't need it. If you're really fat, if you start off prep really fat, if you have a really crazy slow metabolism, sometimes it is necessary. Sometimes people get some metabolic down regulation at the end and they just need a replacement dose to help them feel good. There is some suppression, but for most people, I don't think it's necessary. Alright folks, that's all I got for you. Just a reminder, check out the Team Antibiotic Bodybuilding website. Link is in the video description below. It is in school if you want to check it out at school.com slash Team Antibiotic Bodybuilding or Team Antibiotic Bodybuilding, I think. Anyway folks, I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.antibioticbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.