! All right, folks, Big Paul here today with Chris Edmonds, lead mountain dog trainer with us, Chris. Doing well, man. Excited to get on this podcast and talk to body body. I know, man, I'm such a bodybuilding nerd, dude. It's my hobby. I run an IT company for my primary business and it's just all I think about all day, every day. I'm such a dork. I never would have thought that talking about it on YouTube would have yielded any money or anything. I just did it because it's a funny story because my training partner got annoyed with people coming up to me in the gym asking questions. I used to train some people locally. He's like, man, why don't you just put some videos up on YouTube and tell the people just to watch the videos there and then the channel just blew up. It was an accident. It was a complete accident. That's right. That's cool. I guess people like bodybuilding as much as I do. At least some. My girlfriend gets tired of it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm sure my wife is like, man, you've got to stop talking about this shit with me. Go tell your friends this. My girlfriend's really tolerant. She's quiet. She'll just get quiet. Then I know I'm like, yeah, she probably doesn't want to hear about MTOR and muscle protein synthesis. Right. So I probably should shut up and move on to another topic. I've got some other nerds I can talk to that shit about. Right. So what are you doing now? Are you primarily training or are you doing any competing yourself? So right now I'm just, I went to this pretty extensive diet phase of where I strip all the body fat off. And then now right now I'm in the process of a rebound. So I was out. That's the fun part. Yo, 100% man. Like, you know, I think you almost forget when you're in that deficit for so long how it feels to be like full blown pumped in the gym. Like you think your pumps are good, but then it's like, oh, fuck, look, there wasn't even sniffing where I am now. But do you get like this for me, like I get towards the end of the offseason, like when I'm probably full bloat Lord and the, the pumps start to go away. Like it's just gets really hard to get them anymore. You know, it's really interesting, right? Like, so I think it's one of those things that I just talked about, but on the opposite side, like you don't realize that they're diminishing until they start coming back after you drop the initial 10, 15 pounds of just water and bullshit fat, you know, I have to wonder, I mean, it makes me wonder if it isn't insulin resistance or what the hell is going on. Or maybe you just like, I don't know. You're, when you come out of the rebound, I mean, everything's working optimally. Your gastric emptying is at an all time high. Your insulin sensitivity is at an all time high. You're, I speculate that I don't have any evidence of this, but I would imagine that myostatin is probably low. I want to say yes. Yeah. And it's just, it's just a prime environment for growth. I always, always laugh when, when you hear these, like when I'm going to say really smart people talk about, like, there's no like post-show rebound. I'm like, are you serious? Like you just don't know how to manage that time properly then. No, I mean, it blows me away. I talked, you know, Justin Harris is my coach. Right. And I was always kind of scared coming out of a diet to start pushing food and Justin's just like, we're going full throttle, man. Coming out of a show, I mean, this is, this is the, this is the best time to put on size. And I was like, all right, if you say so. And I had that one year where I put on like 40 pounds of stage one year, man. It was, it was nutty. It was absolutely nutty. I, I like, like, I felt like I've been shooting myself in the foot and doing it wrong my entire life. Yeah. You know, I had this in 2019. I had won a show with John and John Meadows. And coming out of that show, he was like, Chris, I wanted just pound food with you. Right. So literally here's where his diet instructions to me. I need to eat eight to nine ounces of meat and 120 grams of carbs as often as you can get it in. I like that. Yeah. I don't even fuck it. Like it's 60 minutes after you ate. If you can get it in again, do it. And like, we just repeated that for eight weeks. And I think I was the math on that was like, I was on stage at like two 15 and in four weeks, I was up to two 52 and still have like abs and visible quad separation. It was a while. It's mind blowing to me that it's not standard operating procedure for most coaches. Now a lot of guys still reverse diet people, which I get, you don't want people to get fat. I think that's where the whole revered in concept. Like I understand the reverse diet thing because you don't want people getting fat coming on show. But I think it has the exact opposite effect because people are super hungry. You're, you're coming off all the fat burns. You're, you're coming off the AIs after a show or after, after a cut and you're in a prime environment for your appetite to be through the roof and people are just going to cheat. So why don't you fill them up with good food? Correct. Correct. I mean, I am definitely on the same wavelength. They are like, if I can fill you with chicken, rice, olive oil and vegetables and fruit, like just mash away, man. It's pretty hard to get fat eating that. Yes. Correct. Correct. I agree. I mean, you look, I don't know if you've seen, there's a documentary on Netflix called the Blue Zone Diet. I haven't seen that. No, it's interesting. And they studied like places around the world where obesity is low and and longevity is high. And basically those places eat meat, beans and rice. That's what they eat. Right. You know, it's like places like Japan, places in the Mediterranean. It's, it's, it's, I'm like, bodybuilders knew this shit a long time ago, man. I could have told you eat meat and rice in some other world. You won't get fat. 100%. So yeah, it's just, it's just, you know, that just reaffirms it. But I, my thought process is if people are going to be hungry, let's, let's just take advantage of that. A thousand percent. You know, and something I actually do with clients too, like is I'm just not scared to say, hey, like, let's just keep the foods you love in there. And the ones you, let's say if you're just burnout on eating, you know, 99% lean turkey, like, okay, cool. We don't have to eat that. Like we can do whatever you want. Like just pick a lean meat source. Let's crush it. And then like, if you want oats, cream or rice, you know, rice, potatoes, I'm a big believer in fruits with my meal plan. So like splitting up a meal of like sweet and savory, right? So if you did like, say eight ounces of chicken, you did 50 grams of cream or rice, 200 grams of rice, and then 50 to 100 grams of fruit, man, it goes down so easy. What is it with the, I hear a lot of bodybuilders telling, or coaches telling their people not to eat fruit, like they're scared of fruit dose. So it's a weird, that's another one, man. Like how many people have gotten fat eating fruit? Yeah, no shit. I mean, how many, I'm thinking about how many berries you'd have to eat to get 200 grams of carbs. It would be huge. I mean, just, I, I, there's some fruit in each meal too, man. And for the, you know, a figure, you're getting some micronutrients and a little bit of fiber and it tastes good. Right. I see I'm much more willing, especially in the all season to eat strawberries and bananas and oranges than I would be to sit down and eat broccoli. You know? Yeah, me too. And it's on the stomach. It's interesting too. I don't know how much you know about the FODMAP system. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I've gone through some serious GI issues because I have IBS and I've gone to a low FODMAP diet. And it's funny because broccoli is a high FODMAP food and everybody built it. It's broccoli. I get a lot of guys that have gas and indigestion and I'm like, let's, let's pull the broccoli out and see what happens. And a lot of times it fixes it. You know, with the FODMAP stuff, it doesn't mean that it's a problem. It could be a problem. You know how it goes. But all right, folks, I want to take a quick break from this episode. To tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, the scientific principles of antibiotics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. I don't know. I don't know why I got scared of fruit. It's it's insane to me. It's just, you know, there's a lot of dogma that's been around for a long time. I don't think people have actually taken the time to step back and ask why or actually look at the science behind it. Correct. Yeah. And I mean, you know, I think I found this too, especially with clients. You give a steady diet of fruit, the probability of them cheating on sweet treats. It goes way down. Yeah. I had something that satisfies that urge. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're 100 percent correct. And I get, I know you probably have gotten there too, but after eating meat and rice for so long at the end of an offseason, like, I don't want to cheat, man. Like Justin Tomlin could take a cheat. I don't want to fucking want it. I'm so full. I don't want it. I agree. And that's kind of the point where I like to get people to, if you're, if you're at that point, you're, you're eating enough food. Oh, correct. Yeah. Anything past that I've always found like is too much in excess. Like, I mean, we've all been full to our, you know, what it feels like our throat. Yeah. You don't want to be to the point where, I mean, there is a threshold, like if digestion is a mess, the extra food you're eating is not doing anything anyway. And especially with impact and training performance, like, you know, if you go to lay down on a lying leg curl and your stomach is like hurting because that just your stomach's full. I don't envision having a good training session when you feel like that. No, no, I agree 100% with that one. You ever get the people that disappear after contest prep? Yes. Yeah. We all know what's happening there. You know, I've always wondered with them, right? Like, do they just need some time off? Cause I've had people like just step away for a month and they come back and they're like, Hey, Chris, I'm ready to jump back in. And then I'll have people like two, three years later, or maybe they'll even like like an Instagram post. Of mine or something. And I'm like, how are you doing, man? They're like, I am so sorry. Like I just couldn't take one more second to check in or diet food. And then I'm like, and then we're in terrible shape. Yeah. Usually for me, I know what's going on. It's a food bender. They're, they're face first in the pizza and ice cream. Correct. And they're funny, right? Is they bail on you when I would be cool if you did that. I completely get it. I've been there, but come back to me. I can rectify it way quicker than you can. Yeah. Yeah. Same here, man. I guess it's they're embarrassed or ashamed. Correct. Probably is what it is, but it seems like I have a lot of guys that do that. And it's also, I get all these dudes that say they want to be a pro and they've never done a show before. And then they do one show and they're like, I'm out, man. I am done. Right. Or they say all my wife, girlfriend, whoever is like, no more. I can't take one more section of you like this. Yeah. Every show I've ever done when I get done, I always say this is my last one. So I get it. Like, I'm not fucking doing this again, man. This is awful. When are you competing again? What's your plan? So not plan for next year is going to be, I'm going to do Masters USA. So I'll do a qualifying show before. But I'll do Masters USA and then depending on how that goes and how I look, I might just roll right into national for that for that. Yeah, that would be a good plan. Man, nationals this year. Holy crap. That was a stack lineup, man. Yeah. That was a lot of big boys down. Yeah. I mean, there were a lot of guys that didn't get pro cards. It looked like pros to me. Oh, agreed. Agreed. Yeah, that was that was nutty. Uh, I didn't realize they didn't have a Masters division. It was just Rayler. So yeah, just open. Yeah. Masters USA is that was my, actually my first national show. So I didn't know what to expect. Right. It was, um, I mean, I've had clients compete in national shows, but I've never actually done one myself. So that was, that was an interesting experience. I was, I just went in, I told myself no expectations, whatever happens, happens. And, um, you know, I was, that was surprised. You know, there was a lot of good quality, quality guys. Your guy looked really good. Yeah. Man, I was really, I was really fortunate. I've been with Chris like, so he's did him and I have been friends since 2019. And then when John passed, he came on with me and did training. Like I just wrote his training programs. And then after a year of doing that, he was like, man, I just want to switch over and do a hundred percent with you. So we had done masters USA's in, let's see, 2022. And he got second in both classes. And then this year he got second in 40 and first in 45. So we were really pleased with what he brought up. They, they told him last year, like they wanted bigger shoulders, bigger arms, better hamstrings, and we fixed all that. So now they did the feedback from Sandy was we just got to, they wanted his back blown out. And I said, fine, fuck it. We're going to blow out of that. That was the same feedback I got more back. I mean, they got one one. I've been texting back and forth with him. His back was pretty ridiculous. He had a, I mean, I noticed they kept running us through the back double bicep. They did. I think they did it three times and that was the, that was definitely what, what sealed it for him. You know, he had, he had really good condition. Um, he was great. And, you know, again, I always try to like to take my bias out of it. Cause we'll look to our clients. Obviously everybody, it's on that stage. Think they, thinks they won, right? Yeah. So, you know, we, we, uh, got back to the room, we assessed the video. So I was on the, I was in the front row of VIP, like right behind the judges. So I thought, actually, really have a good assessment of what everything looked like, and I was like, man, fuck it. Like we just got to come back and just slam the fucking door. So he's going to, he's going to do North Americans and then we'll see how that goes and maybe keep going if we need to. Well, bigger in a shred, it always works. Correct. Exactly. Yeah. I just went out there with the intention just to have fun and meet some people and just whatever happened to happen. I was a little disappointed. It was only me and one, one other super heavy weight, but, you know, Hey, you know, I was like, I guess when you're in those like 45 plus classes, like super heavy weights, hard to hold on all that tissue, you know? Yeah. I guess there aren't many super heavies at my age. I weighed in around 240, but I'm also tall. So, you know, it's probably, you know, talking to Justin, he probably should have, you know, try to put on another 10 pounds if we can, but I'm going to be 50 here in another month or two. I don't know how possible that is. Oh, right. Yeah. Yeah. So I feel like I'm probably late or you've been doing it for a long time. No, dude, here's my story. I got into it when I was a teenager. I was in high school and I started out. And I went pretty hard until my early thirties and I just had a bunch of bad injuries, man. I blew my back out on deadlifts, screwed my shoulder up, blew out my ACL. And I'm just like, man, I don't think I can do this anymore. And had kids started a business and I took almost 12 years completely off from the gym. I did not lift. I did not do a damn thing. And I got skinny. I did the amazing thing of losing weight and getting fatter at the same time. Yeah. Yeah. So I came back. Let's see. Started back in the gym. I think about five years ago and I did my first show back three years ago and I looked horrible. I looked absolutely fucking horrible. Overdieted, over-trained, tried to train like I did in my twenties and it just didn't work. Like I had to really just rethink how I train being my age, you know, right. And it's probably counter to the, the, the, probably the way that John's training works. I've done some of John's programs before. I remember doing the creeping death thinking I was going to die, but I actually pulled back my training a bit, lightened things up. I stopped training to failure on everything and went to more of a volume based training, mainly just to work around injuries, man, because I just could not stay in the gym training the way I used to train, you know, to failure on everything heavy sliger and that kind of style of training. It just didn't work for me anymore. I just kept getting hurt. So I had to, I'm like, well, this is not fun. If I'm just hurt and beat up all the time. So I'm just going to see what I can do with this and really focus on the nutrition and be intelligent with the PEDs. And that's, that's where I went from it in. Seems to have worked my body responded well to it. So like I said, I have no aspirations. I know there's no Olympia title in my future. I'm just out there having fun, man. You know, what's really interesting you said about the volume, right? Is so I've done every single one of John's programs. Like most people don't know there's 39 total of them that, and all of them weren't released because there was a good chunk in the middle that in his words, like they were just so bad, shit crazy. He was scared people would hurt themselves. And I can tell you, himself part of a lot of those training sessions, they were like, I would say that even of competitors, most wouldn't have wanted to do what we were doing then. It was just, it was just, it was just psychotic. It was high volume and high intensity. Oh, his stuff is crazy, man. I've run a, yeah, I've run a few of them before. So when after he passed, I kept a lot of the principles that he had instilled in me, because I worked under him for 12 years. And, uh, but then when I started to do it, I started to like get back into volume training, cause that's where I was well before I met him is I was just do tons of volume because you think about it. I grew up in like the early 2000s bodybuilding. So it was like all volume shit, like all J cutler stuff. I got loved it branch warring. Like those are the guys I like really looked and learned from. And I started getting back into that between 2021 and 23. And I saw it was almost 19 pounds of pure muscle that I gained over the course of that two year period. So, and I really believe like my supplements didn't change. My food stayed the same. Only I had modified with was just like adding volume to my training back to where it used to be. Yeah. I, yeah, that's sort of what I did. I just, I, I still, you know, I'm a progressive overload guy. I always have been, but I, what I did was change up my program, move my rep ranges up, add it more volume, and then just started progressing the weights in that, in that, in that, that form, that fashion. And, you know, I, and I grew from that here. I'll show you this. This is, this is wild man. I'm almost embarrassed to show this picture of what I look like. Um, my first show back is pretty bad. And this is versus this year. And let me pull this up. So this was, I was 185 pounds on stage. That was 2021. Huge difference. Yeah. Man, I, this is what happens when you take too much T3 and do too much cardio. Yeah. Yeah. But it's, you know, I, here's a, it's a pet peeve of my man. And you, you talk about John going hard and, and training hard is I get these guys that are, I see all these Jim bros that are just obsessed with overtraining. And I'm like, I go to the gym and I look around, dude, I don't know about you. And maybe I'm just being the grumpy old guy, but I don't see anybody at the gym. I'm looking at, I'm like, man, that dude needs an extra day off that need, that dude needs to hold, hold some back. I just don't see it. I mean, the days of like walking around and seeing guys carry a trash can on leg day between stations, I came here the last time I saw that in person. No, I'm not saying that's always the most productive way to train, but it's just, right. But you know, it's just like, like these students that are chronically, you know, they, it's so weird to me. The bodybuilding is the only sport where people are afraid of working too hard. Right. Yes. Yep. I'm like, get to that point where you're working your ass off and you'll know you've taken it too far, but I don't think, you know, looking at Instagram between sets and, you know, like literally I'll see people that have even broken a sweat when they do like that. I'm like, how is that possible, man? You are, you were not over-training. Yeah. I've always thought it's interesting. Right. Like you see almost no one's sweating. No one focused. And it's always just like, Oh, I'm going to check on that girl's ass and then it's fucking little lemon pans across the gym. And then it's like, I'm like, this isn't a fucking Starbucks, bro. Like you can't have a 15 minute conversation between a set of bicep curls. Stop it. Yeah. I mean, I'm probably the grumpy old guy, but I just like, I just tell people, I'm like, work harder, man. Find out where that limit is. I think it's good to know where that limit is and then pull back. I came from the, and it's funny because I, I wouldn't say, I mean, I, I talked to John casually on, because I got way back on the message boards. I used to be a model on intense muscle way back in the day and John was on there all the time. I remember him, Mountain Dog one. I remember John on there. It was him and Scott Stevenson and Dante Trudell and Skipp Hill and all those guys that were on the boards. And I used to, Dante used to train me and I used to do, I did DC training for years. So that is another level of intensity. That is, you leave nothing to chance with the DC training. Agreed. I mean, I think anyone who's done that or taken a true set to failure understands that difference, but you only know it once you've reached that level. You have to do it to know it. Right. And I think, you know, you said you flexed the grumpy old man, like that's where I feel like I am. I see all these people talking about sets to failure and I'm like, I've yet to see you post one set where you didn't have five reps in the tank. Like your head, you could have done five to 10 more. I just know it. Like you, the shit wasn't even hard. The fucking bar didn't even slow down yet. But yeah. Yeah. I mean, it was, I hadn't, Mike has a retell on yesterday. I interviewed him on that interview up shortly, but we were, we were talking about it and it's like, I've been doing more of his style of training program and people think it's so often I'm like, I see Mike puking in trash cans. I mean, you do five sets of, of hack squats, you know, within, you know, one or two reps of failure with, you know, you got six plates on each side. You're, you're, you're going to be, you're going to be, you're going to be mashing the gas, the gas pedal and puking in the trash can. I don't know if you're doing it right. But yeah, but it's just, I've tried to be more intelligent with things, you know, not, not such a neat head like I was when I was younger, but I do think you need to go through that phase. And I also think there's, and you could speak to this, I think there's various phases of bodybuilding you have to go through. Like, like, I think that beginner phase, you have to find out where failure is. You have to progress strength, getting, getting stronger is, is important. Progressive overload. And then you hit a certain point where there's like, like, I mean, once you're doing bench press four or five for reps, I mean, how much, I mean, the risk versus reward ratio kind of starts to skew the other way. Yes. Whereas when you're doing 135 to failure, that's a different world. I mean, there's very little risk there. So I think, I think your training has to evolve as you mature as a bodybuilder. That's, that's sort of my thought process. You know, I could not agree more. Like what I've found as I've gotten older past 35 is the exercises that I take to true failure are way more intelligent. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. I'm not going to do a bit over a barbell row till I can't stand up straight or an RDL, for example, like I'm going to do a chest supported row. I'll wear that thing out till I can't even move an inch. So it, to me, like you were saying, like, as you evolve and mature, like not only do I find that you can take a muscle to that level that it needs to be taken to in a quicker fashion, meaning you don't need as many like primer and feeder sets and honestly, work sets for the most part, but then you're even more doubted into that tissue. And then you just kind of pick and choose early sets. How I do it is I pick and choose what I do progressive overload with versus what I do volume work with. How old are you now? 39. 39. Okay. Yeah. It was me. It was probably, I don't know. It was definitely in my late thirties when shit started breaking. You know, it was mid thirties, late thirties. And there's, I think it's miles on the, on the, on the tires that probably get you more so. I hear people talk, I think it was Scott Stevens and talking about training age. You know, so I've, you know, once you've trained a certain way for a period of time, then you kind of got to rethink some things. I, for like, for me, like one of the things I value to now, and this is something I learned from Dr. Mike was the cost of the, the injury risk cost and the fatigue cost of an exercise. So like I look at something like, like flat bench presses now, I used to look, I'm a strong bench presser. I always had been for a guy with long arms. I don't know why, but I could, I could move some weight on, on bench press. But at this point in my life, like I've had a couple close peck tears. Like I look at it and I'm like, man, is it really worth doing flat barbell bench presses and ripping my peck off the bone? That's it for me for bodybuilding at this point in my life. Right. You know, but like, like I said, like if there's a huge risk difference between 185 and doing 405 for reps, right? And going to failure with 405. Yeah. I mean, again, is that cost reward of like, is this, how much more tissue is this going to put on me? If I program, let's say, if you're just talking about like extra selection in general, like, so instead of doing that first or second rotation, what if you took that put at the end and really slow the net to the down, right? Yeah. So you can still do it, but it's just you're forcing your body to do less load and still get the same amount of effort exerted on this. How I look at that. I mean, I think there's all exercises that we love and feel and connect with. Like for me, I love heavy, like inclined dumbbell, barbell and dumbbell bench pressing, but now instead of doing it first or second, I'll do it third after a machine press, after a fly, and it limits that load. Like, sorry, I'm not having to pick up the 150s, 160s. Like I can come down to like 130 and it still crushes my pecks. Yeah. I've had to give up barbell bench presses. It may, it was a sad day, man. I just said, I haven't done them in a couple of years because I just, my shoulders are completely wrecked and I've had a couple minor pectares and I'm just like, man, I can't, I can't like, I can't risk that going for it. It's funny because the one little pecta I have up on the top of my pack, it actually looks like a striation. So it kind of made my pack, kind of made my pack look better. It's like you tear a hamstring and it looks like it gives it more like nasty cuts in the back. Yeah. Yeah. That was laughing, I think, because you can, you can sort of see, see where I, where I ganked it. Let me pull that one up again. Let me see. You, I don't know if you can, let me pull this, see if I can zoom this in. And that's not, let me, you can see here where I, where I tore it a little bit right across there. Oh yeah. Yep. That's great. Yeah. It's not like that on the other side. So it actually makes it look like a striation. Yeah. Yeah. That's a win. Yeah. That's a win. Right. I just don't want to rip the whole fucking thing off now. No, no, no. I don't have a big old huge divot crater. Yeah. And I go, Oh God, you see the guys like that too. I feel bad for them. Yeah. Like even if they repair it, it just never looks right again. No. And everyone I've ever had that has had that happened, they're like the connectivity to that pack is just horrible. Like they just can't feel it anymore. It's almost dead. You had any big injuries? So I tore my left erector at 23 doing a rack bowl. That's not fun. No, that was pretty awful. What did they do? Could they do anything? No, literally they said chiropractic work. Yeah. I was saying, I don't think they can repair that. No, you said to chill with it. So like I've had to deal with that, essentially my whole bodybuilding life because I started bodybuilding roughly at 19. I say roughly on them because I didn't really know what I was doing. Yeah. It's about the same for me. It was in high school, senior year, I think. I was cruising at like early twenties, making good progress. And then that happened and that kind of like set me back because not only did that impact my back training, like I was a big squatter. So like I love squatting. I connected to it. Like me being a dumb meathead, like just kept banging squats into the ground. And then I would just randomly just have a like that erector would spasm really aggressively. ! Although I see more people get hurt on bench presses than I do on squats ironically, but I think what you find is it's like the way I look at training is I have a budget to spend it's almost like a bank account and there's only so so much I can spread that budget around and squats are very expensive on that budget. Yes. As you get heavier, if you're doing what like I said if you don't 135 or 225 or even 315 that's not costing you a lot but if you're up there banging out you know 20 reps with 405 or you know working up the working sets with 495 that's a way different energy cost than other and that budget may be better spent on a hack squat or leg press and also you're removing the potential for a back injury because it's braced. Correct. You know so you're actually in reality you're probably placing more load on the target muscle than you would be with squats. I do think there's some people that are just built to squat it's usually shorter guys. Right. You know like a long guy like me like I feel like a lot of my squat is back like my back really gets involved in squats my back and my adductors. Right. Yeah. So it's. And 100% agree there. I can tell you like so before I gave up squats I never got on the adductor machine ever because I didn't need to. Yeah. And then I listened to John said okay cool I'm gonna pull those squats out for two months and see what happens and I noticed my legs as a whole being my quads got better. I noticed my adductor started to get smaller so I was like fucked up I'm just gonna get on the adductor machine after doing leg curls and just wear that thing out and then they're saying you know they were no longer on this year. Yeah. Dr. Trudeau was the one to beat that into my head. He's like it's like the adductor machine you want to make your legs look big. He said I know it seems silly but start hammering the adductor machine hammering the adductor machine keep doing you know work those adductor's so I mean that was when you look at it if you look at the anatomy of the leg that the adductor's almost make up a third of the total leg size but yet nobody does any specific adductor training. Yeah. I'm a big believer in if any of my guys have really poor adductor's are just smaller legs in general we'll go leg curl adductor and then right into a leg press or a belt squat with a wide stance in their toes out just to continue to crush that adductor and what that does for their leg size over the course of a year or two years is very traumatic. Yeah. What I'll do I do something similar like I'll I'll do is the adductor machine and then maybe like I'll do like a goblet squat or a sumo squat right. Yep. Just turn turn way out. Yeah. That's it's that's what kind of been my my approach to it but but yeah it's interesting that people completely ignore their their adductor's to me. I don't see many people doing specific adductor work. You'll see it on stage to you'll see like you'll see the guys posing where they have the gap between their legs. Yep. And especially from the rear right like when you do a back double and you can put your fist between a dude's legs like you have to think enough of the adductor's and it could also be a shitty posing thing. I mean your feet are too far apart obviously but a lot of times it stems from not having and knowing how to contract and flex and pose that adductor. Like I'll show you here. Let's let's look at this picture here and I'll show you. I mean you can look here you can see and I don't know who this guy is but this all right here is adductor. Yep. All adductor and like you were saying from behind yet it fills in that gap from behind. I still am deficient in that area I need to bring up my look from behind but yeah it's if you want to fill out your legs like this is quadricep which people focus on what you have as mediaeus and lateralis out here but people forget about the adductor. Right. Yep. Yeah it was interesting to hear you say that because I thought I was like one of the only people that told people to train adductor's. Oh what's that a doubt I mean so you know David Lamartino right. Oh yeah yeah I know David well. So if you look at his back double bicep the way he's pushing those adductor's out aggressively his legs look enormous and I told him that like he was he was posing for me and I was like bro push those hips back and pop your adductor's out and the next thing you know he was like man you just added like four inches to my legs I'm like I know you had the tissue you just don't know how to pose it right. Yeah David's a big boy he needs to work on the posing though. He's he's gigantic Danny his wife was just in town a week and a half ago when she came through and was like fixing my back workout show me everything I was doing on my back training. Good. Usually when body parts aren't progressing it's because your form sucks that's pretty much what it boiled down to. Right yeah I do her training and she's such an intelligent woman like it's a wild. Yeah yeah she she like kind of blew my mind open on some stuff like show me like on my rows like I was wearing with my rear delts and my traps and not my you know my rhomboids and stuff and I'm like all right well that explains why my rear delts are big and I don't train them. Why my back density kind of sucks but yeah she's very smart. It's the same thing with the PEDs though too like people miss the obvious stuff it's and I think people over complicated I've seen I don't know what your thoughts on our own stuff but it's like I see guys come full circle they go through all these complex weird ass cycles and then everybody just ends up on the same thing at some point. I like for me like it's primarily just test premabable and GH maybe some insulin here and there. Right. And that's that's where I'm at in the offseason and then you sprinkle in the stuff that you need on contest prep you know we all we all know stuff can get a little nutty at the end of contest prep sometimes but even that I don't even get super complicated with. It's just adding you know pulling back the test a little bit and add in some DHG derived PEDs to dry out and that's pretty much pretty much how I handle it and then just pushing the doses up as you get bigger. You know I was really fortunate to be around John at a young age and he really stressed to me the importance of like pharmaceutical grade GH and the difference between using generic versus serosteum like how big of a gap that truly is and go ahead. Yeah I was just saying I ramped serosteum on contest prep this year it's the first time I've ever used it. It's incredible right. Yeah it's it's it's a difference. Yes and so many people want to fight it because the price tag or sticker price whatever you want to call it and they're like oh what's you know so and so said this red top generic is it tests at 98% and I'm like I don't give a fuck and just try it like literally there's a such a drastic difference and then anyone that does that always comes back and tells me this this thing are you ready. You can push food super super low and you'll still be around. Yeah. You can't argue it like I can take mine or my clients calories and just crush them as long as they have four to eight maybe ten units of sero a day fullness is not an issue. Yeah I ran nine units of serosteum on prep this year. I've always run generics because I just had a hard time justifying the cost and it was the same deal like one of my friends he's just like it's like I'm telling you even though the the the tests say one thing he goes just try it. Correct. Yep. Yep. Just try it and I'm like alright I'll try it and it definitely made a difference. I had a different I guess you know you hear guys talk about that 3D look like you just have a more round full look on serosteum. I don't know what you'll have to talk to Kurt. Kurt Havens is a guy I collaborate with and do some stuff but Kurt Kurt is does research on this type of stuff pharmacology. Specifically I mean that's what he does for for for his career. I mean he's studying I think he's finishing up his PhD in inocrinology but he Kurt talks about we talk about GH all the time. It's interesting it's interesting but yeah I I definitely noticed a difference so that is for sure. When do you like to take your do you do it post-lifes in the morning and night? You know I played around with it I was doing splitting it up in three doses morning pre-lift in the night but now that I'm in my offseason I'm just blasting it all at night. The reason I'm well I mean if you look at the instructions that's what they say they have you ever looked at the instruction packet inside of it? Yes. 18 units before bed. That's what that's what it says. 18 units. Can you imagine how pumped your hands would be if you ran that much as a normal unit? I don't know if you've watched Chase Irons at all or not but Chase is on our podcast he's been running 18 units of serastem for the last seven eight months at pre-bed and he has just transmogrified man the dude like he went from like being like 240 kind of soft and he's like 270 to 280 chiseled out now man it is wild but that's what they get that's what they prescribe HIV patients 18 units before bed. That's why it's incredible right? Yeah and it's all one dose. Yeah. It's all one dose. The reason why I have been not splitting it up here like if you look at the pharmaconetics of it it's it's peaked and out in six hours somewhere somewhere around I don't remember exactly but the reason why I have been doing it that way is because I'm just so damn tired if I take it during the day I can't function at work so that doesn't work for me so I'm just like well fuck it the instructions say all 18 before bed let me let me just split that in half and try that and see what happens. So far so good. I like to do a post lift so that way I do it immediately post lift on my last set come home eat 25 30 minutes later and then I'll literally take the best nap in my life. Man you sleep like a baby on it. Yeah. Yeah you sleep like a baby on it. Yeah I usually the way Justin does his system we we do carb cycling so on my high days we're running insulin right so on those days I'll take it with my insulin pre and post lift but but otherwise it's it's before bed is what I've been doing. Yeah you know John that's something that John always tell me and I think I've seen the same thing like when people ask when do you do it's like just get the fuck in you and you're good. Yeah I think people get too much into the weeds sometimes on stuff right I mean I you know I doubt Roddy Coleman was worried about GH timing. Right. You know what I'm saying if you have a lead genetics it doesn't really matter. No. It's a it's a it's hilarious listening to some of these old guys that were the top pros talk about like if you actually get some of them in conversations about what they talk they don't even know half of them. No. I heard in I heard an interview with Jake Kotler and I love JJ is one of my favorite bodybuilders he's super nice guy many of a few times but I heard him like you know maybe maybe he knew where he was just playing Koi but I heard him saying that he never took trend but then he was talking about taking parable and I'm like that is trend man. I think right. Right. You know so I don't know maybe he could have been just him playing playing Koi. Right. I was laughing he had a Milos on his podcast recently and Milos was saying Jay didn't you take 200 milligrams of anodra all day at one time and Jay was like tap dancing around it like oh yeah he changed the subject. Right. Can you imagine how wrecked your appetite would be on 200 makes of anodra. Oh my god man I can't run a world in the offseason anymore like I don't know why guys maybe some antivar pre-workout here and there. Right. But I used to run a lot of anodra when I was younger but I it just like within a week I don't want to eat. Yeah. I just have zero appetite it's the same thing going into shows like running the orals going into shows like people are like aren't you hungry. I'm like man I don't eat like I was struggling getting down the food I was eating. Right. I didn't even want to eat man and then you know two weeks after coming off the orals the appetite starts to come raging back but yeah anodra just nukes your appetite. You know I will actually use that as a side effect for my clients who have giant appetites post show like for those first two weeks is they'll do like 50 to 100 makes of anodra. Oh that's a good idea. And so what they'll do is like what I'll do is like while I'm ramping their food up until it gets their food where it's like really high to where they're satiated run that anodra so not only are you getting the cosmetic benefits the straight benefits but you're getting that like it's killing your hunger. And it's not as much like you're still going to eat all your meals but it's not like you're not food focused as much you know. Yeah that's an interesting idea man I like that idea. I stumbled across that just like I was thinking about it one day and I was like man like how can I kill this kid's appetite because he literally was eating fucking everything and I was like you know what I was like add 100 makes anodra prelift and then he got back to me he's like Chris I'm not cheating anymore I'm not thinking about food at all. I'm like right. I like that man that's a clever idea I never thought about. I usually pull people off the world because I want to let their liver clear up but that's an interesting idea. Because most people will crush me for that when they say Chris like you got to chill out with that but in my mind like not only am I keeping their scale weight down to their blood pressure into the roof but they're not eating garbage which is going to just make you feel awful. If you gain 50 pounds in two weeks you're telling me that's worse for your health than some fucking anodra I just don't believe. No no no it's not. I have I've literally had people put themselves in the hospital push-o. Yeah I'm sure you have too. I had a guy still calling him I'm still friends so I won't say his name but he gained he did the Larry wheels thing he put on like 50 pounds in a week and ended up his blood pressure was just through the roof man like 200 over 100 and he's like what should I do and I'm like go to the fucking hospital that's what you should do. Yeah I bet you his ankles were enormous. Oh man I remember he sent me videos of it and he was pushing his finger in on it and it would just like these giant pitting and Dima it was it was it was crazy man it was insane I'm like dude go to the hospital. Yeah immediately. Yeah they you know put him on some diuretics and flushed him out but it's just all water but yeah you're right that that's probably way worse for you than taking a little bit of anodra. Correct and it's always been my thought process like it's worked so well for so many people and a lot of my clients have gotten some like freaky like post-lift photos just from that because I mean you know anodra is gonna like just blow you up in terms of muscle volumization and then you're gonna get all that strength come raging back and as long as you're intelligent with it and you don't tear your muscle off the bone with exercise selection like it's a really cool combo for those first 14 days post-lift and our post-lift post-show that you can really ride that wave until you get to where your food is pretty damn high. That is a good point though you do have to be careful with your lifts post-show because anodra will make your strength go through the roof and you're probably still somewhat dry and vulnerable to muscle tears so you probably would have to be careful. I don't know if there's any science behind that but I just have seen guys tear muscles coming out of shows when their when strength comes rocketing back I always tell people to be careful for the first few weeks. I always have this list of rules for like post-show and I always pray that my guys and girls follow it where it's like we stick to cables machines dumbbells we do short rest periods like 45 to 60 seconds I set them like an hour time limit and you just your goals just simply pump and stretch pump and stretch. That's exactly what I do man exactly what I do it's funny how we all just come to these same conclusions independently although I didn't come up with the anodra one I'm gonna steal that one. Yeah please I'm telling you try with your clontest it fucking works. I want you to try it with me. I'm past that point now though I'm only up about 10 pounds from stage weight so. You kept it tight. Well it was Justin didn't push the food as hard because I'm gonna do I'm just gonna be ready in July and there's a couple shows there's there's team universe there's Masters Nationals there's some stuff in that window that I just want to be ready for. Heck yeah. And try a couple shows Masters Nationals is really the target so I mean I'm gonna be back in prep in what three four months so it's not might as well not get stupid so I think that's the idea but I don't I don't know I let him drive the nutrition whatever he says just kind of follow because he's very similar like I to I with food and corpse cycling and insulin and all that kind of stuff so yeah I've been with him I guess going on four years now and he's I mean he's put all this weight on me I mean he just does my diet I do my own training in PD's so he's really just it's just nutrition the part that he does what he is a wizard with with the nutrition. Yeah. I mean this year on prep we I was sort of a gamble but I was ready a couple weeks out in his eyes like I could have been a little bit leaner and he's like we could we could pull your back in a little bit more and have better conditioning on your back but I'm gonna I think I think I'm gonna go with fullness at this point and keep you full going into the show and like in hindsight I don't know if it was the right decision or not because one had the chiseled out back and I did not have a chiseled out back although I don't he had he had more size so there's at that point there's really doesn't matter if you're chiseled in you're smaller right right so but back size that's that's the offseason for me that's that's what I'm gonna be working on back density they told me I had with and said I need density. What are you gonna do to fix that? Well Danny gave me I worked with her and she gave me a bunch of ideas like she said like my exercise selection wasn't bad it was my form that sucked. So she went through like the way I had I train everything twice a week so I did push pull legs and I train everything twice a week for guys that are worried about overtraining I'm 50 years old and I'm still training everything twice a week. And you have good arms so hitting an arm base and needing it. Yeah no I don't I don't even to be honest with you I just do a few sets of biceps at the end of my my back workout like not nothing crazy like four or five maybe you know just just get a pump so I don't think my arms need to get any bigger although they look small when I do they're over 20 inches man they look small when I do front double bicep I think it's my posing sucks. But I can't. You need your arms look big. They are big they just shrivel up when I'm when I'm going into the front double bicep I think what my shoulder mobility sucks from torn labrums and I don't think I can rotate my arm back enough to make them to make them pop so but but anyway yeah she went through because I split my back up I have a width day in a in a in a density day that I do so it's vertical pulling and horizontal pulling. She told me just to do some more mix some more stuff in but she was just showing me how like I was pulling with my I was I was basically shrugging while I was doing all my pulling and it was what it was doing is in engaging my my rear delts in my traps and she would show me you know some cues and stuff to keep my shoulders down and get my middle back the rhomboids and all that stuff more engaged than what I had lower lats that's another area that I need to need to bring up but just a little shit it will we'll see if it works I got a short offseason so there's only so much you can do. Alright man I got to wrap this up is there anything you want to plug before you go. Yeah for sure if you guys want to see any of my content it's the one that YouTube at Chris Edmunds TV and that's Chris with no H so my parents really fucked me with that so. I will what I'll do is I'll link it into the video I'll add you so and if you you know what we'll get some people over to your channel for my channel so guys go over and subscribe to Chris's channel and check out Chris I really appreciate you coming on Chris thank you very much. Thank you so much man.