warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, big Paul here today with another anabolic Q and a, I got some great questions queued up for you today. Most of thesEQuestions are coming from my team anabolic bodybuilding school members site. Uh, you can check out the site if you want links in the video, description below. I've got some really good questions. Uh, today I got a question about trening twice per day. I have a newbie DNP question for fat loss. Should newbies use DNP for fat loss? That one's a good one. Also, we are going to talk about a swollen prostate on cycle and why that happens. What about diuretic use at the end of contest prep and should you keep the doses of HGH high while you're on a cruise? If you're trying to recover health, we have a lot morEQuestions than that. As IMentioned before, all of thesEQuestions come from my school anabolic bodybuilding member site. I did take a few today from somEQuestions that I posted up for a request on YouTube as well. So I try to mix in some viewer questions as well. But if you want to join the school member site, members get top priority when it comes to answering questions. I also answer questions over on there on the forum. I have some free coursework over there on how to build cycles and insulin and some other stuff as well. It's only 30 bucks a month if you just want access to ask mEQuestions periodically. It's a good value and we have a good group of people over there at the school site. Go check it out. Anyway, enough of that. Let's dig into thesEQuestions in just one second. All right. First question I have here is from my client, Joe D. Joe asks, is there any advantage to trening twice per day in comparison to offseason or prep? Also the science bros swear by PPL and all the top of bodybuilding coaches and top bodybuilders seem to run a bro split, mainly the guys stepping on stage. What are your thoughts on this? Okay. I have many thoughts on trening a part of it. I, you know, look twice a day. There's been a lot of guys that have done twice a day trening with quite a bit of success. I, Roman Fritz is a guy that comes to mind. Also Milo Sarchev has his clients trening twice a day as well. I think the idea is here is that you can split up the body parts potentially and do the PPL that we talked about before. A lot of the guys that are trening twice a day are doing a PPL, so they'll do something like arms in the morning and chest at night or whatever. The hat, you know, let's say, let's say if it's a push day, you might do triceps in the morning and then hit your shoulders in chest at night. The, the idea is here is that you're splitting it up, giving your body the fuel that it needs to hit the workout effectively. I know like with Milos, he's pushing insulin and carbohydrates. They do high volume trening and I think the end result, you can see it with Milos's guys. They all put on a shit ton of size. Roman's a big dude too. And you're also burning more calories when you work out twice a day. If you look at the old school bodybuilders from back in the seventies and whatnot, they didn't really do cardio back then. They just did more volume. They lifted more frequently. I believe even Arnold did two a days at some point. I could be wrong about that, but that's what I recall happening. Now, not everybody builder trens twice a day. I personally never done it myself. I've never trened twice a day. With the exception on contest prep, I will do my cardio and posing in the morning. And then I hit my lift in the evening. Also another thing to consider with PPL versus bro split. I think PPL is probably a better option for beginner to intermediate bodybuilders. And it also works really well within the concept of the two a days. If you want it to tren twice a day, PPL is a way to do it. What this gives us a distinct advantage in is that you get more frequency in, and there is some science, whether you, you know, you're into the science of lifting or not, that additional frequency does seem to lend itself to more hypertrophy. The idea is here is that we get more stimulus and that stimulus mechanical tension is going to lead to a response and adapt adaptation into more hypertrophy. I think guys get over concerned about recovery ability and pushing, pushing themselves. And they worry about too much about recovery. Usually recovery is not the limiting factor in why guys aren't progressing. Most of the time. I find that most dudes just don't work hard enough. That's why they're not progressing. Very few people hit that limit where they have over-trened. I do think it's possible. I've over-trened myself before. You definitely can over-tren. Most often it happens on contest prep. When you're in a caloric deficit, you're pushing the cardio hard. And there are situations then when you can severely over-tren yourself and you start going backwards, but you'll know it if you're overextended. So really the idea is here is that we, with the PPL versus the traditional bro split is that we are going to push the frequency as much as we can. So we have more opportunities to grow between our sessions. If you can hit each body part twice per week in a given period of time, you're going to have double the opportunities to stimulate growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone versus the guy who's only trening things once a week in theory. Now I don't think it trenslates directly like that. From what I recall in the studies, and I'm just pulling these numbers out of my ass right now, it was something like a 10% increase in hypertrophy versus a once per week routine. Something along those lines. I don't recall exactly, but 10% adds up over time. Now what I do think happens and why a bro split might make more sense as you progress into being an advanced bodybuilder, the weights climb up, the amount of weights that guys are using to provide stimulus is considerably more. So you are beating your body up more. You just can't take that sort of punishment, trening everything twice per week. Also the attention to detail in bringing up specific muscles and focusing on specific muscles doesn't always lend itself to trening twice per week. You have to cut some corners somewhere if you're going to be trening everything twice per week. The bro split allows for each body part to have its own dedicated day where you can give it specific attention to bring out detail for bodybuilding. And I think that's why a lot of advanced bodybuilders tend to gravitate towards more a bro split. Now with that said, there are dudes on the pro stage that are doing PPL. I'm a PPL guy. I've tried bro splits before and I kind of go back and forth between the two. I just like being in the gym more often. It really boils down to that. For me, I love being in the gym. I, it's big part of my life and I want to be there. I want to be working. I want to be at the gym. I want to be around that culture. And doing a PPL six days a week works well for me psychologically. I just like being at the gym and grinding things up. Now some dudes don't and maybe you want a program that fits your style of trening more. Now I will say this, as you increase the volume, as you increase the frequency, you do need to pull the intensity down just a tad less. Uh, you're, you, you can't be driving everything to absolute failure and doing force reps and all this other crazy shit with high intensity trening and expect to recover and be able to be able to sustain your workouts if you are going to tren twice per week and do a higher volume. So sort of the trade off is here. We have two knobs. We can ratchet up and down. We can do more frequency and more volume or we can do more intensity doing both at the same time generally does not work. The only exception that I can think of is Ronnie Coleman. From what I recall, Ronnie Coleman did a PPL and trened everything twice per week. I could be wrong about that, but that's what I recall and Ronnie took everything to absolute failure on top of it, but they only made one of that dude and he, he is very unique. He's the only guy to ever do it that way that I know of and do it successful successfully. There are always outliers and exceptions to the rules. They often aren't the greatest model to follow, but I would say find what works for your body. See what you can recover from. You want to walk up to that line, but not over it. I, I think, you know, that's sort of the game that we play with bodybuilding. We want to push and we want to push as hard as we can get away with, but we don't want to cross that line and I think the problem with most young bodybuilders that I see is none of them have any clue where that line is at and they never even approach coming to that line where they have crossed over into overtrening and overextended themselves. I know there's going to be some dudes in the comment section that are going to be butthurt and say, well, I've overtrened before. Okay, you're the one dude. Uh, and I would doubt that you probably were overtrened. Maybe you just had joint and connective tissue pain from your shitty lifting routine and your crappy form. I don't know that that really trenslates to overtrening. You can look at guys that are elite professional athletes. I work with professional athletes from time to time. Guys like pro football players and MMA guys, those guys tren for four, five, six, seven hours a day sometimes and lift and do, uh, and do recovery work and all that stuff and they're, they're getting along just fine. Anyway, that is my lecture on PBL versus bro splits. All right, next question here is from Daniel Adams. He said, I saw in your most recent video you talked about RETA possibly making Metformin obsolete. My question is on a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone phase. When you're pushing food hard while taking RETA, are you still incorporating Metformin to help with insulin resistance or are you looking at RETA if needed? Uh, there are some potential downsides for using Metformin when you're in a push phase. And some of that would be, uh, it does seem to in some studies and keep in mind, this is not on our cohort and I've talked about this a million times. I don't know how much it really applies from us. Metformin does seem to lower IGF one and decreases mTOR. And you know, those are two things that are kind of important for growing and it seems like Metformin while it increases insulin sensitivity and glucose and helps with glucose metabolism might be detrimental for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Whereas RETA Trutide, it's a triple agonist GLP one GIP and glucagon agonist probably covers all the bases that Metformin does plus some. And in theory, I don't know this for sure that just speculatinGHere does. And I don't know that we have studies or anything to show this, but it doesn't seem like it has the detrimental effects on IGF one or potentially mTOR that, that, um, that Metformin would have. It also, you're going to have increased pancreatic function. You're going to have the improvement of lipids. You're going to have the glucagon agonism, um, stopping gluconeogenesis, all of these other potential benefits that come along with the RETA Trutide that you're not necessarily getting for Metformin. I, you know, I speculate and I don't know this for sure, but I would think that the RETA Trutide when it's being designed and evaluated in clinical trials was probably meant to replace multiple therapies for type two diabetics for, you know, and I've seen, you know, as a diabetic, I've seen people love when I tell them I'm a diabetic. So here I am telling you I'm a diabetic again, but as a diabetic, I have seen pretty dramatic results with just using RETA Trutide alone. Not, I don't get the same results from using some of the Glutide and other, in combination with Metformin. Right now I'm running Menjaro, which is Trezepatide along with the Metformin under my endocrinologist's advice. And I have not seen the same positive effects on my glucose levels and glucose management that I had with RETA Trutide alone. Now does that trenslate to the bodybuilding world? Who knows? We're still very new into this, but in, in, in theory, and in potentially RETA Trutide would be a better option. For bodybuilding purposes, for keeping glucose sensitivity in check, helping with metabolism and providing all the benefits plus some that you would get from Metformin. Now Metformin does have an effect on, on Leptin and Ghrelin, you know, kind of in a similar way that the GLP-1s do, but not as strong, you know, so that's another consideration as well. But yes, I think long-term that RETA Trutide will probably make Metformin obsolete. This is just my speculation. We'll see what happens. All right. Next question I got here is from Dale Gribble 4357. Dale says, I'm getting about two to three hours a night of sleep on cycle using test, mass and Deca. I'm having very difficult feeling while urinating as well. Please help. All right. So Daryl, there's probably multiple things going on here. I have come full circle on Deca. It used to be my favorite compound for adding body mass. I just cannot tolerate Deca anymore. It has pretty profound effect on my mood, on my erectile function, my sex drive, everything. You know, it just wrecks me and it affects dopamine. It is a synthetic progestin. It affects serotonin and GABA. It just seems to have all of the negative side effects that we don't want from PEDs. And really, I don't know that that's worth the juice is worth the squeeze. Now in relation to your prostate being inflamed, my guess would be is that it's estrogen related. And when you're getting up to pee multiple times at night on top of the, the effects that the Deca is having on your sleep, probably from the effects on GABA and what not. You got a swollen prostate and you have to get up and pee every hour and it's just a dribble that comes out. That is a terrible feeling. I've been there and I know what that feels like before. And the probably what's going on here is Deca seems to have an impact on estrogen metabolism. It seems to make, you know, either it upregulates aromatase expression. We're not a hundred percent sure, at least from what I understand, or it causes increased binding affinity of both estrogen and progesterone at the estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor, which can cause all sorts of problems. And I am, what I'm going to guess is that you probably, your estrogen is probably high. The increased effects of sensitization of the estrogen receptor is probably causing inflammation in the prostate. A lot of times when I do see guys end up with prostatitis, it is often from estrogen being, beinGHigh. And really it's a balance of DHT androgens to estrogen that can throw things off. But most often, and I think this is where doctors get this shit wrong all the time. They automatically blame DHT. And in my experience, DHT hasn't been the problem most of the time. Usually when you get your estrogen under control, the prostate swelling goes away and then you get returned to normal flow. Now BPH can be permanent. I had a procedure done probably a decade ago where they went in and shrunk my prostate and I wasn't on any gear at the time. It probably was because I was in an estrogen dominant environment for like a decade where my testosterone was fucking tank and my estrogen was through the roof because I just came off gear cold turkey and my prostate swole up as a result. So just some ideas. I would talk to your doctor about it and get things managed. I would drop the DECA. I just would toss it out of your cycle. That's probably alone is going to fix the top, the problem. Now keep in mind that DECA takes a long time to clear. It's probably going to be six, eight weeks before it's fully cleared from your system. It's five half lives and you know, I depending on who you look at or what information you get, the half-life on DECA is anywhere from something like 10 to 15 days. I don't recall off the top of my head, but it's very long and it's going to take a while to get out of your system. But I would start there first, get rid of the DECA. And I think that's going to fix most of your problems. All right. Next question here is from Rascal M81. I think I said that right. Who the fuck knows what these usernames. If I go on a cruise to get my health markers back in line, should I also decrease the HDH or is it okay to keep it the same or to increase it while I'm on cruise? Well sort of defies the definition of cruise. There's bodybuilding cruise where we kind of are just on a lighter cycle. I wouldn't exactly call increasing your HDH while you're on a break, a cruise. Part of the things that we're trying to regulate while we come down to a cruise is we want to let our body have a break, let organ health recover. We really want to get away from the highly anabolic state that we're in when we're on cycle that is causinGHypertrophy from all the PEDs where our body is using up. Basically from what I understand, this is what Dean St. Mart, Dr. Dean St. Mart suggested when I talked to him is that your body is utilizing its entire stem cell pool for hypertrophy and is taking that away from organ repair and organ health. And I would think, you know, we want to remove or at least lower the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factors down to just replacement doses. So we allow our body to come down to a baseline and let our organs heal, recover and remove that extra demand for the stem cell pool for, for hypertrophy. You're not, remember you're not trying to grow during the cruise phase. You want to take just enough to maintain and not let your body go to shit and let your organs recover. That's really the whole idea during that. And then also there's the issue with insulin sensitivity too. If you're blasting GH at high doses for, for long periods of time, there does seem to be a decline in insulin sensitivity in some people. Not everybody gets that. I took a break from GH for abouT4 months, five months. I just started to back up again to help with my recovery from the surgery. I did notice a little bit of decline in body composition. I lost some weight when I came off of it, but I believe overall, I noticed an improvement in my glucose sensitivity. My blood sugar levels came down. So there's also that part of it too. But I would say for the most part for a cruise, you want to come down to just TRT doses and replacement doses with the HGH, something like four units or some somewhere in that range, two to four units, two to five units. I think up to five units is really considered a replacement dose. All right. Next question is from the Team Antibiotic Bodybuilding Member site. This is from Eric Shea. He's a big contributor over there. Eric asks, what would you recommend as far as exercises to keep my upper chest full? It always seems to be smaller. Once I get in prep, I'm doing your advanced push days on chest, but I can't seem to keep it full. Some of it's just genetics, man. Um, you know, the, the loss of size in fullness on prep, a lot of times is glycogen depletion. It's not that you're losing muscle mass. Some guys tend to have just bigger upper chest. Like, like my pecs are big. I don't really have to do a whole lot to keep my pecs and my shoulders big. They just are just kind of that way. They always have been. Some of it is genetics, but I would say primarily focus your pressing movements on incline movements. And I think a lot of times guys use too steep of an incline on their incline movements. And that results in more, um, front delt dominance. I would also pay attention to when you are doing your, your incline movements and see if you actually feel it in your upper pecs or if you're feeling it more in your front delts. I used to have an issue with my delts, just taking over every exercise and probably why my delts were just so fucking big. It's because they were dominating everything there. I was even getting front delt pumps doing bicep curls. It's how dominant my shoulders are and things. And I would say just pay close attention to your trening, listen to your body, close your eyes. And this is something I like to do once in a while. It's almost like a meditative state when you're doing the exercise and really think about where you're feeling it. And I will bet if you're not having great development in any body part, in your case, the upper chest, probably what's going on is some other muscle group is taking over either to triceps. Uh, that's a potential problem. Some guys, their triceps take over on pressing movements. You'll see it in power lifters all the time where dudes have not very big chest and they have really huge front delts in big ass triceps. And so their tricep front delt pressers on their pressing movements. I would also incorporate in some sort of incline fly, uh, or you can do low to high on, on your cable crossovers. I like using cable, cable crossovers going low to high for upper pec. That's another thing that can help out as well with upper pec development. And I often like to do my, my, um, my, my cable flies before I do my pressing movements so I can engage and actually feel the muscle. Now there's some debate whether or not that actually hinders development or not, but it will bring a lot of times your performance down on that pressing movement. But those are just some thoughts that I would try. Next question is from the school. Antibiotic bodybuilding member site is from Dustin Mariner. Um, if I'm sorry, Dustin, if I slaughtered your last name, does BPC-157 and TB-500 make a noticeable difference in accelerated recovery? Does the injection site have to be in just in the general area? Um, curious about your bicep tendon, elbow and forearms, et cetera. How long until it works and what is an effective dose? Um, I have a fact sheet up on my website. Like if you guys want to download it on my BPC-157 and TB-500 protocol, it's up there. You can, you can grab it if you want, but I, you know, I go back and forth on the BBC one five seven TB-500 if it actually makes that big of a difference. I will say this. I, I tried using it pre surgery before I finally gave up and went in and saw the doctor and it made zero difference whatsoever. And lo and behold, that was because my tendon was actually torn. It is not going to feel you'll a badly torn tendon. It's not going to work. Miracles like that. Uh, BPC-157. Um, the body protective compound is actually a enzyme that they, that they discovered that's in your mouth and in your stomach that speeds up, you know, you know how your mouth, when you cut it, it heals faster. It helps with increased recovery. Um, it has some other cool benefits as well. Uh, studies show that it increases damaged tendon and ligament healing. Now in my case, when it's just completely torn, you're not going to regenerate that new tissue and bring it back. Surgery is the only option, but it does help a bit there. It lowers inflammation. Uh, TB-500, it probably has a stronger anti-inflammatory effect in my opinion. Uh, I think TB-500 is probably better for that. And most people use them in combination together with some PEDs in place as well. There's going to be increased collagen synthesis and you can run other things to help bring that up as well. Um, you can, you can, you know, a lot of times, you know, the protocol that I see works well for many people is running some TRT HGH, a bit of Anolvar with the, um, BPC-157 and TB-500 and you can increase, um, you can increase the recovery rate. Now I was able to get back from my ACL tear in about six months when normally takes eight to 12. I don't know if it was the result of the BPC-157 TB-500 or just the fact that I'm more active than most people, or maybe it was the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or all of the above. But here's kind of my thought process on it. It's not going to hurt anything. These compounds seem fairly benign and there is some evidence that they do increase recovery and help with that. You're going to have also increased blood flow and vascularization of the, um, injury site. Now keep in mind, this is something that was pointed out to me by an orthopedic surgeon. If you get, get it in place too soon after an injury, it can increase the risk of having scar tissue buildup. So that's just something to keep in mind as well. So I waited a few weeks post surgery to let the initial trauma from the surgical site heal before putting that in place. Then allow the increased recovery rate from the surgery and from the benefit of the TB-500 and BPC-157 and other compounds that are in play. Next question is from stay in your lane. What is your view on supersets and circuit trening while lifting? I find it difficult to take breaks between sets. So the style of trening is my favorite and maintains good heart rate throughout. How effective would a circuit lifting be for bodybuilding? Um, I don't know one bodybuilder that does circuit lifting. Um, it's just, it's not effective for hypertrophy trening. Uh, if you just want to be fit and in shape, fantastic. Just go for it. Uh, I would say, you know, something like, uh, you know, CrossFit is something where you're keeping a brisk pace up while you're working out. It's more of a conditioning style of workout in circuit trening. I would look at it that way. If you're just going from machine to machine to machine and not taking breaks, uh, that is more, I look at it as more of a cardiovascular workout than it is an actual weight trening workout. If we are trying to maximize hypertrophy, we want to take adequate enough breaks between our sets so we can go 100% on our next set to get maximal mechanical tension, which ultimately drives hypertrophy. So it's not to say that you've got to be super OCD and sit there with a clock running like I see some dudes do do and say, I'm ready for a set. But you know, just in your head, you know, when you, when you feel recovered and you can go 100% on the set, then you go again. Uh, you know, so it's a very different style of trening for hypertrophy than it is just being a general fitness person. But if you're trying to get in and out of the gym quick and you just want to be in shape, you don't really care about being a mass monster or being competitive body builder, then circuit trening is totally cool. Go for it. Do it. Um, I am not, I, I, super sets are one of my pet peeves. They drive me fucking nuts and it's not because of any sort of a deal with, you know, being a less effective way to tren, but they drive me nuts because people are always doing it at the goddamn gym at 5pm. They're taking up to three machines, have their dumbbells laid out on the floor when there's, you know, I invariably when I'm on goddamn contest prep and I go to use a machine, somebody's doing a fucking super set on it and they're on the other side of the gym and they got their water bottle sitting on the seat. And I'm like, come on bro. It's 6pm in the gym. It's busy in here. You're occupying a machine while you're off doing something else. It drives me fucking nuts, man. I'm like, just do one thing, move on to the next. It's rude to everybody else in the gym to take up two or three machines when it's super busy. I, I, I'm a dick in those situations. I usually just take the water bottle off and start using the damn machine. If they come back over, you know, I'll be like, you know, Hey, we can work in together. Um, I had a situation last year where a guy did not like that answer and I'm like, bro, you're on the other side of the fucking gym. Um, I'm working in, uh, I, I, I'm, you know, it's too busy in here for you to be occupying multiple machines while you're all fucking off doing something over there on the dumbbell rack and I need this machine over here. So we're, we're sharing this machine. I, you know, but I don't know how much supersets really help things. I, you know, occasionally I'll do them if I'm pinched for time or something, but, uh, I really don't do any of that jazz to be honest with you. I just do straight sets and make sure I can get maximal effort on my sets that I'm recovered between the sets. I'm not like power lifter, you know, rest times, you know, where there's dudes and go fucking eat a lunch and come back and do their second set. But, you know, something like two to three minutes or something I think is optimal for hypertrophy. All right. Next question I've got here is from Scott Brinkman. He asked, have you ever used diuretics for any of your shows? And is it possible to get dry without them? So the answer here is yes and yes, I have used diuretics for my shows and I have not used diuretics for my shows and it is possible to get dry without them. And it is also sometimes if you want to get super dry on stage, it is a tool that probably or could potentially be used. I will say this, like for most dudes, like just recreational bodybuilders that are getting on stage at their local show, it's not worth the risk using a diuretic. Diuretics can be extremely dangerous and I think a lot of times if you look at some of the catastrophes you see at the end of bodybuilding shows, it's typically when we hear about bodybuilders drying over dropping over dead, it's in the situation where they're dehydrated. There's electrolyte imbalances that come into place. Blood is thick from using things like equipoise where they have high hemoglobin and hematocrit and when you have high hemoglobin hematocrit in a situation where you're extremely dehydrated, then you have potential for blood clots and you know, thrombosis and potential pulmonary embolisms and stuff like that. Strokes, heart attacks from clots. If you throw a clot at the end of the show, you know, that's bad news. I've heard of some situations where bodybuilders have passed away from, from things like that. And then also, uh, there is just potential for electrolyte imbalances. If you become hyperkalemic where potassium gets too high from the use of a potassium sparing diuretic and eating too much potassium. I've heard of dudes jamming potatoes going into the shows and then they use a potassium sparing diuretic and they end up in a situation where they throw a heart arrhythmia or they cramp up really on stage. And then, and then you end up havinGHuge problems and potentially death as the outcome. We've all heard of those stories and in situations where that's happened. So I would say for most people that it's just the risk versus reward ratio is not that great. And also with diuretics, this is another thing that you need to consider too with diuretic use. Sometimes they make you look worse. You got to remember that diuretics are going to pull water off the body. And a part of looking full is having water plays into that, that situation. If you're pulling water from the cell and excreting it, then you end up in a situation where you look, you look, you're going to look flat and stringy on stage. So I would say for most smaller dudes that the diuretic can actually make things even worse. Now, if you are fat free going into a show, if you're super lean, if you have your water and sodium balanced out correctly, there do a little bit of water manipulation at the end where you can pull out water the day before the show, not completely, but like, you know, do something like where you drop your water in half, which is what I'll do with a lot of my first time competitors. We'll take water intake from something like two gallons down to like, I don't know, a half a gallon, which is still probably more than what most people drink. You force diuresis and people just pee out the water and they get dried out on their own. And I think a lot of times the mistake that dudes make going into shows is that they're not fat free and they think slamming some aldoctone or diazo diazide going into the two days before the show is going to get rid of that extra bit of fat that they have. That's, you know, that they think is water, but it's not really water. We've all seen that dude backstage. I was at a show, uh, you know, as a coach, a couple, I was a year, two years ago. I don't remember. And there was a dude that looked like he was like 15% body fat that was backstage cramping up. And he was telling me, he's like, I'm so thirsty. Do you think I can have a drink? I'm like, bro, I'm not your fucking coach. But if you're cramped up, hunched over shaking and can't, you know, even hold a double bicep post. Yeah. Go drink a fucking Gatorade. You're not going to win the show anyway. So just get some electrolytes back in. You get some fluid back in you. And you know, you're going to be fine. Now me, I have used diuretics. I probably went a little overboard with them last year at my show. I speculate and I could be wrong. I think I got a little too carried away with the diazide the night before the show last year. And I ended up with an electrolyte imbalance, which pulled fluid into my colon. And I ended up having diarrhea on the day of the show. I was dry as fuck, but it was miserable. I was, I couldn't eat anything the day of the show. It definitely was flatter than I want it to be. It worked out. I won my pro car, but I don't think it was my best look. I think I looked the best a couple of weeks out from the show where it was nice, full and big, you know, having diarrhea the day of the show is less than ideal. So I probably would have used a little less or not used any at all. I was holding some water from the aggressive carb up that we did. And you know, sometimes shit happens, no pun intended, I guess, pun intended, whatever. So I would say, yes, most, most people can get plenty dry without a diuretic. It is sometimes necessary at the end. If you want to get super dry, if you're a person that has, there are some people that have hyper aldosteronism where they retain water. There are other ways to manipulate it though. You can use, you can pull out your testosterone early. Um, you know, sometimes, uh, you know, just using over the counter diuretics, uh, just some water manipulation can, can do it. But a lot of times I would say for most people, it's completely unnecessary. All right. Next question is up from Matthew Bolduc or Bolduc. Sorry, Matt. If I screwed your name up, typically do you adjust your HD? How do you adjust your HGH dosing from offseason to pre contest? Another HGH dosing question. I feel like I get one of these every week. Um, during the offseason, I tend to risk pushing the doses a little bit higher on the HGH. During contest prep, here's the issue you run into with HGH is when you're in a caloric deficit, when your estrogen is smashed, um, and you know, you're pushing things hard and guys will see this all the time. I get dudes that freak out when they go get their IGF one tested and it's low and they think their HGH is fake when they're on a diet or in a caloric deficit. It's it, that has nothing to do with it. It's because your insulin production is lower. All your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factors and TOR is going to be lower. Um, and you know, carbohydrates lower, um, you know, estrogen levels are going to be lower. So you're not going to have the same IGF one conversion that you are going to have in the offseason. So really HGH and contest prep just ends up being an anti-catabolic tool in a really expensive fat burner. Now, if you have the money to burn on it, by all means run what you need to. But I, I, and I also like splitting the dosing up on contest prep, whereas I would not do that in the offseason. Uh, the HP, HGH peaks after a couple of hours and stays, you know, elevated for, you know, up to six hours. You're going to get the lipotic effects from it in limited windows. So something like six to eight hours, uh, off the top of my head, don't quote me if that's completely wrong, but that ballpark, that's what it is. So a lot of times I'll split my dose up where I take a dose at night and then a dose in the morning. Um, but the trade off is is that you don't get the high IGF one spike from what I understand if you do smaller split up doses. And there's also the risk of increased insulin resistance when you're in the offseason from havinGHGH present all day long. So long story short, in the offseason, it makes more sense to just take a big bullets at night. You're going to have an higher IGF one spike potentially, and you're also going to limit the effects on lipolysis during the day, shifting your body into fat metabolism versus glucose metabolism. So that way you'll keep insulin resistance down a little bit lower. Your blood glucose levels will not be as high if you take the GH all at night versus splitting it up into multiple doses during the day in the offseason. So long story short, I usually take a little less GH on contest prep. Um, and I split the doses up at least probably in two doses, one contest prep in the offseason. I just take one big bolus at night and push the doses up as high as I can handle. Next question. And it took me a second to figure out this username. I was trying to pronounce it and I was coming up with all, I'm like, is this I am Iran or something like that? It is. I am Ironman. I'm such an idiot. I figured it out. Uh, he said, here's his question. A gym bod dad trensformation if going from TRT doses of 20 milligrams daily to 40 milligrams daily and adding in Masteron should mass be run at 60 milligrams a day daily to bring the anabolic load higher with minimal downsides. Also running four to six units of HGH alongside of it, taking telomere, misartin, nabivalol and ezetimibe for heart health support. Um, you know, so let's do some math here. So that would be taking the test up from 140 a week to 280 a week. And you're talking about potentially going, um, you know, seven, 420 a week on the Masteron. So you're running the Masteron higher than the testosterone, which is usually what I do on a cutting phase. But I would let your estrogen levels dictate that. I think that's probably a perfectly fine place to start. Um, I would just go by how you feel, see how you feel. I think that that's probably a decent place to start. And then just have a good, strong calorie deficit. Make sure your diet's on point. You could even potentially, if you're trying to do a body trensformation where you're trying to get the fat off, you consider some of the metabolic stack stuff that a lot of guys are using. Now, you know, things like MOTS-C, uh, potentially SLUPP332, retrotrutide. You know, these are some other things that you could toss into the equation to help speed along the fat loss and increase body, um, you increase the body composition, um, improvement. Those are, those are some tools that you could potentially leverage. I like just, you know, for me, I tend to change one variable at a time and then see how I respond. Then I'll add in something else and see how I respond. That is sort of my approach to things. But I think that's probably a good, good place to start. And then if you want it to throw in something else on top of it, maybe throw in a GLP-1 potentially to help with the appetite control and for fat loss purposes. And then you could layer in other stuff if you want it to. But I would say that that's a pretty good place to start. I like that dose of HGH for just the body recomposition. And it's good to pay attention to your heart health. I will say this about ezetimibe. What I, what I find is that as you clen up your diet and you eat a lower fat diet, the ezetimibe doesn't seem to be as effective as it is when your diet is shit. Now, if you're, if your lipids are still out of whack with the ezetimibe and you're on a diet, then it's potentially you might need a statin. But that's where the retrotrutide comes into play. I've seen pretty dramatic improvements on lipids with the retrotrutide alone. So that could potentially even eliminate the need for the ezetimibe. Now I am not a doctor. I'm not giving you medical advice. This is something you would need to discuss with your medical doctor, but I've seen some pretty profound improvements on lipids with the retrotrutide in play. And that's something that you could consider as well with your fat loss body trensformation stack. All right. I saved the best for last. This is Frankie XG. Frankie said, let's talk DNP, L-carnitine and body fat percentage. And where to start bodybuilding for a beginner that had to lose 40 pounds of fat. I can't tell if Frankie's being serious here or he's trolling me. A beginner using DNP. All I can do is big LOL on that one. Uh, you are fucking crazy if you use DNP. I know that there are people that do it. Um, I am not one of them. Um, DNP is pretty radical. It comes to fat loss. It works, but you could also die. Uh, DNP is, is a thermic uncoupler. It affects how the mitochondrial mitochondria work and how ATP is produced. It basically, what it does is fucks ATP production up. What it does is it causes a bypass of ATP synthesis and proteins to reenter the mitochondria without producing ATP. And you have this runaway effect where your body just generates heat as it burns off more glucose and fat to try to make the ATP. And it's just this unlimited process where it just can spin out of fucking control. Uh, the electron chain continues to work harder trying to make ADP burning off fat and um, glucose and it just releases heat. And you have this runaway effect where guys can, it's the opposite of hypothermia, hyperthermia where your body would just, your body heat will get out of control. I know of a dude personally that I think his temperature was up to like 106 107 something like that. And he had to go to the hospital and they, they covered him with ice packs to keep him from fucking dying from hyperthermia. And there's also the added complexity of, you know, do you actually trust the UGLs to have the dosing correct? There is such a small margin of error with having the correct dose dialed in that you, the margin from, from being an effective dose to going to the hospital and potentially dying is so slim. I would never trust a UGL to have that dosed accurately. Now with you being a newbie guy, just use a calorie deficit. That's all you need. If you want it to throw in some sort of compound, like IMentioned to the last guy, run some red a true tide or run a GLP one in a talk to your doctor, you know, get on a GLP one. If you're struggling with weight loss and you need something that's going to give you a kick in the pants, that would be the way to go. But honestly, most of the time when I have guys come to me and they want to start a fat loss phase, I just try to get the cheap, easy fat loss out of the gate. I just have them do a little bit of cardio. I have them cut their calories a bit and then we try to get some cheap fat loss and then see what happens. And then you can deploy these other tools as you need to. Now, there's no reason to throw DMP into that equation. You're, you're just gonna, you're just gonna add a potential risk and something that that's just not even the juice is not even worth the squeeze. I've never used it. I've never, I don't personally, like most of the people that are my close circle, I don't know if anybody that uses it. Um, I have heard of people using it. I've talked to some people that have used it, but to me, the risk is just not worth the potential reward and you can get shredded without it. You don't fucking need it. You don't fucking need DMP in there. So don't be a dunderhead, bro. I think you're probably trolling me, but maybe I'm wrong. For those of you out there listening, stay away from this stuff. It's just not worth the risk. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. Hopefully you enjoyed this episode of anabolic bodybuilding. The anabolic Q and a, I like doing these every week. It's some really good questions. People have loaded up some fantastic ones this week. I didn't get to everybody's questions, but I will take more next week and we'll see you on the next episode. Thank you for all your support. I love each and every one of you. See you later. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at big P three Rd at gmail.com.