WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Intro Alright folks, Big Paul here today, if I can keep from losing my voice, with the one and only Daniel Coffin, Mr. PosinGHimself. What's up Daniel? Hey Paul, thanks for having me. So, man, I stumbled into your content, I don't know, a year ago maybe? I don't remember when it was, but like, I had never seen anybody explain posing in such clear, simple, easy to understand terms. Like, I tried to relay stuff to my clients and get things clened up and I'm like, man, I'm just not trenslating this well and explaining it in ways that people can understand without being there one-on-one. I just, you know, like, you're simple and straightforward, easy to understand ways of explaining things, so just like made a light bulb go on in my head. IMean, where did all this come from? Oh shoot, man, well, just hearing you say that, like, that makes me feel really good because when I first started doing this, it came out of a place of frustration. IMyself was not a very good poser. I had had a friend help me a little bit, show me some things, you know, in his garage or at the gym or whatever, you know, and then there were some things on YouTube, but everything was just very individual and also, I really like to operationalize terms. I think, like, words mean things and when you use words effectively, you can articulate things more clearly and make things more simple and so that's what I really wanted to do was I wanted to find a resource or I guess create a resource that could just tell me how to do each pose step by step, like an instruction manual, right? Just something as simple as that and nothing like that existed and that's where the frustration was, is I would just have to, like, ask people around the gym how to pose or, like, hey, does this look good because I have no idea what a good pose looks like, right? How do you know what, if you don't know what right looks like, you're aiming at a target you'll never hit, right? And so you can, like, magazine, old magazine pictures or photos on Instagram and you can say, oh, I think that pose looks good. Well, yeah, that pose looks good on him or her, but it may not look good on you. And so there was just, there was no, what's the word I want to use, a standardized criteria for posing and so I tried to create that and by just really trial and error along with a lot of the education that I received in graduate school. I went to graduate school for physical therapy. It was a DPT program, a doctor of physical therapy, doctor of physical therapy and so that's where I went for graduate school and I had a lot of biomechanics classes and I did a bunch of physics classes as prerequisites and then also there was just, like, tons of anatomy, rehab, science and stuff like that. So I was in graduate school at the time, learning about all this stuff and I really wanted to try to assimilate the information that I was learning in school and apply it to, you know, my hobby, which was bodybuilding. And so that's what I did. I just kind of meshed those two things together and I kind of on the fly just created this curriculum of how I thought it would be the best way to teach people how to pose because I was trying to teach myself how to pose. Fast forward, I found two guys on the Instagram. I sound like an old man. I found two guys on Instagram that had just recently posted, you know, check-in photos or whatever. They were however many weeks out and I DM'd them both and I said, hey, I have this crazy idea to help you pose for your contest. And I was like, I developed this curriculum. I want to try it out on you. It'll be totally virtual. It'll be totally free. And they both said yes. And we met, I think IMet with Christian for eight weeks and I think IMet with Josh for about 10 weeks. And they both ended up winning their classes in one bodybuilding, one classic physique. And it was from there I was like, okay, I think I got somethinGHere. And so I just tried to, from that point on, it was about two years ago, just try to really educate people on how to pose in a very like analytical direction, instruction-based way. It's a standard. Now there's obviously variations and people have different body types and whatnot. You have to be sensitive to that. But there is pretty much now like a very standard when it comes to posing. And I think that's a good thing. Yeah. I wondered if you'd had a background in biomechanics from the way you explain things. I'd assume that you probably did. It's interesting too, because I sort of had the same thought that you did. I noticed a couple of years ago that there's just nobody that seems to have any programized or standardized presentation on posing. I couldn't find it anywhere. Like I was looking for myself. I'm like, wow, IMean, somebody could capitalize if they put together some good thoughts. It was just individual posing coaches. I also, you know, like I see it with my own clients, guys severely underestimate how much of an impact posinGHas on their placing at shows. Well, it's unlike, bodybuilding is unlike any other sport where saying there's a thing that really matters on the day of the competition that really has nothing to do with the trening involved for the competition. Right. So you don't get on stage and lift weights, even though that's what you've been doing for the last 20 weeks. You get on stage and you present your physique and it's just like a totally different skill. You can be great at lifting weights and terrible at posing and you can like lose placings. Right. You can be great at posing and terrible at lifting weights and you can do really well on stage. So it's very interesting. And so, yeah, I really, IMean, lead, that's why I don't have to like advertise really like, like, because people understand that they don't want to do all of this work of dieting and trening and, you know, being strict on every fast for their life just to get up on stage and, you know, blow it. So the investment for people, it's pretty easy investment for them. And I think that's, you know, a step in the right direction. I can't tell you how many people I've worked with over the years. I'll be like, six weeks out, I'll be like, how's your posing practice going? And they're like, what posing? And I have made an effort now to tell guys at the beginning of prep to hire a posing coach. I've been sending people your way, but whether they listen or not, that's another thing. But I, you know, I usually present a couple options. I tell them to start posing in, I pose, I'm a mediocre poser, I'm not going to claim that I'm great or anything, but I work in as part of my routine, man, I pose six days a week on prep, you know, and I'll start off with one round, and then I'll work my way up to three or four. Not only just for presenting properly, but for the conditioning and the posing, I see so many guys that can't hold poses on stage. Like, it was crazy when I was on stage at Masters Nationals, there was other guys I was up there with that were just drenched in sweat and out of gas from one round of posing. I'm like, really, man? Yeah, you know, it's always the back pose that always gets everyone. You always, you always know when you turn around, there's always one guy in the lineup that's going, in the back pose, and you just know, oh man, that guy's about to fall out here in a second. Yeah, yeah, you got to be, IMean, you got to be prepared to go through a couple rounds when you get up there. You never know how much they're going to work you, and it just blows my mind that people don't put that in as part of their trening. I was a performing arts major in school, make fun of me if you want, I was a music major, but, you know, one of the things we, we, you know, learn is presentation matters when you're on stage, man. It's like the most, one of the most important things. It doesn't matter how much you do and prepare if you can't present and your presentation sucks. I heard Steve Weinberger, I believe he's the head IFBB judge, say, I can only judge what I see. Yeah, right, yeah, and it doesn't matter what you look like in the gym either, you know. Yeah, yeah. Those crazy, you know, shots that you're hitting in the mirror that aren't mandatory poses, they don't help you on show day. No, no, and I'll see simple things, like simple things. Like I was helping a kid, a guy at my gym who was not placing well at shows, and he simply, when he was turning around, he wasn't contractinGHis glutes or his hamstrings, and so the judges think his glutes and hamstrings are soft. It was not a conditioning issue. Yeah. It's a presentation issue. Awareness of how the body moves in space and also couple that with, like, understanding what the judges are looking for in each pose can really help you when it comes to, like, your stage presentation, right? Like, if you know that on a side relax, that the judges are looking at your glute, your side flank, and how wide you are across the top, then you can, you know, when you're practicing your posing, make sure that you're prioritizing those three areas when you're hitting that shot. Use that as your criteria to say if this is a good pose or not. Another thing you need to do, too, is record your posing every time. Always record it. Always watch it back because if you're just posing to the mirror or posing to someone else and you don't have that second touch point of going back and reviewing what you just did, but again, you are shooting for a target that you will never hit because you have not defined what the success criteria is. I tell people to take off your athlete hat, put on your coach hat when you're watching your videos back, and freaking red pin yourself. Like, be like, nope, that's wrong, that sucks, nope, nope, nope, and then go back and redo it until it's perfect. Yeah, and I don't think 99% of competitors do that. You can see it on stage. I was shocked at at the- I was at North Americans, it was a week ago or whatever it was, a week and a half now, and how many people were up there on the stage and their posing sucked. Again, sometimes it's not even their fault. I think some people just don't know what right looks like and that's just because there's not a standard, right? There's just not an agreed upon standard of what each pose should look like. There's some popular opinions and best practices, but I don't think that there's just- IMean, I know that there's not a standard, and I think trying to push one is really kind of my agenda, specifically when it comes to a back double biceps or a back lat spread. I think when people contract their hamstrings and glutes and add up just too hard, they create that thigh gap, right, and their legs look a little bit skinnier from the back. Then you have the other guys, think like Samson Doura, he does it. He kicks his glutes back, his hips back, and it fills everything up. Those adductors are really big. His glutes don't have like any lines in them. They're just like big and full, but there's no thigh gap. There's just lots of meat. I think the correct way, like those are both extreme, the correct way should be somewhere in the middle, but I know for a fact that some judges like it when you pull those hamstrings in as hard as you can and just show all that condition, even if you're losing the size. They think that's a better look. I don't subscribe to that, but again, there's no standard, so which one are you going to do? Right. It was interesting. Do what the judge likes, not me. Yeah, do the one the judge is like. I had this year on prep, I can't name names, but I had a guy that's a pretty high level judge help me with my posing through a lot. There was a lot of stuff that I had in my head that I thought was important, and he was like, yeah, don't worry about that. Yeah. Do this instead. And it would be great if you could go talk to another judge and say, is that true? Like, yeah. Do you feel the same way about this? And if the answer is yes, then there you go, right? But if the answer is no, then there's a problem, right? Yeah, it was interestinGHearing from this guy, and I know I've heard different opinions on this. I'd be curious to get your opinions. He told me, like, he's like, don't fuck around with trensitions too much. He was just like, get in and out of the posEQuickly, because he was telling me, it was like, if I look at you, he said, I only have like a second or two to look at each competitor. If I look at you and you're fucking around with the trensition, I'm looking at the guy next to you. I've already moved on. I'd agree with that. Yeah, I think you have to, as an athlete, it is your job to make the judge's job as easy as possible. Yeah, and like my last pose, or you know, like a posing coach I worked with before was like telling me how I need to clen up the trensitions and make them look good, and which I do think you need to be smooth. You don't want to be all clunky up there, right? But I never thought about the whole thing. Like, they have a limited amount of time to look at you, and if you're in mid-trensition and the guy next to you is already in his pose, he's looking at the guy that's in his pose. Yeah, yeah, that makes sense. Or how about, I've heard this one many times, which most muscular should I do? To the answer was, well, if you have two, I'll look at you twice. Yeah. Well, that's good. I guess I'll have two most musculars forever, you know? Yeah, I do too. I do the hands clasped and then the hands on hip. Same thing with Faber Classic. I call it the Bumstead Effect. He's so great up there. Like, he doesn't stop moving on stage. He hits poses, he sticks them, and then he hits a little secondary pose or an alternate pose, and the eyes go right back to him. Yeah, he's one of the best posers, I think, in bodybuilding. Yeah, I'm sure there's obviously people that rival his abilities on stage, like performance-wise, but just the way his whole physique flows and the way he's able to present it, it's obviously unbeatable. I was at the Arnold Classic this year and Wesley Vissers won the Arnold, and that was the one thing I noted about him when he was up there, just how smooth his posing was and how well he presented his physique. And he didn't win the Best Poser Award. I think it was, what's-his-name, won the Best Posing Award, but I just thought that for his physique, like, he just did an excellent job of hidinGHis weaknesses and presentinGHis strengths. It was really well done. All those guys are such professionals at that level. Like, they get it. They understand that their eyes are on them. They don't disappoint. IMean, clearly, he put a lot of work and effort into it. When I interviewed him, he says he poses a lot. And I heard, I think he said his mother is a ballerina or something, and his mom helps him with posing. Yeah, IMean, it makes sense. I think they all have, like, some just really good, you know, habits that they're following because they're professionals. I'm thinking about taking some, like, I don't know, like some modern dance classes or something to kind of help me be a little bit more coordinated. I need something for sure. Yeah, I think for movement, you know, I'm a big clumsy guy. I think for movement, that definitely helps. And a lot of older guys, like, I see in your, you know, your backgrounds in physical therapy. I know another thing that limits me, and I see a lot of older guys get limited by, is range of motion, ability to just move. Like, for me, like, it's another thing that you probably need to work into your trening as you get a little bit older is to be able to make sure that you can even get into the poses. Like, for me, I have really poor shoulder mobility, and it really makes it hard for me to do any of the bicep poses. A side tricep is pretty much a distant memory for me after about two months post-show. Yeah, because when you get filled up. I can only hit a side tricep about two months out of the year. Can't reach your hands behind your back. Yeah, but you know, a funny thing, yeah, I've run into, you know, lots of mobility issues, you know, with, you know, all my thousands of client encounters at this point. I even have a mobility vault with it, which is just like a bunch of videos of my most commonly prescribed mobility exercises. I have that available for purchase. It's pretty, pretty cool thing. If you want, you can just DM me the word mobility, and it'll get sent to you. Hey, it's a good thing I brought it up. This wasn't even planned, folks. Yeah, there you go. But, you know, the thing that I have found that has been the most helpful for getting people into poses, give it mobility restrictions, or really, there's two types of movement dysfunctions when it comes to, like, regular healthy adults. You have mobility deficits, or you have motor control deficits. Mobility is like ranges of motion. Can you get there or not? Motor control is, can your brain tell your specific point of my delt muscle to do something, right? So that's like when it comes to like contractinGHamstrings or glutes or quads, right? Where you're not really moving. It's this thing that has to tell those muscles to turn on, right? So that's motor control. But when it comes to mobility, the thing that I find is the most limiting for people isn't so much that they're like have a frozen shoulder or, you know, their thoracic rotation sucks. It's usually that their breathing sucks. Yeah, that's a good point. And they're just so turned on and sympathetic when they pose because they're treating posing like trening. That's bodybuilder logic is, you know, if something is difficult, then the solution is 100% try even harder and muscle yourself into the pose and stren something and then say, yeah, my mobility sucks. I can't, I can't get my, my elbow back in my, well, the issue is the whole aura, the environment that you're in, right? If you're in a much more calm, relaxed, meditative state, your range of motion will improve 10 degrees improvement in external rotation in the shoulder. After 10 deep breaths, it happens to almost every single person alive. You can get 10 more degrees of range of motion. If you take 10 deep breaths and just chill the out, I'm dead serious. We did it all the time in the clinic and that's a great place to start. I'm going to, I'm going to build upon that is I take that even one step further. I tell people to hit poses without flexing. I just tell them to stand there flaccid in a front double bicep or a front lat spread who flare. And then I say, okay, turn everything on. And they go, oh my God, I've never been able to do that before. And it was like, well, the reason that what you've never been able to do before is because you have been flexing yourself into trying to get into poses. You can't get into them because all your muscles are turned on and you're restricting your ability to move the joint. Right? So if you can just turn all that off for a second and just relax and just stand in the pose, you can hit the pose. That's probably why dudes are gassed out too. Yeah, they're flexing. So I, the posing should be the easiest thing that you do up there. Right? Like you just squeeze a little bit. You don't have to hit things hard. You breathe appropriately. If you have a good breathing plan. That's something I work on a lot with my clients is having a breathing strategy for, um, their comparisons for their 32nd routine for their 60 second routine. My clients know exactly when they're going to breathe before each pose, where they are on stage. They know it because we practice it. They write it down. It's negligent to go on stage without a breathing plan. If you don't know when you're going to breathe, like think about a swimmer, right? A swimmer who's going to swim the 500 or the Olympics just happened, right? Like if you don't think they know exactly when they're going to breathe through every single point of that race to be as fast and as efficient as they possibly can, you're crazy. They know exactly when they're going to breathe. Yeah. That's seconds off the play that, and that's where it is. Uh, I was in the military, right? Snipers, they are trened to what they say, pull the trigger in between heartbeats. Like that's, it's obviously an exaggeration, but you pull the trigger in between breaths when you're at the most still, when you're at the most calm, right? Posing is no different. You hit those poses in between breaths. I think you can go on to the next one. I know this is goofy, man, but I've always been very aware of breathing. IMentioned that I was a, an arts major in school, but I played the tuba of all things and playing that big ass instrument, man, you gotta be very aware of your breath. Like you know, have to know when to breathe and you know, when, when it phrases into the music. So I, I constantly aware of breath and it also has a huge impact on your control of your midsection. Yep. Which is important on stage. Yeah. Very important. Um, yeah. And that's why breathing like with intention is super important. Save those big gasping belly breaths for the back poses. Yep. When no one's looking at your belly, but if you're in your back, those going, Oh, guess what? You're not doing breathing. Yeah. I think I heard Milo Sarchev talk about it one time where he said that he could pose all day and he had talked about how you want to be contracted just enough to make the pose work. No more. It's all about energy conservation. Yeah. There's the judge cannot tell if you hit a pose at 80% or I did jujitsu for years. And that's another thing that we, that I took from that too is energy conservation. Like the guy who is tense and not breathing on the mat, always gases out first and you can wear somebody out, even bigger guys, you can wear them out by just, just playing that game with them. Yeah. Yeah. It should be easy. It should be. I, I, I tell people to treat your posing like golf, right? Like if you're, if you're topping the ball or slicing the ball or not making goodbol contact the, the solution is not choke up on the club and swing as hard as you freaking can. No, that's my strategy. Yeah. That, that dog ain't gonna hunt. You don't do that. You, you swing smooth. You, you slow it, slow everything down and just go right back to the basics. Nice, slow, smooth, swing, swing, focus on the ball contact and you can get much better results. The amount of times I do side-by-side comparisons all the time, because that's the only way you can objectively judge posing. In my opinion is you have to have images side-by-side to look at them and say which one is better. The amount of times on the, on the left side, I have a person hitting the pose as hard as they can. And then I have the pose on the right side where I'm having them hit the pose, flaccid, not flexing aromasingle muscle. And I'll say, who wins this pose? And they'll go, the guy on the right. And I'll go, and you're not even flexing, you know, it's just the position. And, and that's another thing too, that I like to explain to people too, is when I am posing you, I don't really look at your, the, in like the middle part of your body. Like I don't look at this. I look at your outline. I look at your silhouette. That's all I care. I care about the silhouette of this pose. Do you fit this silhouette correctly? Is there the right types of sloping lines and contours that makes this pose look aesthetic or makes this pose look aggressive or makes this pose look elegant, whatever we're, whatever we're trying to go for. There's different ways that you can, you know, move the body to, to achieve those different types of poses. And as long as we're doing that, like, that's what I care about. So yeah, a lot of the times guys are like, Oh, well, like, you know, I just ate like, you know, I'm not really sure. Like, I'm like, dude, that doesn't matter. Right. What matters is that outline. Yeah. Another thing you hit on too, man, I seen you like you had the clearest explanation of it that I've seen. I remember you put this post up of like poses from the angles on poses. Like you had them like, like the front poses from the side, what they look like from the side and how, what you think is right is not right. Yeah. Poses from the side is something that I'm really proud of publishing on the internet because it was so challenging for me initially to coach people to push their hips back to the point that I wanted them to, especially over a virtual call. Like it's a two dimensional figure and I'm saying, push, push, push. And so I finally just started turning people around to the side and say, okay, this is how we got to do this. And so now I have clients hit almost every single pose from the side at some point. So I can make sure that everything looks lined up because it's the easiest way to do it. And then you turn them around the correct way. It looks awesome. Yeah. That was very, very clever, ingenious way of explaining it. And I, I actually send that like when people send me their check-in pick span, I, I send that, that, that link to that, that picture you put up and I'm like, you might want to give this guy a call, but this is how, this is how you do it. Cause I'll see it in their check-in pics. I'm like, nah, man, that that's wrong the way you got it right now. Yeah. It's, it's really, posing is very interesting. Another thing I find myself saying that's kind of funny is if it feels good, you're probably doing it wrong. Yeah. That's, that's a fair point. IMean, like, especially some of the side poses. Oh my God, man. Yeah. The way you have to contort yourself. Yeah. You got to make sure that you are touching both extremes. It's like, uh, side poses are all predicated on rotation, right? It's like, think about a side chest. You need your lower body to rotate. What's the clock way clockwise. And you need your upper body to rotate counterclockwise. And if you don't match those two, those two different rotations together, like if you apply more force in your legs and less force in your upper body, you get all off balance. So you have to make sure that the body's balanced. You have to make sure those two things are even. Yeah. I remember side chest. When I first started doing bodybuilding was like a hard one for me to figure out because like you said, you have to be rotating in two different directions at once. And then the activations of the leg are not calf on hamstring off glue on. Yeah. This is really tough. Yeah. IMean, I'm not saying I'm still a hundred percent with it. The one I worked hard on this offseason that I had like that, I just killed me in my last show. The judges told me it was rear double bicep. And, and yeah, a judge told me it was like, it's like, this is like, you're thinking about it wrong. It's like, this is not a bicep pose. This is a pose. This is a back pose. We're judging your back, man. Yeah. And again, so that, that goes back to, do I understand as an athlete, what the, what the judge is looking for, right? Like if I, if I think that I take, if I take the pose literally, they, they're, they're going to be looking at the backs of my biceps, right? Like that's the name of the pose, but yeah, it's so much more than that. It's so much like, you got to make sure you're manipulating the shoulder blades correctly. You got to make sure your, your chest is arched. Your head is in the right position. The thing I see with the back double biceps more than anything is kind of a disregard for the most optimal or correct order of operations. So think like back in school, right? Math class, like you had to do the parentheses and then whatever, please excuse my dear and whatever exponents. So setting up a pose is no different. So in the back double bicep, so you set up the legs, right? I have a whole bunch of steps inside of that, but for time sake, you set up the legs first. And then the next thing you do is you set up your chest and you set up your head. And the very last thing you do is set up your arms. This is a huge mistake that people make is that they set up the arms first, and then they're trying to crank their head back and, and lean back with their, with their back, but they can't because they're flexing their back already. And so then the lean comes from the hips or God forbid from the knees. And then the whole pose, they sometimes fall over. Like it is just becomes like madness when all you had to do was, you know, build the pose from the ground up legs, torso head, and then the arms for every pose. If anyone takes anything from this podcast, the last thing you manipulate is your arms in every single pose. Don't do the arms first, do the last. Yeah, I completely, I kind of went like exactly what you were talking about. I completely changed my setup. I started, I was doing it exactly the way you said, and I was making my back look smaller. And I flipped it and did it just like I would set up a rear relaxed pose, then got into my arms in place. And that's, that's another thing I can't believe I even forgot. Don't flat, don't flex super hard in your back double bicep. Because if you think about the anatomy of the back, right? When you flex all those muscles, makes it smaller. All those muscles come to midline. Yeah, they come to the center, and they condense you down and your silhouette, right, your outline, it gets smaller. So if you're just sitting there, that's the same guy that we keep going back to within his back, but it's going, he is just makinGHis back so small. It's just ridiculous. That was me. You're opening up. And to open up, you don't have to flex very hard. Yeah, the judges would tell me like IMade a big improvement from my, on my, you know, my back width from show to show. And I'm like, I only had four months offseason, I didn't grow my back that much. It was just my posing sucked. I fixed that part of it. Once again, presentation, man, if you can't present it, it's not going to work. That one seems to be the rear poses, to me seem to be the ones that get people the most. Let me make sense, right? We're, you know, bipedal humans, the most, the majority of things we do are is in front of us. So doing things from behind is second nature. It's also very difficult to see in a mirror, right guy that just poses in the mirror, he can't see himself. That's why you got to record your session or have a fancy posing mirror, like me. It's just a mirror hung on the wall, slanted down. But yeah, if you have mirrors like that, or if you're recording yourself, like, you can learn to do it. But again, it's, it's a awareness be motor control. I noticed a dude when I was at a guy competed against last year, and they had the big, the big screens up behind the stage where you can see what was going on. And I noticed him looking up at the stage screen and adjustinGHis poses off the screen. And I never would like that never even crossed my mind to do that. For like, he was getting the lighting right. And like we were talking about it after the show. And he's like, Yeah, man, he's like, you should be looking at that. God damn it, man. Yeah, that's assuming that it's from the judges perspective, though. True. Yeah, usually the cameras up high. Yeah, that could actually jack you up. Yeah, and that's the judges perspective. That's another good thing that I wanted to talk to you about, too, is like a lot of times what looks great from the audience doesn't look so good to the judges. So a big, big issue I see with people is posing to the audience, instead of posing to the opinions of people that actually matter, which are the judges, right? And you see it, why see it in posing sessions with people is I'll have them have their tripod with their camera in front of them. And then I like to put a mirror behind the phone, so that they can see me on their phone. And they can also see themselves in the mirror behind the phone. And so what I'll often see is people will will pose like a front double bicep, and they'll stop looking at me and they'll look at themselves in the mirror. But what that we're in, that's fine, right? There's nothing wrong with that adjusting yourself. But you have to remember that those are that that that person in the mirror is not who you're posing to, you're posing down to the judges here. So you need to have a little bit of a downward pitch to the phone or to the judges to make sure that you are in an optimal position. Because if not, the judges are going to get this like, up angle of view that is not flattering to anyone. Asking any girl, try to take a photo of her from down below. She'd be like, do not. Yeah, they don't like that. Yeah, I see a lot of guys do that. A lot of young guys like I'll help out where they're leaning back on the front poses like a front lat spread. Yeah, yeah, they're doing that. And you actually make yourself because of the perspective. You're you're further away from the judges, you're making yourself look smaller. You're you're yeah, your upper like, if we're talking front lat spread, and you're leaning back or like an avid sigh, where you're leaning back so you can contract your abs harder. You're pushing your upper body away from the eyes of the judges, which is making your upper body smaller. But then here, Paul, here's the part that screws you the most. You're pushing your waist forward toward the judges. Yeah, that's how you have a big waist and a small upper body. That is not a good combo. When you go when you could have you pushed your hips back and move your upper body forward, you could have a small waist and a big upper body. Yeah, the difference between those two, just pelvic and rib cage alignment things is it's not the difference between first and second. It's the difference between first and last. Like it's insane. Yeah, it's pretty dramatic. Yeah. Maybe not last, maybe the second call out, but still not good. IMean, I see dudes screw that up. I'll see it both ways, man. I'll see the guys that are leaning too much forward. And then usually it's gasoline and back. Usually that's the first instinct. I don't know why. IMean, that's just sort of like our natural instinct is to lean back, I guess, stand tall. I don't know what it is. It's the welfare. Last read, it's trying to get those lats to flutter. They pull their hands back behind them. And then they're trying to pull those elbows forward and get those lats out. Now, when it comes to ab and thigh, the logic is sound of pushing your hips forward in your upper body back because doing that brings the abdominals, the rectus abdominis, it brings the point of insertion closer to the point of origin, which is how you contract the muscle, right? Point of insert point of insertion goes toward point of origin. That's how you contract the muscle. Same thing is happening in your abdominals. So if you want to get a real good contraction on those abs, yeah, push your hips forward and crunch down with your upper body. But the problem is, is that waste is coming forward and it's going to, your abs might look, might feel like you can contract them really hard, but you are losing the pose overall because you're trying to overdo it on, on one specific body part, right? Like you don't want to compromise the integrity of a pose just to accommodate one single body part. It does. It's, it's, it's, it just doesn't make sense, right? Like you're, you're doing more harm than good. So instead of pushing those hips forward, keep your hips back and then just tighten the abdominals. Think like a, but if I were to come punch you in the stomach or like poke you in the belly, you'd do that little, just that little contracting, blow out all that air, tighten everything stuck in. You get a good result. Yeah. IMean, that's, that's so many people have wasted waist control in having their waist look wide is an issue that I see with a lot of guys, even at the pros. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's very easy to fix too, which is, I guess, encouraging. Yeah. It's usually pretty, that's, it also drives you crazy when you see guys doing it, you know, it's easy to fix. Yeah. Once again, I'm not saying I'm the, I'm the be all end all when it comes to posing, but these are just some common errors that I see. What do you think are the biggest mistakes guys make on stage? Not having a breathing plan, number one, because you can't, you don't even get the opportunity to show your physique because you gassed out. Then the other ones are, you know, kind of simple, like I'm not having your hips, you know, pushed back in your front poses, pushing forward. That's a, that's when the people mess up all the time. I personally think contracting the hamstrings and glutes way too much in the back double biceps is creating that thigh gap. I think that's a mistake that is rampant. I wish that we could put it into it, but it's taken its time. And then another common mistake, just not covering your belly when you're trensitioning, right? So when you do, when you are breathing on stage, you should make sure that your midsection is not visible to the judges, because if they see it, this is what happened to Sean Curry. This is what happened to, uh, body last year, like it was got her, uh, happened to Sean clear to clear it at the Olympia. Uh, and then I also thought, uh, that there was some pretty heavy belly breathing going on at the, one of the Arnold classics, I think with the Brazil one, both the guys that on stage were just like breathinGHardcore through the belly. And I think Tyler Mannion made a video about it. Uh, but yeah, like you're, you're, I tell people that the, the, the chin of a boxer, right. Or a MMA fighter is the belly of a bodybuilder. You have to protect that thing at all costs. If a, if a UFC fighter drops his hands during a fight and exposes his chin, you're going to get knocked out. If a bodybuilder is on stage, belly breathing without covering up with his arms or without like, just like hiding it in any way, that's a gut punch like that. Like the judges do not want to see that. Uh, and that happens back to mistake number one, because they don't have a breathing plan. We can totally mitigate this, but. Yeah. Midsections win or lose shows. There's no doubt about that, man. Daniel, people want to get ahold of you for posing. How do they do that? The easiest way is to just go to my Instagram account and there is my schedule is in my bio. Um, it's the easiest way to find me. Um, she wants to send me a DM as well. Uh, but it's easiest to just go through that booking site and, uh, I do have some courses for sale on the, uh, J three university website. Uh, so please there's a, the precision posing course, which is everything you need to know about posing, uh, for bodybuilding. And there's also an add on for classic physique. I think there's like 40 some, uh, videos itself pace. Um, and then I also, like I said, I have my mobility vault as well. Again, you can DM me the word mobility for that. And yeah, that's pretty, um, I'm pretty, pretty available on, on socials, but yeah, uh, posing is, is what I do. Um, I help everyone from figure women's physique, women's bodybuilding, and then all of the male categories as well. I don't do bikini. I don't do wellness, but I do have, uh, counterparts that do. So if you're interested, I can put you in contact with them as well. Well, I appreciate you coming on, man. Thank you for being on the podcast, man. Thanks for having me for coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at BigP3rd at gmail.com.