WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Well, I already had to break up with Nandrolone, and now I think Tren might be next. Tren, I can't believe you're doing this to me. Are you leaving me with no other choice but to break up with you? We'll talk about it in one second. Well, I'm a little over a week back into using Tren, and I'm feeling like a dog turd run over twice. I had considered completely not using it on this prep and see what happens. I will say this, I have gotten a lot leaner since I started Tren. It's been only a week, and my body is starting to trensform, but god damn, man, I feel awful, and I don't know what to do at this point. I think IMight break up with Tren just like I did with Nandrolone, and it's a tough decision because Tren is so tempting, and it's a hard decision because I always look so great when I'm on Tren, but I feel like absolute dog shit. I can't sleep. I'm sweating profusely. I get anxiety. I'm not one of those guys that gets angry from Tren, but Tren is like that stripper you dated and when you're in your 20s. That girl named Tanya, the one that was fun while it lasted, but a lot of work and a lot of pain that came along with dating that girl, and Tren is just like that, and I sit here and think to myself, oh, she's going to be better this time. She's not going to be a problem. Everything's going to go great. I'm in a better spot now. We'll be better off this time than we were the last time, and I go back to that well again, and then I'm like, nope, nope, not good, not good. Well, that's you, Tren. You're Tanya. You're just like Tanya, that crazy stripper from my 20s. Tren is the devil's nectar. It's so tempting, man. I just like, God, I wish I could stay on it. I just don't think I can. It's a young man's game, just like dating strippers. Something you do when you're young and foolish, but when you're old and wise, it's probably not the best approach to things. I think I'm just going to have to drop it, and the crazy thing is I'm not running any high doses either. There's going to be guys that are going to freak out when I say this, but I was only running 25 milligrams a day, and literally day one, I was soaked in night sweats. I was having terrible insomnia. I couldn't sleep. I wake up the next day and just crippled with anxiety and just feeling like absolute dog crap, and then also on top of it, then my wing-wang doesn't want to work either, which is not good either. I just don't know that it's worth it, and you guys have seen my progress pics. I think I'm progressing along pretty nicely for being seven weeks out from my show. I don't know that I need Tren. I think I can bring this home without using Tren, and I'm probably just going to forego it. IMay give it a couple more days. IMay just go ahead and drop the Tren tomorrow. I don't know. Maybe I'll just give it a little more time to see if it levels out, but I go back to it. There's going to be the dudes that are saying, well, take some Kaber. Take some P5P. Take this supplement, that supplement, magnesium, you know, buttflower root, whatever it may be. Here's my thing. If something makes you feel like crap, you shouldn't have to take a bunch of other drugs and supplements just to justify using it. It's probably better off just dropping it and sticking with the stuff that you feel decent on. If you can't sleep, if you don't feel good, you're probably not going to look great on stage. I don't know. I know there are guys that do it without Tren. I've talked to dudes that compete at a high level that do it without Tren. It can be done. It 100% can be done, and I'm probably going to have to try it this year. This will be the first time I've ever competed without Tren, but I think I've talked myself into it. This is an open therapy session. I think I'm going to drop it and see what happens. I'll just run more Premo. I'll just run more GH. I feel good on those. I don't have any problems with those, and we'll see what the hell happens. To me, it's just not worth the cost of admission to this show. I need to feel decent. I need to get a good night's sleep. I have a business to run. I have a family. I can't be feeling like this and be non-functional just for the sake of taking Tren. I don't know how guys do it. That's why I laugh when I see these jokers out there on the internet, the trolls that say IMust be on 700 or 800 milligrams a week or 1400 milligrams a week or whatever it is of Tren that I supposedly take according to some people. I would be an absolute mess if I took that much. There is absolutely no way in hell that I could survive on that. Maybe it's just a young man's game. I could hammer a bottle of Jagermeister in a night when I was in my 20s and get up and go to work the next day and be just fine. If I did that right now at 50 years old, you'd be putting me in the hospital. They'd be admitting me. I would be on death's door if I tried to do something stupid like that right now, dropping Jager bombs and doing keg stands and staying out till four in the morning. I can't function. My body would say no. My body would give me the big old middle finger. It wouldn't work and I don't know why I try to convince myself the same thing with Tren. For the most part, I just stick with Test, Primo and GH pretty much year-round. Right now, I have some Masteron in there and I think I'm just going to stick with that and then when I get closer to the show, I'll throw in some Winstraw or Anolvar or something closer to the show and just call it a fucking day and then whatever happens happens. If you can't get in shape on three grams of gear with or without Tren, I don't know what to say. It's probably time to hang up the posing trunks if that's the case, but we'll see what happens. For me, Tren is like making a deal with the devil. It does make me look so fucking good. There's just something different about my physique when I run Tren. It just looks completely different, even a tiny little bit. I don't know. Maybe I should try 10 milligrams a day and see if I feel okay on 10 milligrams a day. I know that's a ridiculously low number and probably not even worth taking. Maybe I should try it and see. I don't know. At that point, it's probably just not even worth taking. Well, anyway, folks, you've helped me talk through this. This is my therapy session with the YouTube audience. I think I'm going to drop Tren. I'm going to have to say goodbye to that stripper named Tanya and tell her it's just not going to work. It never was going to work, even though I thought it might work again. All right, folks, if you've had a bad experience with Tren or you think I'm crazy, put a comment in the comment section below. Check out the Science of Antibiotics and Performance Enhancing Drugs e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together where we talk about Tren and many more things that are awesome in bodybuilding with a science-based approach married with real bodybuilding. Thank you guys for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.