 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. WARNING, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, folks, I have got a cool video here for you today that's been a popular demand from you, the audience in the audience in the audience. And that's how to grow as you get older. And that's how to grow as you get older. There's a old myth that you can't grow muscle as you age and I say screw that. I'm going to unpack my methodology that I have used to grow over 40 and to pack on some serious size and new muscle at an advanced age in bodybuilding terms. I'm going to show you where I think the problems are, why people don't grow as they get older and how we fix those problems and push ourselves past previous boundaries that nobody thought you could bust past as an older bodybuilder. And we're going to dig into all that in just one second. WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right. So when I unpack problems, I take a logic based approach to things. I have a background in computer science. When you write a program or try to solve a problem in the world of technology, you reverse engineer everything and figure out where you and figure out how to get from point A to point B. So we are going to look at what the potential problems are, what factors may limit growth hormone hormone hormone as we get older. And there are many. And how we fix those problems to unleash growth hormone hormone hormone at an advanced age. What many people would consider an area of age that would be impossible to grow. So thinking about this critically, one, is it true that you can't grow as you get older? I know it's not true. I've seen it over and over and over again with myself and with people that I have worked with that were able to unlock a new growth hormone hormone hormone as they age. Even guys in their 60s. Even guys in their 60s. I've had guys I've worked with in their 60s that have added new muscle and new size that they didn't think was possible before. Now with that said, you can't keep doing the same shit that you did when you're in your 20s and expect it to work. It just doesn't work anymore. Our bodies change as we get older. And we need to adapt to those changes and take corrective measures where things need to be adjusted based on our age and be more intelligent about how we do things. It's not impossible, but it takes more attention to detail and more thought. You can't do the same shit as you did when you were young. I when I was in my 20s, I would go out and play a backyard football game, tackle football game, beat the living dog crap out of myself. Then go out having drinks with my buddies all night till like 2 in the morning. Get like 5 hours of sleep. Go out and go to work. Eat like crap. Eat fast food all day long. Go to the gym and lift. Have tequila shots all night. And I'd be just fine. If I did that shit now, I'd be in the ER after two weeks. I'd be in intensive care. So we need to think about the things that we try to do as we age. And if we should avoid those things to unlock potential growth hormone hormone hormone. You can't do the same crap that you did when you were in your 20s. I don't know why people think they can still continue to do the same things they did and fight an uphill battle. It just doesn't work. So. Considering this logically, what are the factors that limit growth hormone hormone hormone as we get older? One injuries. IMean, it's probably the one of the biggest ones. There are other ones, but guys just get beat up. They have catastrophic injuries. They have chronic injuries. They have chronic pain, things like that, that limit them from doing the things that they were doing when they were younger to grow and lift weights and to be in the gym. I had many injuries myself. I had a pretty bad back injury from deadlifts. I tore my ACL. I've torn multiple muscles. And that is why one of the big reasons, and it's not the only reason, but it's one of the big reasons why I walked away from the gym when I was 32. I lifted pretty consistently from 16, 17 years old up until 32, 33. I don't remember the exact year I quit, but it was around that time that I walked away from the gym. I just kept gettinGHurt. And I wasn't recovering the way I was before. I was not growing the way I was before. And I just assumed, well, maybe this is the end of the road for me. I need to move on, build a business, have a family, and just kind of give up on that dream of being a bodybuilder or whatever I was doing back then. It's just not worth it now. So I need to move on to other things. Digestion. This is a huge one. As you get older, your digestion gets impacted. Well, we'll go into more detail here in a second. Health. It's another thing. If your health is worse, you're not going to grow if you're unhealthy. Hormonal decline. That is a huge one. Probably the biggest one outside of injuries. Maybe they're 1A, 1B. I don't know. If your hormones are in the trash, you're not going to be able to grow. You're at a hormonal disadvantage. And your ability to recover. We talked about that earlier. You can't party like an asshole. Eat like an asshole. Do all the stupid crap you did when you were in your 20s and expect to get anything productive done in the gym as far as hypertrophy goes. All right, folks. I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together. The Scientific Principles of Anabolics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. So this is one of the people just, I don't know why, it just totally flies over their head. If you aren't absorbing your food, you aren't going to grow. And we know as you age, digestion just gets worse. It just happens. For some people, it's worse than others. I would say for the bro bodybuilders that were pounding food when they were younger, out partying, taking a bunch of oral steroids. Oral steroids that are trash in your gut. You know, drinking alcohol. All of these things that just melt your gut over time. It eventually catches up with you. And then you can't eat the things that you could before. You end up having things like IBS, GERD, acid reflux, which results in malabsorption. If your body's not absorbing the food that you eat, then you're not going to grow. insulin resistance is another thing that accumulates over time. And everybody wants to blame sugar. And of course, you know, sure, eating carbs and sugar can contribute to it. But really, the biggest factor for insulin resistance is just being fat. Letting yourself get out of shape. And if you get yourself in shape, if you get lean, you can eat carbs and improve insulin resistance. It's really just eating like crap and getting fat is the main reason why people become insulin resistant. Not working out. Working out like a dumbass. Micronutrients. We need to probably pay a little more attention to micronutrients as we get older and making sure that we have a proper balance of micronutrients. It's not something you really think about when you're in your 20s. Food. Our food choices. This is a big thing that I see that I've had to change as I've aged. It's to make sure that I eat food that doesn't cause gut distress and make already existing gut problems worse. So we want to maximize digestion. Maximize absorption by eating easy to digest foods. People, and usually young guys that laugh at me for not dumpinGHot sauce and seasonings and stuff all over my food. And for the lack of variety in my diet, I eat a low FODMAP diet. If you want to look that up, look up low FODMAP diet. Look at the FODMAP list and see which foods cause gas distention and gut distress. It's highly recommended by a gastroenterologist. I first heard about it from my gastro as I've been treated for IBS and other digestion issues since my early 40s. And I have been mostly running a low FODMAP diet since then. I will occasionally have some higher FODMAP foods. Some people will see me eating, like for example, somebody saw me eating Swedish fish. Say, well, how does that fit into the low FODMAP approach? And there's certain things, or bananas, there's certain things that just don't bother me. And that's the concept with the low FODMAP diet. It's really, you get rid of all the foods that could potentially cause gut distress. And then you slowly add in one thing at a time and see what causes problems. I've found that most people as they age, they start to develop some level of gluten intolerance. They tend to gain some level of dairy intolerance. I notice that people become intolerant of whey as they age a lot of times. I've been trying to reintroduce some whey protein into my diet gently. Getting a high quality whey. I could not eat whey at all for a while. A lot of spices. A lot of high fat foods. I cannot eat high fat foods like I could when I was younger. And that could be due to decreased bile production or digestive enzymes as we age. Who knows? There are enzymes that you can take to do that. But I've generally found that if I run a moderate to lower fat diet, that my digestion improves. It's, you know, it's always the young guys that I hear talking about runninGHigh fat diets. It just doesn't work for me at this point. If you're farting constantly. If you get diarrhea constantly. If you're constantly constipated. If you're constantly bloated. Gassy burping. Then something's not right. Something's not being absorbed. You either need to treat the underlying problem. And probably correct how you're eating. Do better with your food selection. And once you do that, you'll notice that once you get your foods ironed out. That you will start absorbing food better. And you'll start growing. Same thing with insulin resistance. If you'recompletely insulin resistant. There's no point in eating carbs. Really. Your body's not doing anything with them. You're just going to be spewing out lipids. And getting into this vicious cycle where your body makes more insulin. And then you become even more insulin resistant. So, usually the best thing that you can do to fix insulin resistance is just get super lean. Do a really hard cut. Get yourself super lean. Now, there are some things that you can do to intervene with that. Such as metformin and berberine and other things like that. But really, the simplest and easiest thing to do is just get super lean. And you'll find that your insulin sensitivity returns. I think this is probably the biggest part that everybody screws up as they age. Some people are still aware of the digestion. They try to eat like they were 25. You can't get away with the same foods you could when you were 25. When you're 35 or 45 or 55 or 65. trening is the huge one. I see a lot of guys that want to hang on to the big compound lifts that they did when they were younger. They feel like they have to squat, bench, and deadlift to be a real man. They feel like they have to tren to absolute failure to be a real man. They feel like they have to do drop sets and supersets and all these crazy intensifiers and rest pauses and etc. To be a real man. Otherwise, they're not progressing in bodybuilding. And usually what I see is when you do that stuff and combine it with liftinGHeavy weights, that you end up injured. You get hurt all the time. Your joints hurt. You're banged up. You can't stay in the gym. And if you can't stay in the gym, you can't tren. If you're having to take a week off or deload every two weeks, how are you going to grow? You're not going to grow. If your knees are in constant pain, if your elbows are in constant pain, if your back is constantly hurting, if you're pinching nerves in your back. I see a lot of older lifters that continue to try to lift like they did in their 20s. And then they constantly get hurt. Well, I tore my pack today. And they wear it like some badge of honor. I think you're an idiot. Why would you be doing something that's going to be risking you having a catastrophic injury and being out of the gym for six months and not be able to tren? And then you wonder why you can't grow. You're not going to grow if you're trening like a moron. Now, if you have a specific sport, such as powerlifting that you're trening for, you may have to lift a certain way to do that. Or if you're a strongman or whatever. But for hypertrophy purposes, there's no written law saying that you have to do heavy squats, barbell squats, bench presses, and deadlifts. They're just, there's, I haven't done them in years. And I've grown just fine. Once again, this goes back to the, you wouldn't do the things that you did when you were 25, when you were 45. You wouldn't go play a tackle football game when you're 45 and expect to recover and be able to do it again tomorrow. Like you did when you were 25. So why in the world do you think you can put yourself through a tren wreck of trening just like you could when you were at 25? trening to absolute failure, doing force reps with heavy compound movements and be able to recover and get back into the gym and make progress. It's not going to happen, my friend. And it's just a matter of time before you get hurt. So we have to be very conscious of exercise selection. As we get older, you need to think about what exercises you're choice choosing and what the cost versus benefit ratio of that exercise is. Is the risk that you're taking is the fatigue that you're accumulating from a specific exercise choice worth the potential hypertrophy benefit that you're reaping from it? And if the answer is no, if it is a high risk exercise, high risk of injury, if it's an exercise that hurts, if it's an exercise that causes massive CNS fatigue that you can't recover from when you're 45, like you could when you're 25, then it's probably not worth doing. Sub it out for something else that makes more sense. So for example, I don't do any barbell squats anymore. I'm going to do something where my spine is braced, where I'm protecting my spine. I'm going to do something that's going to place maximum load on my legs, quads, if I'm working quads, without stimulating the rest of my body. Like squats are really a whole body exercise. There's back and vol, there's everything, the axial loading. CNS fatigue. There's a bunch of things that add up with squats that probably don't make sense when I'm 50 years old. So being more intelligent about your exercise selection. Recovery. You have to consider recovery. Sure, you can tren to failure. Sure, you can do force reps. But is it worth it when you're my age? The modern science shows that really anything within a couple reps of failure seems to stimulate growth hormone hormone hormone. trening with IRR still stimulates growth hormone hormone hormone. Why would you take the additional risk for very little extra benefit? You may get a 2% or 3% extra benefit. But if you hurt yourself and you can't tren for months or if your joints are all beat up and you can't go hard, then what's the point? If you're tearing your pec off of your shoulder from doing barbell bench presses with heavy weights in the 6-8 rep range, thinking that's better for hypertrophy, you're wrong. You're wrong because you're injured, you're out of the gym for 6 months having a pec tear repair surgery. So it makes no sense. trening to failure, you would have to ask yourself, is it really worth it? Is there any reason to be doing that? Is there any reason to be using intensifiers as I age? Would I be better off maybe doing a little more volume, keeping a rep or two in the tank, maybe increasing my rep range so I'm lightening my load up? Now we do know that mechanical tension promotes hypertrophy. And this is another thing too, is that the muscle doesn't know what the weight is on the other end of the bar. Just think of an example of a fulcrum and a lever. You can place one kilogram at the opposite end of a lever and just by moving the fulcrum you have either reduced or increased the load that's experienced on the other end. So consider that. trening for strength. trening for strength. You want to make moving the weight from point A to point B as efficient as possible. So you are going to adjust that fulcrum, AKA your form, to maximize efficiency of moving that weight from point A to point B. That does not change the load experience on the muscle. All you're doing is adding more load to your joints, probably causing more wear and tear to the joints. Whereas if you just back the load off, use a form that actually places more mechanical tension on the muscle with a lower weight, you're probably saving yourself some CNS fatigue. You're probably reducing risk of injury. Probably. I'm just thinking out loud. I'm thinking out loud. So why wouldn't you do that? Find exercises that put you in a mechanically advantageous position to increase mechanical tension on the muscle while reducing risk. Volume. Volume. Volume is another thing. You can progress by progressing volume up. Now there's only so far you can progress volume before you reach into junk volume. That's not going to be good. But if you keep an extra rep or two in the tank and maybe push volume and frequency up a little bit more, is that going to cause more hypertrophy? Then if you were to go to absolute failure on everything and be able to tren less and risk injury and be beat up and feel like crap all the time? I don't know. Think about it. Think about it. Working around injuries. This is another thing. One of my friends is an exercise physiologist. And I have a beat up elbow. I have a torn UCL. I've never gotten fixed. And I was stubborn and continued to do skull crushers. And I told him, I'm like, man, what do I do to make these skull crushers so they don't hurt my elbow? And he looks me in the eye and he says, Paul, don't do skull crushers. Do something else. I felt like an absolute moron in that moment. IMean, that is so blatantly obvious. Why wouldn't you just do that? So if it hurts, if it makes your joints scream, don't continue to do that exercise. There's a saying that you're only as old as your joints are. And that is so true. Protect your joints. They are very valuable. Protect your joints. Protect your back. If your back is injured, if your joints are injured. From trening like a moron. You're not going to be able to progress. Hormones. IMean, this is a blatantly obvious one. And this is the one that everybody wants to jump to. They think it's all about the PEDs, which in hormone optimization, they are a piece of the puzzle, but they aren't the entire puzzle. You can actually do too much with these. You can actually do them incorrectly and put yourself in a worse position for growth hormone hormone hormone. Let's consider if your testosterone is 200 or 250, whatever the measurement is. That may be normal on a test. What's considered normal ranges on a test, but that is abnormal for growth hormone hormone hormone. You're not going to grow on that. You need to be at the top end of the reference range or even in super physiological ranges if you want to grow. And you need to optimize your hormones. So things that decline as you get older. Testosterone declines in men. Women too. growth hormone hormone hormone hormone declines in both. Rapidly. Especially as you get past 40. And not everyone, but some people have declined insulin production as they get older. Pancreatic insufficiency. Get your blood levels checked. See where you're at. Optimize your hormones. I'm not saying you have to blast gear like a bodybuilder, but optimize your hormones to a point where you can make progress and be in a good state for growth hormone hormone hormone. Health. This one should be blatantly obvious, but I don't know why people don't consider this. If you're unhealthy, you won't grow. And one of the biggest things that I see that older bodybuilders or older gym bros do to make themselves unhealthy, they think as they age that the answer is just let's throw more PEDs at it. That must be the problem. That must be the problem. And you can brute force your way to a certain extent by throwing more PEDs at it. But eventually that catches up with you. With PED choice, this is another thing that you need to be more intelligent about as you get older. The stuff that you can do in your 20s, you can't do when you're in your late 30s, in your 40s, in your 50s. Like if you're slamming tren in anadrol year-round, that's just going to make you sick when you get older. And if you're sick, you can't grow. Why would you do that? But I think it's more important to pick out the stuff that you tolerate well. Stick with safer compounds. There is a time to use stuff that may have more risk to it if you're a competitor, but you limit exposure to that. And the alternative would be to stick with safer, well-tolerated things and increase the doses of those as needed to continue to progress while keeping an eye on your health markers. I can't stress this one enough. Avoiding alcohol and tobacco products as you get older. Alcohol is literal poison. And if you're drinking and your body's constantly fighting to recover from drinking, you're likely not going to grow. And same thing with tobacco products. They're toxins. And your body is going to spend a lot of its resources trying to keep itself from dying, from having alcohol and tobacco in there. Save your health. IMentioned it before in the trening section, but protect your joints at all freaking cost. If your joints arecompletely screwed up, completely blown out, trust me, I'm dealing with a shoulder injury right now and it's from stupidity. My shoulder injuries, both of my shoulders are beat up and they're likely not even from lifting weights. It's from jujitsu. I'm not tapping out when I should've. Doing stupid stuff in jujitsu. Letting my ego get the best of me. Trying to be like I'm 25. Be like a hero. And now I'm dealing with shoulder injuries. Consider your joints at all times. There is no lift. There's no extra rep. There's no exercise. There's no sport. That's worth blowing out a joint or blowing out a muscle, blowing out a ligament. I've torn both of my ACLs. Playing basketball. It's probably not wise playing basketball at my age. We talked about it before. Keep your gut healthy. If your gut's unhealthy, you're not going to grow. Making sure that you maximize your sleep. Getting ample sleep. I'm terrible about that. Your cardiovascular health. This is a big one that men especially ignore. Keeping your blood pressure in check. Making sure that your heart is healthy and can handle the stress of what we do. Liver health. The liver is pretty resilient and can take a lot. But if you have a fatty liver. If your liver is stressed out from taking toxic drugs. From drinking. Whatever the case may be. Your digestion is going to suck. You're going to feel miserable. You're not going to be able to tren hard. Kidney health. If your kidneys are not filtering correctly. You're probably not going to be able to grow. All right, folks. That's all I got on this one. Consider these things. If you're an older. Lifter. Bodybuilder. And you want to continue to grow. And I promise you. If you maximize. These things that IMentioned. That you will grow. If you want to learn more. Check out my PED e-course. Where I talk about how to use PEDs properly. Scientific based information. Also, if you havEQuestions or comments. Put them in the comments section below. Thank you for your support. For coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com. To book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing. Hormones. Fat loss. Muscle gain. Physique. Athletic performance. Nutrition. And health. For more information. Shoot me an email. At bigp3rd. At gmail.com. Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam Beam