WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A. You can see all the mess in the background. My HVAC system is completely out here in sunny and warm Virginia in the middle of July. It's nice and toasty in my house. I have a portable HVAC unit hanging out my window until I get my system replaced. So that's why the background's messy, just so you know. Got some good questions lined up for you today. I've got another HGH timing and injection protocol question. It seemed like I get one of those every week. We are going to talk about what wins on the bodybuilding stage, when is the optimal time to do adexA scan, how to avoid getting fat when bulking, when and how often to get blood work done when you're using PEDs, do androgen receptors really down regulate, and I have a bunch of other questions as well. Most of these come from my school anabolic bodybuilding member site. You can join that site for $30 a month. It's super cheap if you want your questions answered on the anabolic Q&A. School members are guaranteed to have their questions answered on thEQ&A. I pick a couple random ones from YouTube comments as well that I post up here. It's $30 a month folks. You probably are spending more than that on crappy energy drinks. I know you bros are spending more than that on your ghosts, your monsters. Come on man. $30 a month you get access to me to ask questions. You also have access to some free coursework that's included as part of the course. There's how to structure cycles, insulin protocols, also how to put together a carb cycling diet. I've got some other stuff up there as well and a great forum of people that answer and help each other out. There's over 100 members on the site right now. If you want to be a part of the community, go over there and join up. Link is in the video description below. All right, enough of that folks. We're going to dig into this Q&A in just one second. So All right, first question I have here is from Zach Holmes. Zach asks, can you safely and effectively use HGH as someone with diabetes? What would you do to manage HGH induced insulin resistance? Well Zach, I am a type one and a half diabetic and I also have used HGH off and on for the last decade. And it is definitely a concern when you're a diabetic, even type one as I am, insulin resistance and how HGH affects glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent is a concern when you're a diabetic and it's something that needs to be closely managed and monitored while you're on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Now what I have seen is a lot of the insulin resistance issues that people talk about with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone are vastly overstated. It's not to say that it isn't a risk and that it's not something that you don't need to be aware of, but it certainly can happen, but I feel like people overdramatize it. Now there are some things you can do to mitigate insulin resistance and the skewing of blood sugar levels while on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. A big part of it is, and this is a mistake that I see a lot of guys make, when they are splitting up their doses throughout the day while you're eating carbohydrates. This puts you in a state of lipolysis. HGH shifts your body towards a lipotic state where glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent is shifted towards lipolysis. Your body gets into a state where it's burning fat and not storing glucose. GH stimulates free fatty acid breakdown and raises free fatty acids in the blood during GH administration, shifting you towards fat metabolism versus glucose metabolism. GH also limits fat deposition, which also causes a subsequent rise in glucose levels. Now this is trensient and what will happen is that your insulin levels will sometimes rise, especially when you're eatinGHigh carbohydrates in the presence of GH, and this will cause insulin to rise and then sometimes you can have a corresponding increase in insulin resistance. But the rise in glucose that happens while on GH, from what I understand, is trensient and goes away when you stop using the GH. Now, long term, because you are in a lipotic state while you're running GH, you could have a long-term increase in insulin levels, which could lead to insulin resistance. Now, from what I recall, GH, the lipotic effect lasts for about six to eight hours. So what they do in clinical administration is they have people take it in a fasted state. That's why they take the entire bolus of GH at night before bed when you're fasted. And that way, sometimes you'll wake up with a little bit high fasting blood sugar level because of the lipotic state that GH puts you in. But when you're eating carbs throughout the day, then you don't have issues with glucose levels being so high. Now, these guys that are splitting up their GH doses throughout the day, yes, you are increasing lipolysis throughout the day, but you're also skewing the scale towards fat metabolism versus glucose metabolism. If you're eating a shit ton of carbs, you're going to have higher insulin levels. Some clever bodybuilder figured out a while ago that you can take insulin with it to force the issue, but the problem is more insulin, more insulin resistance. So that's the trade-off that you have. Now, on contest prep, it's not as big of a deal. When you're in a diet and you're in a low-carb state, you can split up the doses to increase lipolysis throughout the day. And that's what I will do. In my offseason, I keep the entire bolus of GH pre-bed, and I then split up the doses on contest prep to increase lipolysis. IGF-1 levels, on the other hand, will stay elevated for days after taking GH. So that's ultimately the goal that we're trying to get or we're trying to achieve in an offseason. So it doesn't make a whole lot of sense, in my opinion, to split up the doses in an off-season phase. It just doesn't. Now, if you're trying to stay leaner, if you want to become a diabetic, type 2 diabetic, and further increase insulin resistance, sure, why not? And it's funny because the guys that I see that are doing this and splitting up doses, they have made themselves diabetic, insulin resistant. I hear them talk about it. They end up with high glucose levels from splitting up their doses of GH throughout the day. The dudes that are doing it all at night usually don't have that problem. You know, just peruse social media, and the bros that are splitting it up always end up having problems, and they have to use insulin to deal with it. Or now you have GLP-1s, which can kind of counteract some of it. You can fix some of it with a GLP-1. But ultimately, as a diabetic, I don't think that's a path that we want to go down. We want to be a little more intelligent with it. You want to pay close attention to your glucose levels. I have a CGM I use. If you're a diabetic, I really think a CGM is a mandatory requirement. I also would pay attention to your A1c and make sure that it's not rising. And I periodically will take, you know, here this year I've taken a good long six-month break from using GH to allow my body to recover some insulin sensitivity. It might be smart if you're already a diabetic to take breaks from the GH or even break it up. But that's kind of my strategy for using GH as a diabetic. Next question is from Aaron G. This is a long one. Aaron, this is a long question. I did rephrase it a little bit to even cut it down even more because it was so long. Anyway, so Aaron asks, I have been using slow-tempo inclined dumbbell presses, 20-inch bench, six-second eccentric, two-second pause, one-second concentric, two-second squeeze, 11 seconds per rep, progressing from 5 to 12 reps with 60-pound dumbbells over three and a half months, two sets to failure. This has produced the best changes in my life and works well for other muscles too. Post-failure, I can usually perform one to five normal speed reps before I fail again, though now I need to avoid this. Given that the body doesn't recognize weight, only tension, does trening to failure carry the same risk for men over 50 regardless of weight, rep, or tempo? And how can this method be adjusted for safer, more effective muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone for men over 50? Yeah, this is something that I have dealt with as an older bodybuilder. I came to the conclusion years ago. I used to do heavy, hardcore HIIT-style trening where I was trening to failure using explosive positives, controlled negatives, and I just ended up having a bunch of joint connective tissue issues and muscle tears. And a lot of it's relative to the load. So the higher the load that you're using, also exercise selection plays a factor in risk as well. Lower rep ranges also carry more risk. You know, how you control your form. I think, you know, you're using a very complicated way of managing form, but essentially what you're doing is you're slowing down the movement, you're making sure that you have a better controlled form, and ultimately hypertrophy is driven by mechanical tension. Your body doesn't know what weight is on the end of the bar, only the load that's actually experienced on the muscle. So ultimately we want to maximize our form to the point where we are decreasing joint and connective tissue stress and load, and maximizing tension on the muscle while using the least amount of weight on the other end of the bar. That's what I have found. I don't move weight as much as I used to when I was younger. I was laughing last year when I was on contest prep. I overheard a couple younger guys in the gym watching me lift, and they were discussinGHow I could be so big and be so weak. And it made me laugh. You know, meanwhile, they're over there slinging 55-pound dumbbells, doing dumbbell curls, and I'm over there using the 35s, getting a good contraction, and I have 20-plus-inch arms, and they have, you know, 13-inch noodle arms, but yet they're moving more weight than me. They somehow think that the weight matters, that they're slinging around, when really I am probably experiencing more mechanical tension on the muscle than the kid that's slinging the 55-pound dumbbells around. And to be honest with you, this took me a long time to figure out. Like, it took me many, many, many years of trening to kind of figure this out. That is sort of the kung fu of trening, learning that form, exercise selection, control over the weight has a lot of impact on how mechanical tension is experienced under load with the muscles. So, you know, look, you can play with that. You can, you know, physics, you know, anybody that's taken a physics course knows about the lever and fulcrum. You can move the fulcrum or the angle of the lever and change the load experienced on one end when the load is the same on the other. You didn't increase the weight on the far end. You, just by moving the fulcrum, you've increased the, by changing the leverage point, you've increased the tension experienced on the other end to move the weight. You haven't actually changed the load. You just have changed the angle, the fulcrum point. And the same is true with how you lift your weights. Just by changing your form, being more selective in form and motion and, you know, rep control and things like that, you can really manipulate a lighter weight and get the most out of it. Now, with that said, you still want to try to progress that weight within good form. I would continue, you know, now that you have gotten good control and you've tightened your form up, I would continue to try to progress those weights. I also, for me personally, machines are so good now. I have really, for the most part, dumped all free weight movements. The other issue with free weight movements, like, let's just use your dumbbell presses, for example. I have kind of shitty shoulders, but with a dumbbell press, if somethinGHappens, somebody knocked into you, and you got yourself into an angle where the weight, you lost the control of the weight, and you tilt your arm back or just something like that, something silly like that, you can end up putting yourself into a Americana or a four, or what, Kimura or whatever we want to call it from jiu-jitsu. It's been a while since I've done jiu-jitsu. Anyway, shoulder lock, an unwilling shoulder lock just from losing control of the weight, and you end up tearing a rotator cuff or a pec, whereas with a machine, you have a controlled plane of motion that you have removed that potential risk factor. So, I would closely evaluate exercise selection as well. Look, I get that, you know, people talk about free weights and stabilizer muscles and all that shit. I don't think it really makes much of a difference, to be truthful with you. I try to choose the exercise with the best safety profile. I control my form. I use that as a primary movement, and then I progress weights within the constrents of that good form in exercise selection, and that's how I have progressed at an older age, and it's worked very well for a lot of my clients. All right, next question from the school anabolic bodybuilding members community site is from Jake Maurer. Jake asked, at the end of my prep, I plan on getting adexA scan done. Should I be getting it during peak week, before, or after? I'm trying to get an accurate measurement as I can to actual body fat and lean mass, even though I know that there is a plus or minus two percent margin of error on the DEXA scan. Thanks, Paul. Yeah, here's my methodology for DEXA scans. I like to get them done at the beginning of prep and at the end, and I time it specifically after my high carbohydrate days, when I'm well hydrated, when I have eaten plenty of food, and what you'll find is when glycogen is topped off, that you'll actually read a higher lean muscle mass amount. Now, I don't know. You guys say that that's not real muscle. IMean, what is real muscle? The muscle is 80 percent water and other shit, or in, you know, 20 to 25 percent protein structures. So, I, the main thing is, is you want to make sure that you are getting the scan done under the same variables. So, for me, that's probably the most consistent way to do it, to make sure that I'm well hydrated. I do it after my high day. I like to do it before my show. You know you're going to be a little bit leaner when you get on stage. You know, usually a week out, I'll do it. You might drop another half a percent of body fat, so, but typically what I find is on adexA scan, that six percent is pretty much stage lean. You have shredded glutes at six percent. People, people don't realize how lean six percent is. They, you know, I hear bodybuilders talking about being four or three percent on stage. Like, come on man, you're full of shit. Maybe, you know, there, there have been, I remember John Meadows being super fucking shredded. I don't doubt that he was, he was down aT4 percent or whatever he said he was, but very few people get that lean. IMean, when you get down below six percent, really the only thing left at that point is just the fat around your organs and your brain and shit. Like, there, there really is no subqtaneous fat left at five and a half, six percent on adexA scan. At least not that what I've seen. Like, if you can get there, that's, that's pretty much stage ready shredded glutes at, at, you know, five and a half, six percent. That's all you need to be to get on stage. That's what I look for. Guys that say that they're leaner are probably full of shit for the most part, but that's what I've seen and been, been pretty consistent with my clients. That's the approach that I take doing adexA scan. Control the variables. Make sure that the circumstances are the same. Go to the same place that you got it done at the beginning of prep. At the end, different, different places may have their machines calibrated differently. Even the technician can make a difference, but make sure you control as many variables as you possibly can. Next question is from Will Davido. Will asks, during a deload week, do you cut back on cardio, assuming that you're not slacking on the cardio in intensity or, and or duration if it's prescribed in your program? Um, I don't do really a lot of high intensity cardio, so I usually leave cardio in place. IMean, I'm typically just walking for the most part or doing light work on the elliptical machine. I usually leave it in unless you're just completely fried. If you'recompletely nuked then maybe take a couple days off from doing cardio, but I, I don't adjust cardio, um, especially on contest prep. Maybe in an offseason, like if I'm really just a fucking gassed, I, I, I'm terrible about doing deloads. Maybe that's why I ended up fuckinGHaving shoulder surgery. I don't know. I, I write them in my client programs, but then I never do them myself. I probably do like one or two a year and it's usually forced from an injury or an illness. I do usually take a week or two full off of trening every year when I'm going at it hard just for vacation. Like if I go away for a week with my significant other, I just don't tren. I just give my body a break. Or if I do, I just do really light pump workouts and do some cardio. But for the most part, I would say leave cardio in during your deload week. It's going to help with recovery. Blood flow is going to improve recovery. All right, next question is from Scott Brinkman. Having just coached eight people in a pro qualifier national level show, just got back from masters nationals. It was one of the busiest shows I've ever been to. What advice do you have for an older competitor who wants to compete in that same show in 2026? What were the judges rewarding and what separated the winners from the rest of the pack? I'm just going to tell you, holy fuck balls. That was the most competitive amateur show hands down period that I've ever been to. I have been to many pro qualifiers all the way back to the late 90s. I know all these old school fucking bros are going to talk about 1999 nationals. Whoever won that year, I don't know, being the most competitive show ever. I can tell you I went, I think it was North Americans in the early 2000s. There were like, there were like 60 people competing in that show. Dude, there were 60 people in the over 60 class, more than 60 people in the over 60 class in bodybuilding at the show and the bikini competitors. My God, there were multiple divisions in 20, 25 girls in each division and each age class. There was probably a hundred plus competitors in each age class in the women's divisions. So any of those assholes out there that are telling you that getting a pro card is easy, they have no fucking idea what they're talking about. Go watch a national show sometime and you tell me if you think it's easy. Now with all that said, what the judges were rewarding, what I saw up on stage, and it really is pretty simple. I talked to the head judge after the show and we talked about it a bit. Really the things that they were rewarding, and this is just true with just any show, the person who was in the best condition and could fucking pose was always near the center or in the center. Hands down, usually the guy that was in the best condition won the class. Now there were some exceptions. If you don't have enough muscle mass, if you don't have the correct shape, if you can't pose, it doesn't matter what condition you're in. If you're small, if you're 20 pounds under the top competitors, you can be as ripped as you want. You're just not going to compete. But all things being equal, usually the people that are in the first call out, they all have similar amounts of muscle mass. Structure did play a certain amount into the factoring of who was in first place. But talking to the head judge, Bill, when I was there, he was like, if you're not in shape, you can have the best shape in the world. If you're not in shape, it doesn't matter. The guy who's conditioned and composed is going to beat you. And that's what I saw up there. It was the dude that was the most shredded, the combination of lean and dry. I think a lot of people get lean, they don't get dry. And the person who could pose. My competitor, David, that won his pro card this year was in great shape. And last year he was in great shape as well, but his posing was kind of crappy. I'm sorry to shit on you, Dave. David, you know this. And then he got his posing together this year and he was in the center. They never moved him. So if you have that combination of being ripped and having your posing locked down, so many guys neglect their posing on contest prep. So at a national show, you got to remember every dude that's there in the national show was top two in his class at a local show. Probably won his class at a local show. Maybe won it overall. Everybody's good. IMean, there might be one or two people that show up that have no business being there. But for the most part, these shows are highly competitive. And at the master's level, it was insane how competitive it was. There were people there that 100% could beat current pros that didn't get pro cards. 100% certain that there was people that didn't get pro cards that could beat current pros right now. So control the variables you can control. Don't worry about the things that you can't control. You can't control who's going to show up. You can't control what the judges think. You can't control your structure to a certain degree that's just written in your genetics. But you can control how well you pose and present your physique. You can control your attitude, being positive, not being a nervous wreck getting up there. That makes a big difference. You can see the guys that were up there sweating and nervous as fuck. And they didn't look comfortable on stage. To me, that has to factor subconsciously into the judge's mind. And then being able to pose. If you're posing sucks, it doesn't matter how big a condition you are. You're not going to get center call out over the guy who's the better poser and also in as good a shape as you. He's going to get the edge over you. Be in shape, know how to pose, have a positive attitude, be calm and cool on stage, and you got a shot. All right, next question is from Eric Lubin. Eric asks, how do you avoid getting fat when it comes time to bulk? Could you put on three to five pounds of muscle per year without putting on 15 pounds of fat while doing so? Well, if you're gaining three pounds of muscle and putting on 15 pounds of fat, you're doing something seriously fucked up with your diet. Something ain't right, man. You know, so first step here, what I see, and this is the mistake that most bros make, they just never get lean to begin with. They live in this nether region of never quite being ripped, but never quite being big either. You know, probably living in that 15 to 25 percent body fat range. They think they get down to 15 percent, they think it's time to bulk, and then they bulk up to 25, and then they cut back down again, and they really have never gained any size, and they just look mushy. They never make any progress in the gym. The guys that take huge leaps forward and the clients that I have worked with that have taken big steps forward are the ones that commit to just getting fucking shredded. Just get shredded, then put some size on. If you're six percent body fat, you've got, you know, if you gain five percent in your off-season, you're still 11. You're still super lean. You're within striking distance, and there seems to be a disproportionate amount of fat gain at the fatter you get. There's, you can look it up, the p-ratio thing, and I'm just throwing out arbitrary numbers here, but let's just say you're at five percent body fat and you start in a mass phase. Something like 80 percent of the additional weight that you gain is going to be lean muscle tissue, whereas that formula flips on its head when you're 20 percent. It might be 20 percent and 80 percent fat. So I would say if you're gaining that much fat and that little muscle, something is seriously wrong. You're probably not lean enough to begin with. Your diet probably sucks. You probably need to get your diet clened up. What I found works the best is to get lean first and then stick to a lower fat diet with more carbohydrates. I know the carnivore and keto bros, their heads are going to explode when they hear this, but those guys always look like marshmallows. They never, they never really get lean. They never really get big. IMean, there are some exceptions. I'm sure there are some guys out there that are the exceptions to the rules, but just look at what every other pro bodybuilder does. They all pretty much eat the same way. They eat some, they do some sort of caloric cycling, probably carb cycling or some variation of it. They push the carbohydrates higher. They keep the fats moderate to low. You know, they do have some fats. They eat lean protein sources, high to moderate protein, and that's how you do it. Get lean. Keep your fats relatively low as you're bulking up. Push your carbohydrates up. Run a moderate to higher protein diet. And once you hit that threshold where you're at 15% body fat, where your abs are kind of blurred out, you can't really see your, you know, your abs anymore, you're too fat, you got to cut down and commit to a cut. Get shredded. Don't get halfway shredded. Get shredded. Then build yourself back up. That's how you maximize your muscle gains in the offseason and move forward. All right, next question here is a GH side effect and dosing question from Brandon Terranolva. Brandon asks, what's your experience with every other day GH dosing to reduce side effects? I was doing five units daily and got horrible side effects. Switched to every other day dosing and the side effects immediately went away. I would love to hear your thoughts. Yeah, I've heard of, I believe in medicine that they'll do that with people that experience massive amounts of edema. It seems like to me that the edema that you get from GH that causes numb hands, ankle swelling, shit like that, the pitting edema in some people seems to level out and go away after a while. You just got to get adjusted to it. I, you know, if every other day dosing works better for you, it's certainly an option that you can do. And, you know, I don't, you know, look, look, we know that IGF-1 stays elevated for up to, I think, 72 hours after you take GH. So you probably could get away with every other day dosing if you're just looking for the increased IGF-1 production. If you're looking for the lipotic effect from GH, that's not going to cut it. So it really just depends on what your objectives and goals are with the GH. But, you know, hey, look, it's an option. I would say that five units every other day is probably better than nothing. Ideally, you would want to work up and see if you can get those side effects down. Some of it may be your diet too. Maybe your diet sucks. Maybe you're not super tight with your diet. I find that water retention issues with GH are much less of a problem. When your diet's buttoned up, your sodium and potassium and magnesium intake are all balanced out and you're following a diet and doing cardio and things like that, guys don't have issues with water retention with GH on contest prep. There's a reason for that, you know, just saying. I would also strongly consider looking at the source of your GH. Make sure that it's legit. You know, there are some some brands of GH that actually have diuretics in them. You'll see some that have mannitol in them. That's another thing that could help a little bit. So, a lot of it is, you know, it seems to go away over time. I remember I used to get tons of side effects and bloating from GH when I was running four units when I was a bit younger. And I think a lot of the issue with me was just my estrogen levels being through the roof and eating too much sodium in my diet. When I reduced my sodium, got my estradiol under control, I noticed that the water retention and side effect issues went away and I was able to run more GH at that point. I know there's a camp that argues that, you know, higher estrogen equals higher IGF-1 conversion. Yes, that is true, but it's... I don't know how much of a difference it really, really makes. Localized IGF-1 is what really matters for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone with GH. The systemic IGF-1 is sort of, you know, we can draw some conclusions from it, but it's not the be-all, end-all measurement. Ultimately, it's what you look like and what results you get from it that matter the most. So, I would just consider those factors and can, you know, when you're constructing your GH protocol. All right, next one, another GH protocol question. People love these GH protocol questions. I feel like I answer a couple every week. DavEQX3YZ, what's up QX3YZ Dave, asks, for HGH use, is five days on, two days off a bro science myth, or do you need to run GH every day for optimal results? Is it beneficial to take GH on rest days? Yeah, that's just a bro thing. They don't prescribe GH in a clinical setting five days on, two days off, and I think that originally originated from Dorian Yates. I remember Dorian talking about doing that, I could be wrong, and Dorian said he, Dorian's reason for doing it was because he couldn't afford more than a certain amount and he found that he got better results when he ran higher doses a few days a week versus spreading it out across the week. So, yeah, probably what he was experiencing is gettinGHigher IGF-1 conversion from having the bigger bolus and that's, you know, just guessinGHere. That's just speculation, but that's probably what happened, but that's just an old bro thing. Guys couldn't afford to take more. They don't prescribe serostein to HIV patients five days on, two days off. They give the guys 18 units per day. The entire bolus is administered pre-bed. It is administered subqtaneously. That's how GH is run in a clinical setting. You know, there's going to be a bunch of guys that debate whether that's optimal or not for bodybuilding, but what I've seen is the guys that get all hung up on GH timing and when to take it and whether pharma or generics are better and all that bullshit usually don't look that good when they're on stage. It's because they spend their time obsessing about menial bullshit that doesn't really matter or have really any impact on how you look when you get on a bodybuilding stage. You know, that's what I see. So look, if you can afford it, I think it makes sense to run it every day. If you're having side effects like the guy before, I do know in a clinical setting that they will have people run it every other day to cut down on water retention issues and carpal tunnel and things like that when people have side effects. But otherwise, to me, it makes the most sense to just get on a consistent schedule, take it every day. That's what pretty much every pro bodybuilder I talk to does. There are a few obscure overthinking ones that are injecting it every 90 minutes and timing it down to the exact second and putting it in their butthole and all kinds of crazy stuff. That's not medical advice, by the way. But usually the overthinkers, the people that overcomplicate shit, the overthinkers, usually their physique on stage doesn't reflect any special improvement over the people that just keep shit simple. All right, the next question here is from Sebastian Day. He says, How often should you really get blood work? Y'all YouTube guys seem to get it every two days. But how do normal people gauge when to pay hundreds of dollars for information? Well, once again, I go back to the chronic overthinkers and overanalyzers. They are the bros that are getting shit done every week, looking at their blood panels, monitoring every little nuanced detail. You got to keep in mind, your blood panels are trensient. Shit changes by the hour. IMean, I'm a diabetic. IMonitor my glucose levels. IMean, they're constantly fluctuating. When you go get blood work done, that's just a snapshot in time. I have a home hemoglobin monitor. My hemoglobin, hematocrit, and red blood cell count are different throughout the day based on hydration. So a lot of this stuff is trensient. And these guys that are overanalyzing shit and getting blood work done every fucking week and tracking trens and looking at trens, they almost never look better than the guys that don't give a fuck. Do you think Roddy Coleman was doing that? Do you think Kevin LeBron was doing that? Look, I'd say at a bare minimum, you do want to keep an eye on trens and make sure that you're not dying when you're doing PEDs. So for me, what makes the most sense, I don't know, three, four times a year is plenty, unless you're sick or you have some compelling reason to go get blood work done. And I like to do it mid-cycle, like peak cycle, like when I'm eight to 10 weeks in my cycle so I can see what my blood panels look like when my body is under full load, see how fucked up it is or not fucked up it is. And then I like to run it at the end of a cruise phase so I know what my baseline is. Otherwise, unless I'm feeling like shit or something's off, I don't get it done. Like there's no point in going and getting it done every week. Just, IMean, it's just pointless. I go back to this again, the chronic overthinkers, the chronic overcomplicators, those people never look better. They never get better results. They spend and waste all of this time overthinking shit, overanalyzing stuff, just going to the nth degree for no additional benefit. Now, if you want to do it because you like it, you're interested, you're running a science project on yourself, whatever the fuck the case may be, go right for it. You're not hurting anybody but yourself and your wallet. You want to get blood panels done every week, go for it. But to me, you know, a couple times a year, that's all you need unless you're sick, unless you're really mashing the gas pedal down, unless something's going on that's off. There's no compelling reason to go do it more than that. Stop overthinking, keep things simple, do things the basic way. You know, I'm not saying ignore your health. You certainly want to pay attention to your health but don't be one of these guys that's a hypochondriac or chronically overthinks shit. You're just wasting mental bandwidth and effort that could be devoted elsewhere. All right, last question I have here is from Andre Guerrero Pico. I think I got that right. Guerrero, I think. Do you think androgen receptor desensitization is a legitimate concern? No. I've answered this one before. There is countless scientific studies that show that the androgen receptors do not downregulate or desensitize when exposed to exogenous androgens. In fact, they upregulate. They are not a trensmembranol receptor like say insulin is. They are nuclear receptors so it's not the same situation as you have with insulin sensitivity. Now, I think guys often get confused when they run long cycles that, you know, they see results start to decline and they're like, how can it be possible that, you know, there's got to be something going on there. Yeah, there's a bunch of other counter-regulatory effects that happen within your body that prevent you from growing muscle. Your body doesn't want to grow muscle and then some of it's just being unhealthy. You're going to see the best results at the beginning of a cycle and that typically has to do more with just increased nitrogen and glycogen retention than anything, than actual androgen receptor or gene trenscription is having any sort of effect on it. That's why guys have thesEQuick gains at the beginning of the cycle. It's not that the muscle gains have slowed down. Actual protein structure is contractile tissue is very slow to grow. IMean, you can take 50 milligrams of D-ball and blow up 20 pounds in two weeks. That doesn't mean you gain 20 pounds of muscle. It's just a bunch of nitrogen and mineral retention and water retention and you just, you know, that's all that it is. It's not actually real contractile tissue that takes time. Now, what I think does happen over a period of time and why guys get confused and think that there is a down-regulation in androgen receptor sensitivity, what happens over time is all these counter-regulatory effects like increased myostatin, that happens, increased AMPK, there's gastric emptying slows down as you go along the way. That's going to affect how you grow. insulin sensitivity is going to affect how you grow. Just wear and tear in the gym, beating yourself up in the gym and being fatigued, all that's going to add up. And, you know, look, I find that at 16 to 20 weeks, somewhere around there of being on blast, the wheels start to fall off and you don't really grow a whole lot more. Has nothing to do with androgen receptors, we think. It's more likely just to do with fatigue, the other counter-regulatory effects that IMentioned, and you just need to give your body a rest and let it recover. Guys will come back down to a baseline of TRT or whatever they run, TRT+. The old school guys used to come off. It's not that that's re-sensitizing the androgen receptor. You're basically just letting your body heal and get back to some sort of homeostasis or baseline, setting yourself up for another phase, lowering these counter-regulatory effects. Myostatin will probably come down. insulin sensitivity will improve when you cut your food back a little bit on a cruise phase and do a little more cardio. All these things are adding up to set up an environment where you're going to grow again. And after a while, you just feel sick and toxic after being on the drugs for a long time. And if you're sick, you're not sleeping well, your body's stressed out, your liver enzymes are through the roof, all your health markers are off, you probably aren't going to grow. You know, if you push food really hard for a long time and your insulin sensitivity is shot, your gastric emptying is shot, you probably aren't going to grow. So it has more to do with those things than any potential androgen receptor downregulation. It has nothing really to do with that. Alright folks, that's all I got for you on this one. Hopefully you found that helpful. I appreciate each and every one of you, even the guys that give me shit in the comment section. I love you too. You mean the world to me. You probably need a hug more than anybody else because you're a grumpy motherfucker who probably didn't get enough hugs from your parents when you were kids and didn't get told that you were loved. I love you my friend. Even though you're a troll and mean to me in the comments, you're still a human being and I care about you. Alright folks, I will see you on the next episode. RIP Ozzy Osbourne. You are the god of metal. IMiss you. Ozzy, you'll be remembered forever. See you folks next week. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at BigP3rd at gmail.com.