WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A. I've got some good questions queued up for you today from the school membership site for anabolic bodybuilding. If you want to join you can head over to my website anabolic bodybuilding or you can go over to school. There is a link in the video description below and you can put your questions in. You guys get first priority. I picked a couple user questions too from just the comments section. If you havEQuestions for next week's video you can put them in the comments section below and I will pick the best questions for that video. I've got some good questions lined up today. I have got one about taking clinbuterol with nabivolol. I also have somEQuestions about protein powders versus food. We're going to talk about protein synthesis there. Also Kurt and I talked about minimum effective doses in our e-course, the science of anabolics and PEDZ course. Somebody was asking a question about what is the minimum effective dose of HGH. We'll dig into that one as well. If you haven't signed up for the anabolics e-course, it is 20% off for President's Day. You can get your discount on it now. Just head over to the anabolic bodybuilding website, sign up, use the code USA to get the 20% off for the sale. Link is in the video description below. It is an awesome course. We have over 100 modules up there now. I just put some new content up here the past week. I put a couple new articles that I wrote in the e-course. We do a monthly live members Q&A as well. We have tons of information, PED profile cycles, real-life cycles, side effect mitigation, etc. All right folks, enough of that. We're going to dig into all thesEQuestions in just one second. So all right, first question I got here is from Lord Brocktree. I love that name. Lord is a member of the school anabolic bodybuilding members site. Lord asks, what excites you these days about bodybuilding, compounds trening, etc., life and business? What are your interests currently in the bodybuilding realm? I have been fascinated with nutrition. I've always, nutrition's always sort of been my first love. And honestly, I think from working with people over the years, I've worked with a ton of people over the last couple of years. I did nutrition when I was younger. I was a nutritionist at a gym in my early 20s. I wasn't very good at it then, but I did understand what a calorie deficit was. Got my certification in nutrition and a personal trener, and I worked as a personal trener for five years. And I've just kind of honed this skill over my lifetime, but I have really been reading a lot more about fat metabolism. I am a type 1b diabetic, so understandinGHow metabolic disorders, glucose control, things like that work really fascinate me. And what I've seen over my time working with people, the singlEQuickest way you can trensform someone is with diet changes, even more so than PEDs. I see plenty of dudes that take PEDs that look like dog shit. They look terrible. And the missing ingredient is they are not on a structured diet plan. And once we get the diet clened up, they look like completely different people. They completely trensform. Usually diet is what separates the also rams from professional bodybuilders a lot of times. And you know, genetics play a role in it. But when you get a bunch of pro bodybuilders in a room, you get guys that are elite level or advanced level bodybuilders. They don't really talk that much about PEDs. It's mostly about diet. What are you eating? What type of diet are you following? What is your diet strategy? What did you do for your prep? How did you peak for your prep? How many carbs did you eat? At the end of the day, most of us take the same PEDs. It's the same shit. Everybody's taking similar doses. Some guys take more. Some guys take a little less. But there's really just a handful of maybe like a half dozen drugs that people use in some combination. And for the most part, it's just test GH, whatever anabolic you like, maybe some insulin, and that's pretty much it. What most dudes are doing. And then on contest prep, you sprinkle in some other shit, other goodies here and there. But that's really it. But nutrition is where things can really, really get complex. You can do some really cool, interesting things with diet. That's where you can really take things to the next level with your physique is by manipulating your nutrition. And once you get the hang of it, you realize that you have total control over your body composition through what you put in your mouth. And it's really kind of a cool thing to realize. And there's so much of it that's just misunderstood. There's so much bad diet information out there. There's so much cult-ish diet information out there that is just terrible and incorrect. And I love learning about this. I love sharing decent information. I'm not saying that I know everything, but I think I've been able to get ripped. I think I've been able to get my clients lean. I think I have a common sense approach towards diet. I don't get married to one philosophy versus another. I do tend to favor certain ways, but at the end of the day, it's being balanced. It's being objective. It's problem solving. It's understanding what a specific person needs, where their deficiencies are at, and addressing that in a common sense, logical sort of way where you take a problem, you think through it critically, and you put together a solution for them. All right, next question is from my man Alvaro. What do you think makes people so naive to think that pros or top amateurs only use low or reasonable doses of PEDs? Well, people are naive and dudes have lied about it for years. It's really that simple. It goes back to the 90s, 80s. I remember growing up reading the muscle mags. There was a bunch of different muscle magazines, and every one of those things were just full of shit. They lied to you. They told us that it was supplements. They told us that it was trening and diet, and they never once mentioned PEDs. Anybody with half a brain, I was just a teenager, and I'm looking. I'm like, that guy does not look like anybody else I've seen. He has to be taking steroids. It's the same thing with professional athletes. I think people are very naive when it comes to just professional athletes in general. Do you not think that NFL players, not trying to slight the NFL or professional basketball players, when they have millions of dollars online, aren't using every tool at their disposal to be the best they possibly can be? Olympic athletes, any of these people, they're all using PEDs, so I think it's just naivety. Also, there are exceptions. There are these guys that are freaks. There are dudes that are super freaks. We've all heard the story about Phil Heath running really low doses and getting ready for his first national show and winning, but Phil is just a freak. He's a genetic gifted person. They call him The Gift or whatever his name is. I think it was The Gift, but he has a genetic gift where he ... Same thing with Ronnie Coleman. Ronnie Coleman supposedly was natural when he turned pro. Maybe he was bodybuilding Natty, which is just taking a low dose. Who knows? What the truth was. I also think that skews people's perspective. They're like, well, that guy got huge just running nothing. Well, that guy is a genetic mutant. You're not that dude. It's the lying. It's the guys downplaying. They also get the dudes that are ... And look, I get it. Hey, I'm only running 300 milligrams of testosterone right now. Yes. Yeah, you probably are, buddy. It doesn't take much to maintain. I can tell you that. I've been running just pretty much 300 milligrams. I had a small little cycle there for the last six months, but for the most part, that's where I've been at. There's no way in hell I put on the size that I put on running that much. I ran grams to put that size on. Most people would be lying if they told you the same. I also think there is a bit of ... I don't know if you would call it arrogance or just bodybuilders that have worked their balls off. I trust me. I am in this camp too. I get it. It is a bit offensive when guys think they can just take a bunch of gear and shortcut the process of actually having to do the hard work of trening and dieting to get to where they are. I think a lot of times dudes will downplay it even still because it pisses them off when they see people saying, well, I'm just going to take a bunch of drugs and shortcut the process. We all know that that doesn't work. We've all seen that guy that takes a krafton and just still looks like shit. We all know that guy. You still have to put in the work. I think that also plays a factor into it too. Some of it's just exposure and liability. Guys don't want to say, hey, I took this and then somebody gets hurt. You don't want that on you either. There's multiple reasons, but I think most of it's just dudes don't want to own up to it. There's been people lied about it for decades. There are way more people on PEDs than what you think there are. Just look around Hollywood. Chris Pratt comes to mind, and I'm not trying to single Chris out, but getting in shape for when he did guardians of the galaxy the first time, or some of these other Hollywood guys. Sylvester Stallone, Tom Cruise. Do you think those guys are natty? No, they're definitely not natty. Now, are they running grams? No, but they're definitely not natty. All right. Next question I have here is from the team AB members site in school. This one is from Chris Galbaugh. Should Nabivalol be used when adding clinbuterol and ECY stack to a fat loss cycle? I recently heard guys talking about this, and I'd never heard anybody using it. I think it was Lyle MacDonald that postulated this recently. Lyle's pretty sharp. If you haven't followed Lyle, he's been around forever. Lyle is a researcher, kind of an OG bodybuilding and anabolic pharmacology nerd. Lyle has a lot of diet tips, a lot of research, a lot of research. He's a guy that's been around for a long time. He's a guy that's been around for a long time. Anabolic pharmacology nerd, Lyle has a lot of diet and PED information and is a professional grumpy old bodybuilding guru. Anyway, I haven't seen what Lyle said about it. I know people have mentioned it to me and asked mEQuestions about it, but I can only make assumptions here that the Nabivalol is put into the stack. Nabivalol is a beta-1 selective agonist that helps with blood pressure, lowers heart rate. It was originally used, I think, for anxiety medication. It's also a vasodilator, increases nitrous oxide production, just a bunch of stuff that helps with cardiovascular health, lowers heart rate. The only thing that I can honestly think that it was put in with these stacks is to help remediate some of the CNS stimulation, increased heart rate that comes along with taking these stimulants and things like Clenbuterol. Clenbuterol is a beta-2 adrenergic agonist. It is commonly used as a bronchodilator and fat loss agent for bodybuilding contest prep. It does increase heart rate, and it's weird. It can both lower and raise blood pressure. For me, I've seen it actually lower my blood pressure. It can cause heart arrhythmias. I assume that the beta-1 selective agonist, the beta blocker, the Nabivalol is in there to counteract some of the side effects that you get from it and maybe mitigate the risk. I think, and this is just my speculation, that a lot of the issues that guys have long-term, and you'll see it with bodybuilders with heart issues, arrhythmias, cardiac enlargement, LVH specifically, comes from the crazy shit we do on contest prep. It's wild to me that no one has put this together. Now, I'm not saying that powerlifters and strongmen are the epitome of health, but these dudes eat crap diets. They're extremely heavy. I'm sure their blood pressure is high because most of them are fat. Not all, but they're generally compared to bodybuilders. For the most part, bodybuilders have worse health outcomes from taking PEDs. You have to wonder and ask why. I speculate that it's some of the crazy shit that we do on contest prep. All the stimulants we take for fat burning, all the crazy crap you do at the end for peaking, getting dehydrated at the end, using diuretics and shit like that. Maybe the Nabivalol can counteract some of the stuff that goes on from taking stimulants, from taking a beta agonist like clenbuterol. Maybe the better option long-term, and I thought about this recently, is getting away from all that stuff and going with something like a GLP-1 instead. I don't know. It's something to think about. Some of the risk that you have with clenbuterol, I've noticed that I sometimes will get a slight heart arrhythmia, and I've seen people have that with clenbuterol before. It's something to think about in the cardiac stress that you're getting from taking stimulants such as ephedrine and stacking that with clenbuterol. Maybe it could remediate some of that stuff, or we could just go a different route. That's the only thing that I can speculate on. Also, all these stimulants when you're on contest prep can affect anxiety, can affect sleep. Something like Nabivalol could potentially help with that. Nabivalol could help lower stimulation, lower pulse, lower cardiac stress, do some stuff to help deal with some of that, to ease off the jitters. I don't know. Or maybe just take less clenbuterol, take less stimulants. This last contest prep, I got plenty ripped. I didn't use the ephedrine this time. I only ran, I think IMaxed out at 60 micrograms of clenbuterol. Maybe I ran 80 for a short period of time, but I kept the dose of clenbuterol more reasonable and let the diet and the cardio do the work. I got plenty and lean enough. I was shredded on stage. That is a potential option. Brad Frazier from the school member site asked what my opinion is currently on metformin and metformin extended release. I've kind of come full circle on metformin. I used to run it a lot before GLP-1s were popular. Metformin has some GLP-1-like effects on appetite. It seems to increase leptin sensitivity. Some people become insensitive to leptin over time, so it helps with appetite suppression a bit. It reduces ghrelin. It improves insulin sensitivity. It does have some benefits that you would get from a GLP-1, even though it's working through a different pathway. So those are some things to consider. Metformin reduces glucose production by the liver. It increases insulin sensitivity in the muscle tissue. It slows down glucose absorption in the gut, whereas a GLP-1 is going to mimic the GLP-1 hormone to stimulate insulin and release it in response to food. It suppresses glucagon to reduce blood sugar spikes. Some of the newer GLP-1 combo drugs like retrotrutide actually have a glucagon agonist in them included as well. They slow gastric emptying, leading to prolonged satiety from reduced appetite. I don't believe you're going to get that sort of effect from metformin. Metformin lowers A1c, so if you have issues with high A1c, that can help with that. And so can a GLP-1. I don't know. I feel like the GLP-1s probably do most of the stuff that you will get from metformin and probably do a better job of it. There is some evidence that metformin may lower IGF-1 production, and you can see that in studies, but those studies aren't really done on our cohort. I can tell you from my own practical experience, my IGF-1 was over 400 on metformin, so it wasn't lowered with me. But you know, I am not your typical dude. I'm also a type 1b diabetic, so I'm taking insulin on top of it. That may have a factor in it. I will tell you this, the extended release metformin doesn't seem to have as profound of an effect, at least from what I've seen, on lowering A1c, but some people can't tolerate the regular metformin with the gut distress, the diarrhea, and the metformin farts. Anybody who has taken metformin, you know what I'm talking about. GLP-1s can have sort of the same effect. My thought process is, you know, maybe moving forward, if you're having insulin sensitivity issues, if you need something to suppress appetite, potentially a combo drug, GLP-1, something like trezepatide or retitrutide might be a better option than metformin. I am currently using both at the same time because my A1c was through the roof, although I don't think I have an insulin sensitivity issue because I am a type 1b diabetic. I was forgetting to take my insulin and eating my crap because I was going on vacation. I haven't been really following a bodybuilding diet, and I think that's where the issue lied. All right, before we move on to the next question, I just want to remind you guys to like and subscribe. Like this video, subscribe to my channel. I get a lot of people watching my videos, not that many people subscribing to my channel. Subscriptions have been down. I'd really appreciate it if you subscribe. It helps me out with my YouTube channel. All right, next question is from Daniel De Silva. Daniel is also a member of the TMAB school site. Daniel asks, you and Kurt, Kurt Havens, a researcher who is also my partner on the Science of Antibiotics and PEDs eCourse, have we helped author that eCourse? So you mentioned in the eCourse that the minimum effective dose of HGH would be around five units per day. Is this where most guys would start usinGHGH, or should they start lower and titrate up? I'll tell you what I've seen work well for people is to start a little bit lower and just slowly titrate yourself up. If you come out of the gate with high doses, super physiological doses of HGH, what I have seen happen is guys get a lot of water retention. Not everyone. Guys end up with numb hands and you have a bunch of lethargy from the HGH. You're tired all day long. So I would start off usually something like with two units, taper up by two units until you hit a dose that you can tolerate. It seems like anywhere from as low as two units up to somewhere around five units would be roughly a replacement dose. In HIV patients, adult males, they are prescribed 18 units of Serostim per day, if you can believe that. It's a six milligram dose of Serostim, which is nuts when you think about it. They dose it all before bed. With HGH dosing, I like to take it at night. I've tried every which way possible. I've tried subqtaneous injections. I've tried intramuscular injections. I've tried splitting the doses up throughout the day. And what I found works the best is to just take it at night before bed. That prevents the lethargy. You are going to have a rise in blood sugars when you take your HGH because it's going to cause fatty acid liberation and your body's going to start burning fatty acids for fuel and glucose will not be disposed of as easily and that will cause a corresponding rise in blood sugar. So ideally, you would like to be in some sort of fasted state or low carbohydrate state when you take your HGH and when is a better time to do that as a bodybuilder when you're sleeping. So if you want to keep your glucose under control, I would take it at night. I use it then. I think that makes the most sense. Your body makes its own natural HGH in a pulsatile function. So taking it at night probably makes the most sense. And the drug was designed to be used subqtaneously. So I would just take it subqtaneously. You would have to ask Kurt. I recall him saying that it seems that IM injections may have lower absorption rates because of something about how the body reacts to the GH and some of it might get destroyed. I don't know if it's some sort of immune response or whatever it is. But anyway, the way the drug was intended to be taken, if you look at the serostem inserts, the instructions in the packet was to be taken at night before bed and likely a fasted state. All right. Next question here is from DudeMan and he is a commenter on the YouTube videos. I've taken a couplEQuestions here from YouTube videos. He asked, is whey protein as effective as eating meat for building muscle? I have trouble eating more than a pound of meat per day. Well, bro, if you can't eat more than 16 ounces of meat in a day, bodybuilding is the wrong sport for you. When I am in peak bodybuilding form and I am following a bodybuilding diet, I'm eating something like three pounds of meat a day. I know it's hard as fuck to get down, but that's what you got to do. If you're eating six to eight ounces, let's say eight ounces, six times a day, that's 42 ounces of meat. AlmosT3 pounds, not quite three pounds, but that's what would be 48 ounces, but you know, close to it. So if you're eating 50 to 60 grams per meal, you're going to be somewhere in that neighborhood of three pounds of meat a day. That's what most bodybuilders do. Generally, when I follow a diet, I do five meals with meat and one meal with a shake. Shakes are not ideal and there's a couple reasons for it. One big reason is I see a lot of dudes, even if you get the whey protein that is pretty much lactose free, like the highly filtered whey proteins, hydrolyzed whey and things like that, guys still seem to have whey intolerances. I know I do. I worked with Dante Trudell from True Nutrition. If you want a high quality protein, go check Dante's proteins out at True Nutrition. Dante did help me find some proteins that work for me, but I have to be really careful. Here lately, I've been using clear protein and that seems to sit the best on my gut, but even still, sometimes I get an upset stomach from it. There are some other reasons for it. One of the big reasons is whey protein is rapidly digested, leading to a quick spike in amino acids in the bloodstream. While this is good for post-workout recovery, it might not be best for the long-term muscle protein synthesis that goes on throughout the day because you're going to have a quick spike in amino acids and then a rapid decline and you may not have the amino acids present for muscle protein synthesis when you need them because it's not a sustained release like eating, like say, a steak that may take eight hours to digest. Now there is a way you can help this. What I usually do if I drink a whey shake, I just sip on it for like an hour or two hours between my meals. I just take small sips of it, sort of a bro way of slowing down the absorption if I'm just getting a drip of it over that two hours. Meat also typically has a better amino acid profile. While whey is rich in leucine, which triggers muscle protein synthesis, whole meats have a better balanced amino acid profile along with connective tissue proteins that support overall muscle health and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that are going to be probably better long-term. Now these are subtle differences. IMean over the course of, you know, if you're not a professional bodybuilder, it's probably not that big of a deal, but over the course of years, eating a higher quality protein, eating real foods always results in a better outcome in my experience. Most of the guys that look the best on stage aren't drinking five protein shakes a day. Now I have no problem with having a protein shake here and there because sometimes it's just hard to get in. I would much rather a client have a protein shake and a banana than skip a meal. I think that's probably going to yield a better outcome, but don't live off of protein shakes. They are a supplement. The key word here being a supplement. They are to supplement your diet. All right, next question here is from Joe Passetti. He asked thEQuestion, what is the best way to lower hematocrit without donating blood? I've got some thoughts on this. I think guys overreact with the hematocrit thing and I'll tell you what I've seen. Every single person that takes PEDs or even TRT is going to have a certain elevation of hemoglobin, hematocrit, and red blood cell counts. And what I've seen, it doesn't seem to matter whether you take 200 milligrams of TRT or 2000 grams of testosterone on a super boroblast, you get the similar amounts of elevation of hematocrit. It doesn't seem to be different. It seems to be that you hit a peak and it just stays there. And that peak starts at a lower dose from what I have seen. Steroids, now how they increase red blood cell production is through increased EPO. They lower hepcidin, a hormone that limits the iron absorption and further elevates red blood cell count. Now, some of this is just genetic. Some people have higher elevation than others. I don't tend to get high hemoglobin and hematocrit and red blood cell count unless I'm taking something like anadrol or equipoise. But for the most part, my hematocrit stays like in the 52 range, at least what I've seen. Hemoglobin, also something to keep in mind, is an oxygen-rich protein that carries oxygen in the red blood cell. So as more red blood cells are produced, the hemoglobin naturally rises. You have more oxygenated blood, which is better for performance in athletic sports. This is why a cyclist like Lance Armstrong, for example, would take EPO on top of PEDs because as an endurance athlete, more oxygenated blood is going to lead to better performance in athletic events. Now, what the concern is here is the higher these counts are, the thicker the blood becomes. What I have seen is it's not as big of a risk as long as you do not have high clotting factors. So if platelets are normal, and if you do some other things to prevent clotting and increase blood viscosity, then you should be okay. There are some supplements that you can take to help lower it a bit. Omega-3 is just simply like something like a fish oil. It's going to help with blood viscosity. Naticinase breaks down the fibrin, reducing blood thickness. Low-dose baby aspirin reduces clotting risk as well. Or a low-dose aspirin, I think they're 87 milligrams, something like that. And you can even just take it every other day. Potassium and magnesium will help regulate blood volume. Most bros are taking way too much sodium in and do not take enough potassium, which skews the sodium-potassium pump. And you're going to pull more fluid into the blood because of the sodium and have increased blood volume, which is going to increase blood pressure and blood thickness. Reducing iron-rich foods. If you're pounding ribeyes all day long, you're on your carnivore diet, eating a high-fat diet, putting salt on everything, not getting any potassium in, you're going to have thick blood and high blood pressure while taking PEDs. Probably not the smartest move in the world because you're going to have increased red blood cell count anyway, and it's going to get even higher. That's another problem I see with guys doing these high red meat diets, such as carnivore diets, while taking PEDs. They end up with hematocrit 59 and their LDL is like 300. That is a recipe for a cardiovascular event. Probably not the smartest move in the world. ARBs, angiotensin blockers seem to, something like telmosartan or blosartan, seem to also lower EPL and reduce red blood cell production. So those are some options. The guys all the time, the old school way was just to go donate blood. The issue I see with frequently donating blood, I've seen so many bros over the last year that have made themselves anemic and B12 deficient. They end up with low ferritin and they feel like dog shit and it takes months to get them back in order afterwards. I had a guy the other day telling me that he was going to two different blood banks and double donating and then he made himself severely anemic and felt like absolute dog shit. So that's probably not the smartest approach. You might as well just get a jar of leeches and keep them in your house and do bloodletting. I'm just jokinGHere. But if you want to go donate once or twice a year, I would say donate no more than every four months or so. I think it takes abouT3 to four months for red blood cells to fully form. That's okay. You're doing a good deed. Although, I don't know if you want to donate your tren blood to a blood bank that may go to a pregnant lady that's been in a car accident or a child, a developing child. I don't know how much of an impact it would have on them, but maybe, maybe it's not good. But anyway, I wouldn't overreact to the high red blood cell count. Sort of my limit is if you're over 55 with your hematocrit, then you need to address it. If you have high platelet counts, then it's probably something you need to look at. All right. Next question is from a YouTube commenter. This is JackedJack87. Jacked asks, Big Paul, given both your advanced trening status and PED usage, do you still get DOMS? That is delayed onset muscle soreness from trening. If not, what do you attribute that to? And if so, what kind of signal does that send to you as far as rating the trening session? All right. This is an area that drives me nuts. Being sore doesn't mean that you had a more effective trening session. And I'm going to kind of explain in detail here. First of all, I rarely get sore anymore. I almost never get sore from my trening sessions because I'm more intelligent with them than I used to be. I have grown quite a bit over the last five years. I would say at my age group from 45 to 50, I probably have grown more than just about any other human on the planet. Not saying that to be a braggart, but I went about things intelligently with PED use and trening, trening being a huge part of it, understanding that trening is just a stimulus. And I want to try to provide enough stimulus to elicit a response and adaptation. And no more than that. I don't want to cause trauma. I don't want to cause injury. I want to provide a injury. I want to be intelligent with my trening. I want to have enough where I can recover and tren with more frequency to provide more opportunities to stimulate muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Now, here's the thing. Here is what soreness is. We used to think it was lactic acid, which is just not true. We know that. It is microscopic damage from typically the eccentric movement, lengthening under tension, like lowering the weight causes the most muscle damages. Tiny tears happen to the fibers, triggering a repair process. The soreness that you experience a lot of times is the response to repairing damaged tissue. It's an inflammatory response. This leads to swelling, stiffness and pain from your trening. And lactic acid is not the cause. It typically clears within minutes of post-exercise. So it is increased sensitivity to the nerve endings. Swelling from the inflammation puts pressure on the nerve endings and increases sensitivity and pain. Damage does not correlate with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Unfortunately, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is elicited from mechanical tension. Some would argue that metabolic stress does not cause muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, but I do think that that does play a part into it. Paul Carter, he's definitely a believer in mechanical tension. It's hard to argue that. But anyway, I don't want to get into the debate on that. Muscle damage, delayed onset muscle soreness is a byproduct of damage in hard trening, but it's not the goal. That does not mean you had an effective trening session. That means that you caused damage to the tissue. It's mechanical tension and progressively increasing that mechanical tension that provides a stimulus to elicit muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, not damage. Damage is just damage. You have to recover from that damage and be ready for our next workout. And if anything, now there is a belief that delayed onset muscle soreness, DOMS, may inhibit your progress and may actually hinder your muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So having soreness from a workout, it's not necessarily the goal. And you will find as you get better at trening, you understand where the limits are. You understand proper range of motion. You understand where the rep limits are, how much volume you can handle. You will find that you will get more productive workouts without DOMS and have better long-term growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So the goal of your workout is not to destroy the muscle to the point where you're so sore you can't work out again for like 10 days. If you can only provide stimulus, mechanical tension, every 10 days, I keep a rep or two in the tank and do it every three to four days, I am going to have double the opportunities to provide stimulus for eliciting a response and an adaptation than you are. And I'm probably going to grow more. You're just gettinGHurt. You're causing micro tears. You're causing injury. Anyway, that's my take on it. I could be completely wrong about this, but that's the way I interpret it. That's the way I have trened. I think my results in the gym speak for themselves. All right, folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of your support. Thank you for watching. I'll see you on the next episode. you