yddolands.com OK bros I've got a good one for you here. This is a sample from the most recent live remember only Q&A that Kurt and I did for the Science of Anabolics and PEDs e-course. This was a good question. One of the members asked if you should cycle on and off completely if there's any benefit to it or do you just blast and cruise? Kurt and I share our thoughts on it. If you want to check out the e-course, I've got a special deal for you. I'm going to give you 10% off the e-course. Use discount code AB10 at checkout. This is a limited time deal. I hope you enjoy this section of it. Check it out. This is a question I get all the time and we addressed it in a video on YouTube recently. I also wanted to know if there's a reason to come off completely. My last time I got my blood markers were good so I decided to push up more and didn't get any side effects. Is there any benefit with androgen receptor regeneration for coming off? We have a whole video up on YouTube about this. Patrick, if you want to check it out. Very in depth. Yeah. Dr. Dean St. Mark, but basically the whole androgen receptor down regulation thing is just bro science. Yeah. IMean long story short, your body actually creates new androgen receptors. The more androgen load that it senses, not the opposite. It's not going to make new or refresh them. They don't get dirty. They don't need to get clened out there. That's just not the unfortunate way they work. They're bound to heat shock protein. They're not exposed to anything when there's no androgen in their presence, but they will, they have a half-life like anything else and they do disappear if they're not needed. Yeah. The more, that's one of the reasons why your tolerance for gear goes up. The longer you do it, the more you do because you generate more androgen receptors. You and I have many more than someone who just started. There's no fucking way I could have run this much gear when I was in my 20s. It would've just made me sick. Um, yeah, so I, you know, there's no, there's no compelling reason. I would say the only time like, I get guys ask me this question all the time. It's not going to make things better coming off. It's not going to make things better. If I, the only compelling argument I could see for coming off is maybe if you were trying to have fucking kids, I was going to say that that's the only medical reason I'd say that it's, and even then I, you know, I had my son on TRT, you know, if you take care of good health, you know, if they're definitely testosterone at a regular dose is not a birth control. But anyway, I was, I was blasting full ball. All my first kid. Yeah. IMean, how many kids is Ronnie Coleman got like 12? I think, um, yeah, IMean, if you're truly becoming fertile from gear and you need to straighten stuff out, perhaps outside of that, there's no reason to come off. IMean, women don't generally become infertile from, from birth control and they don't cycle on and off. And you don't shut your testicles off to make your body work better. I just like, there's no, if we're purely talking about performance enhancement in muscle gaining, there's no compelling reason to come off. Even from the health point of view, it coming off puts you, it could take, if you're lucky, it could take four months for your body to kick back on. What basically happens is your, now your cortisol level rises dramatically. As soon as you come off, your body's under an incredible amount of stress. Yeah. There's a, yeah. Yeah. The drugs that people take are, are terrible for, for PCT and stuff. And there, there's a, the Harlem study you guys can look it up that shows that there was, there was zero difference between the outcomes, the same between a PCT group and a PCT group. And it's funny. He was literally made up by someone. Well, didn't you say it's nowhere in medical literature? It's not, we're not taught that. It's not a terms like I inquired about it in school and no one had a clue what I was talking about. And IMentioned the drugs and they were like, why would you mix Novodex and Clomid and HCG? Yeah, there was a, it's not actual medical science and that doesn't mean doctors don't do it, but it's not real. It goes back. There was a guy on the forums that came up with this. It was before that, even before that. It was, Oh, God damn it. I forget the name of it. There was a, there was a name for the protocol and then it was just another one of these bro things that just grew legs. And then everybody just, it got passed around so much. Everybody just assumed that it was fact. Well, I think that people want something sensationalized, right? It's like, when, if I go online and I say the truth, it's boring. People are like, well, I don't want to do that. You know, I want to find the medical science and I want to find the medical science and I want to find the medical science. You know, I want to find the magic in my estrogen being 200. I remember it was the power PCT protocol. That's what it was for PCT power PCT. I remember I've been on, but I've been around a long guy, long time guys since the nineties. I've seen it all. If you want to check out more, head over to anabolicbodybuilding.com. I have a link in the video description below to check out the course. You can sign up, have 10% off coupon, AB 10. The full Q and a is up there. It's about an hour long and we covered a lot of good topics on PEDs and other stuff. We have hair loss tren, a bunch of things that we talked about in there. Head over there and check it out now. There's also a free preview of the course if you're unsure. No commitment. Try it out. Thank you folks.