WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Alright bros, it's Big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A. We got some good ones on deck this week. We got somEQuestions about GH, about GH causing acromegaly, and how GH affects thyroid. Do you need to be on T4 or T3 while taking GH? We'll talk about why you would get high prolactin on just TRT, dealing with high blood pressure while on PEDs and steroid cycles, and other questions. Before we get into all that folks, I want to let you know about my school membership community, the team anabolic bodybuilding members community, thEQuestions for this Q&A come from the community. People get first priority when they post them on the community. I select a couple from Instagram and YouTube that also are on this video. The community is fantastic folks. I have a bunch of inside articles and whatnot up there. Also there is some free content, many courses on steroid cycles, how to build a cycle, things like that, that you have access to in the classroom section, how to put together a carb cycling diet, some other stuff in there as well. I also do follow-ups on these videos, so if people have specific questions on the videos as follow-ups, they're in there as well. We have a great group of people over there that help each other out. I think you'd enjoy it. It's only like 30 bucks a month. Go to the link in the video description below if you want to join. And enough of that stuff. Let's get started with our Q&A. All right, before we get into this Q&A, just a quick reminder that I do have a bunch of free stuff on my website. You can go to the link below. There's a link in there for free stuff if you want to download. Show notes, some of my free ebooks. I have some stuff on trening, my high volume trening. It's over there, DC trening. There's some various things over there you can download for free. And I have an insider email list as well if you just want to subscribe to that. Or if you sign up for some of the free stuff, you'll get access to that as well where I send out exclusive content and insider information to my followers through my email list. I think you'll enjoy that. And let's dig into the first question. All right, very first question we have here from the Team Anabolic Bodybuilding School member site is from Joe DeMeo. Joe asks, I'm not sure if this has been answered in previous Q&As, but I would be interested in the risk of acromegaly with HGH. All right, just so those of you that aren't aware or don't know, acromegaly is the basically giantism that happens when people take or have high growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone levels. This only happens with people with specific pituitary tumors and it happens from adolescence. You do get some acromegaly-like symptoms if you were on super high doses of GH for years and years and years on end. It's not as pronounced as say somebody that has giantism. Like an example would be Andre the Giant. If you guys are old school WWE wrestling fans, you would be familiar with Andre the Giant. He ended up dying in his 40s from an enlarged heart, essentially just had heart failure. Most people with giantism end up dying of heart failure. Their organs continue to grow. Everything continues to grow. From what I understand, their ePIPhyseal plates never close, which is not a case with us. We're adults already. Now exogenous GH when administered is not going to turn you into a giant like Andre the Giant. You're not going to be seven feet tall. You're not going to wear size 20 shoes. There can be some side effects if you run things hard enough, long enough. The acromegaly is from acromegaly-like symptoms that are from exogenous HGH use are most likely from increased IGF-1. And the elevated IGF-1 is going to cause things like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of tissue. You'll see guys that get the big foreheads, nose grows, lips. I definitely, my nose has definitely gotten bigger since I've been on GH. Ears a little bit, hands, feet. I think my hands have gotten wider. If you've ever shaken a pro bodybuilder's hands, you'll notice that they all have fucking giant hands. Even the short dudes have humongous, bare mittens, big fucking paws for hands. That can happen. Your tongue, your lips, your jawline will become more pronounced. You know, and it just depends on the dose. Genetics also play a role in it. I was already a big dude to begin with. IMean, I'm around 6'2". Everybody in my family has a giant nose. It definitely made my nose get a little bit bigger. The GH horns on the forehead, if you can see them, there's some things that do happen. I am currently not running GH right now. I'm taking a break from it to let my blood sugar come back to normal. I had issues with high blood sugar. I'm going to do a video later this week talking about my struggles with high blood sugar. I'm a type 1b diabetic. I'll let it get out of control. That is another concern from GH use is increased blood sugar levels. I'm not going to go into it in this video. We can talk about it in others, but GH has, in fact, where it shifts you to lipolysis over carbohydrate metabolism, and thus you will raise blood sugar levels because of that. It's a temporary insulin sensitivity issue when you shift from metabolizing glucose to lipids. I would say overall the symptoms that you get from GH are mild. I think most of the stuff has been overstated. There are HIV patients that have been running GH at 18 units a day. That is the therapeutic dosing for men on serostim for decades on end, and they're not walking around looking like Andre the Giant or The Big Show. So I don't think you have to worry about it too much. Most of these guys, when you see they retire from bodybuilding, a lot of the things you see somewhat reverse. Now, dudes still have huge heads and things like that. You'll see bodybuilders. There's some old bodybuilders that had the coined the term Palumboism. Dave Palumbo, if you see him in person, dude's got a giant head, big feet, and that may or may not be from the GH. It could be just his genetics. I think a lot of it's been overstated, like the gut, the GH gut. I don't think that's organs growing. I think most of that's just visceral fat accumulation. Dudes are force-feeding food. A lot of guys end up with diastasis in their stomach, in the abdominal muscles. The abdominal muscle starts pulling apart, bloating, distension, and visceral fat accumulation. You don't see that so much today with the modern bodybuilders. It seems like guys have gotten that under control because they're better with their diets, better at managing insulin sensitivity and glucose control than they were in the past where guys would just let that get out of hand. You don't really see the GH guts much anymore. I think a lot of that just has to do with force-feeding. Guys letting their insulin sensitivity go to shit, and they end up accumulating visceral fat when insulin sensitivity gets poor. That's another thing too. With GLP-1s now, we can remove a lot of that visceral fat. GLP-1s seem to help with the accumulation of visceral fat and get rid of it. So I think a lot of the stuff has been overstated. If you're just a gym bro running four or five units of GH, I think you're going to be relatively safe. All right, Bahamut Swara asks, does five to six units of HGH lead to the need for T4 supplementation? It used to be back in the day that bodybuilders, when they would take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, would just automatically take T4 with their GH because they were all concerned about T4 being depleted. What happens when you're on GH? There is an up-regulation of conversion from T4 to T3. At least that seems to be what happens. So you end up with higher T3 and lower T4. It affects thyroid-stimulatinGHormones. So you'll see TSH numbers get skewed on blood work. As long as you're feeling okay, I don't get too concerned about it. Very rarely does this lead to any sort of negative issues. I almost never see people with low T4 on their blood panels. Very rarely you do. And if you do, you can talk to your doctor and they'll usually, most of the time, prescribe you something to deal with it. They'll give you T4 to deal with it. I almost never see dudes with low T3. It's common in women, not that common in men. There are some men that do have it. So it is something to be aware and concerned about. But for the most part, I do not see that much impact on T4 and T3. Maybe on contest prep, towards the end of contest prep, sometimes things can get out of whack. But I don't see that being a big concern with, especially you're talking about five or six units of GH. I think you're likely going to be fine. All right, next question we have here is from Austin Dillard. What's your first option for blood pressure control when on blast? I am currently running test, EQ, and GH. Well, there's a few things we need to be aware of. First of all, what is causing the increase in blood pressure? There's a couple of things that could be causing it. Most commonly with bodybuilders, with bros on PEDs, it's going to be increased water retention through the stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. You're going to have increased aldosterone. There's a few things that could cause water retention. Too many synthetic androgens. High estrogen, a lot of times, is a big problem. I see with guys that have a lot of water retention, dudes let their estrogen run wild. Especially now, there's this cult of, hey, I'm going to let my estrogen go as high as I possibly can because it's going to make my IGF-1 conversion better. It's going to protect me from every possible disease that could possibly happen. I don't know where this notion has come from. Ideally, you want to keep your estrogen in a place where you don't have these symptoms, where you don't have excess water retention. You don't end up with things like gyno or erectile dysfunction. I think that is a first line of defense. Really, just making sure that your estrogen is well managed. Also, dudes love to dump sea salt all over everything. They vastly over-consume sodium, from what I've seen. They're cutting up their steaks on a cutting board and cracking the Himalayan sea salt all over it. They really over-consume sodium and fat. Those things can lead to increased blood pressure and blood volume as well. When your sodium content is out of whack, that is going to cause increased blood volume, which is going to pull fluid into the blood and increase blood pressure as well. There can also be central nervous system stimulation from the synthetic androgens if your androgen load is too high. That is another concern as well. When you're using strong androgens such as Tren, something like that, or if you're running your testosterone really high, sometimes you'll see that elevated pulse. Really, I start with water retention first and addressing it. Non-medicine, non-prescription medicine ways of dealing with it is just, one, just making sure that you're balancing your aromatase conversion through your drug compound choices. I guess that's technically drugs. I'm talking about blood pressure meds. Making sure that your sodium and potassium and magnesium are all in balance. Most guys overeat sodium, don't get enough potassium or magnesium in their diet. If your ratio of potassium to sodium is in balance, I think it's somewhere in, I believe it's three parts potassium to two parts sodium is what is supposed to be appropriate. Most dudes are not getting enough potassium, way too much sodium, and the sodium potassium pump is thrown way off. That's another thing to be mindful of as well, managing stress, just doing some cardio. Doing cardio works wonders on blood pressure. Now, sometimes when you're runninGHeavy anabolics and depending on your genetic response, a blood pressure medicine is going to come into play. If it is an issue with renin-angiotensin aldosterone system stimulation, hyperaldosteronism where you're retaining water, something like an ARB or an ACE inhibitor would help. If it is central nervous system stimulation from running androgens, you have increased pulse, vasoconstriction, then possibly something like a beta blocker would be. But I would start with just cardio, keeping your diet in check with, you know, a lower fat, keeping your sodium in a correct range with the potassium. Starting there first, making sure that you are running the correct compounds that are not going to let your estrogen run super wild, managing water retention there. And a lot of times you can keep things under control that way. growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is also going to increase water retention as the amounts of it get higher. And then just do some cardio. That is going to help vastly with keeping blood pressure under control. And if you're somebody who genetically is going to run high blood pressure, it's probably going to be necessary to throw in some other treatments. You can talk to your doctor about that as well. All right, next question here is from Paul Robinson. Paul is a member of the team, anabolic bodybuilding members community on school. There is a link in the video description below if you want to sign up for it. Paul asks on 250 milligrams of tests per week, what would cause my prolactin levels to be slightly elevated? Does it matter how to deal with it? Usually when somebody is on testosterone only and they have high prolactin, it's not the testosterone directly contributes to increase prolactin. It's probably estradiol conversion. Once again, we're going back to this whole equation of guys letting their estrogen run wild. And when your estrogen is that of an ovulating female, there is going to be an indirect increase in prolactin. It's indirectly related to the testosterone because the lack of control over estrogen conversion from aromatase is going to lead to higher estradiol levels, which in turn can increase prolactin levels. The pituitary gland contains cells called lactotrophs and these lactotrophs are responsible for secreting prolactin. Estrogen upregulates prolactin gene expression in lactotrophs directly and stimulates their activity. Higher estradiol increases prolactin synthesis and release. Dopamine normally acts as the break to prolactin, but by binding to the D2 receptors in the lactotrophs, high estrogen reduces dopamine receptor sensitivity and down regulates dopamine tone. So you hear something like Kaber, which is a dopamine agonist. I do not like fucking with Kaber. I don't have to. I usually try to treat the underlying cause of the high prolactin first because you can Google it if you want. Dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome is a huge problem, man. If you get it, you can be completely fucked up forever, end up in permanent depression, anxiety, or a bunch of other states. But anyway, with less effective dopamine inhibition, prolactin secretion increases. High estrogen makes the lactotrophs more responsive to stressors such as poor diet. Emotional stress can cause this to happen. This is why high prolactin is more pronounced in high estrogen states. Another reason why to not let your estrogen run wild. High estrogen in men is not a great thing. I don't know where this notion has come from. Estrogen is a sexually dimorphic hormone. There are benefits to having a little bit higher. You don't want to absolutely bury it. But typically in an offseason, I find that my blood panels are in a better place if I keep it at the high end of the normal range or maybe just slightly over the high end of the normal range. And if you're having issues with erectile dysfunction, it is potentially related to high estrogen and it could be also high prolactin. Guys always want to just throw a caber at it. That's not the answer. Or even like P5P, P5P might help just a little bit. That's another option that you could potentially use. But treat the cause, not the symptom. Not the symptom. So it's likely related to estrogen in most cases. I very rarely see guys with high prolactin on blood panels. Most of the time people think they have high prolactin and start to treat it and there's not actually high prolactin on the blood panels. Dudes have this automatic panic button. With Deca, when they run Deca, they think that they have to proactively take something with caber. It's most likely the increased aromatase expression that Deca causes, that increases conversion of testosterone to estradiol that leads to the cascade of issues that can cause high prolactin that we just discussed. So maybe just don't run Deca if you have problems with high prolactin when you're on Deca, instead of taking another nasty ass drug to deal with it. There's a thought. Use something else that maybe would be better tolerated. But anyway, long story short, my guess would be that if you are having slightly elevated prolactin, then it's probably related to high estradiol. Now if you don't have high estradiol, another potential cause or problem could be a pituitary adenoma. I've run into several people over my years of coaching that have had pituitary adenomas. It's a prolactin secreting pituitary tumor. They're more common than you think. They aren't life threatening typically. They're just fucking annoying. And you can see a doctor, usually you're about to see a neurologist to deal with it. But generally when you see those, you're going to see very high prolactin levels. It's not going to be just a little bit over normal. Prolactin levels are going to be really elevated, strongly elevated with a prolactin secreting pituitary tumor. But it is something to be aware of. I've had dudes that I've run across, there's some other issue, things that could cause high prolactin. Anything that's going to affect dopamine such as kratom. Kratom is one. I've seen dudes that are chronic weed smokers that end up with high prolactin. That's another potential cause of high prolactin. Weed affects that whole pathway, increases aromatase expression and estrogen conversion. We already talked about that whole cascade, but just another thing to be aware of. But once again, treat the underlying cause. In your case, Paul, it's probably high estrogen. That would be my guess. And if it's not high estrogen, then it could be some other medication you're taking. There are some that do cause high prolactin. You can take a look at that and see if there's anything potentially there that could be exacerbating things. And you should be able to resolve the issue most likely just from managing your estrogen. All right. Jack Palmer Law from Instagram said, no question. Just super appreciate your content. Thank you, Jack. I appreciate that a lot. I don't often take the time to thank people. I can't tell you how grateful I am for everybody's support. It really means a lot to me. I have been overwhelmed by the amount of support that I've gotten from people in the community over the last few years. It doesn't go unnoticed. I can't tell you how flattering it is that people actually want to take the time to listen to me and consider my thoughts on things. It doesn't go unnoticed, and I really do appreciate it. It means a ton to me. I try to remain as humble as I possibly can and grateful for what has been given to me, the success that's been given to me. I've had a fair amount of success in my life and I grew up, and for those of you that don't know my background, I grew up dirt ass poor, below the poverty line. My parents are fantastic people, but I grew up on the cusp of Appalachia in the western part of Virginia, right on the border of West Virginia, up in the Appalachian Mountains, and grew up dirt ass poor, the redneck ghetto, and I've had to work my way up my entire life, and you know one of the things I was taught growing up was to stay humble, work hard, thank people that have been there to help you. I've had some good fortune and good luck throughout my life. I've had great mentors, great people that have influenced me throughout my life, and one of the things I've always told myself that I would do is I would pay some of that back when I did have some success in my life. I've had some people that were very, very instrumental in shaping me and molding me over the years, people that didn't have to go out of their way to help me, and they did, and I promised myself that I would pay some of their mentorship forward. That's why I do all this stuff. I try to give away as much as I can for free. I also do it for a living too, you know, this is, you know, I'm a capitalist at heart. I've run businesses my entire life, so, you know, I enjoy the hard work and effort that goes into a business, but I also have always tried to live with an intent of helping people. Ultimately, it comes down to helping people. If you do your best to try to help people, if you try to leave the world a little bit better of a place than you found it, I ultimately find out that money just comes with that. So, but long story short, Jack Palmer Law, I really appreciate you taking the time to thank me, and I appreciate you too, brother. It means a lot. All right, next question I've got here is from Lee Sang Yeop. I hope I said that correctly. Lee, I apologize if I didn't. This one is from Instagram as well. Lee's question here, this is one I get from people about trening often. Lee asked, when do you know that it's time to swap exercises? How can we tell the difference between a certain exercise getting stalled or stale, or certain muscle body parts are just overtrening? When is it time to tren with a different exercise? I get this question often. I think I answered one similar to this a couple weeks ago. Here's the thing, like I, you're going to, progress is not going to be linear. It's not going to continue to go up. I see this a lot of times with young guys. They get frustrated coming out of the beginner phase of lifting when they get into the intermediate and start progressing towards the advanced stage of lifting. When you're going from that beginner to intermediate phase of lifting, that is like the most fun time of lifting. Your progress in the gym, you're going to be setting new PRs every time you go into the gym, and you're going to be cranking out another rep each week, and then adding five pounds, and then you're going to get bigger quickly. All these things just happen rapidly. The most rapid progress you're going to make in your journey in bodybuilding or powerlifting, whatever your chosen path is in the gym, is usually going to be the first six months to a year that you're in a gym. Then you have this other, you know, you're going to get stuck. You kind of plateau for a while. Progress slows down, and these dudes usually dabble with PEDs. Then you have that same burst of progress when you start running PEDs. You're going to have this six months to a year where you make this rapid progress, and then things slow down again. Then dudes start experimenting with other PEDs and higher doses. Then after that, progress comes in spurts, man. The more advanced that you get, the more that you have to be patient and eke things out slowly. IMean, you'll talk to an advanced powerlifter, say, you know, these guys that have been lifting forever. You know, when guys are in that advanced stage of powerlifting, if they add 10, 15 pounds to a lift in a year, that is fantastic progress. If you're an advanced bodybuilder, somebody in late stage bodybuilding, and you add five pounds of stage weight in a year, that is incredible progress. IMean, think about what five pounds of steak looks like in your shopping cart. Now, I'm circling back around to all this. Now, what does this have to do with changing exercises? The point is here is you just need to stay patient. You can't expect to constantly make progress from week to week on exercises. It just doesn't happen. Once you hit that intermediate towards, you know, advanced intermediate, intermediate to advanced intermediate, and advanced trening stage, it's just not going to happen. And I talked about it the other week. There was a story about Brian Dobson, who ran a Metroflex gym where Ronnie Coleman worked out. I think he gave Ronnie a workout, from what I understand, when Ronnie first started lifting there, and Ronnie did that same workout for 20 fucking years. Never changed a damn thing. Now, if Ronnie had a superpower, that's probably what it was. Dude was consistent. Now, that's not to say you want to run the same workout routine and exercises your entire life. We have a broad selection of machines in the gym now, things that we can choose from. When I was trened by Dante Trudeau, he had a fantastic system. He would say, you know, if you go a couple workouts, I don't remember the exact number, but he had a system where if you went a few workouts without making progress on an exercise, just swap that out for another exercise. You know, for example, if you're doing chest, let's say you're doinGHammer strength chest presses, and you get to a point where you're not progressing anymore, you're not feel like you're making any progress on it, then swap those out for dumbbell presses, or swap them out for an Atlantis press, or whatever, and start progressing that again. Now, me, I am a creature of habit. I generally just stay with the same exercise routine, the same schedule, the same set structure for just years on end. I just wear it out. And, you know, you do get sometimes where an exercise gets stale, and you maybe, just even if it's psychological, you want to put something else in, but I would say the risk of running stale on an exercise is actually pretty low. It's more in your head than it is anywhere else. Times that I look to swap out exercises would be, you know, for example, if you're using a machine and you've maxed out the capacity on that machine, you can't use any more weight on it, and you keep increasing reps. If you're using a pen-loaded machine, you know, an example would be maybe like a pull-down, and you're using every single fucking weight on the stack and doing 15-20 reps in it, then you've exhausted that. Maybe you have to start pinning plates to it, or just look for a different exercise. That would be an example. Another example of when it might be time to switch an exercise is if you have some sort of joint or connective tissue pain. That exercise is starting to cause you to have problems with connective tissue. You know, my shoulder's starting to hurt, my elbow's starting to hurt. Maybe it's time to walk away from those skull crushers and try something different for a while. Something that doesn't hurt your elbow. That is another consideration, but I'd say ultimately find your core exercises, your core routine, stick with those. Sometimes what I'll do, and I think this helps sometimes too to keep things a little more fresh, and this is another thing that I learned from Dante Trudeau, is to rotate exercises. So I will have an A and a B workout. So like if I'm doing push today, it might be push A, which is a different set of exercises than would be on my push B workout, and that way you're not running the same thing every time you work out. And generally when you do that, you'll find that exercises stay fresh for longer. But I also find too when you switch exercises too frequently, then you sort of rob yourself of progress in perfecting those exercises. Some of it, when you get good at lifting, it's just the kung fu of learninGHow to move that weight through a range of motion properly to get more mechanical tension placed on the muscle if you're trying to tren for hypertrophy. Or if you're a strength athlete, sometimes it just takes a long time to perfect technique, and that takes repetition. That takes time under the bar to learn how to perfect it. So if you're swapping exercises all the time, you're not going to get really, really good at getting the most out of that exercise. All right folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you again for all your support. It means a lot to me. Go sign up for my email list on my website. I also got free shit over there, and download some of my free stuff. That'll sign you up for the email list. I've got some cool information that's going to be coming out on the email list, inside information, free articles, deep dives into stuff that aren't going to be on YouTube. There's going to be show notes and things like that you can pick up for free, totally for free, if you head over to anabolicbodybuilding.com. Link is in the video description below. I'll see you folks on the next episode. Thank you again. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.