 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, it's Big Paul, here today to talk about PERMA-CUTTERS! I ragged on the PERMA-BULKERS the other day, I haven't forgot about you, Mr. PERMA-CUTTER, or Mrs. PERMA-CUTTER. I find that PERMA-BULKERS seem to be more prevalent, but there are definitely PERMA-CUTTERS out there too, and when you just stick to one phase all times, you don't make any progress. You don't make any progress, the PERMA-CUTTER is the guy or the gal who is terrified of getting fat. I get it, I've been fat at periods of my life, I don't like being fat. But, I'll be honest with you, I probably tend more to be a PERMA-BULKER because I don't like the feeling of being small. So, when you lose your size and your strength, it messes with your head, and I see a lot of people do that. And it's the same thing with the PERMA-CUTTER. The PERMA-CUTTER, when they start getting a little bit of body fat, which you have to do to put on some muscle, they panic, and they start cutting again. We're gonna talk about you in just one second. Alright, so PERMA-CUTTING. The PERMA-CUTTER, these are the people that are constantly on a diet, they're constantly calorie restricted, they're afraid to push up their calories. Anytime they see anything negative happen with their body composition, just the slightest little bit of water, just the slightest movement in the scale, they panic! And they go on a cut. You know, these are the people that are running fat burners year-round to keep their body fat low. These are, most often, in my experience, they're the people that run the most gear. Because they think the secret to getting big and huge is to run more gear, it's not to eat more food. But let me let you in on a little secret. You can't get big if you don't eat in a calorie surplus. It doesn't work that way. So, you know, they make really small gains because they're afraid to eat in a calorie surplus, and they just take more and more and more gear. And they look the same! Because they're not eating. And I think what people fail to understand about gear is really, all it does is for size is increase muscle protein synthesis, some glycogen retention, and water retention. And if you're not eating carbs, you're not going to have glycogen retention. And if you're not eating enough calories, you're not going to accrue any new muscle protein synthesis when you're in deficit because you're constantly burning off everything that you take in. It's not to say that you should get fat and sloppy in the offseason. I don't think that's good either. But you have to walk the line of pushing your body fat up high enough to make some gains without getting too fat. For me, I'd say probably somewhere in the 12 to 15% body fat range is about as high as you want to get if you're a physique competitor. If you're just an average Joe, it's whatever. But the perma cutter, you're not going to get big. You're forever going to be small. And I see people in the gym all the time that don't make any progress from year to year to year. And a lot of them take more gear than I do. What I've seen with these people, they're either perma bulkers or they're perma cutters. The perma bulkers, they just can't get out of their head. You know, the worry of being small and they just stay fat and they never make gains. The perma cutter, there is a phase for everything. So I think the people that have the best physiques and make the most progress in the gym, phase out their training. They take a step back and they remove themselves from the situation. This is why sometimes it's good to have a coach because it's hard to be objective about yourself. I know I have a coach. I, you know, it's easy. A lot of times I see people that are perma bulkers and perma cutters. They'll start a cut. They'll start a bulk. But like the perma cutter, he starts a bulk and he gets in it about four weeks in. He's like, Oh my God, I'm getting fat. I think I need to pull back. I don't, I'm eating too much food. I feel bloated. I need to pull back. They, they constantly hit the panic button and want to dial it back. And what they, what ends up happening is they never make any progress. It doesn't matter how much gear they use. They're the same person they were last year, this year, you know, so nothing changes. Nothing changes. Nothing changes. They look the same year in year out and they might gain a pound or two and they never make any progress. So if you want to make progress, you have to get the perma cutter mentality out of your head. They're also the people that do way too much cardio. I see, I see people all the time. Typically it seems to be women and I'm sorry, I'm not trying to stereotype women. I've seen dudes that make this mistake too, but the cardio, cardio killers, the people that are doing an hour of cardio every day, even in the offseason. So I saved the car. I'm not saying that you shouldn't do cardio. I know some of the perma bonkers don't do any cardio at all. I'm kind of the, I hate to do cardio kind of guy. I avoid it unless I have to do it. Uh, but if you're doing an hour of cardio in the offseason, what are you going to do when you have to cut seriously? You know, so after a while, it seems like your body adapts to cardio and it just becomes an ineffective fat burning tool. So in the offseason, I like to keep the cardio to just, you know, short hit sessions for cardiovascular health, 10, 15 minutes. And maybe I'll take a walk once a week or something or go for a hike here and there, but I keep it to a minimum just enough to keep my heart healthy and not burn up too many calories where I can't make gains. Um, some people think they can perpetually stay lean and it, it, I blame social media, but I'm thankful now that I see some bodybuilders posting offseason pictures because people think they look like they do in contest shape year round. Believe me that that shape that you get into for a contest is not healthy for you. And it is really difficult to get to that level of leanness and to maintain it. You can only maintain it for short periods of time, unless you're a genetic freak. Uh, so people have this illusion that these bodybuilders, because they just keep reposting the same fucking pictures over and over again. Um, are that lean year round. Now there are a few people that stay super lean year round. Some, some people are just genetically lean. They don't gain body fat. Um, I hate those people, but, but those people are far and few between most people. And I like for me, I know my, my homeostatic point where my body likes to be is somewhere in the 12 to 15% body fat range. That's just where I settle in at. If I'll read, I'll get a little bit fatter. If I push it, I can get leaner, but that's just kind of where my body likes to hang out. You have to find where your body likes to hang out. And that's where you should be in the offseason. Uh, if you want to main gains, make gains. Uh, but once again, I'm not saying it's excuse to get fat. You parma blockers that are listening to this. You're, you're, you're going to use this as justification, but there are phases for training in a physique competitors calendar year. For me, I have a hard cut every year and I have an offseason and then I have my maintenance and health phases where I cruise, I keep the drugs to the minimum. I dial back my training. Um, and I rest, recover, let my body get healthy, let my body heal up. I'll do those every year, probably something like six to eight weeks. And then I'll do a good hard 16 week cut with a short four to six week rebound phase. And then I'll do a 16 to 20 week offseason. That's how I structure. That's how I structure my competitive year. If I weren't competing, I probably would just do one blast a year. That's it. And then we're on TRT the rest of the year. Uh, but you can't, if you want to be a physique competitor, if you want to progress, you can't be a perma cutter. Hopefully you guys like this. I really appreciate you watching. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.