 warning, warning, this is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, I got another fun one for you today. Everybody loves steroid cycle videos. This is one where Dorian Yates did an interview with Mike Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi Audi And I remember how sparse information was back in the 90s when I first started looking into the stuff. It was sort of taboo. It was hidden in the corners of the gym. There were ads in the back of magazines where you could buy books about the stuff. But Dorian talks about how limited the information was and where guys got their information from. And how they went about putting cycles together. It's a really cool video, especially this section. And I'm going to give you my reaction to it and we'll talk about it in just one second. There was one book, Underground Steroid Handbook. It was like photocopied, stapled together thing that a guy called Dan Duchesne wrote. So there was that. There was a book called Anabolic Steroid in Sports, James Wright. But that was a bit more intellectual and very conservative. And IMet him and he said, I couldn't say too much in my book because I was working for the military at the time. So that was a bit conservative as well. Dan Duchesne was a bit like crazy. I remember reading both of those books. I bought them out of a back of, I think it was Muscle Mag is where I got it from. I don't remember. But there was a, basically, like there was a, I don't know, small section in the back of those magazines where they would have ads for stuff like this. Weird supplements. Weird supplements. You probably could buy steroids from these ads. I don't know. But they had things like this in the back of the magazines. And I bought the Dan Duchesne steroid book and the other one as well. And I remember the other one being very conservative. The doses were super low. I think I still have both of them somewhere tucked away off to see if I can dig them out and find them. But the Dan Duchesne thing was like photocopied and bound together. It was crazy. And a lot of what Dan put together back then was correct. Some of it has evolved and changed. But Dan was very ahead of his time. I think Dan was a bit eccentric. But he was sort of the first muscle nerd. IMean, he was a pioneer of the stuff. Like, actually, from what I recall, I think Dan would go to the library. I think he lived in L.A. it was. I don't recall the exact story. Somebody can correct me if I'm wrong about this. But I remember hearing that he would go and just spend hours and hours and hours reading research articles. You had to go to a library back then to do it. There was no Internet. And he would compile and put all this information together and come up with these crazy drug protocols. Like things like, I think he was the first guy to recommend using Climbuterol and things like AIs and stuff like that. Dan was very ahead of his time. And looking back, you know, some of the information was archaic. But at that time, it was very cutting edge. And he was the only guy that really was putting this type of stuff out. All right, folks. I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, The Scientific Principles of Anabolics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. There's just two books and whatever little bits of stuff you can pick up in the magazines. Apart from that, it's word of mouth, yeah? Like, what's this guy doing? What's that, you know? So, that's how we learned at the time. And I would say the dosages were lower because, you know, you'd ask. That's another thinGHe talks about here. A lot of the stuff was hidden. Guys, every pro back then, I think people get upset about the fake natties now. Every pro back then was a fake nattie. They all claimed to be nattie. Nobody admitted taking steroids. Nobody. Nobody. They all, they were all, it was all whatever supplement they were taking at the time. Cybergen or whatever. I don't remember some of these crazy, Cybergenics, I think, was the one that people would take. It was, that was why they were huge. It had nothing to do with D-ball or anitrol or testosterone or growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. And when you came into a gym, you, like, I saw some guys, I'm like, that guy's doing something different than everybody else is doing. He doesn't look like everybody else. You couldn't just walk up and ask that dude what he was doing. When you're a newbie in the gym, you would get punched in the face. You had to serve your time. You had to earn their trust. And you had to get into the inner circle, so to speak, before these guys would let you in. And I remember, I was like, I'm going to take a look at the end of the day. I was like, I'm going to take a look at the end of the day. A lot of the information was terrible. Looking back on it, it was absolutely terrible. I remember my first cycle was the guy handed me a bag of pills and said, take one a day. I think it was anitrol. I don't know. It may have been D-ball. Pretty sure it was anitrol. I remember the blue pills that he gave me. I think they were blue. And I took it for like four weeks. And I remember I couldn't bench 185 for more than a couple reps. And within like a week or two weeks, I was bouncing around 225 like it was nothing. That is true. A lot of the guys were using lower doses. I remember that liver damage was the thing that everybody was afraid of back then. And that's not really what kills bodybuilders. It's usually cardiovascular events and things from, you know, symptoms from elevated blood pressure and being bloated and carrying all this weight. You end up putting a lot of stress on your cardiovascular system and kidneys. And that ends up taking its toll. And that's usually what gets people. But back then, it was everybody was afraid of damaging the liver. So you better not take too many orals. And it was cycle on, cycle off everything. That's what everybody thought. You could only be on for like eight, 12 weeks. And you had to come off for time on, time off. It was more conservative. Now, there were dudes doing crazy stuff. That's not to say there wasn't. There certainly were. But also, these hormones were really hard to come by back then. You just couldn't. So like now, where you can just get them anywhere. So everything was pretty much pharmaceutical grade. Everything was lower doses. You took what you could get your hands on. You really were limited on what you could get your hands on. Things were very, very, very different back in the 90s. So that's how we got the information. And I didn't get back to the contest prep. So we talked about the diet and everything. So these are just the way that I did things. But there's no studies in this. There's no accepted way. It's more or less people that have been experimenting over the last, what, 60 years or so. IMean, the Mr. Olympia started in 1965. There is no Mr. Olympia winner that was not taking steroids. Even 1965, Larry Scott's on record. Probably taking very little. 20, 30 milligrams of D-ball a day. That's all they were using back then. But they were using, you know. So it's just people, you know, trying it and experimenting. And I was actually having a blood test with my doctor two or three times a year, which nobody else was doing. And I know. That's interesting that he was doing blood work back then. Nobody was doing that stuff. I don't know about the dose. IMean, he is right that everybody, every Mr. Olympia has been on steroids. There has been no natural Mr. Olympia. I don't know about the doses, if that was correct or not. Maybe. Only those guys know. I know why. Because at first I went to my doctor and I said, I'm going to, I'm taking steroids. I just want to be doing my blood test and everything to make sure I'm all right. And it's like very negative. And I literally didn't want to do it until he saw me on TV at the World Games. And he's like, ah, you're doing this for a serious thing. I said, yeah, man, that's what I was trying to tell you. And he's like, okay, come and see me. But it's very, very basic. All right. So off-season, I just use probably like, I want to use testosterone, DECA or Equipoise, bolder known it was called. It's a bit like DECA, mid-range anabolic. Well, that hasn't changed. That's what you hear most pros run now in the off-season. Test, DECA, EQ. IMean, that's pretty typical. GH in there. I don't know that they had, probably when he was first starting out in the 80s, didn't have access to GH. It would have been incredibly expensive. Probably not somethinGHe could have used until he turned pro and had access to it. And D-ball or Andrel. Whereas for Concess, I try to stick to non-aromatizing. So like testosterone and some D-ball, stuff like that. Aromatization is like you're putting this male hormone in your body, so it's going up here. Where female hormone, estrogen, is quite similar. So the body just converts that excess testosterone into estrogen, which can cause you to hold water and you'll be a bit puffy and all that stuff. But it didn't really matter in the off-season because you're there to lift heavy weights. Pre-Contest, I would go to compounds that don't aromatize, i.e. they didn't convert to estrogen, which can then retain water and maybe blow your conditioning. So for Concess, I would use Parabalon, which is Trembolone. And I'm shocked now with how much Trembolone people use. Because we were told back then just by the guys that used to distribute it, Parabalon, 76 milligrams. There's a reason it's 76 milligrams and not 200 or other compounds because it's very powerful. And don't use too much of this because it's harsh on your system. It could be harsh on your kidneys. I don't know where that information came from. Yeah, IMean, people didn't run a lot of Trembolone back then. There was Parabalon and it was very moderate, very low doses. It's funny, like a lot of the 2000s bodybuilders, you hear them talk about Parabalon and they don't even realize that it is Trembolone. I think I've heard Jay Cutler say that before. He didn't realize that Parabalon. Or it didn't seem maybe he was just playing coy. I think sometimes Jay plays coy. But it seemed like he didn't realize that Parabalon and Trembolone are the same thing. Well, that was just what we heard, yeah. So on average, I take two of those a week. So 76 milligrams, 152 milligrams Trembolone. That's it. You don't need more than that, yeah. I hear people use 600, 800 milligrams of Trembolone. First of all, is it real? If it is, you're going to have trouble. That's too much, yeah. So Trembolone. IMean, that's all I use on contest prep and I'm a super heavyweight. I use 20 milligrams a day on contest prep. I know there are people that use a lot more. So 140, I'm not saying that I run. I would say I'm moderate with doses when it comes to competitive guys. But there are guys that are more aggressive with it. But, IMean, that seems reasonable to me. Maybe not. I don't know. Only he knows what the truth is. Prumabolin, which is also hard to get. Don't forget, in the 80s and 90s, there's no underground steroids. There is none. It's all pharmaceutical and you can get it. So if you've got 76 milligrams, you know it's 76 milligrams. If it's 250 milligrams testosterone, you know it's 250 milligrams. Now, it could be good. It could be not. Who knows? That's another point he makes, too. I think that there is a potential that a lot of the UGL gear that is around now is underdose. So when guys are saying they're taking two grams or three grams, maybe they're takinGHalf of that. Who knows? You have no idea unless you're sending this stuff off for lab testing. But he is right. I remember back, even in the 90s, everything was pharmaceutical grade. I didn't really see a lot of the UGL stuff until the late 90s, early 2000s. Prumabolin, Parabalon, Anavar, and when I was a pro, got to that level. growth hormone hormone hormone hormone as well. As an amateur, I didn't use that. It wasn't even available. Yep. So there you go. He confirms it, that he couldn't get a hold of GH when he was an amateur. I assumed as much because GH was very difficult to source back then. It was very expensive. He probably couldn't even afford it if he wanted it when he was an amateur. I would imagine only the top pros at that time actually could afford to take it. So there, that's it. Dosages. Off-season, I'd probably use more. So maybe up to 1,000 milligrams of testosterone, 500 milligrams bauldanone or DECA or something like that, and maybe 50 milligrams of Dinabol a day. But that would be a maximum like five weeks, and then taper down, taper down for a few weeks, and then a few weeks off. So that wasn't something taken consistently. That's like the peak, I'm telling you. I don't know if I buy into all that. And plus, equipoise takes forever to peak. I don't know why you would run it for five weeks and then come back down. But I've seen some of these old school guys. Like I've seen some of Milo Sarchev's protocols and stuff where they're rotating compounds every five weeks or six weeks. It's really weird. I remember working with a coach in the early 2000s, and he had me doing the same. It was five weeks on this and then switch up for another five weeks on something else. It was really odd. I've heard Dorian say in other videos where he would run up to 1,500 milligrams of testosterone per week. And I'm not sure if he means 500 milligrams of EQ plus 500 milligrams of DECA or of each. And then 50 milligrams of D-ball per day, he was saying in the off-season. So he was probably running around, if he's being truthful here, he was running around two grams of gear in the off-season. Pharmaceutical-grade gear, not UGL crap. Pre-concess, 150 milligrams. Tremolone, maybe 500 milligrams of Primvolin Depot. A little bit of test propionate, maybe 300 milligrams. Anivar was doing like 50 milligrams a day. You know. That seems extremely low for a contest prep cycle to me. IMean, who knows? But I have a hard time believing that one. I would suspect that he was running a lot more. But only he knows. Dorian seems like an honest kind of guy. But I don't know. That seems very, very low for as big as he was for pre-contest. No. That's it. Probably not massive to what people use these days. But that was, I would say, just average of what a pro would be using. Pretty much talking to other guys and, you know, stuff like that. Well, there you heard it. That's what he said about 90s and 80s contests and off-season cycles. The doses seem very conservative to me. I would be shocked if he actually ran that low. The off-season seems somewhat reasonable. But I would suspect as big as he was, he's probably running up around three grams. IMean, two to three grams in the 90s seemed to be sort of typical for a lot of guys. There were guys that were running more. There were guys that were running less. You know, you've heard the stories about Nasser. That guy was supposedly running insane amounts of stuff. But he's also dead. So that's something you have to keep in mind. Dorian seems to have his health relatively intact. And Dorian also was very meticulous with his trening and with his nutrition. And guys that tend to be more on point with their trening and nutrition can get by with less compounds. I've seen it with my own stuff in the past. You know, I've been able to progress on fairly low doses if I have my trening and my nutrition buttoned up. Not to say that I'm conservative. I'm by no means conservative. But I'm more conservative than others. But there you heard it from the horse's mouth. Let me know what you think about Dorian Yates' cycle information in the comments section below. Give me your opinion. Thank you for your support. And I appreciate you watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.