WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up you filthy MFers? Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A. This is where I answer your questions about trening, diet, and responsible performance enhancement while keeping you safer from the stupid crap I know you bros like to do. On today's episode I have some great questions both from the YouTube audience and from my school bodybuilding members community. Some of thEQuestions I got line up today include Can you safely mix multiple esters in one syringe? Does injectable L-carnitine actually improve androgen receptor density? What are the best ways to reduce cardiovascular risk while running a cycle? We're going to dig into all of these and many more in just one second. Like this video and subscribe to my channel. Alright, first question I got up here today is from a YouTube subscriber, MDA Don Legacy. MDA says can you mix test esters in the same syringe like an anthate, cypionate, propionate, or should they be injected separately? Note on that one, not test esters, but any esters. I'm assuminGHe's talking about testosterone. But yeah, there's no compelling reason why you shouldn't do it that I can think of. IMean, it's not what sustanon is. Sustanon is multiple esters that are blend together in aromasingle injection. The guys use sustanon 250. It was a popular steroid in the 90s. Nobody really uses it anymore. Most people stick with aromasingle ester so they have a predictable rise and decline in levels so you can line everything up. I personally prefer an anthate esters for most of the things that I use. There are some subtle differences in pharmacokinetics between the different esters, but ultimately whatever compound you're using is still that compound. The ester does affect how it peaks, what the timeframe is for it to wash out and for how it builds up. It does affect some of that with the drug. You know, there's different esters that seem to work better. There's some anecdote that maybe an anthate is the better ester over a cipionate when it comes to testosterone, but ultimately they're very similar. It's probably a marginal difference between the two if there is any. So yeah, you can mix esters when it comes to compounds in aromasingle injection. Now what I would say, I know there are some people out there that like to mix water-based stuff and oil in compounds, your peptides like GH and your same shot with the oil-based ester. IMean, I guess in theory you can do that. I know dudes that do that, but to me that seems kind of dumb. Oil and water do not mix and peptides, specifically HGH, are very fragile and easily ruined. I don't know why you would risk mixing your GH with your oil-based compounds, specifically ones that have different levels of pH and have very potent solvents mixed in with them. Why would you risk ruining your GH mixing those two together? I don't know why somebody would do that, especially if you're taking multiple shots a day. What's the big deal just taking your GH separately? So I would keep your water-based compounds separate from your oil-based compounds. Your oil-based compounds, you should be just fine to mix them together. I would say if you are doing that, if you're running multiple things in one shot just for safety, I would use a clen needle to draw with and a clen needle to inject with. You can use a drawing needle and that way you're also not blending the needle so you don't end up with more PIP and scar tissue from the injection. So I would use a different needle to draw with and you're also lowering risk of infection from contamination from the drawing the solution out of the out of the bottle. But you know, it's probably very minimal, but that's typically what I'll do. I'll draw with one needle, put a clen needle on for the injection just to prevent. I've had a couple abscesses over the years. IMean, I guess 30 years off and on with doing PEDs, I've only had two abscesses that I recall. So I'd say those are pretty, pretty good odds. But I had MRSA earlier this year. Don't know if I can go through that again. That was not from an injection. That was, that was from banging my fingers together between plates in the gym. But ultimately, I would be careful how you draw the stuff out. Make sure you're using a clen environment, but it should be fine to mix the esters together. All right, next question here is from Joshua H. From the school anabolic bodybuilding members community. If you want to pick up your membership, you can go over there and do that and have your questions guaranteed to be asked on thEQ&A. Josh asks, how do you navigate the conflicting information about what works for diet? How, what convinced you that low fat, high carb is optimal versus high fat, low carb? Look, I think people get very dogmatic about their diet. And this is where most guys get themselves twisted up into knots. They treat their diet like a religion. They want to belong to a club. They want to belong to a cult. People want to belong to the carnivore cult. People want to belong to the keto cult. People want to belong to the sugar diet cult. People want to belong to the vegan cult. IMean, people want to be a part of a club and it's us versus them. It's this tribal mentality that people have, which to me is just absolutely fucking idiotic. I look at macronutrient choice and macronutrient distribution as a tool in the toolbox. And we need different tools to accomplish different jobs. When I work with clients, I'm not specifically married to one style of diet. I do find carb cycling to be the most optimal for performance enhancement when it comes to physique or athletic enhancement. And I'll get into the reasons for that in just a second. But there are times where I do lower carb diets. There are times where I run zero carbs with people. And in fact, with carb cycling, we rotate through carbs. We'll have days where we push the carbs very high, keep the fats low. We'll have days where we may pull the carbs down to nothing and push the fats up a bit. IMean, we rotate through these various things. So you're kind of getting the best of both worlds when you do things that way. But when we think about performance enhancement, when it comes specifically to bodybuilding and strength athletes, muscle contractions are largely in ATP and all these other things, glycogen synthesis, all these things are largely driven by glucose. And we need glucose present to maximize our performance in our chosen sport. The regular Joe who's just trying to get fit, man, I need to do that, man. We talk about big full round muscles, increasing glycogen synthesis, eating more carbs, using insulin, things like that are going to improve that. I've yet to see a carnivore guy that looks massive and ends up competing in the open in professional bodybuilding. It just doesn't happen. You have to eat carbohydrates if you want to look at that. And if you think about it, we have an immense capacity as we get larger to synthesize glycogen. And what we know about glycogen, glycogen is important for muscle contractions. Glycogen also adds size to the muscle, whether you like it or not. The muscle is only 20 to 25%, somewhere in that range of contractile, actual protein structures, contractile tissue. And the rest of it is the other stuff, water, amino acids, glucose, all of the glycogen storage. IMean, all the other stuff that's going on in there. So that contributes to the look on stage. And ultimately when we're on stage, the judges don't care about whether or not you're more contractile tissue or how you lift it or what kind of diet you follow. They just want to see hard, round, full, symmetrical on stage. And I find this style of dieting works best for that. And with higher carbohydrates, we're going to be able to force glycogen synthesis. When you're in a higher carbohydrate state, you're going to increase insulin secretion. You're going to increase mTOR. You're going to lower AMPK. Glucose is protein sparing. Glucose is going to also, those downstream metabolic effects are going to increase IGF-1 production. You can see it where guys are running a shit ton of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. They're running a keto diet and their IGF-1 is in the fucking gutter. You know, we'll see it all that. IMean, the liver king would be a prime example of that. I remember that guy was running, I don't remember how much growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that guy was running. It was a lot. I will just say that it was a lot. And his IGF-1 was in the tank and him and his stupid doctor at the time couldn't figure out why it was in the tank. Probably because the dumb ass wasn't eating any carbs. It probably was just that simple. You know, so all of these metabolic effects that we have. But now what we do know, when we need to lose body fat, we need to be in a net negative energy balance. And carbohydrates are the easiest macronutrient to yank out of a diet when it comes to creating a caloric deficit. Because we do need a certain amount of essential fatty acids in our diet for hormone production, vitamin Trensport, cellular repair, cognitive and cardiovascular health, all these other things. So we do need a baseline level of essential fatty acids. I think most people severely overeat saturated fats and most people undereat essential fatty acids. So I do like having some added essential fatty acids in diets and keeping the saturated fats lower. I think overall that's going to improve your cardiovascular health, your lipid profile, all of these things that get skewed when we're using PEDs. So carbohydrates are going to be the easiest place to yank calories from. And when I run a carb cycling diet, we do that strategically. We'll have days where we run no to low carbs. We'll have one probably, one maybe in some circumstances, two high carbohydrate days per week where we are in a caloric surplus. And we're going to force glycogen synthesis during that day. And in theory, if you keep your fats low on that day and you push your carbohydrates up high and you are glycogen depleted, that caloric surplus should result in glycogen synthesis and very minimal if no fat storage. And I've seen this over and over and over again when I do contest prep with people where we can push carbohydrates really high on the high carbohydrate day and not gain any fat. And so ultimately it's about body composition. It's about performance. Now if we have a situation where we have somebody that's morbidly obese and insulin resistant, we might want to keep carbohydrates low. If we have a situation where maybe somebody has a health concern where they can't, you know, if somebody's had a past cardiovascular event, somebody has cardiovascular disease, obviously we're going to want to keep fats a lot lower. We're going to need to be conscious of that. If we have somebody that suffers of dyslipidemia genetically, we're going to be more conscious about fat consumption. So it's really, it's a tool in the toolbox. Don't fall in love with one diet style. I do think carbohydrates and carbohydrate cycling is optimal for physique sports and strength sports. I think you'll find that most guys at the professional level and bodybuilding run some sort of caloric carb cycling. I don't see any, you know, outside of contest prep, I don't see anybody gettinGHuge running a low carb diet. They just, you're just capped out in how big you can get. I've yet to see a 300 pound mass monster that's a carnivore keto guy. They just don't exist. You know, maybe you got there and you switched to it. That's a possibility. But I think long-term you're not going to get up there without pushing carbohydrates Carbohydrates are performance enhancing. I don't know why you wouldn't use them. To me, it's just an ideological thing where guys get married to a certain dogma and they're just like, well, I'm going to be on club this and everybody else is wrong, which I think is a very narrow-minded and silly way to think. I think we should be open and flexible when it comes to our diet and use an appropriate tool for the right job. Whatever's necessary for the job, that's what we use to get done. All right. Next question I got up here is from YouTube user, subscriber, LGM8SLL asks, my CRP spikes over 300 milligrams of test e per week. I'm 12 to 15% body fat. Is this genetics or is it something that I can fix? Well, when you think about what C-reactive protein is a measurement of, it's a measurement of systemic inflammation. Doctors use it as a tool to look at increased cardiovascular risk. When the cardiovascular system is stressed, there is an inflammation response and it could be a sign of inflammation in the cardiovascular system, but not always. There could be other things going on when we have PEDs introduced. It could be as simple as the gear that you're usinGHas a solvent or a carrier oil that you're having an immune response to and is causing some sort of systemic inflammation. Sometimes it can be a virus or bacterial infection that's causing the C-reactive protein to go up. I'd also ask how elevated it is. Sometimes a slight elevation in C-reactive protein can just be from treninGHard, from beating yourself up in the gym. That is also a possibility. It could be from water retention driven from the PEDs that you're using. It could be that your estrogen is out of control and that you are having a lot of water retention and blood pressure has increased because of that water retention and that's leading to a slight elevation in C-reactive protein, another thing that could potentially be going on. But typically the most common calls I would see with guys that have elevation in C-reactive protein is some sort of immune response to the solvent or carrier oil that your testosterone is dosed in, or it could be a reaction to the testosterone. IMean, you hear guys talk about it. They call it the test flu that some dudes get. I suspect that it probably has more to do with the preparation or just an immune response to the dose. Maybe try microdosing and see if that resolves it, or try using a different brand of testosterone. Talk to your provider and see what the carrier oil and the solvent is in it, or send it off for testing. Send it off for mass spectrometry testing. You could do that and see what is actually in it. There could be some sort of contaminant in there that's causing a response, but it also could be just from hard trening. If it's just a slight elevation in CRP, if you're having a dramatic elevation in CRP, it's some sort of immune response more than likely, and if it goes away when you come off the gear, then it's likely something immune related. Your body's responding to something. Inflammation from estrogen beinGHigh, water retention, that could drive it as well. Check your blood pressure and make sure your blood pressure is in order, but I would probably send your gear off for testing. See what's in it. Maybe try a different brand of gear, or testosterone. I shouldn't say gear. A different brand of testosterone. See if that fixes it, and consider that as a possible source of it, and also it's relative to how high your C-reactive protein is. Often when I'm on blast and pushing things hard, I'll have a slight elevation in C-reactive protein. I don't get too concerned about that, but if you see it spike up super high, then there's something going on that needs to be addressed. Oh, and one last thought about this too. If your lipids are extremely skewed, if you're eating a high-fat diet, LDL oxidation could be another thing too that causes C-reactive protein to go up, and when you increase your gear doses, that a lot of times lipids become skewed, so I would check your lipids as well. So the combination of water retention, increased hemoglobin and hematocrit, and the lipid skewing, all of these things combined, water retention, all these things combined could be a factor in the increase in C-reactive protein as well. So something else to consider. Anyway, hopefully that helps. All right, next question here is from Peter H. from the School of Antibiotic Bodybuilding members community. If you want to join, you can go over there and do so for 30 bucks a month. Links in the video description below. What is the best way to bring up a lagging muscle, like a smaller left shoulder compared to the right? A lot of times, you know, I've done, I've got my left leg is smaller than my right. You can see it in my photos if you look at it. I'm probably more conscious of it than people are. I had ACL surgery like four or five years ago. My leg atrophied and it just never caught back up to my right one. I've tried everything possible. I've tried unilateral movements. I've tried doing isolation movements on that side and it just has never caught back up. I will say this, a lot of times though, and I'll see this guy with guys, my situation is a little different. My legs were balanced before I had the surgery. It was just an imbalance after having the surgery. But a lot of times when I see guys that have one side that's bigger than the other, it's usually a technique thing. And a lot of times you'll note that it's a dominant side, whatever side that you're pulling with, especially if you're using or you're getting more of a muscle contraction with it. And I really noticed this and I took a step back when I was doing my leg exercises and was thinking about this year, this past year, because I couldn't tren upper body having surgery on my shoulder. What I noticed, and I think it was just a subconscious or maybe some sort of adaptation thing that happened after I injured my ACL, I seem to protect that leg. I noticed that I push harder with my leg that is good, the right leg, although my left leg, where I had the ACL replacement on, seems to be great now. By the way, I tore my ACL playing basketball, wasn't lifting weights, just a dumb ass thing. Most of my injuries have been basketball. I really have not injured myself that often in the gym, basketball and jiu-jitsu. So I noticed that I am dominantly pushing with that one side versus the other side. I'm using the right side, which is the healthy side, to do the majority of the work. And you'll see this too, like I see dudes bench press sometimes, where they're lopsided on their bench press, their dominant side will kind of go up a littlEQuicker than the non-dominant side. Or you'll see it on, you know, like say somebody's doing lateral raises, where they're getting that side up. The technique's a little bit different on the one side than it is the other. I would pay close attention to that. Use movements that require unilateral effort. So, you know, like for a leg press, for example, I can cheat and push a little harder with my right leg to give my left leg some slack. And that probably is causing my left leg to fall further behind. So for example, with your shoulders, I would probably do lateral raises with the dumbbell. Make sure that you're using the same technique for both sides. I would look at, for your shoulder presses, either dumbbell presses or machine press that allows for unilateral movement. Try that with your exercises and pay close attention to your form. Listen to your body. See if you're getting an adequate contraction on the side that's deficient. If you're not feeling a pump or anything, or not feeling a good contraction on that side, it's possible that maybe you're just not having a muscular connection with that side. You know, think about that a little bit. And you could also throw in some extra unilateral work that is also something you can do. I've tried it. I don't know how much of a difference it makes, but it's certainly not going to hurt things. You can do a couple extra sets with unilateral work on that one side and see if that helps bring things up. But those are kind of the things that I've done. And I found that most of the time when I've had issues with a lagging side, that it's going to be a technique problem more than anything. I'm using the other side more dominantly than the side that's smaller. I have noticed that. And nobody's perfectly symmetrical. A lot of times you'll notice it, but other people don't notice. I'm probably the only one that notices my leg. I've never once had a judge say anything to me about it in competition. But I definitely noticed that the left leg is a little bit smaller than my right leg, particularly my vastus medialis is not as big on my left leg, but it's something that most people probably wouldn't even notice. All right. Next up here, I have a question from YouTube subscriber. Prodican Descent. I don't know. I think that's what it says. Prodican Descent. If I am running 800 milligrams of androgens total, is it worth increasing GH from six units to eight units during a massing phase? Well, Prodican, if you want to learn how to put a cycle together properly, I do have my cycle cheat sheet that shows you how to symbol cycle properly. It's 30 bucks on my website. Links in the video description below if you want to go pick it up. As far as cycle construction with GH, really the upper limit of GH is going to depend on your side effects, man. More GH does work. GH, the limiting factor with GH is usually going to be the water retention in carpal tunnel. And that's usually where people, lethargy is another thing too, that can cause people to tap out. I seem to tap out around eight to 10 units. And that's about as far up as I can push before I start having problems. Mostly for me, it's just, I can't fucking stay awake. Water retention gets bad. I hadn't run GH for about six months and I just reintroduced it and I had massive water retention. I think it blew up like 20 pounds in a couple weeks. It was just unreal. I had to clen that up and get that off and then I'm back on it now. But yeah, that can be the issue. And usually the kind of the technique that I would say works the best is to just go up a little bit at a time, one to two units at a time. Find out where your threshold is. More GH works. I will say that. I'd say, it just depends on what your goals are. If you're just in the gym trying to look good, you may not need to run it that high. Just listen to your body. Your body will tell you where the point is that you can take it. I find that most intermediate guys, like I would say, if you're at an 800 androgen load, most of those guys that are in that range are probably in the five to six unit range when it comes to GH that they can tolerate and handle. As you push higher, as you get bigger, you can handle more. I've, like I said, I think 10 units is about the max I can handle. I tried 18 for a little bit, Chase Iron style. That did not work for me. Oh my god. I couldn't feel my hands and I was just falling asleep at my desk all day long. insulin resistance can start to become a problem too as you push the GH a lot higher. So you need to also pay attention to your glucose levels. Make sure that those are not rising, that you're keeping yourself healthy in that area, being safer with that. But really the biggest thing that you're going to contend with is water retention and hand numbness. Those are the two major side effects that you're going to be dealing with as you push up and you're going to have to keep an eye on. But ultimately, listen to your body, adjust based on your goals, don't try to force it. Usually, you know, if you're getting... I see guys try to force the doses up with the GH and what ends up happening is they have to fucking come off of it for a long period of time or back off of it for a month or so to let things settle back down and then you just lost time that way. So I would say, you know, if you're responding well, you're doing well, don't arbitrarily push up doses just because you want to push up doses. If you're responding well to a certain dose, then ride that dose out. You know, use the lowest effective dose that's probably going to be the smartest way to prevent side effects and to maintain your health and all that stuff. That would be the approach that I would use. But just, you know, if you want to titrate up, just go up small increments at a time and monitor the effects that it has. All right, next question up is from John W. from the School Antibiotic Bodybuilding Members Community. Links in the video description below if you want to join over there. Does injectable L-carnitine actually increase androgen receptor density or is that a myth? Any proven ways to increase androgen receptor density? There are some studies that show that L-carnitine has a mild effect on increasing androgen receptor density. It also seems to increase metabolism, insulin sensitivity, things like that. You know, look, in reality, it probably has a very moderate, if any, effect at all. I haven't noticed any major difference being on an L-carnitine versus being off of it. But you know what does increase androgen receptor density and has been proven in scientific studies to significantly increase androgen receptor density over time is getting bigger and taking androgens. There's that whole bro myth about androgen receptors downregulating over exposure and that's just not true. In fact, the opposite happens. Androgen receptor density actually increases as you take more androgens over a given period of time. More muscle, more androgen receptor, more androgen receptor density. And you know, ultimately a lot of that's just genetic too. I think some people have more androgen receptor density than others. Some people are hyper responsive. You can actually get that tested now genetically with CAG repeat testing if you want to find out. But I don't think L-carnitine makes that big of a difference. But look, hey, if you want to run it, you want to take another shot, it certainly doesn't hurt anything. I tried it for a bit. I noticed no difference. Maybe it helped a little bit with energy, with fat burning a bit on contest prep. But I kept having post-injection pain and swelling and redness and welts from it. And to me, it was just another thing to inject that I didn't want to waste my time on. But if you're already doing it, fuck it. You know, if you like it, you think you get something out of it, you can do it. But it's not the holy grail for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that some guys think it is. It's not going to significantly change your androgen receptor density or supercharge your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. If you want to get bigger, just take more shit. It's that simple. All right, next question here is from YouTube subscriber. If you haven't subscribed, please do so. This is from Mike V4321. Mike asks, what's the best insulin protocol pre-workout, post-workout, or tied to meals for someone who's running test GH and insulin in a little bit of primo? I wonder what a little bit of primo means. Mike, what's a little bit of primo? You know, I've talked about this before. I think most dudes misuse insulin. Guys don't fucking understand how insulin works. I have other videos up about how to use insulin. People screw this up all the fucking time. Here's my lecture on insulin. If you're not going to be a competitive bodybuilder, probably not worth using. I know if you're going to want to experiment with it, you're going to want to experiment with it. No matter what I tell you, here's the big Paul Bingo card. You can punch it off, but I am a type 1B diabetic and I have to use insulin on the regular and it fucking sucks, man. It's not fun. And my blood sugar is all over the place and you have to monitor it all the time. But you can make yourself diabetic by using insulin, so that is a downside of it. My thought process is if you're carb cycling, I would limit it to one or two days per week. I like to limit it to the high carbohydrate days. The problem with insulin is when we take more insulin, we're going to increase nutrient partitioning and storage. In general, increased amino acid uptake, increased glucose uptake, and also increased fat storage as well. So if you're in a caloric surplus and you're taking insulin and you're eating a bunch of fat, it's just going to make you fat. And that's kind of the guys fuck up with the diet. If you're going to be running a shit ton of insulin, you got to keep it away from fat intake. You want to keep your fats as close to zero as you possibly can when you're blasting insulin and keep the carbohydrate intake higher. That's why I like running it on carb cycling and running it on the high carb days. I also think most dudes are using basal insulin. Basal insulin is safer. The risk of hypoglycemia is much lower, but basal insulin is really not performance enhancing. And I think most of the time guys are using it for the wrong reason. They see their fasting glucose levels rising from overdoing the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and probably eating too many carbs for too many days consecutively. And they end up with high fasting glucose levels and they're throwing Lantus added or Trecibo, whatever your choice of basal insulin is, to bring down that fasting glucose level. And what really you're doing is throwing more insulin at insulin resistance and further increasing insulin resistance because the more insulin you take, the more insulin resistance that you're going to accumulate. So you have to be strategic with your insulin use. I like using a rapid acting insulin on my high carbohydrate day around meals. I'm not going to go into specific dosing because I don't want somebody going out there and fucking killing themselves. If you want to find out how I dose insulin, I do have it in our anabolic C course on the anabolic bodybuilding website. You can go over there. It's a deep dive and I also have some outlines of it in the cycle cheat sheet. But generally I find rapid acting insulin used throughout the day on a high carbohydrate day. I usually run it every other meal because it does last up to five to six hours. I think that's another area that guys goof up is they'll just keep putting, they'll take five units of Humalog and then take another five, an hour and a half, two hours later when they're eating the next meal and then they wonder why they fucking go hypo. But they don't understand the pharmacokinetics of the drug that there's still probably a couple of units of the original dose present. So you're stacking doses on top of each other and then you end up goinGHypoglycemia and you have to eat more food to get out of that hypoglycemia and then you just end up making yourself fat. I also think insulin and carbohydrate use need to be paired up with the proper form of trening. If you are a low volume, high intensity trener, most of those guys just get fat when they use insulin. They're not actually doing enough volume to reap the benefits of the increased GLUT4 trensport and glycogen synthesis, all that other jazz that goes along with it. I don't think it, you know, and you'll hear it, you'll hear the dudes that say that they were high intensity treners saying, oh insulin didn't work for me. I didn't, I didn't find it did anything. Well, yeah, because your trening doesn't match up with the carbohydrate intake, the insulin timing, the GLUT4 trensport, all of these things. When you tren for a longer period of time, you do a little bit more volume. You have more GLUT4 trensport over a longer period of time and you're going to utilize that insulin and carbohydrates more effectively. The high intensity bros are probably just going to make themselves fat. So it's probably, you know, you're going to have to pair up your trening style with it. If you look at most of the coaches that run insulin with their clients and you know, somebody like Milo Sarchev would be an example. It's very high volume trening. He does these giant sets, trens guys twice a day. They're doing very high volume trening paired up with the high carbohydrate and insulin intake. So you also have to consider that as well. Diet needs to be on point. trening needs to be paired up with the fucking insulin use and you need to be smart enough to be able to do math, to be able to read a glucose meter and understand insulin units in dosing. I can't tell you how many times I've seen dudes tell me, uh, well, I took only took four units of insulin. I pulled it to the 40 on the needle. I'm like 40, that's 40 units, noT4. I've heard of dudes doing that so many times and almost killing themselves. So if you can't do math, shouldn't be using insulin. Uh, it's, you know, look, it's, it's an advanced technique should only be used by advanced guys. If you're just a gym bro, I probably would stay away from it. To be honest with you, you're not going to get much of a benefit out of it. If you don't have anything buttoned up perfectly and you don't understand what you're doing, you're more than likely going to harm yourself rather than get any benefit out of it. But if you're insisting on doing some, make sure you're well informed. Make sure you can do math, basic math. You understand how the units trenslate and how to, how to, how to dose it properly. You can read a glucometer. You understand how that works. You understand basic pharmacokinetics. You need to understand how that works. So it's not an amateur hour thing to use because if you up, you'll die. It's not like testosterone where if you take too much testosterone, you just end up with a boner and you know, a little extra drive in the gym, take a little too much insulin. You might go to sleep and never wake up again. All right. Next question I got here is from Derek R from the school, anabolic bodybuilding members community. If you want to join, you can get links in the video description below. Derek asks, what dosage of fish oil do you recommend? And should it still be taking on high carbohydrate days? I push it, you know, like I probably take five, five grams a day, something like that. Five to six grams of total fish oil. You have to look at the EPA content of EPA DHA content of the fish oil. You want somewhere in the three to four grams of EPA and DHA per day is what you're, what you're trying to trying to hit. It's a very minimal amount of fat really, but that much past that there isn't really a proven increase in cardiovascular benefit and some of the other benefits that you get from it. Now look, we're, we're enhanced. We're doing other stupid things. Maybe a little bit more can be beneficial, but if you go too crazy with it, you can increase your LDL. Um, you know, so I, you know, if you look at the fish oil pills, a lot of times it depends on the brand of fish oil pill, but you know, like one pill might have like 500 milligrams of each in it. So you might need five, six pills a day to hit that number one with each meal, something like that. Just look, I get the high potency ones that are higher dose. They're a little bit bigger in that way. You can get away with taking just a couple of them every day, but look at the dosing on the fish oil pill, but you want to aim for somewhere in thaT3 to four grams, um, range, but the benefits of using, uh, fish oil, you're going to have increased HDL. It does moderately increase your HDL. It's going to increase endothelial health. It's going to increase and protect neuro neurological health. It's going to, um, increase blood viscosity. You know, that's what's always a concern when we have blown up hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell count, when we're, we're running a shit ton of gear. IMean, that that's going to be beneficial as well. It, you know, cardio protective in, in, in certain ways that, you know, it's, there's many, many, many, many, many benefits of it. And, um, you know, most people that take fish oil, and I'm not saying it makes you completely bulletproof, but if you look at populations that eat high con, you know, high diets, high in fatty fish, they generally don't have cardiovascular disease for the most part. They don't have plaque buildup. They don't have arterial problems, you know, a population like Japan. And man, those motherfuckers smoke, drink all kinds of crazy shit. Um, so there are some benefits to it. And yes, I do run it on high days. I'll just take a little bit less, um, uh, you know, IMight, you know, cut the dose in half or something like that, but I do, I do get a little bit in on the high days as well. And it does seem that EPA omega-3s do seem to help improve insulin sensitivity as well. Um, they help with the, uh, with, um, cellular health of the phospholipid layer of the cell. Um, and so there, there are many, many, many, many, many benefits of having, uh, additional, um, essential fatty acids in your diet. So that is something that I would consider and keep it in on the high day, just keep the dose a little bit lower, but it's, it's a regular part of my regimen. It doesn't necessarily have to be fish oil. It could be flax oil. You can get it from natural things. You could eat a piece of salmon. Um, you know, right now I've been just eating a piece of salmon every day. I eat some, you know, a couple ounces of salmon with my breakfast, nothing crazy. I do a couple ounces of salmon with my eggs and my yogurt in the morning. I've been doing that for, I don't know, the last year or so. And that, that worked out really well. So there, there are other ways to get it in as well. All right. Next question is from YouTube subscriber Grant Keogrant asks, what are the best trening and pharmaceutical practices to reduce cardiovascular risk in bodybuilding? Um, there's some simple low hanging fruit you can do and some stuff that I suck at, and I probably should be better at, but probably the lowest hanging fruit there is, is just doing some fucking cardio, getting up and taking a walk every morning. Uh, or if you want to do a little bit of HIIT cardio post-workout for cardiovascular health, that's going to have a major impact on cardiovascular health. Probably the second simplest thing to do is most dudes, especially when you're running PEDs, PEDs are going to cause lipid skewing because how they affect lipid metabolism in the liver, even injectables, you're going to see some increase in LDL and some decrease in HDL that just happens when you're running PEDs and how they cause the liver to metabolize lipids, uh, and how they affect lipid metabolism. So, um, clening your diet up, uh, eating a diet, keeping saturated fat low on your diet. When you're on PEDs, it's just like drives me nuts. And I, it's like riding a motorcycle without a helmet. IMean, I hear these bros all the time and say, well, there's no, you know, high cholesterol doesn't cause heart attacks and strokes. And yet I see it happen over and over and over and over and over again. I do hundreds of these consults annually, blood consults. If you want me to take a look at your blood work and help you get it clened up, I can do that. You can book a consult, but I see this all the time. I see these dumb motherfuckers that eat a high fat diet. They're slamming the antedral and tren. And then they end up with a fucking stint in their heart because they have a blocked coronary artery from their high fat diet. They end up with a high calcium score, calcium CT score. They end up with plaque formation from it. It's just, you know, because you end up dumping sea salt all over fucking everything, eating butter, eating sausages. And then they end up with poor cardiovascular health. It doesn't rear its head quickly. It's, you know, it's an accumulation thing. It's five, 10 years down the road. You might be fine today. You might be fine next year. You may never catch anything. It's like that crazy uncle that you have that smokes and drinks his entire life and lives to be 90. But the way I look at it, it's you're buckling your seatbelt up. You're putting your motorcycle helmet on, whatever. You're reducing risk by keeping your saturated fats lower in your diet while you're running PEDs, which are going to elevate risk of lipid skewing. So I would say diet is the second easiest thing that you can do. Then we can talk about supplements. There's some over-the-counter supplements as a third line of defense. Start with cardio. Second would be diet. Third would be, uh, you know, and if you're a PED user, staying away from orals, the worst lipid skewing I see is from oral anabolics for the most part. If you want to run an oral once in a while, but just limit it. It's not something you should be doing all the fucking time. Be very, very, very careful with your use of oral anabolics that they, they will fuck you up when it comes to your lipids long-term. It's not so much the liver that I worry about. It's, it's that. But there are some over-the-counter supplements that we can use. Citrus bergamot, uh, red rice, yeast extract, fish oil. Fish oil is probably the simplest and easiest one to add that will improve HDL. Um, you know, not a kinase is a, is another one that's potentially could be, could be used. Uh, then beyond that, if you can't keep your lipids in range, kind of like me, I have genetic dyslipidemia. You may need pharmaceutical intervention, which would be in the form of a statin and potentially use that in my, uh, I run the combo of both. I use a hydrophilic statins. Another thing that drives me nuts is bros seem to be on this bandwagon that statins are going to somehow fucking kill you. And meanwhile, they're taking bathtub tren made, made Tijuana and experimental, uh, experimental peptide. Are you five, seven, nine, five 44 from, from Bulgaria. And they don't give a fuck about that. You know, the may cause you to get butthole cancer, but they're, they're cool with that. But you mentioned a statin and then these dumb motherfuckers think they're going to die from taking a statin. They're probably one of the most benign, well-studied drugs that you can take. And you know, there are some risks like there are with any other, any other drugs in most of it's associated with the lipophilic statins. There are some neurocognitive risk. There are some potential risks to muscle health. So if you want to avoid those, just take a hydrophilic statin. I take resume a fat statin, which is a hydrophilic statin, which I've been able with that combination of that and some eczema, which works through the GI. I've been able to get my, my LDL down into the low sixties, high fifties, which is going to be much safer, long-term risk for cardiovascular. It's still not a guarantee. IMean, you can still get in a wreck and die with your helmet on, on a motorcycle. IMean, we're doing other things, but we are reducing risk. They're lowering the levels of risk. So I would say there, I would start, start at the high level first, just a little bit of fucking cardio, keeping your, keeping your diet healthy. Start there. Then you can throw in some over-the-counter supplements if you need additional help. And if that doesn't help it, then pharmaceutical intervention would be the last line of defense. Also be very intelligent with your PED choices. Stay away from orals, stay away from things that are known to skew lipids aggressively, probably tren, you don't want to be running tren year round. Things that are more gentle on your lipids, you know, testosterone, GH and primavolum, masteron, those are probably going to be more gentle on your lipids. Although they will cause some HDL suppression. I got so hyper focused on the cholesterol portion. I almost forgot about blood pressure. Blood pressure is also important to manage. The reason I harp on the cholesterol one is that that's the one that most dudes seem to just outright ignore. Most guys these days seem to pay attention to blood pressure. They, there's more awareness about blood pressure, but overall for cardiovascular risk, we look at it and I talked about it on a recent video. If you want to check it out that I had up about the primary cause of acute death in bodybuilders, that study that they did over, I think it was 20,000 bodybuilders were 16 professional bodybuilders over a 16 year period of time. Acute cardiovascular events were the number one cause. So the primary driver of this stuff is going to be high blood pressure, high cholesterol, using steroids that are cardio toxic. I would stay away from stuff that's cardio toxic. Make sure that your blood pressure is in check. A lot of times just simply clening your diet up and doing more cardio is going to help. Managing water retention is going to be another thing. For whatever reason, dudes think it's okay to let their estrogen run wild and let the, let water retention get out of control. That's going to increase cardiovascular risk as well. Managing your sleep, sleep apnea, making sure that you're getting a good night's sleep, making sure that sleep apnea is managed. A lot of dudes are, I found out myself, I was goinGHypoxic at night. That's not great for your cardiovascular health. 19-nor's tren, orals are going to be rough on cardiovascular health. Spend the majority of your time when you're running PEDs on gentler, more cardio safe compounds like test, primobolan, masteron, things like that. If you can even find them right now, stuff like that, making sure the blood pressure is kept under control. Don't be afraid to use pharmaceutical intervention if it's necessary. I don't think you need to go out and jump on blood pressure and cholesterol meds if you don't need them. I see guys doing it as a preventative. I don't know that that's necessary, but if you do need them, then don't be afraid to use them and periodically take breaks from your PEDs. If you want more information on the cholesterol lowering approach that I talked about, I have a free document up on my website. I want to make sure that guys have access to this so they can keep themselves healthy. If you go to my website, anabolicbodybuilding.com, head over to the section that says free stuff on the menu. You can download it for free. The only thing I ask for is your email address. It might spam you with some stuff once in a while, but I try to keep that to the minimum. Anyway, that's all I got for you on this one. All right, last but not least, this question is from the School of Antibiotic Body Building Members Community. This one's from Eric S. Eric S. Is front-loading long esters like EQ still recommended or has that changed in thinking since the early 2000s? Yeah, nobody does that anymore. Pretty much everything we did in the early 2000s, we know now, was probably wrong. Although, dudes back then got huge. I think the big trade-off now is we're more health-aware. We're more risk-aware than we were back then. IMean, you want to come out of the gate full tilt, go for it. IMean, those guys got huge on it, but now we're more aware of the risks that come along with PED use. The main thing I see with the front-loading, the biggest thing I've noticed, me personally and with my clients, if I try to come out of the gate with high doses rather than slowly escalating the doses over a period of time, I really don't get any additional gains. I have not noticed that there's any additional benefit when it comes to size and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone from coming out of the gate hard. I find that if I come out of the gate hard with doses, if I go high in the beginning frontload, so to speak, that I end up with just a bunch of extra side effects and no additional benefits. Blood pressure will go through the roof. Typically, that's the main thing I notice is water retention and blood pressure just can get out of fuckinGHand if you come out of the gate hard, especially like guys used to front-load cycles with D-ball and things like that and you just end up with a bloated, ended up being a bloated mess and your blood pressure's through the fucking roof. That's not good for you long-term. I really do it the opposite way. I slowly titrate up or escalate doses over the course of an 8 to 12 week period of time. I'll come out with the lowest effective dose like right now. I know people are not going to fucking believe me. They always think I'm lying when I say this, but I'm running 300 tests, 150 primo, and four units of GH right now. That's all I'm running. If I attend on competing, I will ramp that up. Usually, I end up somewhere between 750 and a gram of test. Then I just hang out there. If I'm making progress, I won't go anymore. That's the way the approach. I just don't think there's any additional benefit to coming out of the gate, front-loading things. I think you're just going to end up with more side effects, spend more money. You're going to feel worse. You're not really going to get any additional results. I like the analogy that Broderick Chavez uses. He said it's like getting on the elevator and pushing, going from the first floor to the 15th and you push the button for the 15th floor extra hard. You pounded on it. It's not going to get you there any faster. It doesn't make any difference. I just haven't seen there to be any benefit to it. If anything, I think it adds extra downside to as far as health benefits. We're more health aware now. Guys back in the early 2000s, nobody fucking checked their blood pressure. I don't know if anybody was measuring blood pressure. Maybe there were a few dudes. We didn't give a fuck about any of that shit back then. We just wanted to get huge and we wanted to do it as fast as possible. We were dunderheads. We didn't consider any of the health implications of taking PEDs, most of us anyway. That's why a lot of us old guys are fucked up now. But yeah, no additional benefit, man. Don't do it. It's not worth it. Just slowly titrate up. I would say hit your peak doses somewhere in that eight to ten week mark into your cycle and you'll thank me later. All right folks, that's all I got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. I'll see you on the next episode, you motherfuckers.