warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks. Big Paul here with another anabolic Q and a, we've got some good stuff on deck today. There's a question about HGH timing and whether you should take it multiple times a day or in aromasingle dose. The have a client that said that he heard from other top bodybuilding coaches in the Olympia. Like a guy that's an Olympia level coach was recommending multiple times a day and we're going to talk about that, why that might be. We have another question about best peptides outside of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and issues with Klen causinGHiccups on prep and we have other questions. These are all from members of my school community site team anabolic body building. If you want to become a member of the site, it's a great place to communicate with other people that are my clients and also just followers. You get access to exclusive videos that I have up for members. There's some stuff on PD profiles, how to build cycles, things like that. Also a forum and you get first dibs on questions for thEQ and A's. It's only 30 bucks a month. It's super cheap. It's a good value. And you get access to ask mEQuestions too. You can put your questions up on the forum. I answer questions and post articles up there for people to read and review about PDs trening, nutrition and bodybuilding in general. And enough of that stuff, folks. We are going to get started with thEQ and a in just one second. All right. Before I get started, I'm going to ask if you could please subscribe to my channel and like this video. I've got a lot of people watching, not that many people subscribing and it seems that YouTube has shadow banned me. At least that's the best I can tell. It's not showing my channel to anybody really outside of my subscribers. So I would appreciate it if you subscribe, if you're a new viewer and you've stumbled upon my videos somehow. All right. First question I got here is from Matthew Bolduck. I think I said his name correctly. I apologize. Matthew, if I screwed that up, Matthew is a subscriber to the team anabolic bodybuilding members site. He goes, do you ever go through long periods where there isn't a lot of strength gain, but drastic size gain? Yes, absolutely. And this is what I see as you progress through bodybuilding. It seems like strength gains, at least in my experience, come before size gains. I have always noticed I have no science, nothing to back this up with zero. This is just what I have seen. I'll have these breakthroughs in strength where my strength rockets up, plateaus, and I don't get any stronger, but then I start growing, uh, adding size afterwards. And then sometimes I'll just, you know, continue to get bigger and not really get that much stronger. Honestly, I would say that I'm weaker than I was in my twenties, but I am much bigger, denser, fuller than I was. And so I've talked about this before, that strength is relative. Really? It's about mechanical tension when you're growing. And that mechanical tension that we're placing on the muscle to elicit hypertrophy also has a lot to do with your technique on how you lift. And the technique for bodybuilding and powerlifting is very different. For powerlifting, we want to get the weight from point A to point B in the most efficient fashion possible. For bodybuilding, we're trying to place the most mechanical tension possible off on the muscle. We want to take that off the joints, get it on the muscle. Whereas it's the exact opposite in powerlifting. We're just trying to leverage it, use the best technique possible to get weights from point A to point B, um, as efficient as possible. And that's why I don't get super wrapped up in PRs anymore. I used to be a beat the log book kind of guy, which is awesome. I think if you're a young lifter, having the log book, getting in the gym, doing it JP style, um, Doreen Yates style, Dante Trudeau, DC trening, that's fantastic when you're young and you're progressing strength. But at some point you sort of just hit the wall and there's only so far you can progress it. Like, IMean, how far are you going to take dumbbell curls? And sometimes what I found after years of trening that you get so obsessed with beating the log book, that really you just get better at cheating and leveraging the weight up. Your mission in the gym becomes to get stronger, which is art, which is not always necessarily the goal in bodybuilding. It's relative. And with that said, like, like I said, I always see strength gains come first. It seems to come in spurts for me. It's not a linear thing. I get guys that get very frustrated with their trening when they don't see strength increases for months on end. And a lot of times it has to do with food intake too. You will notice when you go on contest prep, you're eating less carbs. Strength goes down when you're eating in a calorie deficit. Soon as you come out of contest prep or dieting phase, you add carbohydrates back in. You put gas back in the gas tank. Instantly your strength rockets back up. So some of that is related to food as well. And the PE type of PEDs that you're taking. I do think there's also some fatigue that accumulates with the PEDs as well. As you're taking more PEDs, more growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, more insulin, things like that. Eating more food after a while, you get lethargic performance in the gym isn't as great, but you are still growing. So yes, it does seem to not line up exactly with each other. It's weird how that works. It doesn't seem like that you get stronger at the same time you're getting bigger. They, they just kind of seesaw back and forth with each other. All right. Next question I have here is from David Radulovich. I think I said your name correctly, David. I apologize if I didn't. David is a member of the team anabolic bodybuilding school site. David asked a top three Olympia coaches, dividing six units of GH into three to four portions before bed, first thing in the morning and after the workout with protein and carb meals. Sometimes he adds two units to the largest meal, no insulin added. What can be the reason that after the workout with, with a large meal, I am honestly have no clue why we do that. I think sometimes people overcomplicate things and overthink things. There may be some logic that I'm missinGHere. I could, I could get it with, with insulin. Um, so here's the thing with, with GH. I, there has been, uh, a lot of overcomplication with GH administration guys taking multiple times a day. I've done it before. I played around with it. And there are pluses and minuses to taking GH multiple times a day. Uh, you're going to have a more sustained level of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone throughout the day. Uh, GH went subqtaneously administered, has a half-life of something like six hours, five to six hours. Peak plasma levels happen somewhere, or sorry about abouT4 hours. Peak plasma levels happen around six hours. Um, the GH gets distributed throughout the body. It triggers the jack stat signaling pathway leading to protein synthesis, lipolysis and IGF one production. Now IGF one production lasts longer. IGF one production lasts as long as 24 hours really. And that's what we're looking for when we are growing. So my thought process is the frequent administration of GH doesn't make a whole lot of sense when you're in an offseason and you're eating carbs. There's a couple of reasons for it. One you're going to have a high IGF one level throughout the day. Anyway, you may even get a higher IGF one spike, taking it in aromasingle large bolus dose at night. The body makes GH in a pulsatile nature typically at night. And there's also the insulin sensitivity and rising glucose levels that concern me. And I have seen this with myself. I'm a type one B diabetic and I've seen it with my clients. When you break it up into multiple doses throughout the day, while you're eating carbohydrates, blood sugars tend to rise. They get higher and you're going to need something like some insulin or something to counteract some of that. The more insulin you take, the more GH you take, the more insulin resistance is going to stack up and it's just this cascade of problems. Whereas if you take it at night, when you're in a fasted state, when it hits peak of plasma levels, um, it's going to be somewhere like, let's say if you took it at 11 o'clock at night and you slept till 7 a.m. you're going to hit peak plasma levels around four or 5 a.m. while you're asleep and in a fasted state in a low carbohydrate state. And it shouldn't affect your blood sugars as negatively. Um, if you're taking it throughout the day while you're eating carbohydrates, it is in theory, it could potentially cause a rise in blood glucose levels. Now, if you're healthy, metabolically healthy, I haven't seen that be as big of a problem. If you're also, um, insulin sensitive, that's not as big of a problem, but as you're pushing food higher, that can be an issue. I just don't think it makes a whole lot of sense. It's a lot of extra work for really no extra benefit. Maybe on contest prep, you could make an argument if you're eating no carbohydrates or low carbohydrates, you could use it for the lipotic effect with the GH to have more sustained levels throughout the day. But even still, like these guys that are taking it in the morning before they do their cardio, it's not even going to be peaked for six hours, peak of plasma levels for six hours. So you, you, you would have to get up at 1 a.m. If you're doing 8 a.m. or, or 1 a.m. If you're going to do 7 a.m. Fasted cardio. So that makes no sense. So the whole taking it in the morning before your fasted cardio really doesn't do anything. I used to do that. And the more I thought about it, uh, this is something that I've changed my mind on. I just, I think you're creating a lot of extra work for just not much additional benefit. Long story short, just take a large bolus at night. Maybe on contest prep, you can make an argument for splitting it up into multiple doses, but I would just take the whole injection before bed subqtaneously. Like the drug was designed to be used. It's literally what it says in the insert packet of the Serastone. That's how it's used in the guys that are splitting it up into multiple doses throughout the day. I really haven't seen it make much of a difference. I've tried it. I really, I couldn't tell any difference, uh, either way, whether I was taking multiple doses or at night, only, the only thing I really saw different is it made my glucose levels get higher during the day. It also made me tired during the day. And to me, it just wasn't worth being tired during the day, lethargic. It wasn't worth the increase in blood glucose levels where I had to use insulin to counteract that, uh, more insulin because I am already a diabetic. To me, it just makes more sense. Take it in a fasted state at night. The majority of the year that's simple, easy, not a lot of thought. You have to put into it, keeps things nice and clen and you're going to probably have better blood sugar as a blood sugar levels. As a result, Joshua Cohen asks, what are your favorite peptides outside of GH? Are most of them overhyped TB-500 BPC one, five seven applications and scenarios where they would be useful. I haven't really gone deep down the peptide rabbit hole. I am kind of just a do the basics kind of guy. IMean, insulin is a peptide. Technically GH is a peptide. I have been messing around with red or true tide. Also a peptide. I find it to be very effective. I, in my honest opinion, maybe I'm alone on this one. I never found that BPC-157 and TB-500 did much of anything. I can't tell any difference when I'm on it and when I'm not. Now that, maybe that's because like with me, my shoulders all beat the fuck up and I got a torn labrum. Um, there's, you know, arthritis in there. It probably isn't going to help that. I do think it does seem to help with injury recovery and speed of injury recovery. Uh, when I had my ACL surgery, I did use some peptides. I use BPC-157 TB-500. Also some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and Anolvar to help with my recovery. And I was able to get fully recovered from my ACL tear and something like six to seven months. I caught a couple of months off the recovery time. And I've seen it with people that I've talked to that are recovering from orthopedic surgeries where they have been able to rapidly get back to a hundred percent faster than what a normal person would without them. Some other peptides that guys are all the time asking me about the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormones, secretive dogs, uh, several and some of these other ones, honestly just to save your money and buy growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Generic growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone now is so cheap that it's really, sometimes it's more expensive to take the secretive dogs, the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone screening peptides than it is to actually just take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone itself. And they don't really make that much of a difference. I'm throwing arbitrary numbers out here. So don't quote me on this. But like if, if something like a 30% or a 40% increase in your natural GH production is what you would get out of a GH secretive dog, that sounds fantastic. But if your body is only making one unit of GH or equivalent per day, that is a 40% increase would take you up to 1.4 units. You're not even going to notice that it's not going to be that big of a difference. And as you get older, your, your, uh, pituitary is not as efficient as it was when you were younger. So you're probably making even less growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So just cut out the middleman and take some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Um, I really have not found many of the other peptides to be, you know, that effective. The GLP ones are fantastic. They do work. They are, they are great. That's why the pharmaceutical companies are fighting with the, fighting with the compound pharmaceuticals right now to get a wrangle on that because there's a billion dollar industry to be had. Um, they aren't fighting over BPC one, five, seven and TB-500. They aren't fighting over the HGH secretive dogs because they just don't work that well. Some peptides work great. Some peptides don't work so great. Uh, I do know melanocan. A lot of guys love melanocan. I have stayed away from it because I've had melanoma twice and it does concern me with how it affects the melanocyte. Uh, in theory it should protect you from UV damage, which leads to melanoma. But I do not want to mess around with anything that might affect the melanocyte and increase, um, chances of having additional skin cancer. So honestly, I really, people are always looking for the next best thing. Just stick with the basic shit really. HGH, testosterone, um, a little bit of Primo or Masteron, whatever you prefer. If you want to sprinkle in some stuff, like it's not going to hurt to take BPC one, five, seven and TB-500. Um, if you have soft tissue injury, it might help. I don't find that it does whole whole lot. It might lower inflammation a bit. Uh, but other than that, I, I need to do some more deep dives into the peptides. I really just have not messed around with that. Many of them. I've, I feel like a lot of them, um, a lot of them don't have a lot of benefit for the cost. I could be completely wrong about that. I know some people love peptides and I'm very open-minded and like to try things, but I just stick with the basics. Uh, I do, I do run some BPC one, five, seven and TB-500 now and then to help with inflammation and joint pain and things like that. It does seem to help a bit. Um, and you know, really that's, you know, right now I'm running right a true tide. So those are the things that I am mainly run as far as peptides go. All right. Next question is from a YouTube user. He left a comment on the last video. If you guys havEQuestions, you can leave them in the comment section below. I'll select a couple of the good questions from the YouTube comments for the next Q and a the following week. Um, this one is from Adrian Garcia. He asked, do you know anything or have heard of anything about Glenn causing chronic hiccups? Every time I take Glenn about two weeks in, I started getting chronic hip hiccups lasting three to four days and I need medication to stop them. Any reason that you know of? Are there multiple reasons? It seems like the hiccups are a big issue on contest prep when a toxicity is high. When CNS stimulation is high, we're taking a bunch of stimulants. Um, these stimulants can affect the central nervous system. Uh, hiccups a lot of times are, are related to overstimulation of the, the, the central nervous system. A clinbuterol can cause muscle tremors as you've seen, you know, guys go get shaky on it. Um, including in places that are not ideal like the diaphragm, which could lead to involuntary contractions and cause that cause hiccups. People get muscle cramps on them, uh, increase sympathetic nervous system activity. A clinbuterol stimulates the synth, synth, uh, if I can talk about it, sympathetic nervous system, which can lead to abnormal frantic nerve and Vegas nerve activity, both which are involved in hiccup reflex control. tren is also another offender of causing, um, the Vegas nerve stimulation, which can increase hiccups. I've seen guys get chronic hiccups when runninGHigher doses of tren before or using a bunch of fat burners on contest prep. Hiccups can also be a sign of liver stress. Uh, liver stress can cause, uh, can also cause, um, you know, hiccups that, that can be an issue as well. Electrolyte imbalances clinbuterol causes, uh, potassium depletion. In my experience, most people do not take in enough potassium. Just a word of disclosure for all the bros that love to take ARBs, uh, specifically telomers, telomers can cause retention of potassium. So you do have to be careful with potassium intake while taking an ARB. Um, but electrolyte disturbances such as potassium deficiency can cause diaphragm spasms, muscle spasms, muscle cramps. That can also be a contributing factor. And as a Bronco dilator clinbuterol affects the airway and smooth muscles in the respiratory control, possibly leading to hiccups. Um, and if it alters natural breathing, once again, how it affects the diaphragm. Um, you know, so these are just some things to consider with clinbuterol. I would say if it's causing you hiccups, just back off the dose. And now there are other non-stimulant options for fat burning. Uh, vigor, Steve and Dr. Dean had some really great information up on their metabolic stack. Um, increasing, you know, using things like retrotrutide, SLU, um, you know, there's MOTC. There's some other things that these guys were using a methylene blue to increase mitochondrial function rather than using stimulants, beta agonists, things like that to burn fat. I do like clinbuterol. It's my favorite fat burner. I think it's probably the most effective one, at least for me, it is gets me hardened up quickly, but there are other options. You don't have to use clinbuterol. So if it's causing you a lot of problems, I've seen guys that just will have chronic hiccups 24 seven. It's probably the combination of clinbuterol with TREN. Most people do the clin and TREN combo. Then you're going to have a lot of CNS, uh, stimulation, uh, increased sympathetic nervous system activity that's going to cause problems. And that's likely the root cause of it. It's probably not liver issues, but it could be if you're taking orals on top of it as well, you've got the trifecta of issues that could lead to chronic hiccups. Anyway, that's my long winded explanation. Hopefully that helps you and try some different stuff and see how it goes. Lightweight baby 40 ask getting gynosurgery late this summer this year. It's pretty small on one side and very small on the other. Should I let it run wild and grow a bit before I get the surgery to ensure removal of the gland is successful? I think that's what Steve did. He just vigorous Steve. He just had gyno surgery and I've had gyno surgery not once but twice on both sides. And I had it a third time on my left side and I need to get it clened up again on my right side. I am hypersensitive to things like dbol and stuff like that that are going to cause, uh, increased gynecomastia. So I would say yes, let that shit run wild. Uh, this is not my medical advice. I'm not telling you what to do, but I have heard of guys that will do the old DECA and dbol combo to get that gyno growing massively. If you want to grow boobies, DECA and dbol is the way to go. If you're prone to gyno, DECA will make you grow boobies like nothing else. Say the same thing with, uh, with dbol. So the DECA and dbol combination will, uh, make you grow boobies. I would also say, make sure you are connected up with a competent plastic surgeon. You want a board certified plastic surgeon that's actually worked on body builders before. Um, there are different techniques now. It used to be that they would leave the entire or leave a piece of the gland in there, but my experience that it grows back, they would do that to keep the nipple from collapsing. I had my nipple collapse on my left side after the last surgery. That's why I have a funky looking nipple. And then I have on my right side, I have a little piece of gyno that's still there. So they do not look, they, they, they don't match each other, you know, but now they can do things like, uh, the surgeon I went to put a piece of mesh behind it to help help get it. But you, I would make sure that they get the majority of the gland out because even if there is a little piece back there, it can still grow back. But I would talk to a competent surgeon, make sure that they have worked on body builds before. Cause there's a lot of these guys that have never worked on anybody like us. They just worked on fat dudes. You want to make sure you don't have any large scars. There is also, you need to make sure that some guys will just go in and remove the gland and not do liposuction. Liposuction is also necessary to make sure that things look correct. Um, they go in through the nipple and do it correctly. Sometimes that gland sits up under the chest. They need to make sure that they get up in there deep to get all of it out. I had pieces when I had my last surgery done that were all the way up by my armpit guy was reaching up there deep and yanking out pieces. I was awake for it. Some surgeons will let you stay awake for it. Some will knock you out. It is cheaper if you stay awake for it, but it is, I don't know. It's kind of unpleasant, but I want it to be awake. I kind of like seeing the stuff. He was like showing me the pieces that came out. It's a friend of mine. It's a plastic surgeon. But anyway, yes, that is a strategy. I'm not saying it's a strategy you should employ, but if there's more there, there's more to take out and it may be easier for the surgeon. But I would ask your surgeon about that first. And you know, I have heard of guys doing it that way. That is a option. I'm not saying it's the right option, but it is an option. Last question here is from Jeff Portnoy from YouTube. I'm always hesitant answering insulin questions because most bros are too dumb to do insulin. They can't do math and you have to do math when you take insulin or you could die. I take insulin every day because I'm a diabetic. So, and I also have a degree in data analytics, so I know how to do math. But even, even still, sometimes I go hypo. Anyway, on to Jeff's question. If too high of a dose of insulin can send you hypo, is there a risk with too low of a dose? Won't the access needed to produce, uh, access to need it to process the carbs just be covered by my pancreas. So it will still be beneficial to the body in some way to take some stren off the pancreas. I am going to do four to six units of GH. Do I need to know the exact amount of carbs I will eat that day to precise amount of insulin to cover it? Yes. This is what I'm talking about. You have to know math to be able to take insulin. Now with Lantus, Lantus is a basal insulin. You know, there's other basal insulins. Lantus is a basal insulin is going to cover your background insulin throughout the day. It is less likely to make you go hypo. It's harder to screw up, but they do have a dosing calculator on their website. It's based on body weight, your medium and rapid acting insulins. You're going to need to calculate out based off of how many carbs you eat. And yes, you can take less. Uh, and in theory, your pancreas should make up the difference. Even still, sometimes guys will go hypo. I have seen that happen before and I will tell, I can tell you from my own experience from being a diabetic, if I take five units today and I'm just fine and I take three units tomorrow with a meal, IMight go hypo. It's different from day to day. And you have to be diligent with tracking your blood glucose levels and seeinGHow you respond to it. So before I take it, I check my glucose levels pre meal and then again, two hours post meal to see how my body reacts to it. If you have the money to burn, I would probably just get a CGM, a continuous glucose monitor so you can keep better accurate and more accurate readings on where your glucose levels are so you can see how you respond to the insulin. But there is an appropriate dose for the amount of carbs that you take in. You don't want to take in more and end up in a problem. So just, you have to be cautious. You have to be smart about it. And there is a theory and I've seen it, you know, people talk about it. I don't know how much value there is to it. That taking insulin as a bodybuilder can take stress off your pancreas and uh, and uh, reduce load on your pancreas and prevent pancreatic burnout. I have type one B diabetes where I have pancreatic insufficiency. I have seen pancreatic insufficiency in other bodybuilders. It is possible that of years of, you know, making temporary insulin resistance from GH and your body's cranking out insulin in overtime, that you may have created an environment where you have have some sort of beta cell burnout. But typically a type one diabetic is autoimmune type one B. They are not really sure it's could be genetic. Um, but, and then you'll see it in type two diabetics that are insulin resistant after years of being insulin resistant in their pancreas working overtime after a while, it just gives up the ghost. Now, here's the problem when you take more insulin to deal with the GH, it's this cascading spiral that you get into where you are potentially creating more insulin resistance and you need more insulin to keep up with the carbohydrate intake and the GH and you just get in the spiral where you just progressively become more and more diabetic. You could actually make yourself diabetic from, from taking insulin if you're not careful. I would also be careful with the GH as IMentioned earlier in the earlier question, I probably would take it before bed. Keep it away from your meals with high carbohydrates in it. Um, that would probably be a smarter approach. Now if you want to take it with meals with carbohydrates, guys bodybuilders are using insulin to counteract that. But I would say if you're a, this is my advice. Usually I give to people about insulin. I know bros want to dabble in experiment, but if you're just a gym bro, you have no intention of competing at a high level. I would probably just leave the insulin alone. You're not really going to get a lot of benefit out of it. Most dudes are not detailed enough with tracking the carbohydrates with checking their glucose levels to justify taking the insulin. You have to really be on point and on top of that if you are going to take insulin. Otherwise you're just taking risk. You're taking, you're putting yourself at danger of goinGHypo even on a small dose like guys think, well, you know, if I'm supposed to have 10 units with this meal, if I take three, I'm going to be okay. I've seen guys go hypo. I have, you just, your body responds differently and your glucose levels are constantly fluctuating. So you can't accurately predict what it's going to be from day to day. You have to adjust your dose based on what your glucose levels are and your carbohydrate intakes and that, and that fluctuates. So you have to be really on top of things. You really have to be good with your math. There's very little margin for error. You have to be smart with it. And I would say just for most people, one, they're not going to do that. And two, it's just not worth the risk just to be a gym bro bodybuilder. You're going to get 98% of the results that you want to get just from your anabolics alone. So I would probably just leave the insulin alone unless you're having an intention of being a pro bodybuilder or high level competitor, or maybe if you're already experiencing some sort of diabetes, but then you just work with your diet doctor to treat that and come up with an effective dosing protocol. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. It means a lot to me. I will see you on the next episode for coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.