warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up Jim bros. And I guess some ladies, I have a great interview for you today with Dr. Mike Israel tell, uh, we dig into some fun stuff with Dr. Mike. We talk about how to tren like a bodybuilder. Dr. Mike talks about his future body building plans. We dig into the RP study on protein absorption and how much protein you need to we talk about a bunch of other stuff. Mike's jujitsu black belt that he just got. If you enjoy this content, I'd appreciate it. If you subscribe to my channel, I get a lot of people watching, not that many people subscribe. So if you want to give this video a like thumbs up and subscribe to the channel, I'd appreciate it a lot. We're going to dig into this interview in just one second. Yeah. All right folks. Big Paul here today with the one and only Dr. Mike Israel tell what's going on Mike. What's up man? It's good to be on the show. Nothing much man. Um, so what's new in your world, man? I, I haven't, uh, seen a whole lot of, uh, stuff about bodybuilding lately. Are you jumping back into the bodybuilding world or is that, uh, on hold now? So what I did was, um, I did a run up to what I thought was going to be a few competitions in the summer of 2024 and after doing the first one and realizing that like, oh man, this is kind of a full send effort. And if I'm putting this much kind of, if I'm going to be doing shows, I have to be putting in kind of all the, all the intricacies, posing practice contest look. Um, I was planning on getting substantially leaner throughout the summer and I actually did, even though I didn't compete, but I had my best look weeks and weeks after the show. But, um, that first show was kind of supposed to be a kind of, of a test run and went fine, like middle of the pack, but you know, sort of knew what to fix and all this other stuff. And then I realized during that time that cause my YouTube situation was really blowing up like in a huge way. Um, I had to think about what was the best plan because putting a lot into bodybuilding, I was going to be real tough to do while like taking as much advantage of the explosion and popularity. For example, like right in the middle of the summer where I was supposed to be prepping for other shows, I had gotten multiple invites to other very, very large podcasts like a dire of a CEO type of shit. And at that point I was like, man, like what, what is the right answer here? Cause spirit energy wise is just want to keep competing. But, um, as far as realistically, like if I look back and say, yeah, and again, IMissed all these great opportunities to reach out to way, way, way more people in the mainstream because I was like just busy competing. It could just kind of didn't make any sense. So I said, okay, no morecompeting for a while. And, uh, the big thing with competing is, first of all, it takes a lot of time, attention, so on and so forth. But at the time I was just using a lot of gear, you know, like anywhere between a gram and two grams, usually more like gram gram and a half. But that's for me a lot affects me considerably. And so I was like, man, I got to bring the gear down to enhance longevity, to be able to do my job of, it was relaxed, better term fitness influencing, uh, pretty well, at least for the next little bit. So I did that. I came down to, um, as low as 125 migs per week, um, which happened over this past November, December. And for the most part, I was at, uh, 250 megs per week. Uh, and you know, it's a big difference, uh, from like a thousand or something like that. Yeah. And so I kind of brought that down. And interestingly enough, my physique looked pretty good, still does. And I started to focus more on kind of aesthetics. So my legs were a really strong point and I just have to tren them only with basic body weight movements for the past seven months and have focused a lot of my shoulders, a lot of my width, uh, of my back, very little unrolling and thickness because my back thickness is kind of just like that. There's no real need for any more of this, uh, relative to everything else. Focusing a lot on form growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, arm growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, dealt growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, calf growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone to get that aesthetic situation going. And during this time I was able to lean into social media a lot and do my real job a ton better. And I, you know, still trening and still eating well and all this other stuff, but with much less gear. And then I actually have a surgery planned for, um, a few months from now, which is gonna get rid of my love handles. I purposefully got to a drug free 270 pounds at five, six in my youth when I was in my late twenties, mid twenties. And we just like grew a lot of skin and a lot of fat cells, especially in the love handle area. It really, really makes contest prepping tough because it stores a lot of water. It looks fucking awful. And so I'm like, you know what? I just got to get this taken care of. And so I'm going to be getting that taken care of. And then it's actually something I consulted with you on because you have a lot of wisdom about that sort of thing that was super, super helpful. And then after I get that done, then if he can late March, uh, it's going to take what, like about a year to recover fully and see the full aesthetic revelation of that. During that year, I'm going to tren back up. I have to take, you know, four to eight weeks off of trening completely after the surgery, which, you know, it's going to be, it's quite nice. First time I've taken that much time off of trening, I'm going to come back and kind of slowly ramp the gear from probably one 25 megs per week, all the way up to eventually pre contest. The goal was 500, which is much less than before, but seemingly we'll be doing a good enough job there. And then the goal is to probably see where I'm at and start competing again in earnest in 2026 and this time just try to put something on stage that is like very lean and you know, the muscle is what the muscle is at that point. That'll be the only goal. And then, you know, whatever happens happens. So that's my situation. Also, it was kind of cool because when I backed off of the bodybuilding competition thing a few months back, I was able to do some more jujitsu trening and then I got promoted to black belt. So that was really neat. Now I can back off. Thank you so much. Yeah. Thanks. And now I can back up off of jujitsu a little bit and kind of put it on a back burner and then really put my aesthetics and bodybuilding on the front burner and kind of get what I need to get done in the sport. Yeah. Bodybuilding is an all consuming thing when you're involved in seriously competing. There really isn't much time for anything else. IMean, when you're getting ready, especially like on contest prep with the PEDs and the fatigue from everything, it's really hard to be, be focused and productive. Um, yeah, IMean, I, I don't blame you on that. It really is a silly hobby at the end of the day. Yes. We love it. Yeah, I love it. But you know, I, I questioned myself, like I kind of got the, I got the pro card and it was sort of anticlimactic. It's like, what do you do now? So trying to focus a little more on the social media stuff, which is a, I don't know, it's a catch 22. I hate it and love it all at the same time. Uh, the jujitsu stuff, that's pretty bad ass, man. I, I am a very mediocre jujitsu practitioner. I need to get back to it at some point. I'm like salty blue belt, I would say. Salty blue belt. It's a very dangerous thing to see on the map, you know, especially at your size and strength. I did a pretty consistently like three days a week for like four or five years. Oh wow. And then, and then decided it was like a, it was like a decision between bodybuilding and jujitsu. They didn't, they didn't seem to match up at the same time together. They don't match up, man. That's one of the big illusions is I'm in the fitness industry. We seem to go through multiple waves of different trens and a little while back, maybe 2015 or so, there was a big tren for kind of multi-sport athletes in the powerlifting, weightlifting, combat sports, and physique kind of mega community. Oh, there was a few people that could pull off some decent results in a few of these. And you know, it's very enviable. So people look up to it. And then everyone starts to think, okay, that's how the social hierarchy sorts. If I can be good at multiple things, then that'll be really great. I'll get lots of social media attention and people will love me more. And there's something to that for sure, because it's really cool to be able to be sweet at a couple of things. But being sweet at a couple of things means almost by definition, by resource and time and recovery and stress constrents and injury risk that you're not going to be your absolute best at any one of those things. And for me, you know, attaining my, my best physique, something really shredded and cool looking on stage to the extent that I know I'm capable of is a thing that is so important to me that, yeah, I really did walk away from bodybuilding competition because of that. Um, uh, in order to have a time when I can do it properly, instead of just, I don't want to say half-assed, but like, man, Jesus, there's just only so much bodybuilding prep you can do when you're traveling around the country doing collabs all the fucking time and, uh, doing tons of intellectual work and tons of interviews and tons of content production. And to be the best at that, you definitely can't bodybuild a full on because like, like you said, the drugs and the fatigue and the dieting just drain your cognitive ability so much that it's like, even if you're still pretty fucking sharp, you'd be much sharper if you weren't doing it. And so what I like to do in my life is to approach things with an emphasis, de-emphasis. So I do do a couple of things at the same time. There's content creating and book writing and science bullshit and app stuff. And at the same time I do jujitsu and at the same time I do bodybuilding, but what's best seemingly is really putting one of those on the front burner for a while and putting the others on a bit more of a back burner to really get like a really good effort. Uh, and a really good outcome. And one thing I've learned is nobody gives a shit about excuses. IMean, I knew this. It's just obvious. And nobody gives a shit about contingencies. Even when the excuses are just reasons. You'll never hear me say, oh, man, I could have done better in bodybuilding if I had fewer responsibilities in my work life and things like that and other sports. I'm not going to say this. You'll never hear me say that because that's just a bullshit way to say I fucking sucked. But I deeply own the fact that my last run at a show wasn't that great. And it's nobody's fault by my own. And I am going to do better by re-architecting my priorities, at least for a short time, to be mostly in the bodybuilding realm and much less content creation. Luckily, we create content way ahead of time, so no one will ever see that dip. But at least for four to six weeks before the show, I basically have to go on what I would call a muscle vacation, which is how almost all pros live their lives, actually, and many top national level guys. You get to get some sponsors, tren a few clients, money's good. All you do is eat, tren, play PlayStation, text the girl you're not supposed to be texting, go to sleep, wake up, repeat. And that is one hell of a conducive way to get your best out of your physique. It just is. And this isn't a new thing in pretty much all sports, especially in the eastern bloc countries, Romania, et cetera, Bulgaria, Soviet Union. They are very good at understanding that when athletes have to be their best, you de-stress everything about their lives as much as possible. You maximize the stress they're experiencing at the gym and maximize the recovery. And then you just get the best athlete. So it was true that Bulgarian folks, a few months before the Olympics would live at a trening center. And well, this actually gets kind of wacky because not only was the trening center providing them with multiple naps per day, multiple workouts per day, but also for what Bulgarian standards and communism at the time was high quality food, and also multiple massages per day. And from what I've been led to understand, multiple interactions per day with sex workers that were brought in specifically for that. Because you can't just lock up 12 dudes in a fucking trening facility. They'll just go at each other like you need them to fucking not, or otherwise bad things happen. So especially when they're 22 and on steroids. And so apparently that all was done. Now it's like the more that folks can, at least for the several weeks or months before their big show or big physique reveal, architect their lives into that general direction of the only stressors I experienced majorly are the ones from trening and everything else is recovery and relaxation, the better. And I can do a pretty good job of, for four to six weeks, reducing my work responsibilities substantially. I can definitely do a great job of eating, great job of resting, relaxation. Who knows how much the new brain will let me relax, but I've got my tricks. My wife, believe it or not, just hasn't come around to letting me being like door-to-door hookers yet, Paul. IMean, I would talk with her about that. We've been having so many talks. Even our therapist says it's a ridiculous idea that will break a partner marriage. I think he's just weird. He's just never, never really been in a Bulgarian trening camp. So how could he relate? Yeah, it, it, uh, really, really, it's, it's amazing to me how you balance all this stuff. Cause you, you see clearly I don't, cause I suck at bodybuilding. There's your answer. I kind of had the perfect storm this year. I retired from my job as a it CEO and not timed up with the last eight weeks of my contest. So I was able to just focus a hundred percent on my contest prep and kind of fuck off. Otherwise, really, did you feel it? Did you feel the benefits, the effects of that? Oh, a hundred percent. You talk about that. I'd love to hear about like what it was actually like, like not in theory, but in practice to pull the plug on something major and really pour into bodybuilding. What did you notice as far as changes, as far as perception, as far as workouts, as far as sleep, as far as everything, your body change? Well, it just, yeah. IMean, obviously it was the best result I've ever put on stage and, um, bro. Yeah. And turn me pro. Yeah. I've never won an overall ever in anything in, in bodybuilding. And I was able to focus in a hundred percent and win an overall. And you would think sitting on your ass all day long, because basically what I would, I work from home is what, what most, I was mostly just in meetings, but it's still stress. It is stress, bro. It is stress. Psychological stress definitively leaks into the physical aspect. It's just not, it's not something we debated in sports science for generations. And it's one thing that like you look at the situation from the outside and you're like, I just, it's all day. Like just eat your food in between meetings, go on your meetings and then have your killer workouts, but stress, a cognitive bandwidth, decisional stuff, decisions hanging over you, wondering if other people are doing the right thing. They're supposed to be wondering what plans you have. Are you executing them well enough being present for meetings and stuff like that? Psychologically, it's a very different, like if that work stress that you see in business people who leave like wall street offices in New York at 7 PM, you know, I can like, like on a September, you know, night, you're just like, you look at them, they're like zombies walking down the street. You're like, what the fuck happened to that guy? Like I know for a fact, he doesn't do anything physical at his job. What the fuck? Like it looks like a guy by truck. That's a real thing. Yeah. IMean, I'd be wall to wall meetings all day after that. I was able to take lots of naps. So that helped definitely on other sleep sucks on contest prep. You know how that goes? Yeah. But you might as well not, you know, make it suck even more with work stress. Yeah. IMean, it was a, it was a, it was a big, big benefit and I just kind of just focused on that. I figured, you know, why not? You know, this is probably my last chance. Really? I was just going to put a hundred percent in it and see what, see what the fuck happened. And I was, you know, the outcome was surprising to be able to handle, like, keep your sanity without doing a lot of work. Cause for a lot of us workaholics, like it just work is like something you just do. And if you don't do it, you're like, what the fuck am I even doing with my life? Yeah. It's been a little weird after the show. It was kind of like this big exhale because I, I was making a lot of content. Then, uh, I tried to document it, the process of getting ready for the show. And then I had, you know, I have a lot of coaching clients. So, uh, that I actually had two guys competing in the same show with me. Oh wow. Um, so my focus was there, so that kept me busy. But after the show, it was kind of like, what the fuck do I do now? And it's been a little, it's been a little weird. Like my schedule has been weird. I've been staying up till three in the morning doing shit that I normally don't do. No more. Yeah. Yeah. No more. Yeah. IMean, really, I don't have a set schedule anymore. It's kind of, um, whenever I feel like getting up and working at work. Yeah. It's been really weird, but I, I, I'm not one that likes sitting idle. It, it, I just, I go nuts. I can't sit and watch Netflix all day long. And that shit, like normal people do. Do you know that it is very likely true to say that the people who are gifted in the sense that they can sit and watch Netflix all day, if they just get that ass to a gym and tren hard a couple of times or, you know, five, six times a week and they stay on their nutrition and just get their minimum daily steps in, those are typically the kind of people that succeed the most at bodybuilding because they're able to accept thEQuote unquote treatment of low fatigue and anxiety reduction by just playing PlayStation and fucking watching TV and hanging out with their friends. And some people who are more workaholic kind of people who need to be doing stuff, they need to be putting on stress and fatigue and they're like moths to the flame and it makes it harder. It really does. It's one of those very backward things where you imagine the best athletes are the most dedicated ones. And that's true in the gym, but it's the opposite of true outside of the gym. And if you can get an athlete to really chill the fuck out other than trening, that's a real winner in physique sport. What do you think about that? Oh yeah. You see it all the time. Like the guys that are the best in bodybuilding, they're usually fuck offs on every other part of their life. IMean, Justin Harris, my coach, we talk about it and he laughs. He's like, most of the guys that are the best bodybuilders are low stress stoner types that just sit and play video games all day long, exactly like you said. They just don't get worked up about anything. Yes. And this is not theoretical. I would have never known this was the case until I discovered it by knowing these people personally and working with enough of them to be like, Oh fuck. Because it's like for folks like ourselves, and actually I would say for most folks who would watch even watch a podcast like this, we're always coming to the space of how to be the best at bodybuilding or how to get the best physiques we can from the perspective of asking thEQuestion, what more can I do? And that's a very good way to go about it. But at some point you have to ask the opposite of what less can I do in order to be the best? And people who tend to ask a lot of what more can I do questions just typically don't even see the universe of what less can I do as existing. And if you tell them, Oh, like you're just doing less as good. They're going to be like confused. It's not something they want to hear. It's like an example of where the spirit energy takes you versus logic, like on spirit energy. Like you and I would both love it. If someone's like, okay, actually the way to get the best of bodybuilding, this is really true, is to work like eight hour, highly intellectual days and just pound yourself into oblivion and starve yourself to death. And then you just get better and better and better. Like, Oh my God, that's so sweet. Like sacrifice me to the gods. I love that shit. But when someone tells you, like, actually the vibe is like tren hard, but then like, just fuck off the rest of the day and just be as chill as possible. You get to some certain amount of glory that just goes missing. And you're like, really, like, really, this is it. And there I get that. This is it. And so the same thing of like chasing those vibes of like hard work gets it done are good to a point. It's also the same kind of vibes people chase in many other respects of bodybuilding is something you and I have talked about, uh, off the record is who people look up to to tren in bodybuilding. Like people machine, machine-derived hormone, glucomorm, glucolic, gluc państoms, glucphantom, gluclogudnicuc, glucraptor, pequeña. little bit less sexy and a little bit less Ronnie Coleman like, but it'll get me personally better results?" And the answer is usually yes. And so you just have to determine where that is, but the answer isn't like, you just got to fucking tren how the fuck... You know, the guys will even say like, how the fuck did guys used to do it back in the day? Like, no, no, no, no. You don't know how guys did it back in the... Like, sure do, man. Mike Menser. You're like, okay, that's one guy from the 80s. How did the rest of everyone tren in the 80s? Like, here's one for you, Paul. How come almost no one valorizes how Lee Haney trened? Yeah. Yeah. No. How the fuck? What did he say? Stimulate, not annihilate? He literally didn't say that. He literally said that. Nobody has time for that spirit energy wise, just like workaholics don't have time for someone telling you, hey, you got to relax more and that's going to make you better at bodybuilding. But it's something people should consider because there's a balance to this equation. And if you lose that balance, if you go only for spirit energy and you're only interested in what kind of trening gives you the best vibes, you know, like the judges don't give a fuck about vibes, bro. And if you have trouble getting your upper back to grow because you're just doing these swinging around movements and your lats won't pop and you should be doing more focused control shit and pull-ups and shit nobody valorizes, the judges don't give a fuck what the fuck your trening was like. They'll just give you whatever fucking marks and rankings that they will compare to the other people. And at some point you got to be like, all right, real talk though. How do I actually get my lats bigger? Fuck what I like or don't like. How would I do this on first principles? And the answer might be a lot of shit you like, but the answer might be a lot of shit you don't like. Like, for example, really quick, my delts are not like muscles that pop on me. Like my triceps pop really well. My quads pop. My mid back pops. My delts just don't pop. They sit there. They'rEQuite large, but they don't just don't have that, you know, like squared off rounded diamond fucking shape. So I just have to get them a lot bigger. Here's the thing. I don't really like trening my delts that much. I do like four delt workouts per week, bro. And multiple sets, my reps, all that shit. And I don't, don't particularly enjoy it, but it's got to get done because bigger shoulders are a thing that is best on pretty much every bodybuilder ever. There's not really a body but you can take your other shoulders too big bullshit. And so for me, especially bigger shoulders would be a good thing. I can't just tren on vibes anymore. I trened on vibes for like, I don't know, the past 25 years, I got to come to a new understanding and it's kind of, it kind of sucks, but the results are awesome. I remember talking to Jay Cutler. I competed in one of his shows and he was backstage talking to all of us, asking us how we trened. And then somebody was talking about hittinGHeavy weights and Jay was like, Jay was like, I never used more than a hundred pound dumbbells on dumbbell presses. He's like, what is heavy? That hits really hard when it's Jay telling you that. Yeah. Yeah. He just like, right. That we were there in lineup and he says that and I could just see the life drain from this guy's face. Fuck. Cause he's like, okay, if I tren heavier, I'll get bigger. Then he looks at like the biggest shoulders of all time guy, Jay Cutler, and be like, oh, oh, he doesn't think so. This is awkward. This is awkward. Yeah. Go ahead. Go ahead. It was just interestinGHearinGHis perspective and he was just talking about how I'm still healthy. I haven't had any major injuries, you know, in, you know, 30 years old. Isn't that crazy? Jay still looks awesome. And I'm not a big fan of judging people how they look after bodybuilding, what they do in their own time is their fucking business. But he looked amazing durinGHis career. And I think he had like one small bicep tear happened to him when he was like loading a, like a dumbbell press or something at the very like end of his career, right before his last Olympia or some shit like that. Otherwise he just basically went through the sport on skates. Hey Paul, how many fucking gyms you've been at abroad? How many people you've been trening? Who the fuck gets out of this with no fucking major injuries? I'll tell you this myself and Jared feather have done really well in the last few years when it really started practicing what we preached and focusing on my muscle connection and very good technique and not minimizing load on purpose, but trying to make, you know, the load hit the muscles the most and thus it's a minimal load if you do it properly. They're like injury is something I used to deal with all the time and I've just dealt with it much less recently simply because of the fact that we're trening in this way and we can do it. I think it's the most fun way of trening. No, like also what's funny is once you've been around long enough and new folks come up, they don't really know your history as well as they shouldn't. I have a fuck, but they know this. But when I started trening, I trened for years with all sets, multiple sets to failure. All of them squats, everything, everything was to failure. I did not understand how you could possibly go short of failure and that was fun, bro. That was fun because every set is like a fucking war path walk. Like it's intense. Is it the best thing? No, it's highly unlikely to be the best. You know, I, jujitsu and, and I think one thing I picked up from jujitsu and your, your black belt, so you obviously know this, but like more is not always better as far as effort goes. So one of the big things that I definitely took from jujitsu is getting the most out of the least and managing energy. And I have kind of like, that's one of the, that's one of the things that I've really had to overcome progressing as I've gotten older in the gym. Like I got to say, you can't progress past 40 or whatever. I, IMade the best progress in my life from 45 to 50, but I really had to reinvent my trening trening. And part of that was just taking a step back, lightening the lighting, lightening the loads up and really trying to get the most out of each movement. Really thinking about how am I really working the muscle that I'm trying, trying to work here. I stumbled into your stuff, I don't know, five or six years ago and I switched over to your style of trening and I pretty much for the most part have been injury free. Most of my injuries are just things that came from the past that I've been just managing since then. But yeah, IMean it just, I don't know that sort of Kung Fu martial arts mindset of thinking critically through things and trying to get the most out of the least is, is really an approach that I've kind of have taken towards the gym. I don't know. What do you think about that? I think it's super fucking wise. Um, I think we could just, uh, an interesting way to think about this is not as a heavy and hard versus technique, bullshit, full ROM, you know, mind numbing brain rot shit where you look at someone doing a set with 65 pounds and they're like, eight reps in reserve. And you're like, this is dumb. These people are delusional. I get that. I get that vibe. I'm not immune to that. You don't have to compare the two. All you have to do is go back to first principles. You have to ask yourself a question. What is the purpose of trening with weights for hypertrophy? The purpose is to stimulate the muscle as much as possible. Okay. What stimulates muscle a lot? It's muscle tension. Okay. So the real question is how do I produce the necessary tension to the target muscle to get it to grow? Whatever weight that I need to use for that combines with whatever technique I'm doing that focuses the tension requires the tension to be generated by the target muscle that I'm doing. And then the weight that you use ends up folding out. It ends up being an emergent property of the fact that you're doing proper technique to expose your muscles to tension maximally. Weight isn't something you consider first. It's different. It's like taking a rocket and saying, look, we're going to, I'm going to put anything on this rocket. We just want to build a rocket that can take something to space. Later. We'll think about, okay, how much weight are we taking to space versus building a rocket to say, we need a rocket that will take 5,000 pounds to space. Anything less is no good. That's the power lifting approach. And it works really well. Like in power lifting, the only thing that really matters is how much weight can you lift. And so your technique rearchitects itself into something that uses as many muscles as possible. Never relying on just one muscle because that's fucking stupid. You want to rely on as many as you can to get the job done. That really does let you lift the most weight, but it's going to look different and it's going to have different effects and different fatigue effects on the actual muscles and your whole body. So it'll really fucking beat the shit out of you. It really exposes you to a much higher risk of injury. It really doesn't stimulate the muscles as well, for sure, per unit of fatigue and per unit time, but even maybe at an absolute level, as does hypertrophy focused lifting. And so when you go back around and say, okay, hypertrophy focused lifting does use weight and it does progress through weight. and the weight needs to be heavy and challenging, but all in the surface of having the best sets that you can have. And having the best set means the best technique is the foundation, the weight is a tool, and your ability to push hard into that set is a variable that you futz with on the margin. Sometimes you push really, really fuckinGHard, and sometimes you push pretty hard to get the stimulus done, but not so hard that the fatigue is excessive. That's how that machine system works in reality and in theory. And so when you realize that weight is a tool, various things that people say about weight make less sense than they used to. For example, people say, like, try to get the most out of the least amount of weight. Like, why? What, like, you get a reward for lifting as little weight as possible? No, fuck no. Now, if you say, okay, actually, if we can get the biggest tension or the biggest stimulus while simultaneously, luckily, having to lift less weight because of that, then the extra bonus is that, well, probably get hurt less often because absolute load is the number one predictor of injury. So just in case someone missed that, the absolute amount of weight on the bar, like 600 versus 200 pounds, is the single biggest determinant of if you're gonna get hurt. So don't give a fuck who you are. If I hand you a two and a half pound dumbbell, there's really nothing to do with it that'll hurt you short of bashing it into your skull. But if you are under 600 pounds on the leg press, shit zigs when it should have zagged sometimes, and you get fucked up. Like, 600 pounds will fuck you up in a way that two and a half never will. And for lateral raises, the 60 pound dumbbells will fuck you up in ways that the 40s just are much less likely to do. And so, yes, it's good to be able to use less weight, but that's not the goal. The goal is to stimulate the muscle as much as possible with the best technique. But the best technique usually means leveraging the muscle against itself, leveraging it against the rest of the body, so that, oh, actually, now you actually have to use less weight because you're capable of using only less weight because your muscle's in a not anatomically very strong position, which is awesome because you don't tax your body as much, but you tax the local muscle as much as humanly possible. Great result and great side benefits of using less weight, but you're not exactly trying to use less weight. So just to be really clear, because people get this twisted all the time, understandably, because it's quite complex, when I'm showing up to do some dumbbell flies on a flat bench, I'm not trying to be like, okay, how can I use the 30s instead of the 40s? That is not my question. My question is how can I get the best technique together possible, and then what's the weight that is concomitant with me being able to use that technique because if I show you very arms stretched out, very chest up, very deep flies, you ain't doing it with the fucking 80s. It's just impossible for sets of five to 10 or above. But if you can do the right technique and now you need 35-pound dumbbells versus with the wrong technique you were doing the 50s, man, at the very least, you're winning a little bit on having to expose yourself to more injury risk, but also, at the very best, you're just concerned with the exact thing that you want to do. It's kind of like singing the best song in the best well-tuned audio system and stage setup. The volume of the song matters, because if it's too low, you just won't hear the rock star among the crowd, and you'll be like, I don't even know what the fuck's going on on stage, this sucks. But the purpose of a rock concert is not to make the music as loud as humanly possible. It is to make it as awesome as humanly possible, and loudness is a factor, just like weight is a factor in how much your muscles are being trened, but it's just a factor. There are more important factors, like audio quality. How clear is the sound all around the stadium is just straight up more important, because you can always turn the fucking dial up and down with the fucking sound, but if your audio setup sucks and the sound is shit quality when it's low and shit quality when it's high, nobody paying money for that shit. They're gonna get pissed. They'll be like, this Metallica concert I saved up for fucking blows. Just the same way good technique sets up all of the parameters of giving you fucking amazing trening, and then you can turn dials of weight and effort however much you like within that. And so a lot of people who say, oh, I'm gonna lift big weights, they're necessarily saying, I'm gonna fuck my technique in the ass and make it worse so that I can lift big weights. Because people will be like, I get this question all the time, Paul, is what's the trade-off, like I saw how you do your rows, for example, like the cable rows that you're doing with the flexion and the extension. What's the trade-off between that and using more weight? And I'm like, well, no, you use as much weight as you can in that exercise, but if IMess with my technique and I stop arching and retracting, I do a partial range of motion, I don't stretch as deep, I can use more weight. And I'm always like, yeah, yeah, but you have a priority problem in the architecture you have in your head about how trening works. The basic priority is technique first because it determines everything else about what's going on and it's not something you fuck with. It's like having trouble communicating to a native German speaker because your German sucks and all of a sudden you're like, if I switch to Japanese, will this be better? No, no, no, no, no, it's German, the whole thing's German, that's number one. Now you just need to get better at German. So technique and having really good technique is just absolutely number one, everything else is secondary. And sometimes that means you're gonna take a fucking ego hit and if you wanna pay the cost, dope. If not, at least just don't pretend it's any more science-y or thought-through, you just wanna fuckinGHeave big weights around, it's dope. And it works only because you just haven't gotten hurt yet and maybe you won't and maybe it'll keep working and you can gobble up the fatigue because you're the fucking man. And the heroes you look up to in the sport, they were the ones that fucking could survive it. Ronnie survived it, Branch survived it, Mike Mencer survived it, Dorian survived it. Obviously, Paul, you and I know that survive is a relative term. All these guys have every fucking single part of their body broken through the trening process where people like Jay Cutler are still hopping, skipping in their 50s but they were good when they were good. Do you wanna copy them because of vibes or do you want to think through the shit yourself and realize maybe I want to use slightly better technique so that I don't fuck myself up as much because I could not be as lucky as these guys? I think people, yeah, it's luck. That's what I was gonna say. People love to point to outliers. IMean, maybe that guy just got lucky. Didn't get hurt. It's really that simple. Yeah, almost certainly. It's funny too because sometimes people just who don't know enough history about the sport will point to people and say, you gotta fuck a tren like this, not the other way. Someone tried to get at me, all in good fun, of me doing some kind of really stupid bicep exercise, like lying down curls or some shit, and they were like, oh yeah, but here's a video of Kevin LeBron who had way bigger arms than you swinging one at a time with curls. You know, the old dumbbell swing back and forth bullshit. And I was like, dope. What happened to Kevin's pec? Nobody answered that question. They didn't even know. Kevin LeBron tore one of his fucking pecs. And early in his career, almost certainly, fucking pressing way too goddamn heavy and doing all that vibe shit that's so nice to look at. And I would say there's a very good chance that if he hadn't had an evulsed pec, he would've won the Mr. Olympia because his look was fucking flawless. But you look at him from the front and you're like, oh, oh shit, one of his pecs is missing. And you think he'd probably pay a whole lot of money to go back and fix that shit. It's not something you fix, though. And so when you're pointing out to people, yeah, but these guys tren like fucking monsters, like, I get it, I get it. Like, you go to the gym, you put metal in your headphones, you have a lot of feelings about your dad. I have all the same shit, bro. So it's always a fucking struggle, 100%. Gym's an emotional place. If you could just back up a little bit and be like, man, you know, let me try to do basic good technique and see if I can get stronger within that boundary layer versus just being like, I wanna fuckinGHeave weights around, which is cool, but it might not go well for you. And once you get especially a really gnarly injury, I promise you, you're gonna wish you had done something differently. Like, nobody goes to the hospital with a fucking evulsed quad and they were like, it's fucking worth it. Like, what? No, nonsense. Yeah, pec tears especially, man. Once you tear your pec, you're done in bodybuilding. IMean, that's a career ender, usually. You're not gonna be doing this long. And if you persist, you're just gonna get the placings that you could have done better, but you're not. Like, Tony Freeman was a great bodybuilder and he could have been a contention for Mr. Olympia, as freaky as he was, but he had a missing pec also. And just, man, it's just a certain amount of, I swear to God, there must be a thing where, I guarantee you, back in sort of the depths of their minds, even all the objective judging aside, pro judges, if you have a missing muscle group, like a torn one, clearly, they might quote-unquote let you, it's not how it happens. You might earn your way to winning a show. They're highly unlikely to give you the Mr. Olympia trophy, the standout trophy. Because PR-wise for the sport of like, eh, a guy with missing pec got a trophy, is just not a look, they just wanna record into the history of the Mr. Olympia. And so, forget not winning Mr. Olympia. This occurs at every show, when you're up against other guys. Any local show, is if you have a missing fucking body part, they're gonna be like, symmetry, that's it. You're just fucking, you're not winning a symmetry round. You're just not. It's bad. I think that's something a lot of guys forget too, is when you, I hear guys all the time bragging about weights that they were pushing going into a show, and I'm like, I've never once heard a judge give somebody credit for setting a bench PR two weeks out from the show. Doesn't happen. And you look at it like, when most of the time, it seems like when guys get hurt, it seems like it's towards the end of contest prep. Like, I think that's when Dorian had all his injuries. Yeah, and we know why that is too. It's not a fucking mystery. It's two factors together. One, is the fucking dryness from the drugs you're taking, plus the leanness, makes you more brittle. Two, is you're on a ton of androgenic fucking shit at that point, and you got the Eye of the Tiger show mentality, and you're a fucking adult male, and you're gonna fucking. deca ball, beta-gay, beta-health thermal torchiculus etcetera, heterotinal cyan, beta-biol etc. It's just a matter of like, is this worth it to you? And like you said, no one at the fucking show actually gives a shit about what you lifted. IMean, literally no one, it just doesn't matter for places at all. No, they don't care about what you lifted, they don't care about your cycle, they don't care about your diet, it's what you look like next to the guy on stage. That's all that matters. That's it. Yeah, it drives me nuts too, like with the, and I see it with a lot of young bodybuilders, like they can't make up their mind if they're a powerlifter or they're a bodybuilder. And IMean, you were talking about, IMean, you do try to do both, you end up doing neither well, is what I see. And I try to remind guys that I work with at least, that the primary purpose of lifting the weights is to grow the muscle and we want to stimulate as, we want to create as much mechanical tension as we possibly can to stimulate the muscle to grow, correct? Yes, and mechanical tension is a summation of weight times reps, times sets. And it's not, over-indexing on the heavy weight doesn't help a bunch in any special way because you could have always just done more reps or more sets. And more reps and more sets don't get you as hurt and fucked up. Another thing is our early examples of like, oh, you tear a pack, you won't win the Mr. Olympia. Some people be like, okay, fine, but like, that's quite rare and I don't want to win the fucking Mr. Olympia, I just want to do well at a local show. I'm going to YOLO it. There's another factor that, especially for older folks, people who have been in bodybuilding long enough can attest to it, it's this, there's a lot of injuries you gain that aren't like evulsions or tears or even diagnosable, but for lack of a better term, your shit's just fucked up. Like, how many guys who are older in the sport have like, the elbow just doesn't cooperate or their knee doesn't cooperate or their hip doesn't cooperate or their fucking shoulder doesn't cooperate? Yeah. Tons, right? And what ends up happening to a lot of these folks is, and I've been on this journey myself through jiu-jitsu, because all the injuries basically come from there, is you begin your creation of your next macro or mesocycle or something, your next workout plan. You begin it with carte blanche, like a white sheet, and the world is your oyster. You can do any exercises you want and use any repetition ranges you want because you're healthy. As soon as you have a dinged up shoulder or a dinged up elbow, X, Y, Z, you start to take a red pen and cross out various exercises and, for some exercises, various rep ranges. And what you're doing is reducing the variation of lifting that you have access to. And we all know that you can only do the same exercises for so long until they start to lose their effectiveness and you get bored to tears and other joints and connective tissues start to get irritated because it's the same motor pattern over and over and over and over with no break. So you're going to have to make a switch. IMean, we're not going to need to say much about this because most bodybuilders just switch every fucking session, anyway, every week they do different exercises. Bodybuilders love variation. Variation is a great thing. But if you get fucked up, even if your pec isn't off your body, but now you can't do upright rows. You can't really do laterals. You can do cable laterals, but only in this one way. And at some point, it's just devastating to your ability to really stimulate muscles, especially if they're tough to grow. If you have a dinged up elbow and you have massive triceps, hey, no big deal. If you have a dinged up elbow and your triceps need serious work, Paul, what the fuck are you going to do? And I always say, how many clients have you worked with who are like, I can't do skull crushers. I can't do dips. I can't do pushdowns. I'm just like, what the fuck? Why did I invent a new class of exercises for you to do? It's nothing you want. And so even if you don't outright fuck yourself up in a major traumatic way, beating the shit out of yourself with shitty partial rep compound ultra heavy lifts is just going to toast various muscle groups and especially various joints until what you can actually do successfully is a very small list, possibly a list that's so small that you really are missing out on fucking real gains you could have been making. Trust me. I know I'm bad. I battle with my shoulder. My shoulder's fucked up. I don't have a UCL in my right elbow. No big deal. IMean, you just work around it. Yeah. And if you're younger and if you have yet to fuck yourself up, trust me, you're going to be real happy when in your late 20s or early 30s or late 30s or early 40s or late 40s or early 50s, you're going to be able to say, man, I can actually tren pretty fucking well and I'm not really fucked up because earlier in my career I heard someone say, you know, you're going to need your body for later and you're going to have to take pretty decent care of it. It's like the difference, and I don't want to sound like too much of a cocksucker here. I don't actually do this. I used to do this a little bit more in my 20s. But when you rent a car, it's not yours. You're going to drive it differently than you're going to drive your car, especially if you're financially constrened and you can only afford one car. I can afford millions of cars and, in fact, often buy them and have them destroyed just for my leisure. But when you're not a trillionaire, your car fucking matters. And so you might spit out on the rental and gas it up and do sharp turns and do donuts, but on your own car, you're like, I don't want to fuck with this. And here's the big reveal. In bodybuilding, you only have one fucking body. It's your car. It's your car in a very deep way. And if you YOLO it and treat your car like a fucking, like the old beat up dragster you had in high school that you were planning on getting rid of anyway, or the rentALCAR, you're going to have to sit in that shit when it breaks. And when you have a car, you can just replace it or people just fix it. We can't replace or fix bodies yet to 100%. And so you really have to treat your body like a forever car. You've got to treat with great fucking care. And in bodybuilding, the analogy is like, you're also a race car driver, so you're going to have to push your car, but you have to push your car in a very intelligent ways that allow it to not get super fucked up. Because if you pop a fucking wheel off of your car, they can just put it back on. You'll pop a fucking lat or a peck or a tricep off of you. They can put it back on. It never looks the same. It never functions the same, and it's six months of recovery if you're lucky. And if you fuck up your shoulders in an as yet not describable way, you're going to deal with that for literally decades. Don't do that. Yeah. My shoulder is fucked up from not tapping out on an Americana. My ego got the best of me six years ago, and I'm still dealing with it. That's fucked, right? Yeah. Back in time, if you could go back in time, Paul, wouldn't you tell yourself like, hey, this Americana's coming? You get nothing out of not tapping out of this. Just tap. Yeah. Was ego shit? IMean, you probably tapped anyway, right? Did you tap later, or did you get out of it? I tapped too late. So literally, there's just no upside. Because if you didn't tap at all and got out of it, maybe it was in a tournament. Maybe you took first place. Hey, it's still a dog shit trade off. But usually, it's one of these stories. Your story's very common. Like, oh, I didn't tap until too late, and then I still tapped, but I was already fucked up. It's just manhood getting in the way. And why am I saying that? Because it's fucking awesome. Manhood energy is great. It's why you go to the gym. It's why you fucking ravage these weights and shit like that. And it's dope. I'm not trying to cancel that. I'm not fucking Joe Biden or some shit. I'm all for manhood and all that shit. But you've got to understand, you've got to be smart about this shit. You've got to be real, real smart. And on vibes, you want to stack the leg press up to eight plates, you've got to ask yourself, okay, vibes aside, can I do this in a way that's substantially safer but still fucks me up? And the answer is yes. And it's just better. It's just better to do it like that. And if you chase down the heroes you have from bodybuilding, the old school guys that didn't do that stuff, that did the crazy shit, and you look up to them, all I've got to say is, like you said earlier, you are likely to end up less lucky than them. And then you're going to be one of these guys, and they're a fucking dime a dozen. No offense, these guys are great. But you see them at all the gyms across America, still wearing a stringer, they're in their fucking 60s, and they can't wait to tell you about all the injuries they have and why they can't tren like they used to when they were younger. You've met these guys, yeah? Yeah, all the time, man. It drives me nuts. I'm like, why don't you just tren a little more intelligently? Bro, and they still tren like Ronnie's retirement plan. And it's like, whoa. And they're like, I just love to tren like this. And it's like, okay, you do realize there's a relationship between, you know what, never mind. And so it's just kind of sad and a little bit nostalgic to see older guys like this. When you see younger dudes looking up to crazy psycho nonsense shit technique trening, it's just a fucking like, it's just fucking dumb. There's just no other way to describe it. You're just doing the shit wrong, bro. And I know you have vibes about it, but your vibes are fucking wrong. Yeah. IMean, there's a guy I know in his 60s that still is doing that crazy shit, and he's all fucked up. He's walking around like a cripple, and then he's talking about how people tren like pussies. It's just like... I'm like, man, like, you're literally you can't stand straight, stand up straight because of your, your injuries. And you're calling people pussies. God, like, he's probably you know what, he's right. He's right. We're all fucking pussies. I'll take that. But we can still walk and tren motherfucker. It's, it's a real it's again, that's just like exclusively because like, guys being pussies and not pussies. That's literally just pure vibes, right? That's just all vibes. Like, I like fucking strong guy. I like to be strong. And I don't. I get it. But like, again, you have you really live in a real world with a real fucking body. It's like, you know, there's a there's a way to play shooting video games, where you just like, run through speed run the level. And you just like, like run right up to people, shoot them run right up to the next guy, shoot them shoot, you know, standing in the open at a bunch of different people. And because like, you can always restart because your player has like some damage points that they can accumulate that regenerate, you can just do shit like this. But that assumes that you have multiple players to go through, and you just don't really care about life or death. You care about success, and you have infinite chances to get to it, then yeah, fuck, yeah, run into rooms and shoot people. But if you look at how trened operators, SWAT guys, Marines seals, how they play, some of them are actually really good at shooter video games and co-op video games. So multiple of these people will play together, they play like they do the real thing. And that means like, you'll geT4 guys multiplayer coming up to a compound, they'll stack up, one guy will breach the door, the other guys will circle around and you're like, this is like boring and slow and fucking weird. Yeah, but nobody dies, motherfucker, because these guys trened that you only have one life, you go like this, you get shot in the head, that's it, you're done. And so they run the shit real, real technically. And there's just not a lot of glory and honor. There's like, you know, john wick, which is not a realistic way you would fight people because you just get shot by some other guy in the club when you're busy shooting one guy. And in just the same way, that it like takes a little bit of the oomph and the heroism out of it. Like realistic movies about combat, if you show them to kids versus like American Ninja two or something where you backflip up kick people's machine guns out of their hands. Obviously, one of those is fucking really boring compared to the other. Like, have you ever seen the movie zero dark 30? The hunt for the whole seal team six going through the compound, I can barely see anything. Everyone's like, hushing and saying people's names real quiet and double tapping people with a silencer like hardly anything cool happens. You're like, this sucks, man. Even the explosion was underwhelming. But that's really how you're supposed to do it. And so just the same way in the bodybuilding context trening for hypertrophy, there's a technical way to do it, that's just going to get you the best results and put you at the minimum risk because you only have one fucking body. Like if we could just like go to the store and get a new pack, bro, hell yeah, vibes only I'm loading up the leg press. I'm chest precedent. Motherfucker, I don't give a fuck. I just be doing strongman trening all the time because there's nothing on vibes that beats fucking strongman trening. You want to be strong, pick up a fucking rock. Oh, is there's no handles you fucking pussy. And that's the real deal. But how many strong men do you know with torn biceps? IMean, I think all of them. I'm kidding. But like most of them tore tear everything. They're the real fucking Vikings of our world. bodybuilding bro is a fucking beauty pageant. Don't fucking take yourself too goddamn seriously. You know, you're up there on your fucking underwear on stage, which I think is great. I love we all love but the whole bullshit of like, I'm a fucking warrior in the gym. Like, okay, well, do you want to be your best at bodybuilding? Or do you want to tell people in your 50s that even though your legs are really impressive, you can't tren them anymore? Because your knees are fucking just sliced to ribbons because you just did dumb shit all the time. Fuck all that. I think that's the biggest thing I've seen. That's if you want to extend your bodybuilding success, and I work with a lot of masters guys. And you really just have to be smarter with your trening, you have to be smarter with the PDs. There's a whole plethora of stuff, the diet, everything you just have to be. You can't be reckless with shit. Paul, how would you say what a smarter with PDs look like to you? I'm staying away from the stuff that makes you sick. And you know, you have calculated pushes at times, you know, I, I definitely got aggressive towards the end of my contest prep, but it was a very limited period of time and eight to 12 week period of time. You can't go around blasting shit 365 days a year. I'm spending the majority of your time on bioidentical compounds, things like tests and gh seem to be, you know, well tolerated, you know how they're going to be metabolized in the body, you know what the outcomes are going to be. When you start doing silly shit, like running orals 365 days a year before bro taking tren in nonstop, I didn't even use channel my contest prep. Yeah, that's crazy. IMean, it's not crazy because it's effective to just not have to use it. But a lot of people think like, if you're not using tren, you're not unsheathing the biggest sword in your fucking arsenal. IMean, about that. IMean, tren is, uh, it's the devil's nectar, man. It, it produces results, but there's a, there's a trade off for it. Yeah. There's also a deal about, are you the right person for tren? Cause some people just handle it better than others. Yeah, I don't get the anger and the other issues that people get with it, but it does fuck my sleep up. I can't sleep. I get really anxious. I get the opposite. I get very anxious. I'm like super paranoid, anxious. Um, like I don't want to go murder somebody. I, I, I get terrified in a crowd of people. It's a different, you know, different, you know, have panic attacks when I'm around, you know, at the Mr. Olympia expo and shit like that. And I think that people might suppose that, well, okay, you could just toughen up and just get through the side effects. It'd be good. But the reality is that high degrees of anxiety chronically, especially paired with lower sleep quality, just degrade your physique. And so it might be true to say that you can get 97% of the hardness and the fullness that you would get from tren from just doing more Primo plus getting that better sleep and that less anxiety environment. And when you're talking about toasting your health and making yourself fucking miserable for an extra two and a half percent versus an extra 15 or 20%, it's a fucking different conversation. And for some people that means that, you know, fuck, maybe I can take a little bit more Primo and all of a sudden you're getting 102.5% of what you've gotten off of tren because you're taking a little bit more Primo, a little bit more masked than you normally would have, but no tren or way less tren. I think the most intelligent thing I've seen people do recently with tren is having in the lasT4 to six weeks of their prep at like a hundred milligrams total per week spread through everyday injections, teeny tiny amounts. It's just enough of that anti-catabolism of that hardening effect to get you that good, good, that it probably won't fuck you in the ass a ton. Whereas, you know, there's guys that do contest prep on 700 plus nigs of tren per week. I'm not saying that doesn't work, but it's nothing a couple of grams of Primo and Mastront usually can't give you that you won't pay all the downsides for nearly as much. And this is, again, in averages. And this is another big, super important thing for us to say, I think, Paul, is this is where copying other people gets people into a fucking world of problems because some of the biggest guys you know, the best pros, they're just the ones that handle tren the best. Like it's just literally like if you are a really good responder to tren, it's such an unbelievably powerful drug that if you sleep well on it, don't get crazy anger and anxiety on it. Even if your blood lipids are total shit, which no one gives a fuck about in the pro ranks, then you're going to take a lot of tren and just completely trensform your physique. You're going to be the fucking man. You're going to win a lot. But everyone who tries to do that but doesn't respond well to tren is going to be getting a whole lot of dog shit side effects. And they personally could have done the shit better if they took less tren because not everyone responds to it the same way. But you hear about X, Y, Z. How many times have you seen like a pro cycle, be it real or fake? You know, half the stuff that's like X, Y, Z is real cycle. You're like, no, somebody just made this up on get big dot com. I'm sorry. This is not anyone's real cycle. But even when you see the real cycles, a lot of times, a lot of people who see the real cycles who arecompetitive to themselves kind of look around. They go, this is what it takes. No, that's what it takes for that guy. And that guy might not even be optimally arranged. I've had some guys have gone from various pro coaches to other coaches and had their best looks with coaches that weren't even pushing the most gear. And so that guy you were idolizing who was like taking five grams of total shit and you told yourself, I got to take five grams too. A year later, he's gettinGHis best results ever because he's now down to a gram and a half. And you're here holding four fucking vials at the same time thinking like, oh, oh, oh man, like this ain't it, huh? Like not the best guys don't have everything figured out 100% of the time. We know this for a fact because once they make changes, amazing stuff improves. Imagine talking to Ronnie Coleman in 1997 and before, before he had a nutritionist, you'd have talked to him, you'd have met him, you'd have trened with him, you'd have competed against him. And you would have been like, you don't need a fucking nutritionist. Look at Ronnie. Like that's just such a typical Instagram comment you could have seen if we had Insta back in the day, right? Of course. IMean, fuck these nutritionists. Man, look at Ronnie. He doesn't have one. What happened? According to Ronnie's own words, he hired a nutritionist. The year later he won the Olympian. He didn't stop for a year straight. So now what? Now what are you going to say? But if you copied him back then, you would have been like, see, nutritionists are pointless. You would have been eating your own fucking shit the years after when obviously the nutritionist made the biggest difference. So a lot of times copying guys and what gear they're taking assumes they know everything about their bodies and they haven't figured out which is fucking wronGHalf the time. And the other half you have to consider that's not your body. You just might not handle tren as well. And look, if you do, God bless you. Take all the fucking tren you need. But you've got to ask thesEQuestions before just just doing what the top guys are doing. Because a lot of people seem to think that that is a replacement for critical thinking. A lot of guys who just fucking do what the best guys, there's one dude who is clearly not well, but he's on my Insta really often. Because no, there's not a post I can make, I'm being a little facetious about this, there's seemingly not a post that I can make that doesn't derive the response from him, like, we already knew this in the 90s, like, this is that guy. And it's like, we all know that guy, we all know that guy, it might be just one guy, we just all know. But unfortunately, it's thousands of guys. And that kind of willful ignorance, and that kind of like, just do what the fucking best guys did, don't fucking overcomplicate it, is like, that's not thought. It's better than nothing. Monkey see, monkey do is better than nothing. If you make up your own bullshit trening philosophy in your own basement, you never see anyone else tren, you would tren better if you saw top pros tren, 100%. But you can go one step beyond that and be like, what are they doing that makes sense? What are they doing that I think is just vibes that make a whole lot of sense? And how do I do better with myself? Because again, you only have one body, it's yours, you fuck it up, there's no second chance in most cases. Well, there's so many genetic factors to it. Like there's guys I see it with I work with a lot of PD guys, but I get guys come to me for consults all the time. There are some guys that literally can run unlimited amounts of stuff in their blood works. Perfect. Yeah, I've seen it. Yeah, I've seen it. And then there's the other guy that runs slightly above TRT and he's completely wrecked. Yeah. So IMean, that that is a genetic factor for success as well. IMean, there's the ability to eat food and process food, the ability to get lean. There's so many different genetic components to bodybuilding. And ultimately, these guys, most of the guys that are at the top on the stage are just genetic freaks. IMean, Ronnie Coleman probably could have mowed lawns and been Mr. Olympia. It legit the case he did with Olympia when he was still a full time police officer twice, I believe. So it's kind of like the fuck else is doing that nowadays. Have you ever talked to Chad Nichols, his coach? No, not personally. No. Yeah, yeah. High regard. Yeah. Chad tells the story of when he met Ronnie about how he was just eating basically KFC and Denny's all day long. That's what he was eating. Looking like Ronnie. Looking like Ronnie. You know, he was you know, he was placing. Okay, it shows. But yeah. Yeah. One thing that it always baffles me, it shouldn't baffle me, but it always does is people's underappreciation for genetics. Understandably, a lot of people think the genetics thing is an excuse, which in many cases it is. People say, well, I can't do that because I don't have the genetics. It's just everything good that happens to a bodybuilder, they kind of blame other genetics. There are some guys that have overcome shitty genetics. Like, I think Nick Walker is a guy that probably pushed way past where he was. You know, John Dewitt's another guy. It seems like he's maximized everything, optimized everything as possible. If you look at Nick Walker when he did his first show as a kid, IMean, absolutely, I will put my money on this. Nobody in that auditorium thought he was going to end up clashing with Mr. Olympia. It would be insane. You'd be like, that kid sucks, dude. He's going nowhere. Wide hips, awkward, lanky arms, bullshit, weird looking waist. It was just awful. It was a fucking disaster. And then you realize, like, I guess if he puts on 190 more pounds of muscle, he can look really cool. And he did. But like, who the fuck does that? No one. That's another way genetics express themselves. Genetics often means good genetics in response to trening, not even initial variables. Initially, he looked like whatever, but through hard work, diligent supplementation, and diet, and just perseverance, and having what was under the hood actually amazing genetics later express themselves as peak Nick Walker. That's a thing. Not everyone has that going for them. One thing that baffles me consistently is people underrating genetics. And I think a lot of it is maybe from their own personal experience or from their own experience with a very limited number of people. To me, nothinGHelps illustrate good genetics better than meeting real humans that haven't been trening long, that don't eat in an organized way, that already look better than you even though you've been at this for years. That humbles the fuck out of you. And you talk to them. You think they're on drugs. And you realize halfway through the conversation, they don't really even know what drugs are. They think steroids. Like, I've had some fun talks in gym locker rooms where they're like, you talk to a guy, and you're like, you on shit? Because clearly, he looks like he's on, right? He's like, oh, you know me, man. And he'll do this sign of injection where it's intravenous. I'm like, that's not even how you do steroids. I know for a fact you're not doing steroids. You don't even know how to do them. Please don't do them like that if you're going to start. If a guy fucking IMs his glute motion, you're like, OK, my man's seen a few fucking needles before. But it ain't in. And so being around real humans that have really impressive genetics cures a lot of people of this idea that everyone who is jacked is specifically jacked because they know the best shit in the world. Now, they know a lot of stuff. They're infinite vessels of wisdom. But you got to understand, this shit might not play out for you like it did for them because genetics are that big of a deal. One of my very good friends and my jujitsu coach, he's a pro MMA fighter. And he'll post Instagram photos of his meals. They're typically very healthy, very well-made meals. But he'll have a couple cookies or a couple donuts. He trens plenty, but he eats really well. He's not trying to manage his body composition at all. He trens like two to four times a week, usually with athletic movements. He's not trying to tren for physique. He legitimately has striated glutes. He just exists with striated glutes. This is how he lives his life. He's black. There's nothing else to say about that. And I honestly think a lot of people from Europe that can't appreciate genetic variation, like all of those of us who grew up in America, you just haven't met enough black people, bro. This shit is fucking different. And within white people, the variation is insane. Jay Cutler claims to have gained 50 pounds of muscle in his first year of trening, and I believe him. I believe him. And most people, if you tell them that, they're like, drugs. Like, no, he didn't do drugs for years later. They're like, what? But that's impossible. Like, no, it's unlikely. But again, when you're relating to people on the Olympia stage, you have to realize you're relating to every single one of those people is highly unlikely. They are world class, which means they often have genetics. When you have bad genetics for the sport and you're on the Olympia stage, compared to almost everyone else, you have phenomenal genetics. Here's the thing. I'll talk some shit. This will get clipped out of context. It'll be fucking wonderful. Great more controversy. I don't have very good genetics for elite competitive bodybuilding, but I have profoundly good genetics for just getting fucking jacked and big compared to regular people. IMean, for the love of God, I fucking overhead pressed 240 pounds for a set of 10 drug free in my 20s standing there at a body weight of also 240, which is just really unheard of to do that. I got enormous, enormous, enormous by every single standard with no drugs whatsoever. But like, I don't have amazing genetics for this level. I have like, okay, genetics. And for the Olympia, I have dog shit genetics. I'll never be on that stage. People see Olympia guys, they see top pros. And then their idea of what bodybuilding genetics are as a spectrum is constrened to the best people on that stage. Derek Lunsford to the people on that stage aren't quite as good like that one Korean dude, who like is the biggest fucking person in Korea ever. But you're like, his genetics kind of suck. Like you compare to fucking Derek Lunsford, they do. But you do realize like, that's like, you know, comparing like, you don't know, like, Yoda. And then and then at the other end of the spectrum, you have Darth Vader. And then even all the other four sensitive Jedi you just forget about. And you're like, in the rest of the universe, you're like, everyone's like about as strong as Darth Vader, but Yoda's the best. No, no, no, you don't understand. You understand? No one's as strong as Darth Vader, except for three other Jedi, and everyone else is behind them. And so when you look at the guys who have genetics that are on the Olympic stage or on pro stages, bad genetics means that like they have some of the best genetics in the world. And if you don't rearchitect your visualization of that, you're going to have a lot of delusions in how you're supposed to be able to look how you're going to respond, you have to treat these people as a very special entities. If you told someone, hey, you know, you can be as good at basketball as like, LeBron, just kind of by practicing like he did, they'd be like, you're fucking delusional. This is not how it works. But if you tell someone like, hey, you got to tren like this pro, they're gonna be like, yeah, man, that's what I've been doing. You're like, okay, there's something missinGHere. And again, lots of wisdom to get from pros. But just remember, they're all very, very special. Yeah, IMean, genetics and is readily apparent in basketball. I always use that in the basketball analogy for people that the poopoo, the genetics thing, like Shaquille O'Neal, he didn't, he wasn't very good at playing basketball, really. But do was seven foot two, 330 pounds, and he could just bully, bully his way to the basket, man. Couldn't shoot a free Throw. No, no, a lot of the guys over seven feet. The only other remaining question is, can they move? And do they get hurt? They can move around the court quick. And if you don't often get hurt, because a lot of people over seven feet, the biomechanics just mean like your knees are going to get fucked sooner than later. If you can do that, good luck. You're at least on the European pro league. And people try to learn about basketball tips from you and how do you approach the sport because you're a pro. And what they don't realize is like, you're just really fucking tall. And that actually is the exclusive thing that you did to get there. And for bodybuilding, if you have, let's take someone for as an example, Keon Pearson. Okay. Keon has a lower stage weight than me. If Keon and I took the same amount of drugs and got the same level of lean, which for me would be a miracle. And for him would be a Tuesday. I would have more muscle than Keon straight up. I just have more muscle than him. So what is that Keon has that makes him so special? Well, first of all, he's really hardworking, really fucking smart, really dedicated, really jacked all those things, but his muscle shape and his waist and If you want your best physique, you're going to have to pick some insights from everyone, scientists and bodybuilders, but never treat anyone as someone who knows the whole thing. So for example, if you read a bunch of science, you know these guys have all the answers. I go to which one of them is jacked. No one, Okay, and which one of a few people are jacked? Great. And which one of them I've coached champions? Very few, okay, so like they're missing something. But that certainly means you can take something away from science. Whereas on the other end, if you say, well you know, body builders are total perverts and we should never, never, ever, ever copy them. Bullshit. They're the ones doing the thing. They know some shit. They fucking look like that and you don't, so you better be paying attention to them. But is it true that they all know the optimal angles and science of how to tren? Fuck no. Fuck no. But some people will just assume they know everything because they're, they're number one. And she was, you don't have that genetics. You have different genetics. You have different circumstances. You have different needs. You're going to have to think a little bit more about the shit rather than just vibing your way through it. Yeah. I wouldn't want to take advice on how to shoot free Throws from Shaquille O'Neal. Can you imagine? And again, you might want to take advice from Shaquille O'Neal about how to improve your free Throw shooting because he could have struggled to get his shit to just barely literate NBA standards, which is way above what the rest of the world is. And if you have someone who just magically fucking dunks free Throws, just like, just, just can just do it, you know, just gets the flow, they might not be able to teach you shit. They're like, well, it just kind of happens. I've coached a lot of really good athletes in my time as a coach and a lot of them, it's just no idea how they do what they do. They just kind of do what they do. And a lot of times they can't even teach you shit. So a lot of times the guys that have struggled are the ones that know the most, which is really funny because a lot of times we look to people on a bodybuilding stage with dominant muscles for how they got those dominant muscles. Like guys with huge calves are like, what do you do for calves? You know what Jared Feather does for calves? He doesn't tren his calves because they're just always enormous. And if he did, they would just like really start to look wacky and throw off the rest of his physique. Jared is an insanely wise person who actually knows how to tren his calves really well. Is he the number one guy to go to about in the trenches, actual calf trening that works? Fuck no. He would never claim that. That's insane. And so when we look at people who are standouts for various muscle groups, we automatically see videos and articles and TikTok reels about how to tren this muscle. Like get pecs like XYZ guy with big pecs. Now hold on a second. Does he really know a lot of things about how to get good pecs or is he just ridinGHigh on having fucking awesome pec genetics and just does the basics? I'm the same with calves, man. I have over 20 inch calves. I never tren them ever. They don't even do anything. Although it doesn't seem to matter in bodybuilding. It doesn't seem like any of the guys on stage have big calves. It's a trip, man. I think in classic physique, they judge your calves because they contribute to the symmetrical look. Like if you have two guys that are roughly the same in aesthetics and one of them has bigger calves, it's a cooler look. Like it's that, you know, it's that muscle beach Venice silhouette. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. but from what I've seen, especially in open classes for bodybuilding, man, you're not getting points deducted for that shit unless they're really obviously super small. Like big Ramy, his quad to calf ratio was like ridiculous because his quads were infinite and he had obviously huge calves, but like not compared to his quads, he didn't, I don't think that hurt him in the grand scheme. So I think in the open classes, as long as your calves aren't obviously super fucking tiny, it does not fucking matter. But if they're very small, two problems, one, it matters, two, you do not have the genetics to grow your calves as much. And so you're going to really have to figure out what works and what doesn't for you and do your very, very, very best to get even fucking meager gains. Same for forearms, same for a bunch of muscle. Yeah. Calves seem like the ultimate genetics muscle. Yeah. It's either you have them or you don't. Yeah. 100%. And there's actually a reason why that is, is it's not, I don't think calves aren't any more genetic than any other muscles. It's the fact that calves are one of the few muscles in the body which come with automatic trening for your lifetime because you use them to walk. So your genetics are very well revealed. If you have packs of really good pack genetics, but you just aren't inactive, like you work in an office, you don't tren, your packs aren't going to be big because they just basically meet zero resistance all the time. But if you have a really good calf genetics, just walking will let those genetics really show off. And then you'll be like, holy fuck, you have big calves just from walking. If we put Jared into a suspended device where he didn't get to use his calves at all, they would shrink down to almost nothing. That's what humans' muscles do in space. But when you have good genetics, just from the minimum trening of walking around, your calves reveal themselves. Put another way, if your calves aren't very big, even though you've been walking around your whole life supporting a 250-pound ass, they ain't getting big. They might get a little bigger when you tren them right, but holy shit, they should have gotten a lot bigger than they have. And so I think that's kind of one of the reasons. Another one is forearms. Typically, you use your forearms for a bunch of different stuff. If you have good forearm genetics, you also provide them just with typical use, enough trening to really show off. But if you don't have good forearm genetics, then your forearms just – you ever see guys who are power-lifted for years, slinging just heavy-ass fucking iron, and they have really underwhelming forearms? That guy's not ever going to have fucking gigantic forearms, man. They ain't going to happen short of biotech and engineering and shit. This is not going to happen because if rowing 405 with loose straps didn't get your forearms fucking really big, nothing's going to fucking save you because they're basically – those rows and deadlifts and pull-ups were a tryout for your forearm genetics, and you failed the fucking tryout. I'm being facetious. I'm kidding. But you ain't doing so well. Whereas if a guy has really good forearm genetics, if they just tren normally and heavy, they're going to have fucking psychotic forearms. Look at Nick Walker's forearms. Look at Jared Feather's forearms. They're just fucking enormous for no fucking reason at all. Well, it's not for no reason at all. They tren really hard. Just holding on to things gives them so much growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that it's like if they ever wanted to, they could for sure shoot their fucking forearms into space by focusing on them. But much of the time, they don't because the genetic test is so good. Even that amount of stimulus is good enough. I never tren my forearms. Fuck you, man. I'm trening the shit out of mine, and they've actually grown substantially but marginally. It's not like something you'd see me and be like, whoa, this is totally different. Yeah. I saw your post where you said you've been focusing more on growing your arms. Yeah. Yeah. Jared and I have an interesting contention about aesthetics and about bodybuilding. The contention is this. In almost all cases, bigger shoulders, triceps, biceps, and forearms will make every physique look better in almost all cases. Yeah. I agree. We tend to notice that the people who disagree with that just have never done the mental modeling exercise of imagining their own physique or other people's physique with bigger arms. I hate the fake bullshit, the AI-generated bodybuilder crap, just because I'm like, what the fuck? You can make anything at this point. Who gives a shit? But it would be curious if someone went and did one of those image-to-image AI generators, put in an image of a really good bodybuilder, and be like, hey, look, okay, you need to edit it a little bit, but be like, make – or someone in Photoshop can – really well-trened in Photoshop can do this. Make their arms, shoulders, and forearms 20% bigger. Nothing crazy. Not double. Nothing crazy. 20% bigger. And then you can let both pictures – which silhouette looks like the one you want? Which silhouette looks like judges are like, shut the fuck up? And here's the crazy part. There's even some coaches that don't agree with this, and Jared and I just drive this up the wall, because people will tell various bodybuilders we end up working with later, like, hey, man, your arms are big enough. We need to tone down your arms and work on X, Y, Z. It's like, I'm sorry, what? Where? Yeah. What? No. Come on. IMean, everybody that wins shows his big arms. Yeah. Usually. Yeah. Anyways, and guys who don't have big arms, you can see it in their physique. Branch Warren did not have big arms. big arms for the rest of his body, or big shoulders. He had huge back, huge chest, enormous legs. His shoulders and his arms were undersized compared to the rest of them. And you can see it in his physique. If Branch Warren had much bigger arms and shoulders. I don't know, he'd have won the Olympia like five times or some shit like that. It's just a different look. Look at Nick Walker's physique. Imagine Nick Walker's physique with substantially smaller arms. The fuck pot here. He wouldn't be Nick Walker. No, but his arms are cartoon size. Here's another one, Phil Heath. Phil Heath had arms that in some pictures, probably seen some pictures of Phil Heath and his arms. And you're like, wow, is that real? Like his tricep like goes around his whole, like, I don't even know how that's possible, but did it, did that hurt him? And people would get out narrow clavicles. Like if his arms were even bigger, it wouldn't hurt him. Lee Priest has probably had the biggest arms ratio to the rest of his body of all time. And I don't think if you silhouetted Lee Priest's physique and reduced his arm size, you would get a better look. His arms made his look better. And they were cartoonish compared to the rest of his body. So if you look at someone who is an open class bodybuilder, that is, you know, has a large frame is quite tall. Samson Douda, for example, if Samson got bigger forms, shoulders, and arms, it would make him look better and win more shows, period. I remember meeting Lee Priest in his prime 20 or 25 years ago, probably at a show. I've never seen arms that big on a human being in real life. It's weird, isn't it? Yeah. It just, it didn't even look real. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You had the craziest arms I've ever seen. I don't know. Samson's got some big ass arms. Have you met him? Yes. He is a large human being. When IMet him, he was a few months prior to winning the Olympia and he had a very well balanced physique. There was absolutely nothing on his physique that I thought was like stuck out as being enormous. But I think there's something special about shoulders and arms and forms that if you supersize those, the rest of your physique looks better by comparison. And, um, there's a couple of other, um, things I would say probably on average also work for most people, bigger calves until they get really big. They're better to have aesthetically. Another one is, um, wider upper back, like lats as they billow out in your front, rear double, all the lat spreads, the more puffy your lats can get. If you have like a lot of thickness and you're back at some point, it's just like a bit much and you look kind of like a ball, you know, like a Dennis James and his prime was kind of like, I remember looking at pictures of physique about how do you add anything to this? Like, why does he even bother to tren for muscle gain anymore? This is like, this is it. But width is generally like always a good thing. So a lot of vertical pulling, pull ups, et cetera, is usually very good for physiques. Aesthetically. Another one is upper chest. Like if you kind of a total shelf for an upper chest, it just makes almost everything look better. So if you really want to maximize the aesthetic value of your physique, try to get arms, shoulders, forearms, calves, upper chest and lats slash upper back as big as they'll get. Everything else is up for debate. I don't think those things are. What do you think about that? IMean, I think that's thEQuintessential example of Arnold Schwarzenegger, right? Yeah. Frank Zane. Yeah. IMean, Arnold was all arms and shoulders and, and well, his shoulders were okay. Chest, his chest was, was massive. Yes. Huge lats, huge chest, huge arms. Um, man, you're well on your way at that point. Whereas, you know, my physique up until recently and still to this day, I'm working slowly on changing this, but my physique was like huge traps, insanely thick back, enormous glutes and hamstrings and quads, decent calves, meh, more arms, okay. Arms, good chest, not so great delts. I'm like the opposite of the fucking ideal physique and people like, yeah, man, he's just got shit genetics for the sport. I'm like, I agree, but there's something you can do about it. And whatever genetics you do have, just trening everything the same is cool for the first several years and maybe even decade of your career. Just kind of, you know, everything needs to be bigger and you might as well find out what your genetics are like, but then after some point you want to do the best you can in bodybuilding, really emphasizing those muscles that are lagging for you and make a difference. Because if someone's like, yeah, man, like your back thickness isn't great, you have to ask the next question. Not of, okay, I got to get my back thickness going. Do I pour more into back thickness or do I pour even more into having big ass fucking shoulders and arms? Because at some point the ROI on that might just be better. It's like, you know, a stupid analogy off hand is like if you have a tank that has a little bit less armor than the other tanks in the battlefield that you're going up against, you're like, we need to bring our armor up. Yeah, but what if you just take that same weight and that same money and you make a gum that's one and a half times more powerful and a targeting system that's better? It just doesn't matter as you never get hit because you fuck everybody up and they never get a clear shot at you. Like it might just be like a bigger gun is even better than having thicker armor at some trade off, even though you already have the biggest gun, having that much bigger of a gun. And I would say like if your back thickness isn't amazing, but it's okay, getting even bigger arms might just get you to win more bodybuilding shows than having the same arms but bringing up your back thickness, which I don't know, probably if you've ever been in this sort of thing, but sometimes when you get judge feedback, I've had this happen to lots of folks. I've, you know, watched other people coach and of course myself, you get feedback from the judges and then you make the changes necessary and then you get just a host of completely different feedback afterwards that you're just like, why did I bother with this? Like I don't, I don't even ask anymore. I don't, I don't either, man. I think it's just just bothering these people. They're doing a great job judging a show. They got enough on their fuckinGHands and to be completely honest, like they barely remember what the fuck your body looked like. And you're the two 3000th person you've looked at that day. Like, no, yeah, that's how I feel about when they're, they're probably not going to remember you. And it's always the same feedback. Usually I see with everybody, it's either get bigger or get leaner or which is the sport anyway. Yeah. Right. And yeah, I think like one of the big things I tried to prioritize over the last few years was with just being wider. Yes, that's huge. Width is one of those things too. That is curious because in pictures you can sometimes miss it when their eyes are by themselves, but it plays a huge, huge hand in actually winning shows because then you're next to other people. There's all sorts of people that are very short and relatively narrow that on Instagram pictures look like world beaters. Yeah. Like they're unreal. And then you put them next to like, um, Ian Valiere and his prime and you're like, okay, shoulders are four feet wide. There's no, you're not going to meet in. That's nonsense. He's like an adult male and you're like a child. And so if you can make your shoulders as wide as possible, especially if you're, if you're taller, the visual impact is different. And that's a, that's a thing. That's another fun side topic is folks who arecomparing physiques only on the internet and never see them in real life. I see a lot of like shows that I'm actually at, uh, over the years I've seen a lot of shows in real life. And then you look at like Instagram and uh, what people are doing, YouTube and people are debating who should have one of who shouldn't have. And most of the people that know things don't, don't say it in these terms like Fuad and his guys, when they debate about who should have taken what place, a lot of times they'll mention like, look, pictures are different than real life. And like, that's cause they know things. Um, but like some people don't know that and they're like, how the fuck did this guy beat this guy? And it's like, yeah, watch them compared to each other. And they're like, okay. But even in comparison photos sometimes it's different. You're like, I don't know. And it's like, if you were there in real life, remember one, one example from, uh, uh, Nick Shaw, our PCO and myself went to like the 2013 I believe Mr. Olympia. We sat, we had some kind of cool opportunities that pretty close to the VIP seats. And so we sat real up close. I can remember when Phil Heath and Kai green walked out together for the first time. I was like, yeah, that Phil Heath went on that one. Phil even by himself walked out and he had to like walk his hips around his quads cause his legs were so Billy and disgusting looking that he couldn't even walk normally anymore. And he was completely peeled to the bone. And that Olympia was really controversial because a lot of, you know, Kai green is just like the fucking man and he's really cool and he's got great vibes and awesome physique. It just got a ton of fans who on the internet was like, this is a fucking robbery. Kai needs to win. And like, I'm, I'm a huge Kai green fan. I think he's fucking amazing. And I was there as soon as Phil Heath walked out, I was like, yeah, that's over. And, uh, not that I'm not like, you know, Phil Heath physique is just legendary, but in real life it was magical. And you realize like, no one's judging this in Kai's favor in real life. This is over. But from the internet, from pictures, even from videos, a lot of people couldn't see it. And now I use this for myself. Anytime I see a result in bodybuilding on Instagram that I'm like, really, this guy's third or that guy's fourth. I'm always like, man, you know, I wasn't there and maybe misjudgment happened, but a lot of times it's like, nah, man, you had to be there because there's something in real life, especially from things like overall, like shoulder width, deep details of conditioning that you just, yeah. Sean Clarita has amazing conditioning. Everyone knows. And were you at the Arnold last year? No, I was, but I was, didn't see any guys up, up, up close. I was like, when hottie walked out on stage, it was just like, yeah, it's over. And that's the thing that you sometimes can't tell from even really good high quality. Yeah. A lot of people, a lot of people were debating, you know, could it, should Samson have won or should he have not, but like being there, it's the same thing with Wesley walked out. pump pump pump pump pump pump pump pump pump pump pump pump pump pump pump pump pump pump oranges over power arm brass top gun neck geeks and little weird veins in places that I guess I just didn't know existed. There's like very lean, shredded to win a show. And then there's two other categories we haven't yet named. And then there's Sean Clarita. And you just don't see that in pictures and videos because I look at Sean's physique and pictures and videos and I'm like, amazing, but I don't get the magic. And Jared was like, I assure you there is magic. There's lots of magic. And you're like, okay, that's a trip. Have you met Sean? Uh, once, but when I was a fan boy back in the day, I assuredly he does not remember. Jesus Christ, man. He, he is, he, I think for muscle per square inch that he's probably got to have about the most muscle I've ever seen on a guy that size. Yeah. It's intense, man. He's a, IMean, he was like originally 120, 130 pounds as like an adult. And then when you weigh one 80, one 90, like it's just going to look certain way. It's, it's, it's intense. It's like, how do you fit that much muscle in that little frame? Yeah. Talent. And he's not been at this a long time. What does he weigh on stage? Like one 80, one 90. He's not like crazy. Not even man. I think like when the one seventies to the one eighties is the most he's weighed. So he's not even top of class in the two twelves, which was a trip, but he's like five one, five, two. And that makes for a real trippy look in real life. And also he's five, one, five, two, but he has small bones. And, uh, that means like, he's just going to look ridiculously billowy. And for him, yeah, the muscle is insane, but the conditioning really is like, it's just some other kind of fucking planet at that point. And it's, it's inspirational. The bird bone thing is crazy to me. Like I remember I interviewed Wesley, uh, earlier last year after he won the Arnold. And he told me it was like something like seven or eight pounds under the cap. And I'm like, I weigh more than he does. And we're the same height. I don't look like him. Yeah. The distribution is also a big thing. Like you get a guy with really narrow waist and very short torso and a very small intra-abdominal organ space. And they're going to weigh like some nonsensical amount. That's really light, but look five times bigger than you. And you're like, body weight just does not tell the whole story. And it does for an individual, but it doesn't compare to individuals. All you can do is grow your muscles the best you can and get up to 220, 230, 250, or whatever it is. But there's a certain shape and distribution there that some guys will just look very different at a different weight. And the other way in which this reflects itself is some guys get caught up in the size game and then realize like, actually look my best when I'm two 30 and not two 40, they'll go back to playing that game and they'll win a whole lot. Like, and it doesn't matter what someone weighs at the end of the day. Like Derek Lunsford, I think weighed like 220 or 225 for his Olympia win. And I was like, what? There's other guys on stage that are two 70. Like, okay, yeah. Stand next to him. See how you do. Oh, you lost. It looks like he's the best. Yeah. IMean, hottie's not that heavy either. Yep. He's another one. Um, Chris Bunstead. IMean, that dude's in his two, uh, usually, usually on stage, I think in the two forties, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, IMean, like I saw him on stage. I'm like, how does he have that much muscle at six, two and weighs in at two 40 something. Yeah. The less, less hip bone and less stomach organ and less intra-abdominal storage space and all that other stuff that, you know, the less the better. Yeah. IMean, he looks great. I wanted to ask you about the protein thing. I saw that study that you guys posted, um, uh, about, you know, basically the upper limits of how much protein you can digest. Maybe if you could talk about that a little bit. It's a big limitation of that study is RP funded that study. And, um, um, uh, Martin Ruffalo is the primary researcher to carry it out. It's, um, the biggest limitation of that study is it's self-reported intake. And so we, it's just a very, very weak form of evidence compared to the others, though very important form of evidence, but it's just highly underpowered because of that. And so what we did be, we are able to say is that at least in so far as people report their own intake, especially when they're dieting down, people tend to benefit from substantially higher protein intakes, um, than otherwise. And so some people are even eating close to two grams per pound and report better results with that than without because it's self-report the way I would catalog my insight from the study is look, okay, a lot of people in the sport believe that they get the best results from higher protein intakes. And there's some evidence to show that that's the case. Let's take that data and combine it with the data from recreationally trened undergraduates from which we have much more well-controlled protein feeding studies and try to see where our best guess is going to end up. The thing I've derived from studies such as this and others in concert is the following. Um, a gram per pound is a very good beginning into the conversation of how much protein you need. However, especially when you're dieting down, especially if it's dining down for a show, you might be interested in experimenting with as much as one and a half times that protein, 1.5 grams per pound to see how it affects you. If after a whole prep, you're like, I don't know if it made a fucking difference and it probably fucking didn't. Then just go to 1.25 or a gram and see how that works. A lot of people say it's great, but you may find that it goes substantially better for you with that higher protein intake. And then years later, when science confirms like actually, yes, the in extremely catabolic circumstances for very large muscular people that arEQuite advanced, even a gram and a half per day is advantageous. I struggle to think like two grams per day is going to be a winner over one and a half, but there is a real world possibility in which 1.25 grams per pound per day all the way up to 1.5 might offer some small but distinct advantages for people at tail end of diets, really about to step on stage, really trying to conserve as much muscle mass as they can. I saw Mila Sarchev reposted that because I know he's always been a super high protein guy. What I found, it's like this line you have to walk between being able to keep your gut healthy and digest that damn food. The old school, I don't know if you remember or not, but it was like the late 90s, early 2000s, everybody was two grams per pound. Oh, yeah. And I think that may have contributed to some of the distended gut and digestive issues that a lot of guys have. I don't know. I run like a gram to a gram and a quarter in the offseason with myself and my clients and then on contest prep, I'll ramp it up to like a gram and a half. That's typically what I do. It's interesting. What you typically do is I would say that currently in light of all of the evidence and taking a little bit of a buffer for margin of error to be just in case safe for extra protein is almost exactly where I would land. So it's curious that you landed there. I can pat myself on the back for coming to the same conclusion as you. Yeah. IMean, it's just anecdote from having worked with hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people and playing around with it, but it's always a game you have to play with digestion. And in an offseason, you're eating more carbs and carbs are protein sparing to certain calories. When you get more calories, you don't need as much protein. Yeah. And when you're pounding all the carbs and stuff in the offseason, all that protein can be hard to get down. It's also the diet benefit of it on contest prep is eating more protein keeps you more satiated. Yeah. It definitely doesn't hurt to eat food that you're just bored of eating because then it's food is like eating food is like a job versus like, oh, I'm going to get as much of this as I can and then like suffer for it and like really want it. Um, yeah, it's definitely a big thing. I think there are ways around the protein problem. Uh, I think shakes are a really good way to do it. Um, if you just have like, IMean an, an easy hack, if you have the finances for this, it's not a big deal is get one of those free flavored protein, uh, mixes or even like the RTD shakes, like the clear protein that like, you know, it was like, you know, whatever, fucking fruit punch flavored or berry flavored. And with your normal food that you're already, let's say taking in a gram per pound per day with a few meals of the day, instead of having water with a meal, just have one scoop of that protein with the rest of the water, shake it up. It's like a nice fruity protein drink. It just goes right down with you and you can instantly add like 25 grams of protein to like three meals per day, bro. That's 75 fucking extra grams of protein. There you go. Gram and a half you're there. So that's a really easy hack that people can use if they really want to push the protein to the next level. And if they're like, yeah, I just don't want to do it through shakes. Oh, okay. It's a lot of egg whites then you're going to have to fucking suffer through that. I've found a lot of people can't tolerate egg whites though. It seems like a lot of people have issues with egg whites. What kind of issues? A lot of people seem to develop intolerances to where they just get upset stomach, diarrhea, gas, bloating, things like that. It's, it's, it's, uh, I've seen it with guys that pound a lot of egg whites over a period of time. I don't know what happens. It seems I had the same issue. I had to stop eating egg whites for like about a year and then I reintroduced them to my diet and I was able to tolerate them again, but they were just giving me diarrhea when I would eat them. What a trip. I definitely have a thing where if I eat a lot of eggs in one meal, I just am averse to eggs for the rest of the day. I'm like, I just don't want to fucking see eggs. I don't know. I don't get that with ground beef or anything. Yeah, beef seems to be tolerated. Well, chicken, I get tired of eating chicken, but chicken thighs are a big unlock because it's actually only a little bit more fat, but they're way tastier. If you want the tastiness for offseason. Oh my God. I have a pet peeve about chicken thighs. I can't tell you how many times I've had somebody on contact. onetgotfat, olmcoatedrate, gonebinkingfattie, gone användoric.com. If you want to talk about YOU, all this content made possible at www.GreatScienceMarkets.com without any pre-register, or after recording this process or after you have your file, we are ready for you to unmute yourself. Today we are with the framing wealth coach. John, thank you very much. Is there anything you want to promote? It's the usual, go see our YouTube, fuck with our apps a little bit. We got some good stuff. IMean the works on a few of our projects, but when they are revealed themselves, it'll be all fun. So thanks. I need to grab the RP app. I'm still using your five-year-old spreadsheet. Holy shit, dude, I got to get on the app. It's like a crazy spreadsheet builder all inside one thing and it runs your workouts. You can replace exercises and stuff on the fly. It's pretty dope. Yeah, I'll have to check it out. Well, thank you for coming on. I appreciate you.