 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, big Paul here today with part two of the interview with Paul Baxingdale, former trening partner of Dorian Yates, where he goes over, D-D-Y, D-Y, HIT trening, D-Y, HIT trening, in extensive detail. He pulls back the curtain and shows you exactly what Dorian did, dispels any myths, talks about the history of D-Y trening, and goes through an entire D-Y trening routine, so you can see exactly how it works if you want to try it yourself. In this episode, he goes through the chest and biceps workout and the legs workout. If you want to see part one with the other half of the workout, I have it on my channel. Go look for it. It is up there. I hope you enjoy the video, and we will get started in just one second. Alright, chest is up next. There was a rest day after the back day, correct? There certainly was, yeah. Chest, again, an interesting one. When I first went up the temple, I remember Dorian doing decline. Yeah, I thought that's what he did, was declines. Yeah, I saw him doing decline bell bell press, and then for quite a long time, he was doing a low incline, maybe a 30 degree low incline on the Smith's machine press. But the final phase of the evolution of his trening was the incline barbell press, as you see on Blood and Guts. Yeah, he didn't do flat presses, correct? That's from what I understand. I've never seen him do a flat press. I know he did flat barbell press when he started, and I think like many people, he just found the movement wasn't that efficient in building a great chest. I think he probably found he was getting a great front delt development and not much in the way of pectoral fiber. And it's when you switch to a decline or an incline, some people find that they can just get that groove a bit better, and they can feel the pecs. I found the same thing, that flat benches are just really more of a front delt and tricep movement. They're also, IMean, we know now that they're one of the highest injury risk movements in the gym to pec tears. IMean, it's probably the biggest thing you see bodybuilders tearing their pecs on flat benches, and you don't have that risk on incline or decline, at least from what we see now. Oh, that's right. IMean, my first mentor, Johnny Fuller, that's how he tore his pec on flat bench. It is. I've looked into the research on it. It is the most dangerous exercise in the gym. It's surprising. There's more injuries on flat bench than any other exercise. I didn't know that, but it doesn't surprise me, yeah. Yeah, IMean, you think about how many bodybuilders have ended their career from pec tears. Yeah, yeah. Next up, he had the machine press. Yep. Now, that wasn't there when I trened chess with Dorian. Anyway, we'll go with this routine, the hammer strength press. Again, this was a machine that he really loved this machine. He felt it targeted the pecs, ideally. And, you know, again, once the first exercise is done, it's basically one warm-up and one working set. Now, the next movement, incline dumbbell flies. I think this is a very underrated movement by, I would say, a lot of people. And again, I would avoid the flat version of this movement. I would always go for an incline. And, you know, this was one of the movements where you actually got to see a little bit of Dorian's physique. Because he would always wear a couple of rag tops or sweatshirts, which were kind of cut to pieces. You know, he would take the scissors to them himself. You know, he hated anything tight around his neck or anything tight around his forearms. And so on, incline dumbbell flies, you know, as the dumbbells would come flying back. And then he'd press them in the middle. You'd just see these two mounds of peck fiber just splintering away. This is even in the offseason, just absolutely immense. Now, he's not renowned, you know, he's not renowned for a great chest. But he had one superb chest. It was thick. And there was so much, yeah, dense muscle fiber there. It was crazy. Cable crossover, always the last movement. Biceps. First exercise I remember was always incline dumbbell curl. Now, these were done simultaneously. So both arms together, you would start the set. Oh, here we go. This is perfect, Paul. We should do this more often. Anyway, so this is the end of his set. So he's getting to failure now. So now he will switch to one arm curls. What you'll find is, and this is something to do with how the brain works. When you're doing both arms together and you reach failure, if you switch to single arm, you will be able to get out another rep or even two reps out. Because the brain only has to focus on the one side of the body. And it's something that I guess I don't know. I just had a guy on the other week that researches this stuff. And he said it's the CNS. It's how your central nervous system fires. And then it doesn't take as much to fire the one arm at a time. So you can actually do another rep or two with a unilateral versus a bilateral movement, which is interesting that Dorian figured that out on his own. Yeah. IMean, he absolutely figured that out. The science has caught up. Yeah. As it does quite often with a lot of the things in bodybuilding in general. A lot of things we work out in bodybuilding. And then years later, the science catches up to us. Yeah. So that would be the first bicep movement. And then it would be standing easy bar curl. And again, so a minimum of body movement on this to start off with. But towards the end of the set, you know, you're getting a little bit in there just to get those last one or two reps out. And then we would use the Nautilus bicep machine. So, yeah. Yeah, the old chain-driven machines. Those chain-driven machines are awesome. Yeah, this looks like after his bicep tear. You can see. Yeah, this is after the bicep tear. And this is one of my favorite machines. But another bicep exercise that he really valued was the concentration kill. So, earlier on in his career, in the evolution of this program, you would have seen the dumbbell concentration kill in there. And then another day of rest. We'll skip abs since we already did abs. And then the mother of all days, legs. Yeah, legs. Yeah, we, I remember doing legs. IMean, we often didn't take a rest day after chest and biceps. It was normally straight into legs. So, it was kind of like a six-day rotation. And, but what we sometimes, like once we had, once leg day was finished, we always took at least one rest day. But there would be times where I would get a phone call just saying, poor, I'm not recovered. I need another rest day. And, and I would always be like, thank goodness. Because I was shattered as well. But legs, yeah, you know, it's like, legs is the workout. It's like, this is the one that tests you. And it was no coincidence that Dorian chose leg day to include me in with, with Kenny. I think it's kind of like, if you couldn't cope with leg day, like you couldn't be able to cope with any day, you know. And so, yeah, the warm-up was, was much longer on leg day. We, we, we would use the one piece of cardio equipment in Temple Gym at the time, which was kind of like a fold-up cardio bike. And it was just stuck in the corner. And it was only used, I think, on leg day. He would do like five minutes on the bike. And then he would go through a very thorough stretching routine. Now, this was something that he was heavily influenced by Tom Platz with. Dorian saw Tom Platz on the same tour when I saw Tom Platz back in the mid-80s. And Tom kind of went through his stretching routine then. And obviously, because of Platz being the, the, thEQuad father, Dorian always incorporated a, a very thorough stretching routine. And, and again, it's like the, the side of seeing a 300-pound bodybuilder just drop down into a, into a hurdle stretch. You know, he was very, very flexible. And, you know, it's like, he's even more flexible today. But the warm-up was incredibly thorough. Lots of stretching. We would even do a couple of sets on the leg extension on the hamstring curl just to get the blood circulating again in the lower body. Before we started the very first warm-up of leg extensions. Normally, three, three warm-up sets, leg extensions. And then there was like a one working set. There was no forced reps. On occasion, we might use, we might use like a force negative where he would push down on the, on the pad as you're trying to resist it. On, on the last couple of reps, you know, you would drive it up and then he would push down and you would try and try and resist the, the pad on the way down. But generally, it was just a straight, all-out set, two positive muscular failure. And then it was either, and we alternated between leg press one week, then the next week would be Smith's machine squats. And so on here is, we've got the leg press down. Um, but up until 94, I would say, he was alternating, maybe even later, might mean 94, 95. He was alternating leg press with Smith's machine squats. Um, leg press is the one that you see on blood and guts. Um, even though it was maybe even more terrifying, I, I actually preferred Smith's machine squats. Simply because I just found it was so effective at putting slabs of muscle on, on, on my quads, especially the outer sweep. Things to note in terms of, um, foot placement on pretty much all our leg exercises, our feet would be placed pretty close together. And, and again, if you go back to the old Tom Platz videos where he had like heels together, toes pointing 10 to the hour, 10 past the hour, that was pretty much the, the stands that we took when we were doing our Smith's machine squats. So the, the heels were pretty much together. So the heels were pretty much together and your feet were directly below you. So there was minimal lower back involvement. There was minimal quad in glute involvement. It was felt like it was almost purEQuad. And, and again, very much emphasis on the negative as you're going down into the hole and explosive up out again. And the working set on Smith's machine squats was just like, you can go to hell. You can probably visit hell and go, yeah, this is pretty nasty, but it's not, it's not like that last set of Smith's machine squats, man. No, but he didn't do barbell squats. Correct. He didn't do freeway squats at all. Yeah, he did. He did. When he started out, he, he got up to quite heavy barbell squats, but he actually tore, I think it was part of his hip flexor. Oh, wow. Doing barbell squats. And there's, there, there, there's a reason why this happened. And a few years later doing Smith's machine squats, he actually tore somEQuad fibers again. And, and the reason is the same. And, and, and actually there's something to do with the leg press. And I'm not going to say what it is. Dorian hasn't said this on video. And so I'm not going to spoil it for him to actually tell everybody the reason why, but there, there, there was a reason why he got that hip flexor injury and a reason why he got that quad. A few fibers tear on the Smith's machine squats. So after that tear, he, he completely eliminated the Smith's machine squats and just did leg press. So from kind of 95, 96, 97, he only did leg presses. Smith's machine squats were out. The last exercise on quad day was always hack squats. And again, heels together, toes, 10 to 10 past the hour, ass to grass all the way down and all the way up. And by this point, you know, you're, you're, you're barely functioning consciously. You, you, you, you just, you, you, you're working through pure fire, just passion, anger, every, every, every little thing that's ever upset you at any point in your life. You're using this as fuel to get through the, the, the sets. And, you know, these are the times, you know, where I look back and I can see how bodybuilding was so much a spiritual endeavor, as much as a physical endeavor. Like the places you go to in your mind, when you do a leg day like this, um, you would never experience in everyday life. You would never take your body, your mind to that place in everyday life if you weren't doing this. And so it was equipping you for situations in life that nothing else could equip you for. Nothing else could equip you for. And, um, I don't remember. Ever since like, ever since my kind of, uh, involvement in, in academia, I, I've studied a lot of philosophy. You know, I'm, I'm, I'm big on my philosophy and, and I always think about Carl Jung's, uh, concept of the shadow self. Oh yeah. Which is kind of perfect because of the name shadow. IMean, it all, it all fits together. You know, it's like Dorian's nickname was shadow. He had a pony when he was young called shadow. Carl Jung shadow self. Well, the shadow self is all about getting access and integrating the very darkest element of your identity, your personality into you as a whole. And it's like a lot of, a lot of young men in particular. They've got no idea how to access the darkest element of their personality. In fact, society tells them that it's bad. Society tells them that it's kind of evil. It's, it's, it's, I don't know, like, I don't know what the words are, you know, toxic masculinity and whatever. But what they're referring to is actually powerful. And it's a power that can be used for great good. Like, IMean, there's always these phrases, um, that saying, you know, it's like you don't, you want to be a dangerous man. But you want to be a man who controls his emotions. But you want to be capable of great violence. IMean, ultimately, IMean, this is how we've evolved. We wouldn't have evolved this way. And we have this dark shadow self inside of us. And it's not a bad thing. But you must learn to control it. If it's uncontrolled, then, you know, it just comes out completely evil and completely, you know, bad. And, you know, you will find yourself locked up for it. But if you can learn to express it through days like this, where you access the very deepest, darkest, most evil, most violent part of your personality. And you can access in it and you can harness it and you can utilize it for good. Then you become a very powerful person. And, um, and, and, and, and I think Jung was quite right in, in that explanation of the shadow self. And in talking with Dorian, kind of in, in recent years, you know, we know that's exactly what we were doing back then. That's exactly what we were doing back then. But we had no idea what we were doing. IMean, you know, we knew it felt right, but we, we had no concept of, of, you know, Carl Jung, right? And we wouldn't have probably even heard of him back then. It's that part of our psyche that would have been on, in, in a battle. Yes. We're in war on a medieval battlefield. I think there's a saying in martial arts, I'd rather be a warrior in a garden than a gardener in a, in a war. It's, it's, it's that, it's that inner, inner beast that we all have. And you tap into that when you're in the gym sometimes. That's exactly what it is. That is exactly what it is. And, and, and, and, and, and like I say, it's like, you know, to, to any young guys out there, you know, who, who maybe feel, you know, anger or rage or whatever, you know, within their lives. It's, it's like, use that, but use it for good. It's like, get to the gym and use it. Go to the gym and get every ounce of that anger out of you, but put it into something that's productive and positive. Yep. So you know what it feels like, but you're in control of it completely and you become a much more powerful and a much better man for doing so. Because when you've done that, that rage is no longer within you. When you go back into the world and back into life and society, that rage is no longer there. You got rid of it. It's gone. It's interesting. I, and I know we're off, off the topic now, but I, I've done martial arts off and on for years, but the guys that are the most dangerous in martial arts are the calmest, most confident people that you'll, you'll ever meet. The guys that were former special forces people. It's, it's usually the guy that has the fragile ego and the insecurity. That's the one that has the, that, that demonstrates it, that shows the big, the big, the big ego outside on the street. The guys that are going to kick your ass usually don't, they're silent. You don't, you don't see it. That's right. The ones who talk about it, they're not going to ever do it, but the ones that don't talk about it, just make sure you're respectful to those ones. Yeah. All right. So back to this, uh, hamstrings. Okay. Hamstring curl, always the first hamstring exercise. And we would, we would take, you know, just a few moments. Once we'd finished quads, we would just take a, a few moments just to kind of refocus ourselves. It's like, okay, we've got a brand new body part ahead of us now. Let's refocus. Let's dial in again and let's give hamstrings every little thing we've got. I know there's not much left now, but we're not leaving anything left in this gym today. It's like, this is the best ever workout we've ever done. And it's happening now today. And so hamstring curl would be the first exercise. Lock your, lock your hips onto the machine and just use your hamstrings. Peak contraction at the top of the rep. And then, um, I remember going straight to stiff leg deadlifts after hamstring curl. Um, is it okay? Yeah. Yeah. Stiff leg deadlifts. And, and, and again, I don't know how much he would be using stiff leg deadlifts, but you know, it's like, I see people using so much more today with not even a quarter of the hamstring that Dorian had like, he, he might've used 350, something like, like that, but the form was absolutely perfect. And again, he only brought down the barbell to the point where he would feel the stretch on his hamstring. And then he would use the hamstring glute to pull back up again. So again, there was minimal lower back involvement and there was no overstretch. It's like, it's easy to overstretch and go all the way down. If you know, if you, if you'rEQuite flexible, it's easy to do that, but you're not going to get any hamstring development out of it. So you want to be using the hamstrings. There you, my, my goodness, he's even got a pair of Lycra shorts on. I'd never saw that. That was for the video. He always wore two pairs of baggies on leg day, two pairs. It was just a kind of psychological thing, I think. And he, yeah, yeah. And they would be the same pairs of pairs of baggies and he would tuck them into his socks. And I know there was the famous, what blue track suit that he would wear at every show. Yeah. The TARDIS. Yeah. And then last hamstring exercise would be like a, a standing, um, a standinGHamstring curl. Just one set. I think later on he got the hamster, the, the hammer strength version where you kneel on one side and, and you do a hamstring curl on the other side. Back earlier, we just had a basic, a stand up one where you just called, called the hamstring up to point of peak contraction. But again, just one working set and then calves, the calf machine, the standing calf machine we had in Temple Gym was, uh, specifically made. And the guy who made that machine, I think he made two. There is another, there is another one out there. And I think it's in a gym in North England. The original standing calf raised machine, I think is in Ultraflex Durham. If it's not Durham, it will be North Leeds, but it's definitely in Ultraflex. And I think it is in Durham where you can actually use that yourself. It's got a thousand pounds on the stack and it's actually got two welded bars at the kind of shoulder pad point where you can add additional plates. And so Dorian would end up using between kind of 1300, 1500 pounds. Wow. Wouldn't be unusual for a set of standing calf raises. And again, again, you know, right up onto the balls of your feet as high as you can. Get that contraction. Control the negative. Control the stretch. We didn't overstretch it. I see people today, you know, like overstretching and, and, and they say there's like a physiological reason why they're doing it. And there could well be, but it's not something we did. I think I would have been too worried about, you know, a tear, possibly a knee-stending tear, something like that. Um, anyway, and the last exercise of the day for legs was, you see, here we are with, um, with the shorts on. Now I, I never got to see this. All I got to see was what looked like two soccer balls underneath this pairs of baggies going up and down. It was just ridiculous looking. It was the craziest thing I've ever seen. Unless you've seen those cars in real life, man, they were nuts. And I always say, I think, um, I think God, the creator of the universe, whatever you believe, I think he or she was having a good laugh with me when they paired me with first Johnny Funner and then Dorian Yates, two guys with probably two of the best sets of calves ever in bodybuildinGHistory. And there's me with quite subpar calves. They're largely genetic. You either, you either have them or you don't. And the last, the last exercise of the day was seated calf raise. Um, and again, just one set, just one set straight in. Now, occasionally after the standing calf raise, Dorian would just kind of say, that's it. That's it. Done. I'm up. Cause it's not like he, he really needed, needed to work his calves that way. He worked them hard, but it's not like he, he, they were a weak point or anything. And so occasionally he would just do standing calf raises and that always kind of upset me because my calves were so bad. I desperately needed the seated calf raise too. Um, but at the end of that, yeah, I'd pretty much be lying on the floor. I would imagine so. No, I was in front of my eyes. Um, but you know, with, with a, with a real sense of, you, you know, you've done something pretty out of the ordinary. You've done something which not many people could do, you know, I don't know how many people could do that workout. I don't know how many people could tren heavy duty to that extent, you know, to that limit. I think partly it's a psychological thing. You have to be able to generate, you know, the intensity, you know, within you, you know, it's like when Dorian does his trening courses, you know, obviously when he's there with these people, you know, they always, you know, get their personal bests, you know, and he always explains to them, look, there's nothing different here, except I'm here and you're thinking, oh, Dorian is watching you, but really I'm not doing anything. You're doing all the work. So there's absolutely nothing stopping you from going back to wherever you come from and generating the exact same intensity. All you have to do is, well, if you have to think Dorian Yates is right here watching me, that's what you think. You do whatever it takes, whatever it takes. You know, it's like, I think it was Tom Platz, you know, would say, you know, he would envisage somebody with a gun to his head. You know, it's like, if you don't get five reps, you know, it's like, you know, I'm just going to, he's going to blow you away or something. But you have to get that type of imagery to get the, the almost desperation. It's like the human body. I, I believe, you know, it's got this cutoff point where the muscle fails, the body fails and it's your body saying, I can't do any more, but it can, it can do more. It's got like a little safety reserve zone. And that's what you're going for. You're going for the little reserve zone, which is, which is held for only life and death situations. But that's what you got to go for. You've got to dip into that reserve where no, I'm not done. Like if I don't get these nexT3 reps, something really bad is going to happen. No, it's like, and it, and in our case, it was literally as simple as if I didn't get these three reps and like, I always use it as a hashtag on my post. Cause it was something Darren always said to me, like three more reps and I had, you know, that was kind of his thing, but you never knew when it was coming. And it's like, you would do the set and you would, you would get to the point of like, I'm just, this is all I've got. And then you would hear it. It was like, he knew exactly when to say it. Three more reps. And I'm like, Oh no. Oh, how am I going to do it? But you do. You find it. And what, what got me through those three more reps was the fact that I did not want to sit for a week thinking I could have given more that day. I could have given more that leg day. I could have, I could have, should have done three more reps and I didn't, I didn't want to sit there with that going through my head for a whole six days. And I would have done, you know, I would have, I would have hated, I'd like, I, I would have been a loser. Yeah. I did not want to be a loser. I wanted to become, come out of that leg day victorious. And the only way to come out victorious is to get those three more reps and you find them. Like I see at the gym all the time is, it's like, you know, it's like occasionally, you know, somebody will ask me to spot them, but it, you know, it's not very often because they know what's going to happen. You know, if they ask me, they know what's coming, but you know, there's some brave young guys around. I'm telling you, there's some really good guys. And, you know, it's like they get to the point where they think they they've given it all, you know, and sometimes I'll say five more and they'll get them. They'll get them. That's awesome. Yeah, it is. And that's a metaphor. It's great. Once again, it's a metaphor for life. Give your best every day. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like whatever happens in life, you know, you've done everything possible that you could have done. And so it's like whatever life has got in store from you from that, it's meant to be. Life was meant to be. If you've given everything you have got to give and whatever happens after that is what was meant to be. Absolutely. That is so true. But I guarantee if you do that consistently, week after week, month after month, year after year, your life will be a success. Yes. Now, that's what that's why I love bodybuilding. It's a metaphor for life. Now, what people define as success is different. People have different definitions and that's and that's for the individual to decide. But whatever it is that you want out of life. Well, the first thing to do is be clear about what you do want out of life. You know, that's something which a lot of people don't even think about. But it's a good idea to think about what you do want out of life. And a lot of people, you know, don't think about that until they're kind of 40, 50. But it's a good thing to do when you're kind of, you know, a teenager or 20 years old. Yeah. A lot of people don't have that clarity when they're young. Well, Paul, I appreciate you coming on, man. This was excellent. This was really, really good. My pleasure. And look, if I've bored anybody and gone on too long, I'm sorry. We'll break this up into two parts. This is a good one. This was excellent. People are going to like this. Yeah. You know, I just I still get excited, you know, even now, like 30 years afterwards. You can see the passion. And it's funny because, you know, I'm not really into bodybuilding these days. You know, it's like I've got other things in my life. But obviously, like, it's still part of who I am. It's still part of, you know, who I was and who I am and who I'll always be. But it's a part of me that's still there's still a little fire there. Do you know what IMean? And it's quite easy to ignite. I just put it that way. Paul, it's been a pleasure. Thanks very much for having me. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you, Seth. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.