 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, battle-tested, expert-formulated. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, battle-tested, expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey guys, Big Paul here today and I want to talk about this article that came out on the Washington Post today called Dying to Compete. I'm going to put a link to it in the video description down below so if you want to check it out go there. In a nutshell, the article goes through and details several instances of where people have mostly died from contest prep and doing extreme things at the end of contest prep and how various bodybuilding coaches have encouraged them to do these extreme things to get ready for the stage and potentially put their lives at risk. I've had several people reach out to me and ask me what I think about this article and I've talked about it before with bodybuilding and one of the things that I think is very important is to openly talk about this stuff and to talk about ways to mitigate and reduce risk. Bodybuilding is an extreme sport and I've told people this before. It's much like motorcycle racing where you're driving around the track at 180 miles per hour. There are things that you can do to mitigate risk like wear a helmet, put a, you know, safety devices on like a jacket, gloves, boots, be properly trained on how to ride around the track. But at the end of the day, it's still high risk. You can do things to reduce and mitigate risk, but you cannot eliminate the risk. And bodybuilding is like that. Mountain climbing would be another example. It is extremely dangerous climbing mountains. People are crazy that climb mountains. You look at the statistics. I think it was something like one in 30 people that climb Mount Everest pass away. So it doesn't matter how well you prepare. It doesn't matter how much you do. You're still taking a risk. You can reduce the risk, but you can't completely eliminate the risk. So if you are going to compete, you have to go into it with open eyes, knowing that you are taking a risk. And I would strongly suggest learning about ways to mitigate risk, how to be more intelligent about how you prepare for a competition and things that you can do to reduce the risk going into competition. Another piece of advice that I can give you regarding coaches is take responsibility for your own health. Don't blindly follow what some coach tells you to do. Always ask questions. Always challenge anything that makes you feel uncomfortable or like you're taking a risk that you're not willing to do. Don't do it. And challenge the coach. Push back on the coach. And if the coach tells you no, tells you it's my way or the highway, I would take the highway. Be proactive with taking care of your health too in bodybuilding. It's not just the PEDs that put you at risk. It's the diet. It's the lifestyle in general. Track your blood pressure daily. Make sure you're tracking your blood sugar. Make sure you're getting regular blood work done. Make sure your heart and kidneys are healthy. If you're going to engage in the sport, take some proactive action to keep yourself healthy. And when it comes to competing, one of the things that I see that puts people at the most risk at the end is diuretics. If you're in shape for the show, you shouldn't need diuretics. Diuretics are one of those things where you can be fine one minute and dead the next. I love bodybuilding and I love everything about it. I love the science behind it. I love the people in the community. I love pushing myself. I love how it makes me feel. And I'm sure I'm not the only person that feels this way. There is a lot of positive that comes from the sport. And yes, people do need to be more careful about how they prep for contests and the risk that they take at the end of contests. That absolutely needs to improve. And the way we do that is to get good information out there to help people make better decisions, to understand what they're getting into and to keep everyone informed with truthful and real information. Stay on top of your health. Stay safe. If you feel like you're sick, if you feel like you're dying, get to the doctor. Do everything you can to inform yourself. Do everything you can to mitigate risk if you love the sport and you intend on competing. Alright guys, let me know your thoughts on this topic in the comments section below. Let me know your thoughts on this topic in the comments section below.