warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, gym bros, it's Big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A. This is where I answer your questions about trening, nutrition, and responsible performance enhancement while improving your results and helping you stay safe from the stupid stuff you gym bros like to do. This is a responsible use and better results podcast. I've got some great questions lined up today from my school anabolic bodybuilding members community. You can join over there for 30 bucks a month if you want to get your questions answered on thEQ&A. Link is in the video description below. Here are just a few of thEQuestions I have on deck for today's episode. Why is it that you get water retention in carpal tunnel when you push GH doses higher and how can you prevent that? Is it normal to get insomnia from your first real bulking cycle with tests and EQ? How do you decide which division you should compete in and does that change your approach to your offseason? If you ran a heavy blast in your offseason, should you take a health phase and cruise before contest prep or just roll straight into it? I've got thesEQuestions and many others coming up in just one second. All right, before we dig into this guys, I got a couple things to talk about. First, make sure you like this video and subscribe to the channel. I get a lot of people watching the videos, not that many people subscribing. I also set up another channel for you ADHD motherfuckers that are like me, that can't stay focused on anything for more than 10 minutes where I have all my videos, thesEQuestions chopped up into 10 minutes or less. It's the Big Paul Clips channel. There's a link in the video description. If you wanna go subscribe to that, I think you'll like that or you can just search it. It's Big Paul Clips. And I pick the top threEQuestions from each Q and A and I have them up there and I'm going back through right now with my video guy and we are editing stuff and putting it up on the Clips channel. So it's a CliffsNotes version of this channel where stuff is more palatable and you can watch stuff over there if you want. It was funny last week during thEQ and A, I had some people tell me that I sounded boring and monotone and I needed to be more funny. So there will be more dick and your mama jokes on this episode. We'll see if I can fit those in with thEQuestions about trening nutrition and PED use, responsible PED use because you guys don't wanna kill yourself. We wanna keep you safe while getting those massive gains in the gym. All right, first question I got up here today is from Rob C. Let's dig into this. Rob asks, hey Paul, I've been titrating up my GH over time and now I am at 10 units per day. I'm starting to see some side effects. Carpal tunnel mostly in my left hand and swelling in my extremities. I've increased my potassium and magnesium and I'm drinking two to three gallons of water per day, but it hasn't dissipated yet. Is this most likely from the GH and when you recommend lowering the dose or just riding it out? Yeah, IMean, there's a multitude of things that could be going on here. It's likely just the GH. I know when I first started using GH in my bodybuilding performance enhancement journey, I couldn't go pasT4 units without my hands going completely numb. Now, that numbness is caused by water retention. That water retention increases swelling in the wrist, particularly around the median nerve, which causes tingling in the hand. And from what I understand too, that also puts pressure on that tendon sheath where all the tendons and stuff that are part of your hand run through. And over time, it can lead to wear and tear and you end up with permanent scar tissue. Most often, the carpal tunnel that you get from the GH use is temporary unless you're runninGHigh doses for a long time and you just ignore those symptoms and let damage build up all of the time. Inflammation can lead to tendonitis and tendonitis can lead to tendinosis and there can be all kinds of problems that happen long-term. I'm not an exercise physiologist or an orthopedic surgeon, but at a high level, that's what causes that. It all starts with water retention. Now, what causes the water retention with the GH? It can be driven by the increased IGF-1. IGF-1, when high, can cause water retention. There is an increase in stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system causing more water retention. There can be a direct or indirect effects of water retention. There's other things that can be compounded with that too. If estrogen is high, too high, a lot of times we'll have additional water retention. There are other compounds that you may be using that are going to drive more water retention such as Deca, Debal, some of these other what bros like to call wetter compounds that are going to increase the effect of the water retention caused by the GH. There's a multitude of factors that we can consider. Diet, if your diet sucks, if you're eating a shitty diet, that can drive inflammation and water retention as well. So really, we're left with a few choices here. We can treat the causes of the water retention. I know a lot of bodybuilders, I'm not saying that you should do this, do use renin-angiotensin blocker, something like Talmosartan or potentially an ACE inhibitor like Lisinopril to block or lower angiotensin in aldosterone. That's a first line of defense that may be or may be not helpful. I don't know with the GH-driven water retention if it's going to make much of a difference, but it will help with the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system stimulation that comes from the PEDs that you use and potentially from the estrogen. There are other things you can do such as making sure that your electrolytes are in balance, which sounds like you're already doing. I think most bros, just my general opinion, overdo the sodium. There's this notion that more sodium is better. More is not better when it comes to sodium. There is an appropriate amount. A lot of that is dependent upon, one, some guys have more sodium retention than others. Some of that's genetic. Some of that is aldosterone related. Also how much you sweat. If you're a sedentary person, if you sit on your ass all day long like I do, you're likely going to have less sodium loss. How much water you drink, there's a bazillion different factors that factor into sodium intake. Potassium and magnesium seem to be more static. You don't really have much loss and especially if you're using a renin-angiotensin-aldosterone blocker, you're going to have the potential for actually more potassium retention. So that's just something that you need to be aware of. I've seen in therapeutic settings where doctors will have patients that struggle with water retention from the GH go to alternate day dosing where they'll do every other day dosing. What it seems, and this is just from what I understand, but once again, I'm not a doctor or a biochemist, but from what I understand, when you take GH, the rise in IGF-1 lasts for up to 48 hours and we don't have any of the acute effects with the HGH if we alternate daily dosing. We'll still have a rise in IGF-1 and hopefully that mitigates some of the water retention effects. I've seen that have some benefit to people going to every other day dosing. I've heard of guys doing 5.0 and 2.0 off. I've never heard of that in a therapeutic setting, but that is a Jimbro solution. But I have seen in a medical setting when doctors are prescribing this, if there is water retention, they'll go to every other day dosing. You can also lower the doses. You could come completely off and let that settle down. What I've found is that over time that my body acclimated to it, if you find that the current dosing is too much and causing water retention, you don't want to cause long-term problems with carpal tunnel, so you might want to back off the dose. I've also heard of guys usinGHydrochlorothiazide, telmosartan with hydrochlorothiazide in the off-season. I don't know that I'd want to get dependent upon a diuretic, just so you can take GH. To me, that's kind of a nonsensical approach, but if you're mashing the gas pedal down, I guess it's better than the alternative. I'm not a fan of using more drugs to treat problems from other drugs. We're better off addressing the underlying factors of what's driving the water retention. My suspicion would be that most guys, and from what I've seen is this nonsensical idea now that you need to run your estrogen through the roof, and that somehow is going to cause more IGF-1 conversion, which you will have more, a higher serum IGF-1 level, and that somehow leads to more muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, which just doesn't seem to be true. You're also going to have a shit ton of water retention and a bunch of other side effects when you do that. I would take a look at your estradiol level, get an ultrasensitive estradiol test done. I have an affiliate situation set up with Ulta Labs if you want to get blood work done. There's a link in the video description below. If you want to go get your ultrasensitive estradiol check and see where you're at, that might be a situation where it's just your estrogens through the roof, and it could be drivinGHigh IGF-1 conversion and water retention through multiple pathways. Just a thought process there, but multifactorial, a lot of possible problems. I will say this, guys on contest prep don't have water retention issues with GH, and what changes on contest prep, diet is clened up, cardio is in place, and generally guys are running compounds that don't heavily convert to estradiol on contest prep, so those three things alone probably would help with the water retention, managing your estrogen, making sure that your cardio is in place, making sure that your diet is clened up. I would say those are probably first steps for handling the water retention. All right, next question I got lined up here is from Dave F. Dave asks, hey Paul, I'm about a week and a half into my first real bulking cycle 500 milligrams of test, 400 milligrams of EQ. I'm noticing some increased insomnia, but otherwise feel good. Is some of the uptick in insomnia normal? And should I tweak my stack? I've noticed that you usually keep EQ lower relative to test, and I currently haven't. I'm wondering if that might be contributing. Thanks, and good luck getting back fully into your trening. Okay, so you're starting your cycle off, you're only a week into it from what I'm readinGHere. That's not soon enough for the EQ to really be causing you problems. EQ is a slow burn. EQ has a very lonGHalf-life, depending on what you look at. I've heard anywhere from 12 to 15 days, so we're talking about probably two months before it fully peaks, but you'll start to notice the effects of it in a few weeks, three, four weeks, something like that. The reason why I keep EQ lower, I usually, when I run EQ, I found that I keep it at about half of what the level of testosterone is. The problem that you run into with EQ, it seems to be the most aggressive compound at lowering estradiol conversion. And if you run it much higher than half of your testosterone dose, usually estrogen ends up smashed. Long-term smashed estrogen can certainly affect your sleep. When estrogen is crushed, you get hot flashes at night, you have a really hard time sleeping, insomnia can be an issue, but I would assume that it's too soon for that to be an issue. The EQ hasn't fully peaked yet. Now, what's probably happening is you came out of the gate strong. You came out with close to a gram of gear. I like to taper up. I don't like to come out of the gate with high doses initially. I just end up having a bunch of side effects if I come out of the gate high. I usually start off like for, you know, I literally just fired my own cycle back up. I'm starting off with 300 test and like 150 primo. So where I'm starting off at right now, somewhere in that ballpark, you know, it's only so accurate you can get with measuring this stuff. I haven't been on a cycle in close to a year, 10 months, something like that. So that's what I'm starting off with, very low. I'll taper that up as I go. I would think that that's too aggressive coming right out of the gate. And likely what you're experiencing is an acute central nervous system stimulation from the androgens. And that's causing you to, and I've experienced this myself. When I ramp up the androgen load very quickly, my body is not ready for that. And I end up with this central nervous system stimulation where I'm all like fucking amped up. I, you know, you have this response. It could also be some sort of immune response. My guess would be that it's the androgens. The androgens are going to cause sympathetic, central nervous system drive. And you probably just came out of the gate too hard with the doses. Next time around, IMean, you're already in now, but next time around, I would probably start off a little lower and then taper up as you go. I would also be concerned that long-term that that ratio of equipoise to testosterone is going to cause some serious issues with estradiol conversion. And you're going to end up with smashed estrogen. You hear me talk about estrogen a lot. That is the hormone that is the most difficult to dial in for guys that are involved in TRT, hormone replacement and performance enhancement. And it's the one that seems to cause the most issues either way, either if you have it smashed, you feel like shit, you have problems. If you let it get too high, you feel like shit and you have a lot of problems. There is definitely a sweet spot where you want to keep estrogen dialed in. It's one of the reasons why I prefer primobolin. Primobolin seems to be less aggressive at lowering estrogen than say equipoise is, but also better with estrogen management, compared to Masteron, which doesn't seem to lower estrogen at all. It seems to act like a serum. Primobolin tends to be a bit more anabolic than Masteron, less anabolic than equipoise. I understand that in the current environment that primobolin might be harder to source. It might be a budgetary limitation, but I find that primobolin is a nicer balance of the positive effects that we're looking for along with mitigating side effects. I can run, I know on paper that equipoise is more anabolic than primobolin, but given that you can't run the doses as high without smashing your estrogen, I can run my primobolin at 30 to 40% more, or sometimes even more than that than when I could run the equipoise. I would assume that given that ratio and the increased doses that I can get away with primobolin versus equipoise, that that would cancel out any additional gains that IMight get from running equipoise. That's why I have a preference for primobolin. Primobolin also doesn't seem to be as aggressive at raisinGHemoglobin, hematocrit, and red blood cell count as equipoise. I would put equipoise in my B tier as far as safety goes. In my A tier of PEDs as far as safety versus effects, I'd probably have testosterone, primobolin, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, those would be my A tier. Maybe masteron in there. Masteron, I just, you know, I know there's been this whole masteron versus primobolin debate. I really find the differences between the two to be subtle, mainly in just how they handle estrogen is really the big difference between the two, but the differences between them are pretty subtle. And then I would put equipoise and maybe Anolvar, maybe Deca in my B tier. Maybe Deca even in the C tier because of some of the side effects with it. Another issue that you might run into with equipoise long-term is it does seem to convert to estrone E1, which is mostly inert in the male body, but it does seem to cause some psychological effects. I think a lot of the anxiety and paranoia that some guys claim to get when running equipoise, some of the other things could be from the estrone or it could just be from having your estrogen smash, which does make you feel very apathetic and sometimes emotionless and a bunch of other problems. But anyway, that's my long-winded story and lesson on equipoise and why I prefer primobolin over equipoise and masteron. I understand right now, you probably might be your only choice. And I would consider that, consider changing the ratios in future cycles, probably titrating up more slowly and just being intelligent with how you build your cycle out. All right, next question. This one's from Adam T. Adam asks, how does someone decide which bodybuilding class to aim for? I'm five foot 11. I'm trying to figure out which class my body type is best suited for because I feel like I would, that would change my whole off-season approach and scheduling. What are your thoughts? Yeah, IMean, here's my thing, Adam. With classes, what I've seen with my clients is your class sort of finds you. And there are certainly structures that are more appropriate for certain class choices. I would say early on in your journey, try a couple of different classes, see which you prefer better. I know there are guys that will argue with me that will say that you can be any class you want. It's really just a matter of how you structure your trening and nutrition and all that stuff. I just have not seen that be the case. In my example, I would say my structure better fits classic, but I couldn't even get close to the classic gap. When I was in the NPC, it used to be 224 was the classic cap for me, and then they raised it to 232. I competed at 250 on stage. You know, there's no way I'm gonna lose 25 fucking pounds without sacrificing a bunch of muscle. And for me, having to sacrifice that much muscle to make it into a weight cap just is not worth it. I just recently ran into this with another one of my clients. I'm sure he's listening right now, but he'll know who I'm talking about, when we were in classic and barely made the weight cap. And you'll know when you're better built for bodybuilding, when you're just struggling to make it into the weight cap for classic, and you look smaller. You look like you have a bunch of size you could put on. The guys that do well in classic, a lot of times are under the weight cap and look huge. I don't know if it's just bone structure, density. There's something different. I see guys in the IFBB that are in classic that are similar height to me, but I weigh more than them, but I don't look nearly as big as they do. So there's something about the structure. You know, like you take a look at the guy like Mike Sommerfeld, like how the hell does that guy make weight? Or Chris Bumstead, like how the hell do they make weight? They look massive up on stage. I would say for classic, generally what I see with classic is guys that have smaller hips, guys that have longer torsos, guys that have smaller waist, guys that tend to be lighter framed individuals do better in classic. When it comes to men's physique, men's physique for me is all about width. Men's physique is the guys that have very wide shoulders, super tiny waist, maybe not much leg development, although some of the men's physique guys now seem to be interchangeable with classic. I see a lot of the men's physique guys that are hopping back and forth or making the change from men's physique to classic. I think those two divisions are almost interchangeable at this point in modern bodybuilding. Men's physique might be a better choice for some people. I had a client this year that was in bodybuilding and was doing so-so, and then we switched him over to men's physique and guy just missed gettinGHis pro card. So there are definitely classes that fit you better. Bodybuilding, bodybuilding are just the bigger structured guys, the guys that have a hard time making weight classes, the guys that tend to be just bigger, bigger frames. IMean, like you can look at some of the dudes, like look at Jay Cutler when he was a teenager, dude was a fucking meatball. There's no way Jay Cutler would have ever been a classic physique guy, or Derek Lunsford, guys that are blockier. They just have to get fucking massive to look proportional. If you have a bigger waist, usually bodybuilders tend to be shorter guys. The guys that excel in classic and men's physique are often taller. For us taller guys, I'm a tall guy. We have to put on a pound and a half for every pound that the five foot six guy has to put on. I'm almost 6'2", just a hair under 6'2". So it's difficult. And yes, trening would be, and your off-season approach would be different if you're in a different division. For men's physique, men's physique guys, obviously leg trening's not as big of a priority. The judges now do want to see guys fill out their shorts to a certain degree. So it's not like you can't tren legs, but it's not as high of a priority. Men's physique is all about width. It's about shoulder cap. It's about back width. It's about midsection. So those would be my priorities. I would prioritize my trening around wide shoulders, wide back, tight midsection, and then everything else is sort of secondary. For bodybuilding, we need a little bit more balance. I would say bodybuilding and classic physique are going to be similar in approach as far as trening goes. As far as nutrition goes, for classic and men's physique, we need to be more careful with blowing out the midsection. Not to say that we don't want to be mindful of that with bodybuilding, but we probably don't want to push the food as hard as you would in bodybuilding. Blowing out your midsection is less of a concern in bodybuilding. A lot of the distended guts that we see in bodybuilding, I think, are just from pushing the food too much. It's not to say that we don't want a tight waist in bodybuilding, but it's a little bit less of a concern when we're just trying to overpower people. Bodybuilding really is just about being the biggest motherfucker on stage. Generally, the biggest dudes are placed in the highest. IMean, you can look at the Olympia stage. The top five guys are some of the biggest dudes. IMean, Andrew Jack's probably fucking close to 300 pounds. Samson's close to 300 pounds. IMean, Derek's shorter, but there's a lot on that frame. IMean, there's just a lot of muscle on that frame. It's a combination of shape and size. But the guys at the top are the biggest dudes, usually. Usually, pound per inch are the biggest dudes. In classic, that's a bit more limited because you're limited by a weight cap, but most of your professionals are up against the weight cap. Although, I think, from what I recall, I think Terrence was pretty far under the weight cap. I think Wesley Vissiers was five, 10 pounds under the weight cap, something like that. I don't recall exactly. So you don't necessarily need to be up against the weight cap. Men's Physique, now they're trying to encourage guys to be a little bit smaller than they were. Some of the Men's Physique guys were getting ridiculous peers back, but now they've changed the criteria for Men's Physique. So ultimately, look, do the class that you love and want to be a part of. I do feel like your class does sort of find you. For me, now that I have my Pro Card, classic has a 242 weight cap. That probably would be the one that makes the most sense for me since I wouldn't have to press very hard. I could probably run minimal amounts of PEDs and maintain that weight. IMean, I wouldn't have to press that hard, but in my heart, I'm a fucking bodybuilder. I love bodybuilding. I like doing all the poses. I like competing in bodybuilding. So I don't know. We'll see if I ever get to step on stage again. That's another question entirely. But ultimately, your heart has to be in it. I think about like a guy like Urs this past year who had to limit himself because he was so far over the cap. To me, that just takes all the fun out of bodybuilding. The most fun part of being in the sport is progression, getting better, improving, growing, taking your trening to the limit, advancing your trening. And if you're 20 pounds over the cap and you have to restrict yourself and diet all your muscle off, that just doesn't fucking sound fun to me. That takes all the fun out of it. So to me, the most fun part of the sport is progressing and improving. And if you take that away from it, I just wouldn't wanna do it. So moral of the story, your structure does play a role in what class you should be in, but ultimately do what you love. All right, next one up is from William P. We got another, man, this is the PED episode. William asks, hi, Paul. I've been in a bulking phase since August. So we're about 12 weeks into this bulking phase, it looks like. My cycle is 750 milligrams of test, 600 milligrams of Primo, 200 milligrams of Deca, and six units of GH. I'll hit 16 weeks. Towards the end of the month, I'm prepping for my first show in April of 2026. Should I cruise at 200 to 400 milligrams of test for four to six weeks before starting my prep? Or can I continue my current cycle right into prep? Assuming it makes the most sense to stop and start a cruise at the end of November, get blood work done. Last blood work was two months ago, and then I began prep. What would you recommend? I feel great, by the way. Well, the sensible approach would be to take a cruise, let your health get back down to baseline. I don't know thaT4 weeks is really a long enough cruise to really have any benefit. I think it needs to be longer for you to really get much benefit from it as far as letting your health get back to baseline, probably more like eight to 12 weeks would make more sense. But what I will tell you, there have been people, and I'm not recommending that you do this, that have been known to do the long offseason straight into prep. So my recommendation, I'm not a doctor, but if it were me, what I would do is I would go get a full health assessment. Any imaging that you're overdue for, any blood work that you need to do, go get your blood work done. Make an assessment of where you're at, discuss it with your coach. If you want to get blood work done, I have a link to Ulta Labs in my video description below. You can grab whatever blood panels you need. I would make sure that your blood work is in order and then make an assessment on what you would do. At a bare minimum, maybe lower doses. You don't have to go into a full blown cruise. You could do a bodybuilding cruise just so you're fresh for prep. Gas pedal's gonna be mashed down on prep. If you're redlined going into prep, I've generally found that the results aren't great on prep. It really depends on where your blood work is at, where your health is at. If you go into prep redlined already and you're gonna be mashing the gas pedal down even more towards the end of prep, you're just going to make things worse and compound problems and probably get on stage and look like shit. So the sensible answer would be to take a eight to 12 week cruise before going into prep. The bodybuilder, I don't give a fuck approach is a little bit different. I would make an assessment based off of blood work. Discuss it with your coach. Discuss it with your medical professional. Make an informed decision. If you're healthy, I had a situation a couple years ago where I had a very short offseason and I went straight into contest prep after my offseason. There just wasn't enough time to cruise. Now I wasn't pressing doses very high. I think I was running something like 500 tests and 300 or whatever my anabolic was. And then I went into my offseason. But that is also an alternative where you could just pull down to what would be considered a bodybuilding cruise. Like something like I'm doing right now, 300 tests, 150 primo, just enough to keep your hormones in line, not lose any tissue, wash off some fatigue and stress, give your body a break and then slide into your prep. But ultimately let your health, your blood work dictate what your approach is. Discuss it with your coach. Discuss it with your medical professional and then make an assessment then that makes sense for you. All right, next question here is from Westside Aaron. Westside asked, my cruise dose is 100 milligrams of tests going into a hypertrophy phase. I plan on increasing to 200 milligrams of testosterone and 100 milligrams of Nangelon the firsT3 weeks. Then 400 milligrams of tests and 200 milligrams of Nangelon as my cap and less more is needed. Should I titrate my food and my trening volume to peak along with the esters of the drugs at around nine weeks total? And once I in the hypertrophy phase, should I continue to push food and volume up for another three to five weeks? I look at it this way, man. When I'm progressing, there's a few knobs I can turn when it comes to progression. trening intensity, trening volume is just the stimulus for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And as we up PEDs, we up our capacity to be able to push trening a little bit harder. Food also plays a role in that as well. We know when we go into caloric deficit that we have to be more mindful of trening fatigue and recovery from trening. As we push food up, we have more of a capacity to tren hard and be able to recover from the trening. Same thing with the PEDs. So I have those two knobs that we can turn. What I do personally is if body composition is declining, I turn the PEDs up. If body composition is looking good, I'll keep cranking the food up appropriately. trening, I don't really change my trening that much from cruise to hypertrophy phase. I want to tren, and I think this is a mistake that a lot of guys make. They feel like because they have lowered the PEDs that they need to back off the trening. Granted, you don't have the same drive that you did before. A lot of that's just the androgens giving you that extra kick and the nuts, the CNS stimulation that you have. But if you can sustain trening through your cruise phase, I've found a lot of times I can continue to progress during my cruise and sometimes even make significant progress during my cruise. And some of it could be just the latent effect of the drugs dissipating over time because of how the esters play out. We know that with these PEDs that they half every, with the half-life, they're gonna, for example, an athlete's gonna half every five to seven days. DACA's probably more like eight to 10 days it's going to half, and it takes five half-lives for it to come down to baseline or to eliminate down to wherever we're at. But I let that dictate. During the cruise, I will adjust food down a little bit. I find when PEDs are lower, that body composition will take a hit if we keep the food too high. But trening is something that I really keep static most of the time. And if I feel like I'm making progress with my trening, I'll leave it alone. If I feel like I'm stuck, sometimes there might need to be an adjustment. Maybe it's food and maybe I need more food. But really we have these three knobs that we can turn. We have PEDs, we have trening, we have food that we can adjust. The food really just depends on your energy use, your body composition. If body composition, like I said, is sliding, then we need to be a little more careful with the food, maybe keep it a little more conservative. But honestly, dude, I wouldn't base your trening around your PED use at all. I keep treninGHard even when PEDs are lower. I think that's a mistake that a lot of guys end up making. And then you see them slide backwards. And I'll tell you, trening's gonna be harder when the PEDs come down because you're not gonna have that same drive. But I would keep the effort the same regardless. And just listen to your body. That's a mistake that IMade when I was younger. When it came to trening, I didn't listen to your body. Your body will tell you what you can and can't get away with. If, and know the difference between just like not feeling it like when you're on the PEDs, you have this aggression and central nervous system drive where you can push through things that you normally wouldn't push through. Know the difference between just that malaise of coming down versus actual joint connective tissue wear and tear. If your joints are beat up, your tendons hurt, then it might be time to back off a little bit. But if everything's feeling good, you're just unmotivated, that's a completely different thing. That's all mental. That's all up here. The PEDs help you push through that. I think that's why a lot of times guys will back off. That's because they just don't have that same aggression for trening that they do when they're on gear. That's my two cents. All right, next one here is from Georgie. George is following up from thEQuestion he asked. Is it, last week he asked me about, can you just tren seven days a week without ever taking a day off? My answer was, yes, it is possible. For some people, it really depends on your intensity, volume, et cetera. George is following up from his rest day question. If someone were to tren seven days a week, should one or two days be considered low days in a carb cycling diet? Or would it just be moderate and high days all week? For those of you that are not familiar with the carb cycling approach that I use, we do rotate through carbohydrate intake based on energy expenditure. Once or twice a week, we will run a high carbohydrate day where we keep fats low, protein a little bit lower, and we push the carbs super high for glycogen synthesis and to help with metabolism, stimulation in the diet phase. In an off-season phase, it's purely just glycogen synthesis. And the idea is here is that we rotate through carbs since carbs are essentially just energy. We want to use carbs intelligently to keep glycogen topped off. We don't want to spill over past that where we are into a state of burning fat. So we take a couple days a week, one to two days a week, and use those as super compensation days where we're topping off glycogen. We have low carbohydrate days, depending on the phase we're in. If we're in a diet fat loss phase or an off-season phase, low days will be adjusted accordingly in a diet or fat loss phase. Sometimes I will use those low days and take the carbohydrates down to zero. Those are usually non-trening days. We don't need as much glucose present on those days since we're inactive, we're not trening. There's not really a need. We should be topped off in glycogen from our high days. We can leverage those days in a contest prep or fat loss phase and pull the carbohydrates down really low and enhance fat burning on those days. And the idea with the medium days, it depends on what phase we're in. If we're in a fat loss phase, those medium days are generally in a slight deficit. We want enough carbohydrates in around the workout window to fuel a good workout, to keep gym performance high while having them low enough to create a deficit to burn some fat. The high days, obviously, are gonna be in a caloric surplus no matter what. But no, the answer is no. If you're, unless you're in a fat loss phase, I would just run the medium and high days throughout the week and rotate through those. The diet itself is sort of self-regulating when we're in an off-season phase. I typically, I will keep the carbohydrates around 150 grams a day. For a man, we know that that's roughly the baseline of what glucose intake we need in place for basic central nervous system function. So you can think clearly, you can be a fully functioning person unless you just wanna go straight keto, which you could do. You could shift to just, sometimes I will do that on contest prep. What I found is that 150 seems to be the baseline of carbs. And if you dip much below 150, you're better off just not eating any carbs at all. When you get down to like 75 grams or 100 grams, you just feel like dog shit. It's enough where you're not really getting into ketosis and you're kind of in this weird nether region where you just feel like dog shit. So you're better off just going to zero. But I would say if you're in a off-season, mass gaining phase that 150 grams of carbohydrates on a low day would be sufficient. And then we need to put enough in extra on the trening days where we arecompensating for the energy expenditure during trening. Another 75 grams of carbs or whatever it works out to be. We kind of have to figure your body out and figure your trening volume, your trening intensity, all these things that are going to factor in with how much energy you're going to expend during the workout. So really during a mass gaining phase, a size gaining phase, the medium days and the low days, the only real difference that's in between those two days is based off the energy expenditure associated with your lifting session. So the diet itself is sort of self-regulating. You pull the calories down from carbohydrates on non-trening days, enough to just cancel out what you would have burned during the trening. So essentially the caloric surplus or energy expenditure is, sorry, the caloric intake is going to match your energy expenditure on those given days. So the diet is a bit, is self-regulating really when we get down to the nitty gritty with it. The diet regulates itself based on your day. So I build it in that way. So off days would be low days. Regular trening days would be medium days and then one to two days a week, we use those as high days for glycogen synthesis and metabolism kick in the pants and we push a surplus on those days. Hopefully that makes sense. All right, The Class Clown Joshua P. asks, hey Paul, I've decided to become a Yokozuna. Is a diet of McDoubles in Cheesecake Factory the ultimate dreamer balk? With Trenn as the primary anabolic, of course. The answer, Josh, is yes. It's always just Trenn and McDoubles. That's the way to get your dream physique and high blood pressure and a coronary artery blockage. All right, last question on this Q&A is from Stephen K. Stephen asks, Polly Walnuts, if estradiol is crashed from EQ or Primo, can you add NPP as a third compound instead of using dbol as you suggested before to bring E2 back up? Stephen, it does seem that NPP, Nangelone does increase estrogen conversion. It does seem to have some effect on aromatase. I'm not a biochemist, I'm not 100% sure, but there does seem to be an enhanced estradiol conversion when NPP or Nangelone is in the stack. We'll see it. I've seen it over and over and over and over again. Estrogen levels are gonna be higher when you're running Nangelone alongside of testosterone. And the, probably because of the progestinic effect of the Nangelone and other downstream effects hormonally, Nangelone seems to cause more estrogen related issues. Now, is that the solution for crashed estrogen? I don't think that's the ideal one. You know, you can certainly put it in place and see what happens, get things retested. ThEQuick fix, as IMentioned before, is just running a little bit of dbol if you get yourself really smashed. HCG should be another option. Generally, what I would do is just change the ratio, long-term, change the ratio of Primobolan or Equipoise, whatever your secondary compound is, to your testosterone. You can lower those or up your testosterone or do both. And long-term, that should fix it. The issue with EQ that guys run into with EQ is it has such a lonGHalf-life. And once estrogen is smashed with EQ, you tend to be stuck for a while. As IMentioned in the earlier question on this Q&A, EQ seems to be more aggressive at lowering estradiol than Primobolan does. Primobolan is a nice middle ground. Primobolan is my preferred anabolic. I tend to run it because it seems to be gentler on estrogen. But for those of us that are high estradiol converters, it is aggressive enough that it will pull that estrogen back down into range. Typically, I find when I run it, it's something like 60% of my testosterone dose. It pulls me nicely at the top end of the reference range. Equipoise, on the other hand, at 50% of my testosterone dose, even then, it will bring my estrogen down pretty low. It is definitely more aggressive at lowering estrogen than Primobolan is. So that's just something that you have to keep in mind when you're running it. I know all the old school bodybuilders, I remember back in the early 2000s, the cycle that everybody loved to fucking run, and it sort of makes sense now because we didn't understand the effects of all this stuff like we do now, was testosterone, Equipoise, and DECA. And what I used to see guys would do, they would run something like a Gramatase 600, 600 EQ and 300 DECA. That was the old school way of getting to them. Maybe some D-Ball or Anadrol sprinkled in here and there. That was the old school bodybuilding get huge cycle. I will say that DECA, Nandrolon was my favorite one for adding size, but it is sort of spin the wheel with side effects as you get older. I can't really use it anymore. It just causes too much problems. The juice isn't worth the squeeze anymore. Same thing with the orals, maybe sprinkle them in here and there, but as I've gotten older, orals just don't agree with me well. Ideally, in an ideal world, if you're having issues with crushed estrogen, you really just want to get that ratio of estradiol to your secondary compound. Dialed in is where your estrogen is going to be in range. I would say the safer approach would be to start off lower with your secondary anabolic, the ratio lower. You can always increase it if estrogen is too high, but start off lower, and then use that there. If you start off too high as the guy in the previous question, it seems like he has his EQ too high compared to his testosterone. It's hard to backtrack from. And I've made that mistake before. And then you get stuck with a period of six, eight weeks where you're fucked and you feel like shit because your estrogen's crashed. You gotta be, I would say it's easier to go up than it is to go down when you are talking about correcting mistakes. So I would start off low with things and go from there and see how your body responds, get blood work done. You can get the blood work done and see what you look like. I have my cycle cheat sheet if you want to pick that up over on anabolicbodybuilding.com. It's 30 bucks. And I show you how to properly structure cycles and mitigate side effects. It's a simple, easy to follow thing. If you want to grab that, there's a link in the video description. You can go over there, but I'll show you how to do it. But that's generally how I deal with it. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of you. You guys are awesome. Even the haters. I still get a few haters here and there. I love you guys too. You need a hug more than the rest of us. The haters get love too. Rock on, see you guys on the next episode.