 warning, warning, naringin, kidnaz, naringin, kidnaz, naringin, kidnaz, naringin, kidnaz, naringin, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey Jim Bros, it's Big Paul. I'm here today, I'm going to talk about my wacky transformation, how I was broken, how I was broken, fat, I felt like a real piece of shit, I'll be honest with you. I was really at a low point in my life. You'll see the picture up here, I have it displayed, but this was me. I was on vacation with my kids at Disney World. This was probably the worst I've ever looked in my entire life. It was probably a low point mentally where I was at. I was just a broken man at this point. And I decided sometime after that that I was going to take control of my life and get things back on track. I was going to get in shape. I was going to do some things to make myself successful. Get my personal relationship straightened out. There just was a lot of stuff going on at that time. I, this is not your typical before and after video. I'm going to talk about mindset for success, how you achieve success. And not just in bodybuilding, but just in life in general. I'll talk about a little bit about my journey about getting in shape. Well, I'll delve into that a little bit, but mostly I'm going to focus on the mindset, what it takes to get yourself from broken back to the top of the mountain. We'll talk about that in just one second. That picture was from 2016. This was definitely a low point for me. I was, man, I was a mess back then. I let myself get fat. It's really embarrassing looking back at that picture. I'll be honest with you. I wasn't going to post this. I kind of had buried this in my phone and never wanted to remember what that moment felt like. And I showed one of my clients recently, my client Mike, and he's getting ready to start contest prep. And, you know, some nerves and stuff about contest prep. So it's his first time on stage. And I wanted to inspire him a little bit. And I showed him a picture of how awful I looked and where I got to. And not to sweat it, you know, things, things are going to be great. And he's like, dude, you got to share this with people. You got to show people this. This is crazy. I can't even believe that's the same guy. Honestly, I can't even believe that's the same guy. I, my life is so different now than what it was. I said six years ago, it was six and a half years ago, I guess it was, but it was 2016. The summer of 2016, that picture was taken in. It really was a low point for me. I was just in a bad, bad spot then. My marriage was unhappy. It was, I was in a toxic relationship that was really going down south. My ex-wife and I are on better terms now. We really have, have kind of repaired things and gotten on better terms. But at that point it was very toxic. We didn't need to be together, but I was having a hard time coming to terms with it. I needed to end my marriage. Her and I had been together for something like 16, 17 years. It was really, it was a lot of time invested into one person. I wasn't where I wanted to be at professionally. I had a lot of business success in my twenties. I lost my business. Things went down the toilet and I took a job at a company, which I'm still at. I love this company immensely. They've been very good to me over the years, but I just wasn't happy, happy professionally. I had been on the top of the world before and I kind of have relegated myself to a secondary role. And, and not to sound arrogant, but I felt like I had more to contribute. I, you know, and just, I was depressed. I was depressed. I was anxious. I wasn't working out. I had gotten fat. My eating habits were absolutely horrific. I mean, I, I think at one point my cholesterol, my total cholesterol was up to like 500, something insane like that. I mean, it was bad. I was sitting on my ass doing nothing and eating pizza and ice cream all the time. And I had worked my way up to something like 295, 300 pounds, something like that. It wasn't the 300 pounds I was in my twenties when I was power lifting and bodybuilding. I also went to my, I don't remember when it was, but I went to my class reunion. I think it was my, was it my 25th? I don't remember. Uh, I'm dating myself here, but I saw a girl that I knew when I was younger and she looked at me and she goes, didn't you used to be a bodybuilder? And I, that, that really like, that was like a stab in the heart that I just, I was just so embarrassed and ashamed of myself where I had let myself go. It was just, it was really a low point to be honest with you, to be transparent with you. It was a really, really bad spot in my life. And, um, I decided to take control and to get myself back in shape that I was not going to allow myself to, to, to be this guy anymore. I was going to, I, I've always been a hard worker in my way of getting myself out of bad situations. It's just to put my head down, put on my hard hat and just go to work. Feeling sorry for yourself gets nothing done. Um, you know, uh, making excuses gets nothing done. We all have shit that happens to us that we can't control. You got to put on the hard hat and you got to go to work and you got to try to get more wins than losses. You're not going to be perfect all the time. I certainly have not been perfect. It's been six years since then, but I have gotten my six and a half years. I have gotten my life in a much better place since then. I started up the, my, my coaching business, which is going really well. I started up the YouTube channel, which is going well. It's been successful beyond my expectations. Um, I am in an executive position at my, my day job, which has gone extremely well. We've been very successful. You know, I got a divorce. I found myself a partner that is very supportive and both emotionally and with my goals. And that has been extremely transformative. When you have, when you're with somebody that's in a bad place, I, you can't be the best version of yourself. If your relationships are toxic, whether that's friendship, whether that's business, uh, whether that's personal, you know, a love relationship. If you have toxic people in your life or people that are in a toxic phase, I really had to take a step back and reinvent myself. It was really hard. I'm telling you, it was extremely difficult at 43 years old. I think it was in that picture. I looked like shit. I felt like shit. I was embarrassed. I was ashamed of myself. Uh, I was anxious. I was depressed. I had no idea what I was going to do. I left my wife. My wife, my wife and I, well, we mutually agreed to split up, I guess I should say, uh, you know, so there was new relationships. There was venturing into being a single parent. There was venturing into new responsibilities and increased responsibilities with my job. Uh, there, I had the goal of doing a bodybuilding contest. That was, my first goal really was just to lose the fat. I got with Dr. Todd, uh, who you've seen on my show with me, but Dr. Todd really helped me a lot. Helped me get to a point, um, where I was back in shape. And, um, then, you know, for, for various reasons, mainly because I just wanted to learn about carb cycling. I went to work with, with Justin afterwards. Um, but I'm still very, very good friends with Dr. Todd. He, I, he was very influential in my, in my change. I have to give him a lot of credit for it. He was, he helped me a lot. And he was, you know, I remember when I was struggling with my relationship, he just picked up the phone and called me. He didn't have to do that. You know, it's just little things, you know, that, um, you know, positive people in your life, having positive people that have accomplished things in your life goes a long way. I had to remove some friends from my life that were toxic. I, I, I did. I had to make some changes. I had to make some changes. So what I did in the lesson that I can impart on you guys is there is a lot of obstacles along the way. These last six years, everybody thinks it's just a smooth trajectory up to achieving a goal or having some success at something. I'm not saying, you know, I'm Tony Robbins. I'm not going to give you some inspirational BS that, you know, the same have a positive attitude and you'll do great. I know a lot of positive people that are, that accomplish absolutely nothing. So being positive is great. And all I, I think I'm a relatively positive person, but I know a lot of do nothing positive people. A positive attitude alone is not going to accomplish your goals. But the lesson that I can impart on you is just putting on that damn hard hat and working your butt off every single day. I, grinding when you don't want to grind, uh, going to work when you don't want to go to work, eating that chicken when you'd rather eat a candy bar, uh, saying no to toxic friends. I mean, that's hard to do saying no to stupid time wasting stuff like watching TV and playing tons of video games. I still make time for recreation. I'm not going to tell you that I don't. I'll play a video game here and there. I'll watch TV here and there, but I make sure my work is done. And that the little things that I need to check off on my boxes to accomplish my goals, those are done for the day. Then I reward myself. And those of you that follow Jocko Wilnick, I think he talks about discipline leading to freedom. And that is very true. The more disciplined you are in your life, the more structured you are, the more you stick to a plan, the more freedom you actually have, because you'll have financial success. You'll have security. You'll have, um, emotional security, not just financial security, but you'll have emotional security, knowing that things are done and taken care of. When you have that worry in the back of your head, it just eats at you. Nothing ever goes perfect. I had so many speed bumps along the way over these last six years. I had multiple surgeries. I had my ACL replaced. I had a tumor in my neck. I had to get removed. I don't know if you can see it, but giant scar. Right across here. I had to have my salivary. I had a tumor in my salivary gland. So they took my salivary gland and all my lymph nodes out. Um, I had a melanoma, you know, just, you know, all these things that would make somebody quit and give up. I, I had, um, I had, um, I had a, you know, uh, a tummy tuck and had a bleed afterwards. And I ended up having to have emergency surgery for that because I had a gigantic hematoma and lost a ton of blood. I've been injured. I've been hurt. I've had a bunch of obstacles. Obstacles. I've been single parenting, but it's just been a bunch of stuff along the way. But I just got up every day and I put in the work. I showed up to the gym. I weighed and measured my food. I did not take days off work. Literally. I did not take a single day off work when I had COVID. Um, the first time around, I was running 103 degree temperature and I did my work. I took some naps. I got in there. You know, I took partial days off, but I got up. I got up every day and made some sort of progress every day. Even in the worst day, you can make some sort of progress. You can, you can, you can do something. Whether, you know, it's answering a few emails. It's, you know, sitting down, writing down your goals, uh, planning for stuff. You, every single day, there's something that you can do. Just not making excuses for yourself. So many people make excuses for themselves. So many people want to blame others for their shortcomings. Blaming other people in being a victim doesn't get anything done. I know there are people that have shit circumstances and that have unfortunate things happen to them. Believe me, I've had some unfortunate things happen to me. I've, I've, and, and stuff, you know, just gets in the way. But you can't control those unfortunate events. But what you can control, what you can control is how you respond to those events. How you react to those events. How you handle them emotionally. And another thing I want to impart on people is that voice in your head is powerful. The self-talk, the voice in your head, whether you, um, you know, you can talk yourself in and out of stuff. You can see my dog. He wants, he wants to get in here. He likes positive self-talk too. Isn't that right, Max? Um, but that positive self-talk can have a huge impact on, on how you, you know, this is where the positive thing, you can talk yourself into things and you can talk yourself out of things. That voice in your head is very, very powerful. And you have to learn how to control that voice in your head. It's the one that tells you that, Hey, I should just eat that candy bar instead of eating the chicken and rice. Or, Hey, you deserve this break. You shouldn't have to work today. Just take the day off and chill out and do nothing. Or you can use that voice to tell yourself, keep working, keep pushing, keep doing better. You know, so it's a powerful, powerful tool, learning how to control that voice in your head. The inter voice, the inner voice, the self-talk that is incredibly important to learn how to control. And I can't stress that enough for all of you. Summon this all up guys. What I can impart on you is work hard, get up every day, put on your hard hat. Don't make excuses for yourself. Don't feel sorry for yourself. Don't worry about the stuff that you can't control. You, they, they, I think that it's the 90, 10 rule. I think they call it. I don't remember. It was some motivational book I read one time, but 10% of things that happen in life. You just can't control, but you can control how you react to those. The 90% you can control. You can control your planning. You can control how you react to things. Uh, you can control how hard you work. Those are things that you can control. Unforeseen things, health things that happen, or just life curve balls that happen. Those you can't control. So you just don't focus on those things. Uh, another thought I want to share with you real quick is how, when this, this is something that I've noticed in you, if you set, take a step back and think about it, how certain people always have bad luck and they attract bad luck. It's how they think they're, they're, they're constantly thinking negatively about everything. And I'm not saying that, you know, being a positive thinker, you're just going to manifest stuff from, from the ether. The way you manifest stuff from the ether is to work your butt off. But if you automatically assume that nothing's going to work and you talk yourself out of even trying, that is a problem. All right, guys, let me know what you think in the comment section below. I appreciate each and every one of you. Uh, tell me about your journey. I want to hear from you. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.