 theseviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia to be here so looking forward to this well I'm not so big Paul compared the JP in his prime yeah what were you on stage in your prime oh European tours when uh when I was it was what I want 280 280 holy crap man Olympia 272 275 around there so offseason you had to been over 300 then right well 300 I was pretty much ready I just didn't know how to get that on stage the right way you know so uh yeah I was anywhere I looked very good with 310 320 I didn't look so good with 340 you know so yeah somewhere around there I can't imagine walking around 340 pounds it's got to be miserable well thank god I was young you know but yeah it was definitely too much you know you sweat like a pickle there you go you know it's just uh you go home you put your feet up and the fan in your face so it's not something I would do again if I could redo things you know so I remember I saw guess uh Dorian Gaspos in southern Spain with 320 the guy didn't have any fat on him you know he had striation in his back although it's mostly genetics you know you see that sometimes guys you know where guys have it on their legs or on their backs doesn't matter how much water they carry around so uh we were all in competition with Dorian unfortunately back then uh it was kind of the guy we were uh trying to emulate and uh and beat so I thought okay if he's 320 I go 340 stupid you know it's just absolutely stupid so I remember I had a guy coming to my house with 340 from a smaller German magazine to take a picture in front of my house uh when I saw that picture it just hit me what the hell are you doing you know it's too much you know it's turning more into a butcher kind of competition here it's not bodybuilding anymore and then the massive amount of food you know it started to alter my physique not to the better you know you've seen it at the end of people's careers you know with Dorian with Ronnie it's just it's just start to look all a little different yeah yeah I can't imagine the amount of food that you have to eat to to maintain a physique that size I mean it's still it's still funny they didn't eat as much as when I was very very young I had phases when I was very very young 20 21 where I had like 8 000 calories a day uh mostly like you know back then it was the crash white gainer number eight some kind of crappy product from weeder probably full of sugar uh at the height of my career it was usually like 55 5600 calories so it wasn't all that bad really yeah I mean that's not crazy that's that's about what I what I get up to in my off seasons uh I I mean I can't I I don't know I think it was 280 at 280 285 at the peak how tall are you I'm 6'1 right around 6'1 so yeah but I this I mean at my age I don't know how smart it is carrying that kind of weight oh it's probably not you know yeah but I'm going to make one or two runs at masters uh at the masters pro card and see what happens and then after that I'm downsizing I don't want to carry around that kind of weight but yeah that's insane man I I just you know I can't imagine being that big what that feels like and now like guys are more aware of it some of the health repercussions like I don't think anybody paid attention to their blood pressure or sleep apnea or any of that stuff back in the 90s uh I kind of disagree oh you guys were oh blood pressure was a big big issue really yeah I never heard anybody talk about it until re in the last 10 years or so oh yeah I I checked blood pressure regularly uh red blood cells that kind of stuff um sleep apnea probably less yeah and what was your blood pressure like at that weight 140 over 100 yeah that's not too bad I mean that's all things considering yeah yeah and did you guys run any blood pressure meds back then to help with that I didn't I didn't I mean I when I took a lot of GABA before sleeping uh you know the amino acid GABA uh my blood pressure could be it was often very good in the morning 120 over 80 you know even 110 over over 75 uh without the GABA was a little bit more difficult so it definitely got me into a kind of longer m3 phase overnight so I I was conscious of and I was very aware that I can die of this oh absolutely and I never you know shared that opinion which you heard maybe more back then than now maybe not I'm not sure I don't care you know if I die on stage as long as I look good whatever you know I would I would trade my life for a Mr. Olympia title absolutely I never had that attitude not even close well I know a lot of guys do and still do yeah yeah so I took breaks you know of the cycles I took one longer break every year at least when I didn't compete twice a year so I was very very aware and then we had people dying you know right around us you know like Frank Hillebrand yeah I remember Momo Momo's a little different from diuretics but we were very aware of the problem yeah it seems like a lot of the guys escaped pretty healthy I mean Dorian still seems pretty healthy um but you know they all downsized yeah we never talked Dorian is going to be this healthy 60 year old but he is kind of a a hippie health freak yeah yeah yeah we're doing his yoga and all that stuff totally totally changed his ways and that's good for him yeah and what do you weigh now uh I'm a slightly overweight so I'm I'm very healthy good blood pressure everything perfect when I'm 230 okay uh yeah right now I'm 243 244 you know my wife cooks so good it's just sometimes a little tough yeah and I love the food you know I just love good food but I have to be careful so I do a lot of cardio a lot of sprints not really into working out so I usually uh take the bike to the gym and when I can you know Palm Springs is a little difficult during the summer now we have 110 20 degrees here and then I do five six sprints on the bike on the way here and sometimes I get to the gym and I don't feel like working out anymore that's not that important to me you know but I make sure of the cardio I go to the cardiologist once a year uh it's not a guarantee that I'm uh escaped kind of uh from all of this but it looks pretty good as of now you know and you still uh you still I mean so you're not weight training a whole lot or you still do some three times a week that's a half before but you know we're really just clowning around it's not like you know compared to our workouts or a real workout like you do it probably you can't call that a workout yeah it's me and my body in my english body you know he's a tech guy so it's really yeah it's not that much oh you're a tech guy no no my my body is a tech guy oh so you know we have sometimes like the laziest workouts and he looks at me and he says like wow this was freaking great okay I'm glad you like it so uh like I said that's not that important but the cardio part is important to me yeah the cardio definitely gets more important as you get older I have definitely neglected that part over the years but it's um it seems like a lot of guys do but it it's funny how many older bodybuilders just kind of get burnt out on training and they just kind of move away from it I don't even know that dorian really lifts anymore I I've even further than that I didn't find it attractive that is the weird part I don't even find it find it to look good on an older guy but that's personally knowing I have some athletes I train and when they check in I have a guy he's very great he's top two top three over 60 in the country amateur level and I look at it and says it's just kind of like a a young man sport you know it's just uh it's very hard to make the the ass the lower abs and all this stuff look good I mean the guy looks fantastic but I don't want to look like that I really don't not even would it be uh with less work involved you know how much work it takes even if I could just walk around like that with minimum of work I wouldn't want it you know it's just not kind of how I see a physique should look like in their 50s and 60s and when did you start how old were you when you started lifting I had two starts pretty much lifting uh with eight nine I became very interested in lifting uh it had to do with a lifeguard in our local pool the guy was up till today one of the most talented bottlers I've ever seen uh Roger Albrecht he was middleweight uh Swiss champion a guy could have been at the Olympia me like so many you know he was so talented and I was very very impressed but I wasn't allowed to join the gym so you know we had this homemade devices my grandfather gave me some stuff but nothing really happened you know like push-ups and don't have uh don't have stuff like that but nothing really happened there's just a skinny kid with relatively good legs from playing soccer with uh 15 on my 15th birthday was my first official workout and right away I had a great plan you know so the light heavyweight Swiss champion did the instruction and had a professional plan right from the beginning on uh I was kind of very early in talking how important food is I ordered the vitamins the proteins from Germany so I didn't really waste any time as I was 15 I wanted to look like the guys up on the wall you know so uh in that regard I made tremendous progress right away I was on stage with 16. It seems like all the guys that are successful on bodybuilding start early they start 15 16 years old is when when they start lifting I think Ronnie was a little older Dennis I mean Ronnie was a football player that's a little different uh I think Dennis Dennis Dennis was a chubby kid started with like 19 or so yeah I think I was I'm trying to think when I started lifting I was 18 or 19 of course I was obsessed with Arnold Schwarzenegger like everybody else was at that time yeah absolutely I remember reading his encyclopedia bodybuilding and uh trying his workout routine and I didn't make any progress he left out the part about d-ball in the in the did you ever see his book uh in German it was called the life as a bodybuilder no I don't think much much earlier that was like my bible yeah no I don't think I saw that one that one really really showed it showed you the Arnold kind of the way I see him still now when he talked about the crazy workouts in the woods when they were loading up the you know the weights and went to the woods and did squats for two hours and uh that was my bible that book you have to see if I can find that one I love all these old bodybuilding books I dad and I remember uh reading uh I was younger I remember reading Dorian Yates his blood and guts book as well that was that was pretty interesting what what I mean how did you train what was your style of training at first we all trained the same I mean in where I lived it was a pyramid style four exercises four sets okay pretty much we all trained the same Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday often uh Friday Saturday Sunday often Monday Tuesday all trained the same uh it all worked pretty well actually uh my shoulders were the only body part shoulders triceps triceps genetic genetics and my shoulders were the only body part which was really really stubborn and I didn't quite understand why you know I trained chest, triceps Monday, back biceps, rear shoulders Tuesday, and then legs and shoulders for some reason on Wednesday. So I pretty much had, if you consider the Monday workout chest, I had chest, chest is like a shoulder workout in a way, you know, especially with all the bench press we did back then. So I pretty much trained shoulders on Monday and Wednesday. I didn't really find anything wrong with it. Everybody trained it like that. And until I saw a program of Ron Love. Ron Love had beside Lee Haney the best shoulder-chest combo, you know, in the world. And what I remember, he trained chest and shoulders together. So he explained it with, well, you know, you're already so warmed up and so ready to go when the shoulders start. You don't need much. You need five, six sets. So I started to do chest, shoulders together, and that was just pure explosion after that. You know, everything worked just great after that. It's interesting. You look at the guys from the 70s. There was definitely something different with training. They didn't have big shoulders back then like the guys in the 90s. Bench press is to be blamed for it. Yeah. We killed bench press, bench press, bench press again and bench press again. And then beside the bench press day, you had the shoulder day, you know. So you were not even recovered from the bench press when you went to shoulders. I seen guys doing shoulders on the day, and the next day I saw them bench press in the gym. It was just hopeless overtraining, in my opinion, when it came to shoulders, you know, besides not having probably some of the supplements we have today to recover. But I think the overtraining was a big part of that. Yeah, overtraining and probably not access to some of the machines that we have now. There's definitely some different tools. I mean, everything was barbell and dumbbell, probably, for the most part. Cables. I cannot disagree with you here again. I love the Nautilus line. Oh, yeah, the Nautilus stuff. Yeah, I actually worked at Nautilus when they were still open. That's where I started out training. But they did have some great machines, some of those old chain-driven machines. It was often – we had machines, especially when you went to a bigger gym in the city or so. But it was – you got to do free weights. That was the whole – you know, free weights are better, which I, of course, heavily disagreed today. That was part of the reason. And how are you training, like, your clients now? What sort of routine do you have them do now? What is your philosophy on training at this point? I changed a few years in. I started realizing – I started like that because that's where I'm still at today. I started realizing that with the four sets per exercise, I never realized the first few years that you're just kind of holding back a little bit, holding back a little bit. And then there were four sets where you kind of went all out. So, in that sense, was it really four sets? It's kind of probably not. And I also didn't realize so much back then, also for the reason that everything grew kind of well, that certain body parts might need more training than others. So, pretty early in, I would say, in 93, I started with a system where I cut the workouts in half. So, it was more two sets per exercise. And so, I did Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, all the basics. Okay. Chest, shoulders, back, arms, and then leg on one day. Then I took a day, a day or two off. And then I spent two days on weaknesses where I felt like I need improvements. So, the first three days, I did very heavy weights, mostly 8 to 12 reps. And then at the end of the week, I did more of a pump kind of 15, 20 reps. Okay. So, you were getting both then? Yeah. Yeah. It was kind of explained to me back then about different muscle fibers and different way of training. And it was kind of tough at first to get away from the Arthur Jones theories. You know, 8 to 12 is the way to go, 8 to 12. But I had very good success with pumping, you know, at the end of the week. And then the workout 5 and 6 at the end of the week kind of changed, you know, depending on after a few months. It's like, I need a little bit more here. So, I changed those a little bit. But the first three, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, stayed fairly the same. And even today, I have a fairly similar kind of way of training with my clients. I do a little bit more reps. And, you know, today, I think it's just not, especially when you train older guys, you know, the 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 reps, it can be quite dangerous. And, you know, once you get injured, every progress stops. But I'm kind of still there covering the body and then work on weaknesses later in the week. Yeah, I definitely, you talk about training for the older guys, I have definitely changed how I train as I've gotten older. I have the rep scheme higher than what I did. I'd say most pretty much like compound exercises. I'm more in the 10 to 12 rep range now. I'm sort of the auxiliary stuff, probably more like 15. And I've done pretty well with that. And it's, you know, if you're injured, as you said, you can't progress. And it's definitely, there's a higher risk of injury as you get older. So I steer away from the higher risk exercises and just try to keep myself in the gym at this point. But even if I could go back in time, it's not too much in that regard I would change. There's a, you know, the last rep, we just have this attitude kind of that either a workout partner has to help you, you know, kind of, or you really have to collapse. I don't see that quite like that anymore. I mean, I maybe would back off a little bit in that regard. Like, for example, when we did the squats Monday morning, we had the squat rack ready. And we did not finish if we could, the set, if we could put the weights back in, you know, only if you collapsed on the rack, you know. So, yeah, there was some days with lower back pain and stuff like that, which maybe weren't necessary. But other than that, I wouldn't really change too much in that regard. Yeah. I mean, that was the 90s attitude. You weren't done unless you collapsed. Yeah. Yeah. It's funny. You don't see many people like I, it's always a rant for me, but I go into the gym. I don't really see that many people train hard anymore. It's really weird. Yeah. Most people, but I do, you know, there is a threshold of where, you know, it can become counterproductive. So, it's a balance. I mean, look, I would say I trained like Dorian minus one rep, one or two. I mean, Dorian went beyond, beyond, you know. I mean, he's somewhat of set there, but he has some regrets when it comes to that. You know, he told me once I could have won 10 of those things, you know. Probably. With, you know, at the end, everything kind of fell apart with him. Yeah. And I saw Ronnie train around 2001, 2002 quite a bit on guest pausing and things. I don't know if he purposely trained a little bit lighter when he was traveling. That's possible. But I didn't see any of that crazy shit like I see on those videos, you know. So, he was not having a workout partner. I mean, Ricky Gates, his partner, was working out with him. But I didn't see any of like reaching in and three more and two more. And I didn't see any of that. But it's also possible that when he traveled, although one time I saw him training daily or twice a day, every day in Hawaii. And it gave me some pause about how I trained, you know. So, I would definitely probably train a little bit lighter if I could go back in time. It's certainly possible that Ronnie was just showing off of the camera, too. So, there is that. His body looks like there was definitely some crazy stuff and heavyweight in it. But that's not how I saw it when I saw him train. Yeah. I mean, he's legendary for being... Ronnie, from what I understand, not only trained heavy, but also did a lot of volume, too. So, he's just sort of an anomaly. It's easy. It's the freak. And then every body part twice a week. Yeah. Yeah. You don't see many people do high volume, high intensity, and high frequency like that. That just... Most people would break. Yeah. I guess he eventually did. So, yeah. That's the... Well, that was 20 years into his career. You know, the guy had a very, very long career. I think that was the main issue why he totally fell apart at the end. You know, he was a successful bodybuilder in the early 90s when he won the World Championships, 91. Yeah, something like that. Yeah. So, it's pretty crazy. And then all the way up to 2006. I mean, that's a long time. Yeah. I mean, he had a long career. It's... There's some guys now, though. It seems like guys now seem to last a lot longer. You know, of course, guys like Dexter Jackson and then... Oh, God. What's his name? Kamal Ergani. These guys that are just still looking great. Did you ever see Dexter train? I heard he trained really light. Oh, it's like what I saw. I saw him training at Venice. It's more power to him if you can make things work like that. I don't think I had the genetics to train this light and just... Yeah. You know. Or then again, you know, I'm not going to say I know exactly how he trained if I go to Venice three times a year for a few days. So, it's not quite that I've seen him all year long. But, I mean, that's really smart if you can do that, grow like that and, you know, have that longevity. I mean, that's great. And it's possible, too. I mean, this is something I've always speculated about, that it's not as... You don't have to go as hard to maintain once you hit a certain point that maybe the training was different on the way up. You know, it's the same thing with the PEDs, too. Like, I think guys don't realize once you hit a certain point that it doesn't take as much to maintain as it does to push... No, they always say, though. So, back in the days that, like, a flex wheeler doesn't train hard. I saw a very young flex wheeler doing pretty crazy stuff in the gym. Like, you know, 445 plates on the side, inclined bench press, and guys are screaming at each other when he trained with Chris and Paul Dillette, Charles Glass. And especially then also in 99, I trained pretty much always at the same time. He trained exceptionally hard. So, I don't know exactly, you know, where people think he didn't train hard. You know, I didn't train Dorian hard, but nobody did. Yeah, nobody trained like Dorian. Dorian was a one-of-a-kind. Yeah. I mean, the only person I heard of that sort of had the reputation of not training hard and got great results was Paul Dillette. Yeah. I'd always heard those stories. The guy just barely went through the paces. Yeah. Just a genetic mutant. Mostly, like, liquid food. And, yeah, I saw him training quite a bit, 95, 96. But then 94, it was before I was still amateur. 94, he was really, really good. Even his poses kind of hit, you know, and then kind of all kind of went away. And he just looked good in the lineup. Yeah, it was weird with him. I don't even know that he trains or anything. You don't hear from him anymore at all. I don't even know where he's at now. Well, he's president of this WBF. Is he? Yeah, I didn't know that. Some kind of federation, but there's a lot of accusations about corruption and pieces of that from Paul. You know, that the girls who win, you know, kind of deserve it. Let's put it this way. Yeah, yeah. I've heard that stuff, too. Yeah. As far as nutrition goes, what is your philosophy on nutrition? So, I knew from early on that fats are fairly important. I also looked better with somewhat higher fats, lower carbs. Okay. But then, once I started working with insulin, mid-90s, I just kind of had half a day, more fats, medium carbs, medium protein. I was never big into protein. It always seemed like my kidneys were kind of overspilling if I went up to 4, 450. So, I mostly in off-season did like 350 grams of protein. And then, during the time of the day where I didn't use insulin, I did a little bit more fat. And then, around the workout, when I used insulin, I was just doing carbs and protein. I think the major mistake I made, I felt kind of like what kind of carbs I'm eating doesn't really matter. You know, so, it looked okay. If I make the bread myself, I can just eat a ton of bread. I did not even recognize, really, the difference between pasta and rice. So, I was a huge pasta eater. And I think it started to inflame my gut. Right. You know, that kind of eating. So, I got away with it the first five years, maybe, until 90. I remember, 98, I saw a picture, first day of my diet, where it was suddenly, I mean, totally lean in the stomach, but bloated up, really bloated, obviously a little fat. And I think it was mostly because of wrong food choices. So, food became kind of my enemy here. Yeah, a lot of times, that gluten, like, you can get away with it when you're younger. And then, just as you age, you've got to be more and more careful with your food choices. I've definitely noticed that as I've gotten older. It's pretty much, for me, it's pretty much rice anymore for my carbohydrates. So, it's absolutely the best you can do. And especially, certain times, I train twice a day. So, I used insulin twice a day. And we didn't have quite short-acting insulins as now, you know, which, you know, you can do insulins for one or two hours. Back then, it was five, six hours, Humaloc. I don't even know if Humalyn R, I think it was called. Yeah, Humalyn R, yeah. Yeah, then when I did it twice a day, quite a bit of carbs came together on days like that, you know. It could easily be that I ate two big portions of pasta a day. That was a mistake. Yeah, and you don't see the guys. It seems like less, though, I would say. Now, people have sort of figured out the big gut thing and how to control it. But I speculate that a lot of it was just visceral fat and just poor food choices. Well, you had absolutely nothing to do with growth hormones like it's sometimes said. You know, absolutely nothing to do with it. There was a guy in Germany who wrote a book about growth hormones with my picture without the face on the title. And at the end, it turned out that that picture came out. That looked so miserable because of a sports hernia. So, yeah, I wish I could have sued the guy. But it was purely food. I remember that phase when it really started to be visible. It was the prep for the 98 Arnolds. The first time, 97, I looked really good at the Olympia. I screwed up the European tour, but I looked really good at the Olympia. Placed fifth in the finale. It was only seventh overall. But, you know, the people were really good. You know, Lee Priest placed in his absolute best shape. Placed sixth. 98. Had hardly a break after 97. Went into the diet for 98. It was pretty much dieting since 93. Where I did every year one or two shows. And suddenly, I had absolutely no motivation. The very, very first time. And I was considered to be one of the two or three favorites for the Duvinda Arnolds. Flex then won the Arnolds in a pretty great shape. But Flex really struggled 96, 97. You know, 96, he wasn't very good. 97, he had the famous ninja. I don't know if you remember incidents where he didn't compete at all. Where he claimed ninjas attacked him so he couldn't compete. No, I didn't know about that. Nobody knew where he's 98. And I thought we probably can beat Flex. And then it's between Nasser and I. And I could not get motivated. I could not get motivated. This was gone. And then almost every morning or at least four times a week, I went to this breakfast buffet.  aromasin.viaviavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia see at the Arnold's 98, the very first time that my stomach was just too big. So I placed only fourth. I was clearly the third best athlete there, but there's a few judges who were just really bothered the way I controlled my midsection. So it came absolutely from those food orgies and not from anything else. Yeah. I mean, if it were, you know, people always blame the growth hormone, but if it was actual organ growth, people would still have the large guts when they retire and they don't, they go away. Yeah. Yeah. And I didn't have, I didn't take that much growth hormones really, you know, for several reasons. It was extremely expensive. It was $250 a day in Switzerland just for four units. You had the chance to buy growth hormones from Russia, which I only did once from not synthetic growth hormones. It was a little cheaper, but it was very, very expensive. And when I started growth hormones, I never took growth hormones to become a pro. I started growth hormones and then you kind of, you do it and you have all those high expectations, but you can't really tell, does it really work? Does it not work? You know, and you think, okay, if it's just a few percent, it sure works. But I was never really convinced that that did a lot. I would be curious to see a hypothetical, how it would look like without GH. Yeah. It's very subtle thing. And you'll see the guys now, like I talked to some of the pros now and they run a ton of it. Like I hear guys frequently running 18 units a day. I mean, that's not uncommon hearing guys running crazy amounts. And I bet, you know, I'm sure back then nobody was running anywhere close to that, but just because of the cost, cost would have been too. I think in the, in the eight, the eighties, um, bodybuilders, still any, uh, period. I think most of them were not even on it. Yeah, no, it wasn't around then. It was, it was, I don't think synthetic hormone was manufactured until the late, late days. They did have the, they did have the non-synthetic ones. Yeah. The Crest Cormone. Yeah. That stuff that ends up giving you a mag cow disease, basically rot your brain out. It could happen. Yeah. Yeah. It could happen. That was the rumor that would happen to Lyle Alzado. I don't know if that was true or not, but. Well, it's chances very slow, but low, but I do, it was one who actually got it, but he wasn't a bodybuilder. Yeah. I mean, that stuff was dangerous, but I don't, you know, what were guys running with growth hormone back then? I had always heard like, maybe like four or six units, something like that. I never did more than four ever. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, absolutely. I mean, it was high quality, good stuff. You know, it was pharmaceutical, but never did more than four. And, and I, I stopped when I stopped the cycle, you know, it was usually 12 weeks and then I stopped the GH as well, you know, never longer on that than that. Yeah. And I think, you know, I hear these crazy doses that people talk about taking now. And I know there were some guys back then that were pushing things really high, like, uh, NASA and stuff, but I think a lot of it now is just the cheap, crappy underground, uh, PEDs that people take. I, the real pharmaceutical grade stuff that people had back then you didn't have to run as much. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, we had really high quality, good stuff. I ran the first time into trouble when I moved to United States in 99, when I first time booked, uh, underground stuff, really. Yeah. I mean, the UGL stuff, I think it's just underdosed. A lot of it's not even real. It's not even what you're, what you're, what you think it is. I mean, what did a typical cycle look like back in the nineties? I pretty much, that was the same cycle. Uh, whenever I went away from the cycle, I'm going to tell you about, I was disappointed, you know? So, uh, in the first few years was, you just kind of, we, there was not, you can buy whatever you want and stuff. So we had always this, uh, traveling Czechoslovakians coming, uh, showing up at our gym two or three times a week. It was always the guys from Czechoslovakia who showed up with a suitcase. So then, uh, you know, my first real cycle, I did a few, like take one of these pills a day and this before that, but my first real cycle was about 19 and a half, 20 was Deca and, uh, and testosterone on 250 Deca, 250 testosterone and, uh, progress was just through the roof. You know, it was just absolutely, it could just be much daily, see me grow, but then let's get later in the career, uh, when I was at top of the game, offseason was always as a base. I used testosterone and Primo. Uh, I mean, I tried other stuff as a base like Boldenon or, uh, or Deca didn't quite be as good for me than Primo. That was my base. And then I run, uh, for four weeks, Masteron and T-Ball, but never more than 25 milligrams of T-Ball. Then I run for four weeks, Tren. And then I had to decide after eight weeks, I kind of had to decide, do I need another push getting bigger or do I go more, uh, for quality now? Uh, depending on that, I went back on the Masteron D-Ball mix. There's a good 350, 400 milligram of Masteron and 25 milligram of T-Ball. Or I then switched to Masteron only or Winstrol. I was always that cycle with Proviron, uh, very little Aramidex and the GH. That was kind of my, my cycle pretty much. And, uh, I tried other stuff when somebody like, Hey, you gotta try this or that. And, but the rarely, it just didn't work for me. I always came back to that cycle. Yeah. Test and Primo is what I pretty much hear everybody ends up settling on at some point. Yeah. That's, that's, that's the base of everything. The big problem with Primo was, uh, I know there was one company sharing from Germany who sold the Primo to whatever 50 milligram per CC. And you have to take like, you know, 350, 400, sometimes even 500. So you had to throw in 10 vials. So that was eight to 10 vials. That was a little difficult, but you had to run a fair amount of Primo to get a result from it. Yeah. I liked Primo as a base. That was good. And how much tests were you running at your peak? As an amateur, 500, as a pro, 1,000. 1,000. Okay. Yeah. See, like it's, you know, guys have these fantasies on their head that it's way more than that. You know, it's, it's, and there was pressure, you know, there was pressure to take more. I do remember, but I had a very good mentor early in, Horry Derglin. He's an amazing athlete. This little, uh, lightweight guy. He was, I think one of the first, when they started the masters, uh, uni or the masters world championships, I think he was the first or second winner, the 70 categories and kind of a broader type. And he always said to me, you own the gym in Bern. Amazing guy. Uh, he's always said to me, he's like, listen, I'm going to tell you something about this high doses and all this stuff. There it says, if you take more, you know, it works better. And I'm like, Oh, I talked, I shouldn't take more. He says, I'm going to tell you it works better for about five, six months. And then your body's going to be used to the higher doses. And you're in a devil circle. You know, you're going to have to take more and more all the time. It is, it is not what you should do. I said, and think about it. He asked me, he said, how long do you take? And I was very, very young here. It was early nineties. How long you take, it will take to, uh, to become Mr. Olympia. I said, I don't know, 10 years, five years. You know, he says, that's how you have to look at it. It's a 10 year project. You know, how can you make your body improve over 10 years and not just one or two years. So never take more. And, uh, that's what I did. There were some rumors about athletes. I remember the first one I heard, and I would always like to ask him if there was any truth to it, uh, who's supposed to take a ton of shit to spare the May. Yeah. So I was told, uh, well, the Dutch culture in general, the Dutch take a lot and he's taking six, 7,000 a week. Uh, so, uh, he showed up, he was at the guest posing near my hometown in Geneva. I went to see him. I was a junior, 19, 20, 21 years old. So I saw him pumping up and he wasn't really bigger than me. I thought, okay, if he takes that much, then, uh, that, that I'm, I'm already as big as him. Although I remember, then I went, uh, over to the crowd. I went around and when he walked on stage, he was totally different, you know, he looked absolutely freaking amazing, but, uh, he was never convinced. And it's not that I was not, not convinced that I should take more. I didn't feel like I don't take a lot. You know, I mean, I mean, if you have, have like four or 500 Primo as a pro thousand testosterone, you know, three or four Tren a week, you know, and three or 400 on the first four weeks of masteron and the dbol. I mean, I was like, Oh, I'm going to, I can freaking die off this. I was never feeling like, Oh, I should maybe throw in twice as much. I never felt like I should take more. I talked like taking a lot. Yeah. Well, if you can't grow on that, you're probably not going to grow. That's what I tell people. And a lot of times it's, you know, training or diet doesn't match up with what people are taking. Yeah. But there, there, there are, you know, you'll know pretty quickly, like you talked about your first cycle, um, the two, what was a two 50 test or 200 deck or whatever it was, but you'll know quickly if you're, if you're going to respond and grow. Yeah, absolutely. I see it all the time with people that I've coached and stuff. The guys that have the genetics for it, they'll, they'll grow off of basically nothing. And I look pretty good, even natural. I look pretty good. Yeah. And you can see it too. Like you can look at the pictures of Ronnie when he was natural. I mean, the two was huge. I don't know how true it is, but they say he turned pro when he was natural. That's what I, what I, the story that I heard. It's, it's probably not far off. Yeah. That was the story. I mean, but you can see the pictures of him when he was in high school. He was 15, 16 years old. He looked like a grown man. Yeah. Yeah. Did you ever see that picture when, uh, Kevin was 14? Yeah. I mean, I mean, he's very thin, but what an amazing looking kid. He's a great guy. You know, so you can clearly tell those guys have great, great genetics. He lives in my area. I'm from the Washington DC area. I think he's from Baltimore, but I used to see him around once in a while. And he was unreal. He would, he would not train like half of the year and just look like a regular guy. And then, and then turn it up and then turn into an Olympia. And I've never seen anybody else. Although it didn't quite work out when he was 50, when he tried to do the same thing. No, it didn't, you know, so your body's not going to respond the same way it does when you're 25. He was absolutely incredible. I remember European tour. Um, we were kind of hit and miss a lot of us. You know, you had the show, uh, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, three or four shows a week. You seen the guys like one night looking great, the other one not. And Kevin look very consistently good, you know, every night. And I heard them once talk about it. Yeah. You know, you would, I always talk back then, those guys really know what they're doing. They're like really pros and they know what they're doing. And I think there's only, only one of us who really knew what they were doing. That was Dorian. That's all hit and misses there. So he said, well, whenever I wasn't sure, you know, what to do and how much to eat, I just stopped eating and drinking at all. He said, you know, so yeah. And he, he won one show after another on the tour. So yeah, he was great. I mean, he just had fantastic genetics. Clearly if you, you can take half the year off and not train and then get in that sort of shape. In 97, he was fourth. He was really fifth. You know, they claimed they counted points together wrong. You know, in reality, Lee Priest was fourth, but then on the way to the banquet, they changed all around that. Suddenly Lee was sixth and Kevin was fourth, but it doesn't matter. In 94 and 97, I beat him in every pose. Kevin, you know, I had a comparison with him and beat him in every pose. So I couldn't believe how can he beat me. So I saw a video of it. The guy, the way he was standing up there, the way he was moving, never making a mistake. You know, once you finish the video, it's like, yeah, if you take a still shot of the pose, I might beaten him. But when you look at the whole, you know, the whole package, he absolutely deservingly beat me. You know, the guy was really great on stage. Yeah, he was fantastic. I saw him compete in the nineties and he was, he was just absolutely amazing. Like I had a crazy physique and just, just unreal physique. But so you say Dorian was the only one that had to figure it out. I think Dorian really knew what he was doing. I mean, he looked every night, exactly the same European tour. And, uh, I think he was approaching the things very scientifically. And I also know he tried a lot of different systems, uh, growing up as amateur. Uh, he was not the hit and miss, you know, he, he didn't ever show him that couple of times when he kind of missed, it was 94. I mean, he just tore his biceps. I'm sure the body is going to, you know, the pain medication, whatever is on, it's going to be very, very hard to dry out. 96. Uh, I think he struggled like most of us a little bit on the, the, the new diuretic tests. And 97, his body just didn't react anymore, but all the European shows I've seen 92, three, four, five, you know, up to six, he was very, very consistent on stage and really knew what he was doing. And back then for diuretics, everybody was using Lasix from what I understand. Is that all doctor? All doctor. Okay. Yeah. I didn't really use Lasix. I mean, I, I couldn't use diuretics most of the time. You know, when I competed the mystery universe, um, 89, 93, 94, they had strict tests and people were disqualified. You know, it was not just some olivite test. Uh, they, they run. I mean, there were constantly like five, six, seven guys in my class disqualified. So I didn't take diuretics. Then I became pro, uh, 96. I went to the Arnold's and, uh, I didn't have really a nutritionist or anything like that. But, you know, my friend who was kind of advising me, advised me not to take diuretics. Uh, it was a mistake. So I didn't take diuretics there either. Uh, and then the week later I went to San Jose. That's pretty much the first time I used diuretics. I used all duct tone for, uh, like a week or so. I was really, really great. Lasix was already kind of known to fuck you up. You know, I mean, a lot of people took it, but I, I, I didn't, you know, I had a couple of times I had, uh, liquid Lasix. So two hours before the show, I took a shot and he started peeing pretty much immediately, uh, the European tour, but most part of my career is like, I couldn't take a diuretics. Yeah. And a lot of guys now don't run them from what I understand. Um, you know, there are some that do, but you, you can, if you're dialed in, you can get things, you know, if you're with water manipulation and whatnot, a lot of times you don't need them. I, I, I, I found at least with me, like when I've experimented with it, I think it flattens me out. I look worse. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, well, I mean, I'm not going to say that all the tone during the European tour, so it didn't help, but you know, but I, Lasix like hardly ever took that. Yeah. Lasix is pretty, pretty nasty, but yeah, a lot of guys now use, uh, aldactone is what I hear. Aldactone and then hydrochlorothiazide. And now diacide, you know, I, I wasn't familiar to me back then. And I said, I'm sure they had it. Uh, now if the athletes I trained over the last few years, uh, I usually just do a one day of thiazide, possibly a little bit on the morning of the show, depending on the shape. Yeah. I remember one guy is a really great athlete, uh, Mike Cleaves. He won the overall 2019 North American. Unfortunately decided not to become pro. You know, he wanted to do other things in life. Uh, I remember he competed against Derek at the USA. Uh, I think they were first and second. It was 2018 or 17. And, uh, he looked so great at 4am when we did the first check-in. I mean, he should have walked right on stage there. And I, I knew we were in trouble. You know, it's still, you know, it can be one, two PM till the guys on stage. And he looked like absolutely perfect. Then he left the house. He went to, uh, uh, some kind of meeting, tanning, that kind of stuff. When he came back at nine, he looked 70% of that. He's like a freaking water balloon. I don't know exactly what happened here. And that's the one time I kind of, uh, nine, nine 30 in the morning, we did the 10 milligram of Lasix. And kind of to chase that early shape again and kind of got it to 90, 95% maybe. But other than that, if it's not really, really an emergency, I never, ever used the Lasix of anybody. Yeah. It's weird how some people will hold water and others don't. I see some guys that just seem to seem to hold water like crazy. And other guys don't. it's very, it's very interesting. The human physiology is, I tend to be very dry. I, I, I, I think, you know, I don't generally need it, but I, there's some guys that do. Yeah. I was definitely holding water easily. I'm going to tell you. And the best shapes I had were often by accident. You know, unfortunately, I didn't have really a good system in place. It was kind of all over the place the last week. And in, uh, 97, not the Olympia, I was very watery at the prejudging. Um, I knew after the comparisons, I'm seven, you know, not, it's, you can tell how it kind of, how it goes and who gets compared with whom. And, uh, in the evening show, it didn't look much better, but the show was postponed like an hour, an hour and a half because they were doing all kinds of, uh, giving each other, uh, uh, medals and stuff, the officials, and it's just dragged on forever. And, uh, Joe either was talking for maybe a half an hour or longer. And I started sweating, like really, really sweating backstage and really dried out in with the next, like 45 minutes to an hour. And the second I walked on, I was really, really dry. So it's, it's not really, fun or great when you, uh, look great on accident, you know? So I remember talking, I remember talking to Jay Cutler and he was talking about if you have one or two perfect peaks in a lifetime, that's, that's about as good as it gets. What do you think had like, when you look at any of the top guys, uh, when you look at when the, you know, there's only very few I can think about, which is like as good as it gets like 2008 Dexter, I think. I mean, yeah, it's just hard to kind of, or then maybe 2009 Jay, uh, Ronnie, I don't know. I don't know. In 98, he was tried the bone. He was really, really great. He wasn't that big. Right. And you can see that when he's next to Nasser, you know? So I think he was still very beatable in 98, not by Nasser, you know, Nasser didn't have the backside. Right. And then later on, when he was this monster, he was clearly not as dry and lean anymore, but it's very rare that you see somebody absolutely hitting, hitting their peak. Well, it's really hard to be as big as Ronnie and to be dry as well too. So that's, that's another issue too. So these, these big guys, I imagine just to even hold his fullness that he would have to pound down a lot of food. And from what I understand, he, I think he was working with Chad Nichols, but Chad Nichols really pushes guys hard on, on the car bops too. Yeah. A thousand grams a day for several days. Yeah. That's what I've, that's what I've heard is that Chad's a, you know, really aggressive with the car bops with, with, with his guys. Maybe the best kind of, and he really, he did pretty much perfect. Although he had some major issues backstage in the morning was the 2001 Arnold's. Yeah. He was really, really big and hard there. Yeah, he was there. Who do you like now? Who's your, who's the, I mean, this, this Olympia is going to be interesting. Yeah. I like a few guys and they're so very different right now. So it's a tough one. So, I mean, I think there's nobody who doesn't believe that Derek will win sooner or later. Right. And I'm not a fan yet of Derek. I'm probably the only one because I just don't see the quality in the chest, shoulder, arms. He never, it's very strange. I watch him since he's an amateur. I've seen him at the USA. And how can a guy be so hard and have such a quality in the back and, and it's just not in the front. I mean, I know it's genetics and I never really seen this creation and, you know, the chest or on the shoulder. And if he would hit that, you know, I mean, people always say it's, it's just maturity. Maturity is missing. But I know people, they, they had striation all over the place with 18, you know, so I don't know. So, so considering that he was really close second last year, it's going to be very, very hard to beat him. It looks like he improved quite a bit. Again, be very, very hard to beat him. Hardy, his chances, the quality, you know, if Derek is kind of like last year, there's always an opening for Hardy. I love Hardy's physique, although he looks a little blocky in the lineup. The one who could really, really, you know, kind of make life miserable for them with a better quality is Samson. Yeah. Samson's the one I'm fascinated with. Yeah. Yeah. If he comes in with a good quality, it's not just that he will win. He might win three or four in a row. I don't know how old he is. And then there is early young. I think he's early thirties. Yeah. And Nick is kind of the rich Kaspari of our time. Nick has to wait for two or three guys to screw up. He just has to consistently be great, consistently be great. And I have no doubt he, he can do that. And you never know that there might be the right day, you know, and everything is aligned. Perfect. But can he make it on his own without help of others? I don't think so. I saw Samson at the New York pro. I was at the New York pro this year and, and he is impressive in person. Holy crap. He's tall too, right? Yeah. He's, he's probably six foot, I would say around six foot. I think he was like, when I talked to him, he was just there hanging out, um, at the New York pro, but I think he said he was like three 30, three 40. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he looked lean. He looked lean. He was one of the biggest dudes I've ever seen in person. And I seen that, uh, rear lat pose now, how improved that is, you know? So yeah, he has a good shot, but, uh, there's also some issues, I think with the carving up and the quality. So we have to see, uh, I think the most consistent two guys when it comes to shape is, uh, Nick and Hardy. Yeah. Yeah. Nick is very consistent and Hardy is always in condition. Yeah. And then look at Brandon, you know, Brandon did it exactly like what I was just describing about Nick. You know, he, he came in good and came in good. And then what the right year at the right time. And he, he won, you know, so he's very good too, but I see him in more kind of moving to the back over time, but I can be wrong. He has a great, great physique and lost. He was a little bit too big and still fort. So yeah, I like those guys. They all look good. And I don't see any, uh, you see anybody from the outside getting into that circle here? No, I think it's like, I think it's that group. Yeah. So when you've seen those guys who now won in Europe, like Nathan and, uh, Regan, it's just so far away from that. Yeah. I don't, I don't see, I don't see them competing. Yeah. Um, with, with that group there, they're not going to be in the top five. Um, and I don't know if Rami's done or what, what, what the deal is with him. I think he is, but he was great at the Arnold's, you know, even more frustrating. He only plays fourth, but, and I had a great career. So, you know, winning two Olympia titles, what can you do? So he's great. And I think he's financially very set and, uh, it's all good. So I would never tell him don't compete anymore. If you want to compete, compete guy, you're a legendary bodybuilder, but I don't think he will, uh, he will come back and win again. Yeah. I also met him at the New York pro. He was super nice guy. Just very nice, very humble, easy to talk to. I think, you know, if I heard him, they're a little bit of a language barrier, but if I understood him correctly, when I talked to him at the Arnold or at the New York pro, he said he hadn't been training. So he hadn't trained in several months. Well, that doesn't really impress me too much. So I don't know. I, you know, it's what they said last year is way, way better because the first time he trained for a year and then it turned out, he wasn't way, way better. So, uh, you know, I don't give a damn if you trained half year or not, just, we'll see how you look. You know? Yeah. I said he had been taken off. If I understood him correctly, but he was super nice. Just very, very humble. Very nice. Uh, Samson was super nice too. Um, I've, I've met some guys that aren't so nice, but yeah, I, I, I don't know. Over the years, I, most people have been very nice. I, I can, a couple of whom I can think of. Absolutely. Hey, did you ever hear that Rom is like a fisherman? Yeah. Yeah. I think his family, that's what they did. He's like out there for days at the time. And yeah, he goes out, he has his boat and he's like, he goes out and fishes from, from what I understand. So I think that's what he loves to do. You know, he just happened to be a good bodybuilder. And you can also say, see with Holly that he's just a generally good guy. And then, you know, his speech last year where he was mentioning women in Iran. That's very courageous. Yeah. Absolutely. I love that. So he, he's thrown in jail there. Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, he seems like a very good guy. I love him too. He's always in shape. That guy's always shredded. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if you've seen any of the pictures of him that have come out recently, but I did really good. I did. And Timmy and better quality than I ever had probably on stage. You know, this is like seven, the picture was seven, eight weeks out. Yeah. Incredible guy. And I heard he trains very, very hard. But, um, if I would have to put my money on somebody right now, you know, I bet on Derek. Yeah. I would probably put my money on Derek as well. Yeah. I'm a, I really like Samson though. Samson's sort of my dark horse. I think he's sort of the, the wild card. You don't know what you're going to get though. The interesting thing with him is that, um, I don't know if you heard Milos talking about it, but he, I heard him on another podcast saying that Samson had never used trend before. And that was, uh, that he used it for the Arnold first time last year. And he was scared to use it. That's hilarious to me that that guy made it to that level and never used, never used trend. That's amazing. Yeah. And supposedly like he had never run any really major cycles before. He's just a genetic freak. Well, but they can now run to, you know, work in his advantage. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're right. Like you said, it's the, it's the 10 year, you've got to have a 10 year plan. If you're going to do it, it's not going to happen overnight. He has some reserves now. And if that's really true, even more power to him. I had a guy once, um, he also wanted to broke heart who had to use a minimum amount of steroids. His liver started to, uh, he didn't have scarring in the liver, but his liver started to inflame immediately. There was no way you could throw in like a, a cup, a hollow test in a day or so the last couple of weeks or anything like that. So it would be very, very conservative. And when we started that project broke heart, he's like, I don't know. My, my liver is not good enough, but he was constantly on the supervision of from doctors and, uh, they constantly checked his liver and I just can't take a lot. And I convinced him that this is an advantage, you know, you came this far with so little. So I'd stick with that guy and it seems to work. And then he did win a pro card. Yeah. And that's supposedly the story with, uh, Chris Bumstead too, because I know he has some health issues or I think it's some sort of autoimmune disorder or something where he can't run a whole lot. That's, that's what I've heard. And, and Chris Bumstead, of course he doesn't have, he's up against that weight cap. So I'm sure even for him, did they not change that now? It went up five pounds. I mean, but what's five pounds? Yeah. I think it's two 39 now. Is it? You see anybody considering he's in shape who could ever threaten him? Ramon Dino, maybe. I don't know, but, um, I don't know. It's, I think it's Chris's as long as he wants it. Yeah. That guy, the Wesley. Yeah. He's very good. Yeah. He's good. He's good. I don't know. It's, it's when you put them up on stage. Yeah.  aromasin.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia happened to me a few times, but it was always kind of like I signed a contract. Yeah. I tried to get out of the contract and then it just kind of stopped dieting already. Then suddenly got a letter from the lawyers, you know, from Beder. And it's like, you do compete and I wrote back. And that's how, and I very much regret that. I should have just stayed off stage because you still have to look at those pictures for the rest of your life. It's like, what the hell is going on with this guy? Well, I was not even dieting. But then, you know, I was always kind of already enrolled in the green card program. So I couldn't just like screw you. I don't need that contract, you know, to kind of keep going. But there's a couple of real regrets I had where I was just standing on stage totally out of shape. I've often wondered, you know, if it's exactly that, what you said, if it's just guys for filming contracts being up there and they know they have no chance of winning and they just kind of half-ass it. And at a national show, like an NPC show, everybody there is trying to get a pro card. So I think guys are pouring the gas on. It's their one shot. So they probably. But yeah, it's, you know, we were talked about beforehand. I was at Masters Nationals and I was just shocked at how high quality the competition was. It was, it was, it was excellent. All right, man, I got to wrap this up. Is there anything you want to promote before we go? Thank you for inviting me. It was great. Yeah, it was great talking to you. I love talking about old school bodybuilding. You're, how old are you now? 55. 55. Yeah. So I'm almost 50. So we're pretty much in the same age bracket. Although I didn't take bodybuilding seriously until I got over 40. Well, you do it now. You do it now, again. Yeah, I'm doing it now. I'm competing. We'll see what happens. Well, I appreciate you coming on, JP. Thank you very much. This was awesome, man. I really enjoyed the talk. Good luck at the Masters, again. All right. Thank you. All right. Talk to you soon, guys. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.