 wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn wn It's your first show, and I'm going to tell you what to expect, how you find shows, how you get ready for it. I'm going to kind of go through the stuff that a lot of other people don't tell you. And we are going to dig into all that in just one second. All right, so first things first, where the heck do you find the show that you want to do? My suggestion is to find one local, nearby you. You can go to the NPC's website, which I believe is NPC News Online or something like that. Just Google it. You find a show that's near you. A lot of times they do not list the shows and their dates until the next calendar year. So if you're looking for a 2023 show in 2022, it's not going to be listed. So what you can do is look at the current year shows, see when they were, and you can approximate when they're going to be the next year. I would find a show about 20 weeks out. Prep should start something like 16 weeks out. You find the show online, you're going to need to register with the show. Each show has a unique promoter that does the show. So you'll have to pay an entrance fee for the show. The big question I get asked is, what class should I do? What class should I do? One thing I will tell you, if it's your first show, don't try to cross classes. I see guys that will try to do classic and men's physique, or they'll try to do bodybuilding and classic. You're just asking for trouble. So I've seen dudes do this before that are amateurs that have never done shows before. They're backstage scrambling to change their trunks. They're moving from the bodybuilding trunks to the classic trunks or from the classic trunks to their men's physique shorts, board shorts, whatever those things are they wear. And then they end up missing their lineup. Or they can't find shit, and it's just an extra added stress that you don't need. Now, if you want to compete in multiple divisions within your class, I think that is okay. So for example, if you're a bodybuilder, and you want to do the true novice class, and you want to do your weight class, I think that's totally fine. And I would suggest doing it so you get a couple rounds out on the stage for posing. That's totally cool. But crossing different classes, I think that's a very terrible idea, and you're asking for too much stress, too much trouble for your first show. So how much is a show going to cost you? Well, everybody sees the registration fees, $199 or whatever it is, and then $99 for each additional class that you add. There's a lot more to a show than that. There are several things that you have to consider. It's going to probably cost you somewhere between $3,500 and $5,000 to do a show. My guess would be probably closer to the $5,000 range. You're going to have to hire a prep coach. A good prep coach is probably going to cost you between $800 and $1,000 for a contest prep. You're going to have to hire a posing coach. Do not try to do your posing on your own. You are going to look like an idiot on the stage. That's going to cost you something like $500. You're going to need to pay for the tanning at the show. That's usually a couple hundred dollars. You're going to need to buy an MPC membership. I think that's something like $100 or $150. I don't remember off the top of my head. And you're going to need to buy the PEDs. Those are going to be expensive because contest prep is the time that we throw the kitchen sink at it. So don't enter a show if you don't have the budget to do it correctly. If you're short on money, don't do it. Also, don't ring it up on a credit card. If you don't have the cash saved up to do it on your own, you probably shouldn't do it. I hate seeing young guys, young women, whatever, put all their money on a credit card for a bodybuilding show. It just seems ridiculous to me. It's not worth that to do a local bodybuilding show. Travel. This is another consideration when you're choosing a show. A lot of people want to do some show that's out of town. I would not do a show out of town for your first show. Now, granted, if you live in some rural area, you may not have a choice. But I find that doing the first show itself is overwhelming. And if you add in travel to that mix, having to deal with flights, having to deal with driving, having to deal with the hotel room, bringing your food with you, going into a different location in a different town that you're not familiar with, that adds additional stress that you do not need on a first show. My suggestion would be, for a first show, find something that's driving distance of your house. Sleep at your house. Don't have that additional stress that goes with traveling and the additional cost. You're going to save some money, too. Really, a first show is just about getting on stage and getting the experience of going through prep and understanding how a show works. Don't fool around with traveling. I think it's a waste of your time, waste of money, and it's too much extra stress for a first show. So, what to expect with the diet for contest prep? Dieting for contest prep sucks. Getting down to 10% to 12% body fat is one thing. Getting down to that 5% to 7% range that is necessary to be on stage is a whole other ballgame. It sucks getting that lean. I can get down to 10% no problem. No very minimal suffering. But to get down to 5% or 4.5% body fat where I usually like to be on stage, it is a miserable process. It's going to suck. You're going to be hungry. You're going to have hunger pangs. You're not going to be able to think clearly. Your brain gets foggy. It sucks. So, if you cannot deal with hunger, doing a bodybuilding show might not be for you. I'm telling you, the hunger stinks. Now, there are things that you can do to mitigate hunger. Food choices matter. Increasing your food volume. There are things like metformin that can suppress your, or semi-glutide that can suppress your appetite. Eating your, definitely your food choices matter. There are tricks like I like to use diet sodas and things like that that help keep my hunger pangs at bay. But you will be hungry. That is normal. You will want to go mad. Your brain's going to be foggy at the end because you're low on carbs. These things are normal part of contest prep. And if you can't handle it, you probably shouldn't do it. Cardio for contest prep. You are going to be doing a ton of cardio more than likely for contest prep. Some people are lucky. And they don't have to do a crap ton of cardio. But I would plan on having to do cardio in the morning. Fasted and cardio post-workout. If you can't get up at 5 a.m. before you go to work to do your cardio, doing a bodybuilding show is probably not for you. You're not going to do very well at a show. So you have to have the type of fortitude to be able to get up early. You have to have the type of fortitude to stick to a diet. But if you can't do those things, you're probably not going to be successful at a bodybuilding show. Most of the time, cardio on prep is low intensity, steady state cardio. Sometimes people will do HIIT cardio. I have found that low intensity, steady state cardio preserves legs. I do usually start off with HIIT and then I transition to steady state at some point. But I will tell you that you're going to be doing a lot of cardio. So you need to embrace the suck that comes with cardio. Things that will make the time pass. Watching podcasts. You can watch yours truly. Finding a good movie to watch. Read a book. Things like this. If it's nice out, I like to get outside and walk and do my cardio. I put my headphones on. I go for a walk and I just enjoy the outdoors. Posing. This is a huge area where I see most rookies mess up. They completely screw this up. They don't practice their posing or they try to do it on their own. And they do practice, but they practice all the wrong things and they reinforce bad behaviors when it comes to their posing. If you practice bad posing for them, your posing is going to suck. You're just going to get even better at doing the crappy posing that you were doing before. So don't be a cheap ass. Hire a posing coach. Hiring somebody that's a veteran. It's really not that expensive. I see some guys that coach at the professional level. They charge something like $75 to $100 a session. All you need is four or five sessions. Book posing. Book a posing coach. Get your routine down. Get your mandatories down. Make sure you look like a professional. I see so many guys that get on the stage that have zero clue how to pose and they look like absolute ass. I'm telling you, the judges are going to look right past you if you don't know how to pose. And you need to start practicing your posing at 16 weeks out. Not four weeks out. Not two weeks out. You got to practice every day. It's not just the form of posing that you have to learn. It's being able to have the endurance to do it. Being able to squeeze. Being able to hold your poses. Judges are going to run you through the rounds. Being able to do the poses quickly. That's another thing I can tell you when you get up on stage at a first show. It's shocking how fast the judges move you through the poses. And if you're effing around with stupid transitions and trying to look pretty, you've missed the pose and they've already moved on to the next one. Judges are going to look right past you. So you have to practice posing daily. I like to do my posing after my fasted cardio in the morning. Start off with just five, ten minutes. That's all you need. Run through my mandatories. And that's it. And then I slowly increase the amount of time that I do of posing. And then the last couple months, I start working with a posing coach. Or you probably should get one from the beginning if you've never done a show before. I have. So make sure you work on posing. I can't tell you how many guys get on stage and have no clue how to pose. Grooming. This is another big one where I see dudes screw up. You are going to have to shave that body hair. I am a big gorilla. I have an entire video up on grooming for a bodybuilding show. If you want to check it out, just search it up. It's in my channel. You can find it. And I'll go through the details of how you groom and how you get ready. But make sure you're groomed for a bodybuilding show. I literally, in a recent show I did, I stood behind a guy that did not shave his back. I guess he couldn't reach his back. He had a hairy back and he had a hairy ass. You can see it. I was standing behind the guy. And that's not going to look good on stage. Judges are not going to like that look. Another mistake that I see, a rookie mistake, is guys wait until the last minute. And then they shave with a razor two days before a show. And then they look like a porcupine on stage because they have all this razor burn. And then you spray the tan on top of that razor burn. And you have all these bumps all over you. So that's when you see the guy that looks like a porcupine on stage. Why they have those brown dots all over him. It's from razor burn. So you have to get your skin conditioned. You have to get your skin ready for the tan that they put on at the show. Alright, so this is a good transition into the tanning. Tanning for a bodybuilding show. I will tell you, I've seen it over and over again. Do not try to do your tanning yourself for your first bodybuilding show. I've seen guys do it. They look like ass backstage. They have streaks. They miss spots. They look terrible. You start sweating backstage. Your tan runs. And there's nobody there to touch you up. So, if you pay for the professionals at the show to tan you, they're going to have you come in the night before the show. That's something you have to be aware of. You're going to get tanned twice. Usually you go in the night before the show. You do your first coat. You go in the morning of the show. You do your second coat in the glaze. And then they will be backstage to touch you up. So, if anything is screwed up, anything doesn't look good, there are people there to help you out. If you go buy the kits and do it on your own, you're on your own. You have nobody to help you. And you really don't save that much money. I think to buy all the stuff to do it yourself, it's like $100. To have them do it, it's like $180, $200, something like that. Why wouldn't you just have them do it? Save that $100 for something else. It's just added stress backstage. You get out, you do all this work on your contest prep, you suffer for 16 weeks, and then you look like ass on stage, and you don't win because your tan sucks. Don't do that. Don't be that guy. Just pay for them to do it, and then you'll look like everybody else up on stage. You'll look good. You have somebody there to help you. It's one less thing to stress about on the show day. I will also tell you, this is another thing that a lot of people don't know. Now, do not wear deodorant the last few days before you do the show because the deodorant will make your arms turn green when you get your spray tan on. Also, the day of the show, you cannot shower after you have your first coat come on. I've seen people do that before. The tanning people will give you detailed instructions on what to expect. Follow their instructions to the tee. They'll tell you how to prep for the tan. They'll tell you how to get ready for it. When you should do your last shave. All that good deal. Your lifting strategy going into the show. This is another area where I see guys completely screw up. They completely change their lifting routine. They try to do something different than what they have done all offseason. Just keep doing what you're doing. You may have to use a little less weight. You may have to add a little more volume towards them because you aren't as strong. But don't freak out. Remember, your job during contest prep, you're not going to gain muscle on contest prep. Very few people have ever done that. Maybe Kevin LaVrone. He's the only person I can think of. Your job during contest prep is to lose fat and not lose muscle. Those are your two jobs. Also, guys trying to set PRs before shows and trying to prove something, you just end up hurting yourself. I can't tell you how many people get down to those last couple weeks and try to do some stupid PR and end up hurting themselves. I've seen it over and over and over again. When you get on stage, the judges aren't going to ask you how much you bench press the week before. They aren't going to ask you how much you deadlift. They don't care. They just care about how you look. Remember that. Posing trunks. You're going to need to buy posing trunks. Don't get too cute with it. You have to check with the show promoter and with the organization that you're in. The NPC most likely. They have very strict rules about what trunks you can wear. I've seen guys go off reservation and buy trunks and they get to the show and the judge says, you can't wear that and then you're screwed. Another mistake I see guys do is they buy their trunks at the beginning of prep and the trunks fit them just fine at the beginning. Then they lose a bunch of weight and they're hanging off their ass. Make sure your trunks fit when you get towards the end of the show. Try them on again. Start practicing your posing in those trunks towards the end so you get comfortable being in them. I usually don't buy my trunks until I'm probably like six, eight weeks out. So I'm the appropriate size. I'm closer to the size I'm going to be this show and I know they're going to fit. I also usually have a extra pair of trunks with me just in case something goes sideways. They rip. I lose them. Something like that. That would be the worst case scenario on a show day. You spent 16 weeks getting ready for a show and your posing trunks rip or the judge says, says, or the judge says, or the officials say you can't wear those posing trunks. Make sure you get the right posing trunks. Make sure they fit. Make sure you start practicing your posing in those posing trunks so you know what it feels like to be up on stage. Contest prep psychology. I am going to tell you dieting hard and getting ready for a bodybuilding show is a complete mind F. Your mind's going to play tricks on you. You're going to see things in the mirror. They don't exist. You're going to think that you're losing muscle. You're going to think that you're getting too lean too quick. You're going to think you're fat. You're going to think you're flat. You're going to think all your strength's going away. It makes you not ready for the show. Your mind is going to screw you. This is why it's important to have a second set of eyes, an objective ear that can keep you on the straight and narrow. I can't imagine prepping for a show without a bodybuilding coach. I see something completely different in the mirror than my coach does every single time. And then six months later, I look back at my pictures and I'm like, my God, what was I thinking? I looked great or I looked awful. Most people go through this phase about halfway through the contest prep where they're ready to quit. It's usually somewhere in the six to eight week range. I call it, or Justin, my coach calls it, the skinny fat phase where you get to a point where you don't really look any better. You're just smaller. You're just flat. You have no definition. It looks like you lost all your muscle. You're weak in the gym and you're like, why am I doing this? I look like crap. I don't have any muscle. And you think it's time to give up. I promise you, you just have to push through that phase. And it's that last like four to six weeks when things start changing daily. So you have to have the mental fortitude to just keep calm, get up every day, keep doing the work, and trust your coach and trust that you're doing the right things to get ready. Do not let your head screw with you. So we've made it all the way through this hard prep to peak week. Most people over-dramatize peak week. They think there's something about it that's going to be horrible and that they're going to suffer more. By the time you're at peak week, if you have to suffer more, you aren't ready for the show. Peak week should be easy. Usually you dial training back. Usually you're eating more food. Usually you're relaxing a little bit. The work should already be done by the time you're at peak week. You shouldn't have to do any crazy peaking protocols. You shouldn't have to do anything insane to get you ready for the show. If that is the case, you may want to consider another show. You aren't ready. So for peak week, it should be nice and easy. That should be the relaxed moment. You should be able to just enjoy things. You should be able to just eat your food. Get ready for your show. Go in and kick some ass. That's really all peak week should be. Most people over dramatize peak week. Peak week is not that big of a deal. The hard work is already done by the time you get to peak week. Peak week should be easy. Don't do anything drastic. Don't do anything extreme on peak week. Don't change things dramatically. You should be able to just coast into the show with a carb load, some water manipulation, and it should be very simple. So the day before the show, you're going to have check-ins. This should be simple. And I can't tell you how many times I've heard of guys missing the check-ins for the show. Make sure you're there early. Make sure you get there to register for the show. You're going to have to do your way in the night before the show, usually on an amateur show. That's how it works. If you're a classic guy, they're going to measure your height. Make sure you know your accurate height. Make sure that you know that you're going to make your class. Nothing's worse than missing your class. You can always move to the open if you have to. And be there for the check-ins. They're going to provide you with a list of things that are going to happen at the show. Give you a rough idea what the show schedule is going to be the next day. And they will have your number ready for you. And then they usually have a bag of goodies. You're probably going to do your tan that evening. Oftentimes the registration and check-in is at the same place that the tanning is going to be done. Especially a lot of these shows are held at hotels and stuff. So be there on time. Make sure you don't miss it. Your show day. Make sure you are up early. You're probably going to have to go do your tan. Your second coat of your tan early in the morning. Get that done with. Do not miss that. Do not oversleep. Most people are going to have nerves and butterflies. You're probably going to sleep like crap the night before the show. I know I always do. So missing the check-in or the tanning in the morning is probably not going to happen. But make sure you're there early. Usually they have an athletes meeting before the show where they tell you how things are going to flow. What classes go first. Make sure you know when to line up, when you're ready to go. Some big mistakes that I see on show day. One big thing I see backstage, and I've seen this several times. Dudes put on their headphones. They think that they're going to zone out and get their mind right to go on stage. They have their headphones on. And then the NPC official comes backstage and says, line up. And I'm telling you, crap happens quick. And they're like, where's number 14 at? Where's number 14 at? Where's number 14 at? Well, number 14 is sitting over in the corner like an asshole with his headphones on and misses his call out. And then your show is completely down the drain. So I know you think you're doing yourself a favor by wearing your headphones backstage. Don't do that. Also, all the crazy crap that I see people doing backstage. Eating gummy bears and all this stuff before they get on stage. It really doesn't make that much of a difference. If it makes you feel better psychologically, go for it. But what I usually do backstage is I'll have some junk food like a potato chips or something I might munch on. And I sip on a Gatorade. And then I'm ready to go out on stage. I just eat my regular food all the way up until that point. Another thing to be aware of backstage is make sure that your tan looks good. There's going to be people back there to touch up your tan. Have them take a look at it. Make sure your tan looks good before you go out on stage. Make sure you know where you're lining up, where your class is lining up. And pumping up. I see dudes get backstage and pump up. And they pump up too soon. And then they lose all their pump and they go flat. I do not start pumping up until I get in the lineup. I don't use any bands or dumbbells or shit like that. I just do isometric stuff. Squeeze my muscles. If you know exactly when you're lining up, then you can do it. Because sometimes these shows run behind and then dudes are pumped up before they need to be pumped up. And they just end up going flat and standing around and pumping up for nothing. So just chill. Kick your feet up. Wait for your lineup to be up. Do not wear your headphones because you're going to miss it. And then you get up there. You go. So I usually just do a little bit of flexing and stuff when I'm in lineup to get myself pumped up. And then I go out. I will forewarn you. When you go out on these amateur shows, they move you through the poses quickly. So be prepared for quick posing. They run you through them quick. On national level shows, I've heard they hold you on stage forever. At local shows, they're just trying to run you through as quick as they possibly can because there's so many people. All right, folks. Hopefully you found this one helpful. If you want to support me, support my sponsor, First Attachment. They make quality supplements. They're designed by the man himself, Justin Harris. Please support them if you want to support me. Thank you guys for watching. Let me know what you think in the comments section below. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.