 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today and I am going to talk about low FODMAP diets for bodybuilding. I don't know why more people don't talk about this. So many bodybuilders struggle with stomach issues, bloating, gastric distress, farting, diarrhea, Lack of appetite, distended guts, and they never look at the foods they eat to see what the problem is. I have been on a low FODMAP diet for years. And it was because of my gastroenterologist. I have IBS, great overshare there. So I was shitting my pants out on the regular. And my doctor put me on a low FODMAP diet. And it pretty much solved all my stomach issues. I still have some here and there. And there are other things you got to watch out for besides the low FODMAP foods. But I am shocked that more bodybuilders don't follow a low FODMAP diet for eating efficiency and to hammer food down. The only other person I have talked to heard talk about it in the bodybuilding community has been Stan Eferding. I've heard him mention it with his vertical diet. So kudos to him for that. But he's the only person I've heard mentioning it until I worked with Justin. Justin said that his foods are all low FODMAP foods for the most part. But anyway, we're going to dig into it in just one second. All right. So you ask, what is FODMAP? What the fuck are you talking about, Paul? A FODMAP means fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, minosaccharides, and polygols. So basically they are compounds, carbohydrates that contribute to IBS and digestion and bloating and that they ferment in the small intestine. So, you know, causing all these issues. A lot of people aren't even aware of it. I'll give you the prime example. Some of food that's a high FODMAP food. So we want to avoid things that are high FODMAP. Here's a perfect example of it. Everybody knows that baked beans make you fart. Well, guess what? Beans are a high FODMAP food. They cause fermentation in the gut. They don't get absorbed properly. And then you get the upset stomach and the farts. So basically your body's just not digesting them. And it's causing all kinds of gut issues. So baked beans, the musical fruit that makes you toot, they are a high FODMAP food. That is a high FODMAP food that most people can identify with and have had the experience with. And there are a ton of others. And we'll get into them in a minute. And a lot of bodybuilders eat high FODMAP foods that cause all sorts of digestion problems. And they have no fucking clue that they're eating them. They don't think about it. They don't think about diet. Coaches don't think about diagnosing diets and correcting issues with digestion to help people get the most out of their bodybuilding. But it just blows my mind that nobody takes a second to think about this stuff in diagnosis. So the case for a low FODMAP diet and bodybuilding. Everybody that I know that's been bodybuilding for a while, especially dudes that push food and push size, end up inevitably struggling with bloating, indigestion, gut inflammation, distended bellies, diarrhea. You know, it inevitably happens when you push all this food. After a while, your stomach just gives you the big fat middle finger and says, I'm not doing this anymore. I don't know the specifics of it, but what's his name? The 212, Flex Lewis, the 212 champ. He just retired because of gut issues, supposedly. That's what I heard. I don't know the specifics of it, but he was having gut issues. I'm sure they tried everything. But at some point, when you eat all of these foods that cause inflammation, after a while, they start doing damage to your gut and your digestive tract. And the only way you can fix it is to reduce your food volume and to come off all these foods that are known gut irritants. And we know less food is not good for growing. So, you know, probably my guess is with Flex Lewis, he probably did a bunch of damage to his gut with probably oral steroids, power shoving food that are gut irritants. I'm guessing probably high five foods, maybe some other stuff that he didn't realize that are gut irritants. Or he had allergies and probably cause all sorts of gut issues. You can end up with things like Crohn's and ulcerative colitis and all this other shit that can cause all sorts of problems. You know, they may or may not be related to this, but pretty much everybody in bodybuilding that's been doing it for a while ends up with gut issues. And oral steroids, I'll tell you again, guys, this is why I do not like oral steroids in the offseason. Guys are like, oh, they don't bother me. And yeah, that's true. It's one of those things where they don't bother you until they do. When you're in your 20s, you can get away with it. But then eventually you do this cumulative damage to your digestive tract and then you end up with, you know, gut issues. And then you're eating shitty food on top of it or food that you think is healthy. It's not good for your gut. And then you end up with all sorts of problems and you have to quit because of gut problems. So when we think about it, logically, if you're not digesting your food, if you're farting and getting diarrhea all the time. So there's another argument I have with people about protein powders. Guys jamming down the protein powders or jamming down milk or eating a bunch of dairy, other high FODMAP stuff. They say, well, I don't have a problem with it. And I'm like, well, do you get any gas or blood? And I'm like, oh, yeah, I get the protein farts. I'm like, dude, that's not protein farts. Your body is not. You have malabsorption going on. You're not digesting that protein correctly. If you're farting and you're getting diarrhea from the food that you're eating, that's a problem. And if you're farting and getting diarrhea, do you think you're actually utilizing that? And is your body doing anything with it? You're just causing additional stress and inflammation. Not helping things at all. So you can't grow if you're not digesting food. You can't grow if you feel sick and you don't feel like eating. You know, a distended bloated gut looks horrible on stage. Nobody likes the way that looks. And, you know, it's just been my experience that a lot of times, not always, but a lot of times, switching to a low FODMAP diet for a period of time fixes these problems. Now, there are other gut irritants besides FODMAP stuff. You have high acid foods. You know, things like hot sauces and coffee and shit like that that will also cause gut irritation as well. But that's a whole other story. So let's take a look. What, what, here's the, this is from a gastroenterologist site, a gastroenterology association or some, I forget where it came from, but it came from a medical doctor. Okay. So here, here is the list of high FODMAP foods that you should avoid. Now let's take a look. Let's, let's look at some stuff that, that you'll see a lot of familiar things here that bodybuilders eat. So let's go through here. We have apples. We have fruit juice. We have sweeteners such as high fructose corn syrup and honey. Bodybuilders love honey. They're dumping honey down their mouth at bodybuilding shows. And then wonder why they have to send the guts on stage. Lactose. You have milk from, from cows and lactose would include, guess what? Protein powders. It doesn't matter how much they filter it. Filter it. There's still some lactose left in protein powders. You can only get so much of it out. Um, yogurt. Here's another one. Cottage cheese. That's another one. Um, let's go down another list here. Here, here is where we get into stuff that causes all sorts of stuff issues. And guys eating a shit ton of vegetables and then having all sorts of stomach issues. Asparagus. Asparagus. A popular food with bodybuilders. We have broccoli. Oh my goodness. The good old chicken, broccoli and rice diet. I can't tell you how many people I have gotten off of broccoli and fix their digestion issues. Um, it just, it just blows me away. Like, like guys talking about, man, I like, I'm farting and gassy and you know, I have all sorts of gut issues that we go through and troubleshoot thing and they're eating broccoli six times a day. Um, we get rid of that. I don't know why people feel the need, bodybuilders feel the need to eat broccoli. I don't know where that came from. We get rid of that broccoli, stomach issues go away. Um, some other stuff that's common. Brussels sprouts, uh, garlic, uh, onions, um, any sort of wheat based foods. Cereals. I, I, I admit I eat some cereals here and there. Um, bread, crackers, cookies. Um, you know, some other stuff we have here. Legumes, any kind of beans. Chickpeas, kidney beans, lentils. Others, you know, the, you know, I, I know dudes that eat this shit. Um, we have all the fruits on here with the polylaws in them with, uh, we have, you know, we have apples. We have avocados, another bodybuilding favorite. I do eat avocados here and there. I will admit. Um, uh, uh, peaches, pears. Uh, what else we got on here? That might be, uh, bell peppers, mushrooms, corn. Corn. You know, these are all the things that bodybuilders eat that. And then last but not least, the sugar alcohol sweeteners. We have all sorbitol, mannitol, molotol, xylitol. Yeah. You know, so this is another one I've been guilty of too. And I, I have found it out. Anybody who drinks Coke Zero, which has, or any of the Zero, um, uh, sugar-free, uh, sodas, you'll, you'll have experienced it before. I, when I was on my contest prep was a year or two ago. Um, I was drinking a ton of Coke zeros and I was shitting my pants on the regular and I couldn't figure out why. And it was from the goddamn Coke zeros that were making me, uh, shit my pants. So, sugar alcohols are another one to, to avoid. Now, I would tell you, just because it's on this list doesn't mean it's going to bother you. What, what my gastroenterologist told me to do is to eliminate everything from this list and then add one thing back at a time and see if it, if it causes you problems. So, an example here would be guacamole. Guacamole does not upset my stomach. Um, but you know, sure as fuck, broccoli does. Um, beans tear me up. Dairy absolutely destroys me. Wheat destroys me. So, I can't have any of those. So, the way to start is to eliminate everything, go with a base diet, then start adding stuff back in and seeing what bothers you. Um, so, the foods on here that you can enjoy, uh, bananas, a crazy story. I'm actually allergic to bananas. Um, so, just because it's on the enjoy list doesn't mean you can have it. Um, kind of a, uh, uh, a, uh, side, uh, rant here. If you want to find out food allergies is another thing that you really should get tested for too. Um, I, I, it's an all cat test you can get done. Uh, which is a blood test that it's kind of expensive. I think it's about four or 500 bucks, but they'll tell you all the foods that you have intolerances to. And for me, bananas were on that list, which I found that bananas were causing me acid reflux. And I couldn't figure out why because it's on the FODMAP list, but, uh, evidently I have an intolerance to bananas. So, these are little things like this, dialing your diet in. Um, you know, it says on here you can have lactose free milk, oat milk, those are fine. Hard cheeses are okay. Hard cheeses, cheeses that are aged, uh, generally the lactose has fermented out of it. Um, uh, oats are fine, uh, rice, you know, these are things that we can have. Pretty much any leafy, uh, vegetable is good to go. Um, you know, the low sugar fruits tend to be, tend to be okay. Although bananas are a high sugar fruit, uh, blueberries, um, things like that. Um, you know, regular sugar is fine. Uh, honey substitutes, um, are fine. Uh, but anyway, so guys, pulling this back around, listen to your gut. I don't know why people don't listen to their stomach. If you're having indigestion, if you're farting, if you're having diarrhea, if you're having acid reflux, something is wrong. That's not normal. Don't, don't just keep power shoving food and accept that as being normal. You're causing damage when you do that. Uh, and you're not digesting your food. So take a step back, listen to your body and remove the things that are causing gut irritation. That's why I get so aggravated with, with the protein powder thing. It's, it is a common gut irritant. Some people can tolerate it just fine. Uh, I used to be able to, and it's some of this changes as you age too. Like I could pretty much eat anything in my twenties. I could eat a bucket of nails and be just fine. But as I aged that shit caught up with me. And I, it was probably just from cumulative damage from power shoving food from oral steroids. Uh, I had a really bad run with Lyme disease where I was on, um, antibiotics for almost two years straight. I'm sure that fucked me up. So there's all this cumulative damage that you do to your stomach over a period of years. But if you are not digesting your food, listen to your gut, make adjustments. If your coach is telling you to just keep eating it, you know, don't be a wimp or whatever. That's a stupid answer. So work with your coach, figure out what, what, what foods work, what foods don't you. A lot of times you can work around this stuff. You can go very bland. There, there have been times where my stomach really gets torn up and I just basically eat chicken and rice for every fucking meal. Uh, and that keeps me on the, keeps my, or if I have to push a reset and my stomach is upset, it's bothering me. If I just go back to a base diet of chicken, rice, salt, you know, olive oil, I, my gut clears right up. You know, usually within a week or two, my gut problems go away. Anyway, guys, I hope you found this one helpful. Thank you.