 this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this this to take that flabby belly and turn it into a six-pack. We're going to dig into all that in just one second. All right, so you were a fat-ass all winter. Now it's time to get rid of that gut that you've accumulated. I'm going to go through and show you proven methods that bodybuilders use to get ripped for shows. Nobody gets leaner and knows how to do it better than a bodybuilder. Most of these methods are scientifically proven, and hopefully it'll help you get ripped for the summer. So first and foremost, I want to go through and talk about some diet dogmas and myths, just some BS that's out there that a lot of charlatans are going to try to sell you with shortcuts for fat loss that just are not true. First off, calories in, calories out reigns supreme. It's science. You can want to believe it. You cannot want to believe it, but it still remains true. That's the wonderful thing about science. Whether you believe it or not, it still is there. You have to be in a calorie deficit to lose weight. As simple as that. It doesn't work any other way. There's no magic pill. Calories in, calories out. You have to be in a deficit to lose body fat. There is no magic diet. All diets work. Keto isn't supreme to something else. Carnivore isn't supreme to something else. They all work. You have to be in a calorie deficit. Hell, you can eat a Snickers bar for every meal. And if you're in a calorie deficit, you're going to lose weight. Now, you might not like your body composition. You might not like the way you look. But at the end of the day, net energy balance reigns supreme. Fat burning versus fat loss. This is a thing I hear from a lot of the keto guys out there. And I'm not saying that keto doesn't work. You can certainly lose weight on keto. You can lose weight on any diet that you choose. Fat burning versus losing fat. Is all because you're in a calorie deficit. You are going to lose weight. Keep that in mind. So, burning fat versus losing fat. They are two very different things. I hear people say, bro, I'm fat adapted. Well, that doesn't mean shit. If you're in a caloric surplus, you're still not losing fat. You have not created a net negative energy balance. If you're eating more than you are burning, you're not going to lose fat. You are going to gain fat. All right, folks. I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together. The Scientific Principles of Anabolics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. insulin fat loss model. That whole thing where people say insulin makes you fat. Bodybuilders use insulin all the way up to bodybuilding shows. They lose fat. They get shredded. Once again, calorie deficit. insulin is not making you fat. Being at a caloric surplus is making you fat. There's no magic to intermittent fasting. You're just in a calorie deficit. If you eat less, you restrict your window of food consumption, you're likely going to be in a net negative energy balance for the day. That's why people that do intermittent fasting end up losing weight because they end up just eating less. It's the same thing with keto diets. People start keto diets and say, my God, I'm losing all this weight and I'm losing it rapidly. If you think about it with a keto diet, you can't eat French fries. You can't eat candy bars. You can't eat potato chips. You can't eat any of the junk foods that you probably were eating before. And you've eliminated an entire macro carbohydrates from your diet. So you likely have just created a caloric deficit from removing all these foods from your diet. There's nothing magic about it. The best diet, I'm going to repeat this, is the one that you can stick to. I run a carb cycling diet for me for bodybuilding. But if you can hack a keto diet and stick to a keto diet and you're going to lose weight, by all means, go for it. Low thyroid. That's another thing. I hear a lot of people say, my metabolism's slow. I have a low thyroid. I can't lose weight. Bullshit. Anybody can lose weight. I have yet to encounter a client after coaching many hundreds of people that can't lose weight. You're just not in a calorie deficit. So let's look at some calorie burning math. It takes 3,500 calories to burn a pound of fats. If you want to lose one pound of fat per week, that means you need to be in a 500 calorie deficit per day. If you want to lose two pounds of fat per week, you need to be in a 1,000 calorie deficit per day. If you want to lose three pounds per week, you need to be in a 1,500 calorie per day net negative energy balance or deficit. So you can do the math here and you can see what it takes to lose fat. Now, you can create that deficit. We're going to talk about that in a second in many different ways. But at the end of the day, net negative energy balance. I'm going to beat that into your head. You have to be in a caloric deficit to lose body fat. Often here people say, well, I did this magic voodoo diet, fad diet, whatever it is, and I lost 10 pounds in my first week. 20 pounds in two weeks. All the diet charlatans are out this time of the year telling you that you can lose impossible rates of fat. But let's just do the math on this. 10 pounds of fat loss in a week is 35,000 calories burned. Do you really think that most people are going to burn 35,000 calories in a single week on a diet? I don't think so. Creating a deficit. There's really three levers that you can pull to create a deficit. You can yank all three of them at the same time. You can start with one. You can do two. But really the three levers that we have to pull are diet, lowering your calories. We can create a deficit through increasing energy expenditure, through exercise, just keeping moving, upping your step count, cardio, whatever you want to call it. And we can use fat loss agents such as fat burners. Those are really our only three choices for losing fat. Sometimes hormones can play a little bit of a role into it as well. We can manipulate hormones with PEDs or hormone replacement therapy. But at the end of the day, it's probably a pretty insignificant amount of difference in metabolism. Still, the most important thing is just creating a calorie deficit. And I will beat this into your head over and over and over again. You can take all the fat burners that you want. It's not going to matter if you're not in a calorie deficit. We have many different types of fat burners. I'm not going to go into great detail here today about that. Kurt Havens and I have another video up about the science of fat burners. If you want to check that out, that video goes into extreme detail on fat burning agents if you want to take a look at it. But at a high level, we have beta agonists, which release fat. Clenbuterol and ephedrine would be such things. Alpha-2 antagonists, which stop the storage of fat, which would be something like Yohimbine. Thyroid stimulation through thyroid hormones. And HGH, which stimulates lipolysis. We have appetite suppressments such as fentamine and semiglutide, otherwise known as ozempic. A lot of people are on the ozempic train today. ozempic does not burn fat. All it does is suppress appetite, which makes you eat less. And you're creating a deficit by eating less. So there's no real magic to ozempic. If you can't control what you take from the plate and put in your mouth, something like ozempic might be an option. But if you have willpower, ozempic is likely unnecessary. Anti-estrogens and anabolics also can play a role. Bodybuilders leverage those on contest prep. But unless you're sub-10% body fat, you probably aren't going to really see any much of a difference from any of those. My general rules for cardio when I work with my clients, typically what I do is I start off with 20 minutes of LIS cardio, low-intensity steady-state cardio, where your pulse is at 120 beats per minute roughly, which would be a brisk walk or a light cycle, or running the stair climber on a lower setting will probably get you in that 120 beat per minute range. And I start off with 20 minutes six times per week. The maximum effective amount of cardio that I've seen is somewhere around 40 to 45 minutes, two times per day. Anything above and beyond that, I really don't see a whole lot of added benefit. And you just get into a situation where you start burning muscle up. It seems like you burn more muscle tissue than fat. And keep in mind that your body stores energy in multiple ways. We store energy as glycogen. We store energy as body fat. And we also store energy as muscle tissue protein. Those are calories. To increase NEAT, just keep moving throughout the day. Get up and move around. Walk around. Don't sit on your butt all day long like I do. Be more active. Take your dog for a walk. These little things add up throughout the day. With all that said, eating less is probably easier than doing a bunch of cardio. 30 minutes of cardio is likely less energy deficit than just not eating a cookie. A cookie is probably going to be more net energy difference than doing 30 minutes of cardio. For me personally, I would rather eat less than do more cardio. You can also increase energy expenditure by doing more training volume in the gym. That is going to burn calories. But there is an upper limit to it where it becomes counterproductive. But it is an option. Planning out your diet and your caloric deficit phase. I found that somewhere between 16 to 20 weeks is about the max that you can push a caloric deficit before the wheels start to fall off. Either people mentally crack after that or you have gotten your calories so low and the cardio is so high. It just becomes ineffective. The body resists. Your metabolism down-regulates to adapt to the lower calories in the increased energy expenditure. And you just get to a point where you don't have much more fat loss. The fat loss slows down. Usually what I do when that happens is give people a four to six week diet break. Where we push the calories back up to maintenance or slightly above. Pull the cardio back. And then go back after it again if we need to. So how much fat can you realistically expect to lose during a diet phase? I usually tell my fat loss clients somewhere between 0.5 and 1% of your total body weight per week. For a 200-pound man, that would equate to 1 to 2 pounds of fat loss per week. I know that sounds disheartening to people. But remember, we have to burn 3,500 calories to lose a pound of fat. So it is a lot of work. You didn't get fat overnight. And you're not going to lose it overnight. So realistically, on a 16-week diet phase, we can expect to lose somewhere between 16 to 30 pounds for an adult male that's 200 pounds. I would say 30 is probably overly ambitious. But I usually see somewhere between 15 to 25 pounds of real fat. That is a lot of tissue. Now, you're likely going to lose some water weight along with that. But you're not going to have these rapid weight loss promises that all these charlatans are selling on the internet this time of the year. These are more realistic rates of fat loss. Almost everybody I encounter, especially men, men severely underestimate how fat they are. Every dude I talk to thinks he's 15% body fat when he's really probably 25%. They get to the end of a 16 to 20-week fat loss phase. And they're disappointed with the results. They thought they would be leaner and bigger than what they were. They always have less muscle than they think they do. And they're fatter than what they think they are. And don't trust those in-body scans at the gym. The results from those are pretty crappy. I use the mirror and pictures to judge where people are at more so than any machine. That tells the truth. If you can see your abs, you're lean. If you're obese, let's say more than 30 pounds overweight, it's going to take multiple fat loss phases to get yourself down to where you can see your abs. If you're someone that's 60, 70, 100 pounds overweight, you're probably looking at a year to a year and a half worth of effort to get all that fat off. This is just being realistic about it. Now, you could crash diet and lose all that quickly. But usually what happens when people do that, they damage their metabolism and they have a huge rebound afterwards. They end up losing a bunch of muscle tissue along the way. And metabolically, they are damaged after this. And they end up having a lower base metabolic rate after that fat loss phase and just get even fatter afterwards. And it becomes even harder to lose weight. My plan is to always take it slow. Make sure that we're not crushing the metabolism and that we're not losing lean body mass. If anything, we want to try to gain some lean body mass while we're losing body fat. Another strategy I heard John Meadows, the late John Meadows mentioned before, was playing cards in your hand with fat loss. You want to keep cards in your hand for when you get stuck. Everybody wants to jump on the fat burners and do a shit ton of cardio right out of the gate. You're just painting yourself into a corner that way. I aim for that one to two pounds of fat loss per week. I'll start off with a slight calorie deficit and a little bit of cardio and see if we can hit that target. When we stop making progress, then we'll up the cardio and up the calorie deficit a little bit. And if we get to a point in the diet where we're later on and we can't cut calories anymore and we cannot up the cardio anymore, we'll add in fat burning agents to accelerate things even further. But take it slow. Be patient. It's going to take time to get all this weight off. And expect metabolic adaptation as you go through a diet. The deeper you get into the diet, the harder you're pushing a caloric deficit. Your body is going to adapt and try to keep you alive. Your body's primary function is to keep you from dying from starvation. So it is going to fight you along the way. That's why we can only push things for about 16 to 20 weeks before we need a diet break. Diet psychology. A lot of people have a hard time dieting. It is really hard to break those bad habits. A lot of people have addictions to food. A lot of people use food as a crutch to get by emotionally. A lot of people have dysfunctioned hunger hormone signaling with dysfunctional leptin and ghrelin signaling. You want to try to fight through that initially and deal with being a little more hungry. It's not the end of the world being hungry. You learn to be comfortable with it. As a bodybuilder, we've gotten used to it. Bodybuilders get good at dieting. Someone who has not been through that before, it can be really tough. There are tools to deal with it. One of the things I like to do is increase food volume by substituting high-density calorie foods out with low-density calorie foods, such as just simply eating more vegetables, or doing high-volume foods like eating more protein that seems to be not as calorically dense as something as simple carbohydrates. That'll keep you full, keep your brain occupied, drinking more liquids along the way. That helps as well. And if you get to a point where you just simply cannot hack it, there are options such as ozempic, some of Glutide, which a lot of people are raving about right now, which will help you deal with hunger hormone signaling. There's the diet delirium that people run into, where they get eight weeks into a diet, and they're not seeing the results they want, because it is slow and hard. Dieting sucks. It is hard. It's difficult. It's a slow, monotonous process. And a lot of people will get six, eight weeks into a diet, and they've only lost eight to ten pounds. They look skinny fat. They don't feel like they're seeing any progress in the mirror, and they just give up. You have to keep fighting through that phase and keep going if you want to get lean. People also start second-guessing themselves, like, is this diet working? Does my coach know what they're talking about? Am I doing too much cardio? Am I doing too little cardio? Just stay relaxed, keep consistent, and don't give up. A lot of times when people make a mistake on a diet, they just get into this, what I call the ah, screw it mode, where they go out and eat a pizza, and then they just say, screw this diet. I'm in for a penny, in for a pound. I'm just going to eat whatever I want, and I'm off this diet, and they go on a bender. It's basically like an alcoholic that has fallen off the wagon and goes to the bar and cleans out the bar for a week straight. Don't do that. Don't do that. If you make a mistake, just hop back on and get back on track. One mistake's not going to kill you. A week of mistakes will. Attention to detail, too. A lot of people don't realize how much they are eating. They severely underestimate how much they eat. There's studies done on this stuff. I think I've seen where people under-report what they eat by as much as 60 to 70 percent. Weighing and measuring your food and keeping track of your food is critically important if you want to have success with your diet. I know it's a pain in the ass, but it does help. I promise you, it will keep you on track, and it opens your eyes when you start tracking your food. Some simple diet hacks we talked about before. Increasing food volume, eating more protein, protein satiates, eating smaller, more frequent meals. That's a trick that bodybuilders use. Eating five to six times a day, so you're constantly keeping food in. Eating higher volume food at night. At the end of the day, like we said, it's net energy balance that matters. So a lot of people get scared to eat food at night. They think that somehow eating food before bed is going to make them fat. If you're a person that struggles with hunger, save the higher volume of food, the larger amount of a portion of your calories for the day for the end of the night. At the end of the day, all that matters is that you're in a caloric deficit. If you're in a caloric deficit, you're going to lose weight. Essentially, that's what people that do this intermittent fasting are doing. They're cutting off their food in the morning. Most people aren't as hungry in the morning, and they're saving the bulk of their food for the second half of the day. It's the same thing. Plan in a weekly cheat meal. A weekly cheat meal is not going to kill you. And a lot of times, I find that it keeps people on track. And avoid trigger foods. If there's a type of food that makes you want to go off the rails and go on a bender, for me, it's sugar. If I have ice cream, I'm going to go eat ice cream every night. So just avoid those trigger foods. Go out and have a satiating cheat meal at the end of the week. Eat like a steak and a potato or go out and have a burger and fries once a week. It's not going to derail your diet. All right, folks. That's all I got for you on this one. Hopefully you found that helpful. This is how you get shredded for the summer. Turn that flab into abs. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. I love this one.