deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick, deca dick. Alright, folks, Big Paul here today. I'm gonna take you behind the scenes, show you what it's like to do a full high carb day now as an IFBB Pro bodybuilder. And I'm gonna share with you some of my work habits during the day, show you a little bit of how I have my work setup, and we're gonna dig into all that in just one second. Before we get started, and just a quick reminder before we get started, I still have the sale going on for the Science of Antibiotics, a PEDZ course. Use the code IFBB at checkout for 20% off. Enjoy the video. Alright, good morning, folks, I'm gonna take you along with me today on a high day. People seem to like these eating videos. It's exactly one week post-show, and here's the crazy thing. I'm down like five pounds since the show. I have a small appetite. I just have to force myself to eat, even on contest prep sometimes. I guess it can be a superpower, because it makes contest prep easy. BuT3 days after the show, I had two cheat meals, something like that. I don't remember. I think I went to, I had a pizza, and then I went to Denny's the day after. And then the day after that, I only ate three meals. And then Monday, I kind of got back on track with my regular diet. I hadn't weighed myself since the show, and I weighed in at weigh-ins at 249.8, and I was 241 this morning, which is crazy. But that's how my body goes. So we're gonna do a high day today. If I knew I dropped that much, I would have already done a high day. I haven't done a high day since the show. I figured since I'd had some crap food, that maybe it wouldn't be so bad. But we're gonna do a high day today. So people that think I eat like a child, today's the day I eat like a child. Dude, can you move here out of my way, please? Thank you. We're gonna have some kiddie food today, cereal. We're gonna have some candy. We're gonna go out for a cheat meal. But I don't eat like that every day. That's just one or two days a week. It's just how it goes. But I'm doing, for breakfast, I'm doing meal one. I'm doing cream of rice with jam, and I'm going to have some coffee. I got a long day lined up. I got a lot of shit going on today. I have my Ninja coffee machine. I'm doing a double dose of coffee today, doing the breakfast blend pods from Starbucks. I get this, although it doesn't matter today, but I get the low-fat, low-calorie creamer. It's 20 calories per tablespoon. I'm probably at like three tablespoons of it, to be honest with you. So it's a little more than that. Probably 67 calories, but not that it matters right now. I'm down pretty far, so I need to put some weight back on. I think I am going to do the Masters Worlds, IFBB Masters Worlds. I talked to the officials afterwards. They told me I should do it in September 1st. I'm already going to be up in Pittsburgh for North Americans, except clients competing, so IMight as well do it. We'll see how I feel. I'm headed out to Mexico for a short vacation, going down there for four or five days, leaving Saturday, and I'll be back Wednesday, and I'll see how I feel when I get back. And if I'm into it, then I'll do it. If I'm not, then I won't. I'm leaning towards it, because I feel pretty good coming off this prep. It's about the best I've felt coming off the prep, even though the last week was a little rough. But for the most part, this was an easy prep. I should say easy in relative terms compared to the other preps, but it wasn't that challenging of a prep. I probably could be a little leaner, but I'm not sure what the competition's going to be like in the pro show, if they're going to be pushing. I was pushing size or leanness there. I was a little worried about Masters USA, or Masters National, sorry, that I wasn't lean enough. I was definitely leaner at Masters USA last year. I have not yet been able to 100% nail the combination of leanness and fullness. This was probably the closest I've been. I looked my best two weeks out, but still didn't quite nail it. I got sick the week before the show. I would say I was at 85% at the show. For breakfast this morning, I'm doing some foie total zero for protein. I am doing chicken breast for protein. You guys are going to get grossed out, but IMix it in with the cream of rice and jam, so it's all one big lump of stuff. Just makes it easier to get down. I boil the cream of rice on the stove. I don't know, people have different ways of doing it, but this is how I do it. I think I'm going to do the Masters World Championships, as long as I feel okay. I'm going to get my blood work done today or tomorrow and check it, see what it's like. IMay get down to Mexico and eat tacos and drink some tequila and say, fuck, I don't want to do this anymore, and take a break. I don't know. I don't feel like that right now. I haven't had the urge to go eat a bunch of food. I haven't felt like I was done with prep. I feel like I could keep pushing. My initial plan was to have North Americans be my backup show anyway, in case I didn't get the pro card at Masters Nationals. I had a window of two shows. I felt like if I'd had a window of two shows last year, IMay have had a chance of getting it. I was very close at Masters USA. I could have been fuller at Masters USA. I think I flattened out a little too much at the end, but I definitely was lean. I was pretty shredded at Masters USA. Conditioning was on point. So, we'll see how I feel when I get back. You can see my giant 22 ounces of coffee I've got here. I usually don't drink this much coffee, but I got one of these days lined up that's probably going to need it. I've got five consult calls with clients. People book consult calls to talk about their cycle. Some clients, I've got clients competing almost every weekend. I actually don't have anybody competing this weekend. That's crazy. I've had a pretty good year so far. Two pro cards, two almost pro cards that were one spot off from pro cards. I've had multiple local class wins. I've had a lot of guys drop out of prep, though, this year. I don't know. Just a lot of people get halfway through prep and they give up. IMean, prep's a mindfuck. You've got to be in the right place. Honestly, I get it. It's tough. If you've got family and obligations going on, that really should come first. It's a bodybuilding is a very selfish sport, and prep can take its toll on you mentally. It's not so much the physical part of it. It's not like back rowing. All right, I'm going to give the dogs some. I don't know if you can see them upset. Let's be gentle. Let's be gentle, gentle, gentle, gentle. That wasn't gentle. The old guy here, he knows how to be gentle. Gentle buddy. Yeah, you're a good boy. They always get a piece of chicken. Got to make sure I save a piece for the dogs. They always get some. Come on, Milo. You're in my way, bud. My dogs are all chicken and rice. I've goT4 cups of raw rice ready to cook. I do have my carbs today from rice in the Zojirushi rice cooker. You can see the cream of rice here after I cook it. I don't like it super, super soupy. I like it to be semi-solid. And get this concoction together. You'll see it. I do use some insulin on high days, although I don't think I need it today. powdered juice, powditute mag Shoot I forgot to put salt on that. For salt I use?this Morton Lite salt Its a blend of potassium and sodium. I think going into the show, part of the reason why IMight have been sick is maybe maybe I was hyperkalemic I don't know I have to be careful with using a potassium sparing diuretic and using this type of stuff possibly I don't know I'm just speculating. Maybe if you pull out shit like bananas and stuff just to just to be mindful of it that's something you got to be on the lookout for if you're using potassium sparing diuretics and I'm gonna throw I use by my mom jam on here and this meal I'm a little over but I think I can use the extra carb. This meal is going to be 50 grams of protein 200 grams of carbs 0 grams of added fat in reality is probably 2 or 3 grams of fat in it from the chicken breast and it's pretty pretty low fats we keep the fats low, carbs high on this day. I'm going to load up some glycogen and get myself filled back out but here's the meal that is meal one. All right meal two coming up I think I'm gonna do some Captain Crunch. The captain is makinGHis appearance in this meal check this out I just found these I don't know how IMiss these all the time cinnamon Captain Crunch this shit is the bomb. Dating myself my Gen X speak here but I'm gonna have some cinnamon Captain Crunch for this meal we're gonna do some rice and chicken half the carbs today on the high day actually come from rice the other half can come from from sugary sources people get all bent out of shape about me eating trash kid foods on my high days all I can say I got ripped from a show I like a five-year-old it's it's only one day a week right IMean how much damage are you gonna do from one day a week I eat normal healthy clen food the rest of the week and then I have this stuff on the high day so and it's not like it's a ton of it anyway it's half my calories we're talking about I don't know what six meals out of 42 for a week where I'm getting a little bit of processed food in and you can do the math on it if I were to eat 1,200 grams of carbs straight from rice that's 24 cups of rice who the fuck is eating 24 cups of rice in a day I'm not you'd have to be a savage to eat 24 cups of rice in a day I don't I don't know how that would even be possible so if you can if you can hammer down 24 cups of rice in a day you my friend are an animal there is no damn way that I could do that you'd have to be a complete savage to get that done so you know using chicken in this meal I'm just doing the chicken and rice I'll remember to salt it I'm solving it with the Morton's light sea salt again you can see the dogs down here I don't know if you can see him or not but they're waiting for their they're waiting for their food my babies they're both over here waiting I'll give them both a piece of chicken when it's time and I'll show you here in just a second but these these guys are very very patient the young one here the shithead Milo is still learninGHow to eat gentle so see how he does with the gentle eatinGHere in a second we'll put two pieces aside for him last video I did when I was eating I didn't realize how this asshole was sneaking food off the counter when I had my back turned and the video showed me I'll show you here let's see let's get down here there is the baby that's Milo and here's my old man that's mr. max all right come here boys let's Milo sit sit sit Milo Milo sit come on all right come here gentle up gentle wait gentle all right you can have some that was a good boy that was a good boy here's the old guy max max sit sit max sit sit give me a high-five give me a come on buddy give me a high-five good job there you go you're a good old man good old man my old guy he's really good with tricks and stuff he's very smart the puppy he's stubborn he doesn't want he wants to do them but what are you gonna do they say the old dog is the one that's hard to teach new tricks to he learns tricks the puppy sometimes he does stuff sometimes he doesn't got the light salt out again with the potassium and sodium in it it is 350 milligrams of potassium 60 milligrams of iodine and 200 milligrams of sodium per serving when I get to it closer to my show I'll measure it out but right now I'm not measuring anything out we'll measure the Captain Crunch out here I usually do the cereal dry IMight spare some milk in it today when I do get closer to the show I kind of cut these trash sources back and I'll stick with like fruit or fruit juice I do clen it up when I'm you know a couple weeks out but right now it doesn't matter so we'll see I'm gonna show you what 100 grams of carbs looks like from from this you're gonna be disappointed when you actually see what 100 grams carbs looks like from this it's just a bowl of cereal that's it just a regular bowl of cereal that's a hundred you can see it over my hand that's 100 grams of carbs from cereal so a lot of people that think they're not eating a ton of carbs are probably eating more than what they think if they're eating stuff like this meal two is done on the meal three now all right one of the things I like to do between meals especially on the high day help digestion and just feeling better is to get a quick walk between meals just like a 10-minute one and take a walk around my neighborhood I do my walk in the morning this year for contest prep I did I did step count instead of actuALCARdio prescribed cardio like I have in the past I would do something like you know 10,000 steps a day I think it's what I worked up to and I'm pretty sedentary I didn't realize how little I actually move before my contest prep I was only getting like 2,500 3,000 steps it's absolutely fucking ridiculous and so much I sit on my ass all day long so deliberately built in some steps today and I'm doing kind of the Stan Efforting thing where you just get out and do a 10 minute walk each day between meals and that makes things a lot easier to get the steps it helps with digestion too and I can handle doing 10 minutes of cardio at a time so like what I was doing during my contest prep I would get up and do a 20 minute walk in the morning sometimes I do the cardio Q&A's just to make the time go by a little bit faster and then I would go out and do these little 10 minute walks between meals from which our blood comes from. sprouts from healthy seeds sprawned from healthy seeds ultimately oxygenated. This product is great for distributinGHigh cholesterol hydrogens through estimates that express high levels of cholesterol in children who are small over the age of 18. Environmental studies. It has been shown to reduce cholesterol consumption Now we'll get meal three in. Take my shirt off so I don't get all sweaty. I sweat like crazy. Even just walking makes me sweat. I think it will do pork, chicken and rice. Surprise, surprise. And probably some Swedish fish or actually Mike and Ike's. I think that's what I'm going to go with. Hey, we get the shirt back on now that I'm back in the house. It's a little chilly in here. It's covered with doGHair. As you can see everything in my house has doGHair on it. It's the price you pay when you have English masters. DoGHair on everything. What do you do? It's just what happens when you have dogs. I got the cleners coming tomorrow, but it doesn't really make any difference. Yes. I think I'm going to go with Mike and Ike's for my next meal. I know I have some somewhere. Where are they? They're in here in the pantry. People make fun of my candy choice saying Mike and Ike's are pathetic. It is old person's candy. So Mike and Ike's we'll go with some chicken and rice again. You see me popping a grape between each meal. I just like grapes. More of that. Watch out, dude. Step on your foot. It's funny after the show. It was crazy. It was a couple days where I just had nothing but overwhelming positive positive comments and people reaching out for support. And it was really, really nice. It was overwhelmed and flattered by the people reaching out to me. And it was it was disappointing that there weren't more trolls trolling me. Oh, they're back out of the woodwork now. I already had a death threat today. I posted a joke up that somebody evidently offended somebody. It's a joke about something we see every day. I'm not going to mention it because I don't want to upset the guy further. But I got a death threat from him for posting a joke. There are some crazy people on social media. I'll tell you that. I never knew it until I got on social media. Dude, you waiting for your chicken again? They're here at every meal waiting for their chicken. They are chicken and rice foods. Actually, they just get the chicken. Their dog food is chicken. I get the organic chicken and rice dog food for them. I don't know if it really makes any difference. Who knows? But I love my dogs. Nothing but the best for them. They're my babies. I feed them. Feed them. Well, I take care of them. They take care of me. I let them sleep with me. I probably shouldn't let the dogs in the bed, but I love my dogs. They're my babies. All right, but I'm not going to make you beg this time. We'll just toss you a piece. There you go. Hopefully you got a piece. Piece of chicken for each of you. And now I'm going to make you really sad when IMeasure out these Mike and Ikes and show you how little it takes to actually get 100 grams of carbs from Mike and Ikes. You are going to be shocked when I do this. You can find my little carafe here. I'll show you how small this thing is. See how small this thing is in my hand? And I'm going to fill this guy up. I'm going to show you how little zero out my scale here. Let's see what this works out to be. It's going to be really sad. It's funny when you eat enough insulin, you get all these crazy jaw pumps from from eating. All right. This is going to, it's half the bag basically. 100 grams of carbs. There you go. That's 100 grams of carbs from Mike and Ikes. Pretty pathetic, right? Got to go do some work. I need to get a video recorded for tonight. Need to do check-ins. I've got some marketing stuff I need to do. It's about, I don't know what time is it? 2.30. So I'm on meal three at 2.30. I usually get up around 8. I do cardio. I eat around 9. I work until 5 or so. Then I go to the gym around 7. I take a little break and then I get home from the gym around 9 and then I work again until like 11.31. Sometimes 1 in the morning. Just depends on how motivated I am. Seven days a week. That's my routine. I work out. I work seven days a week, probably 10 to 12 hours a day, seven days a week. Been an entrepreneur my entire life. I've managed businesses. I've run businesses. I do investing, bodybuilding. I just retired from my CEO job. I don't know, two months ago. I'm not doing a day job anymore. Just focusing on this stuff for now. It's what I love to do and I'm just kind of enjoying life. Now it's time to go do a little bit more work. Right now it's back to work. Today I'm working on, I have work on my daily stuff. Which is check-ins, taking care of my clients, things like that. And then I have long-term projects that I work on as well. Working on adding more to the building effective cycles, the cycle cheat sheet. I'm trying to add more to that. I keep upgrading that and adding stuff to that for people that purchase that. Client check-ins, video editing. It's another thing I do. I edit all my own videos. I do all my own artwork. Create all my own content. I do have a video editor that I work with on some stuff. The guys come to the gym to film me. So I do have that. Do you have some help there? But a lot of the stuff I just do on my own and it's a lot of work, man. It's long days. A lot of people say they want to be a coach or run a business, but they don't realize the amount of work that goes into doing this stuff. It's a crap ton of work. This here. This is my mothership. This is where I sit all day long. I do all my podcasts from here. I do all my check-ins from here. I do everything from here. This is where I sit for 10 to 12 hours every day, seven days a week. And I love it. I love working. I love grinding. This is just part of it. I'm sittinGHere eating meal three while I'm doing this. And we'll do some video editing, crank out a new video. I'm going to be gone next week. So maybe this video will be out then. But I want to get my content up and scheduled for next week before I leave. It's a part of that. I'm getting that done today. And that's just a day in the life of working. Check-ins don't stop coming in, contest prep, especially during contest prep people season, people arecompeting on the weekend. So weekends are nuts. Saturdays are crazy. Everybody loves to check in on Sundays and Mondays. So I got a pile of check-ins. There are no days off when you're doing this stuff. It's seven days a week. I'm not complaining. I love it. But this is part of it. And then I try to dedicate a certain amount of time every day to forward momentum stuff. Keeping an eye on my investments. Some of my other business ventures. Working on content, creating content for people to learn educational content. I'm constantly working on new educational content. I'll have a lot more stuff coming out here soon that people haven't seen yet. But that is coming. This is part of the grind. I love grinding. I love working. And a lot of people want the results, but they don't want to put the work in. I'm trying to sound arrogant. I think I'm going to go with sourdough toast, a classic, sourdough toast and some jam and a protein shake, keep it simple, that keeps the food volume low, I generally keep the protein shakes to just one a day, that's where IMax out at with the protein shakes, I don't do a ton of protein shakes, if I do more than that, it's explosive ass time, my butthole is going to explode, it's about 4.30 right now, I'll eat my meal 5 at 6.30 and then head to the gym, I usually work out for, tonight is back, probably get a 90 minute or so workout in, I already did my cardio for the day, so I don't need to do cardio, then I'll take my daughter out to dinner later, her and I go to dinner together, it's usually kind of our thing, I don't know how many pieces of toast I'm going to do, because I'll do four, IMight have to do a little bit of candy to fill in the gap, so for the sourdough toast, the macros on this, I'm not going to weigh it out exactly, it is 25 grams of carbs per piece, now keep in mind that's going to vary from piece to piece, it's not like these things are weighed exactly the same, they're different sizes, that's the thing with macros and people obsessing about labels, food labels and being correct with them, the FDA allows up to 20% margin of error on food labels, so there's only so accurate you can get with it, so you just need to make sure that you're weighing your food, so at least that's consistent, I'll make a video about it at some point, I know I've talked about it before, but there's this phenomenon in statistics, accuracy and I forget it now, but I'll do a thing about it at some point, if we start sweating over the accuracy and precision, that's what it is, so if we worry about the accuracy of the macros which aren't accurate, we know that they're going to be off to as much as 20%, it is more important to focus on the precision of the measurement than it is the actual accuracy of the macros because you can't get very accurate with it, you actually introduce more error into the situation when you obsess about being accurate with the macros, something you can't be accurate about, it'll make sense when I explain it to you, people get it all backwards, I was a computer science and data analytics major in college, so I took a lot of advanced math classes, I've forgotten a lot of it, it's been close to 30 years, but anyway, we're doing the sourdough toast, I should have been toasting it while I was here, I'm going to do some jam with the sourdough toast, this is an easy one to get down, I'll buy my mom jam again, the dogs are going to be disappointed because there's no chicken in this meal, and for my protein, I get cold filtered whey isolate from True Nutrition, my friend Dante Trudeau, he makes the best protein out there, it is the best protein that you can get, it's high quality, I really have to be careful with protein powder, it blows my gut up, Justin talks about how it leaves your system too quickly, that's the reason why he doesn't like it, there's some ways to work around that, I just sip on it while I'm working between meals, so I'm not hammering it all down in one big gulp like some people do, and sometimes you do want to get a fast hit like post-workout or when you're using insulin, things like that, but I'll drink it over the next hour and a half, two hours, it is rapidly in your system, but the chicken is probably still digesting from the meal before, it's not like that, it's completely emptied out, and there are things like casein that digest slowly, although casein tends to upset stomachs, a lot of people get really bad protein farts from casein, at least that's what I've seen, you can mix the protein with some fat and some other stuff to help with that, I'll take my vitamins later, so some things I add in on my high days to help with digestion, I have a very sensitive stomach, I do digest gold, digestive enzymes, I add those in, I do some ox bio with each meal, I use the NutraCost ones, and then this is not for digestion, but for insulin sensitivity, I use Suppressor Max from First Detachment, I pop a couple of these with each meal, Justin said you can take the whole thing in one dose, but I find when I take everything in one dose that I get an upset stomach, so I don't do that, I start sipping on my protein shake now. The digestive enzymes, you need to read the proper amount to take on here, so you'll see here the proper amount that you take, it'll tell you, like everybody will take like one of these, but it's not enough to digest the food, so like for this one, it's one pill for 20 grams of carbs, so I need like 10 of them, I'll do half, but it's more than what you think it is, and I'll do the ox bio, I'll just do one with each meal to help with digesting as well, and toast should be just about ready, looks like there's about 30 seconds left on that, I will make my sourdough toast, eat it with my protein shake, this is one of my high day favorites, actually I'm going to burn my toast a little bit, let's see here, no it's perfect, I like my bread to be a little bit on the brown side, who doesn't like their toast extra toasty, let's see here if I can get that one out, this is perfect, I got this guy perfectly done, and I'm going to measure, I'm going to be a little, I don't think I'm going to have enough on here to hit the 100 grams from the jelly, maybe I will, it's going to be about 30 per, yep, so just about perfect, we'll spread these out, and I'm going to show you this, this is for people that are wowed by the amount of carbs that I eat, I'm going to show you what 200 grams of carbs, a lot of people I think eat more carbs than they think they do, what 200 grams of carbs from toast and jam look like, it's not as much as you think, this is what 200 grams of carbs from toast and jam look like, alright, last meal before my workout, meal number 5, we're going to keep this one simple and do one of my favorites, I'm going to do my apple pie filling with rice, that's one I love to do pre-workout, let me see if I can find my apple pie filling, I think it's in the pantry, where are you Mr. Apple Pie Filling, here you are, I'm going to do apple pie filling, I know people think this one's gross, I love it, with rice and chicken, it's actually pretty good, it goes down easy, one of the things I like to do on my high day, my appetite just fucking sucks, everybody was asking me what I was going to have for cheat meals after prep, and I was just tired of eating, to be honest with you, I don't like eating 6 times a day, I get sick of it, I just wanted to go back to eating 4 times a day, and I did that for a couple of days, and I had a couple of meals, whatever I wanted, but my weight right now is actually down or a little bit from where it was on stage, close to the same, I don't know, but it's similar, a couple of pounds down, probably just glycogen depletion because I haven't been eating all the carbs at once before, I get tired of all the carbs, but I want food on my high day at the point I was getting to that goes down. et cetera. And that is the end of the video. Thanks for watching. Have a great day. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. It's been a long fucking day. I slept like six hours last night, which is pretty typical for me. I usually try to catch a nap during the day, but I think I had too much coffee this morning. You guys saw the giant coffee I had. It was too much. Sometimes I'll do a pre-workout coffee instead of an actual pre-workout, but I'll do a half a scoop of the WTF from First Detachment. And let's see here, that's an appropriate amount. I'll put a little bit of orange juice in it as well to give it some flavor. This is an appropriate amount of double extra, whatever. Apple pie filling. I put a little bit of this Saigon cinnamon from Costco, Kirkland brand, go Costco, on top of it. Shit's awesome. Here's what it looks like. Rice, chicken, apple pie filling. I know it seems gross having the apple pie in there. I get my supplements in. I have all my supplements in a pill box. I have a video up if you want to check it out with my supplement stack. I go through all of it, if you're curious. It's up on my YouTube channel. Oh, almost fumbled that one. If you're curious, you can check it out. IMay or may not take digestive enzymes, we'll see. Probably I'll take them. I should. Yeah, fuck it, I'll take them. Well, another thing, too, on this high day, you really want to jam the water down, too. You need water if you're going to load sodium, or load glycogen, sorry, you need sodium in there, too. For every gram of glycogen loaded, it's something like two to three grams of water. I don't remember the exact math on it, but it's something like that. I'm going to get the WTF pre-workouts. Where is it? I know I've got something open. Here we go. Oh, I'm sorry, bro. You okay? Got your head in there. WTF, this is raspberry lemonade snakebite, and I'll mix it up with a little bit of orange juice. I still have about, still about 20 grams of carbs short. So I'll need, oh, I'll just round it out, it'll be six grams over. We need eight, so it's half of this container. I'm just going to eyeball it, because I'm not exactly on prep at this minute. So that's close enough. That's probably about, a little bit more. That's probably about 20 grams of carbs, close, close enough for today. It's a high carb day, a little extra carbs, isn't going to hurt me today, and I'll do half a scoop. If you want to pick this stuff up yourself, man, this shit kicks. I don't need, I'm super sensitive to stimulants. Half a scoop for me, Milo, my dog's drinking out of the toilet, I hear him. You can see, half a scoop's plenty for me. I pinched his head, and he had to go, and the pantry door, he had to go soothe himself by drinking out of the toilet. That is a big dog problem, and big dog owners will know. They can fit their head into the toilet, and it's the unlimited water fountain. My kids always forget to put the damn toilet seat down, I tell them all the time, put the fucking toilet seat down, and they don't do it, and he drinks out of the toilet, and then he kisses me with that mouth. Disgusting dog stuff. My intro workout, I will do, also from first detachment, I will do fuel rations, find my lid for my container, wash the dishes today. Sorry, my counters and stuff are a mess right now, I've got the clening ladies coming tomorrow. Fuel rations from first detachment, which is highly branched cyclic dextren, and essential amino acids, and I'll do a little bit of insulin, preferably not on camera. With this, I'll do probably about, it's 200 grams of carbs, I usually, I don't wanna give doses too much, but I'm very conservative with the amount of insulin, I use about half what a diabetic would use going into my workout, and right now, I'm super insulin-sensitive coming out of the show, I could probably get away with even out it and not have a problem. But anyway, if you wanna pick that up yourself, it's discount code AB10, there's a link in the profile, and get our food down, and we're gonna go tren some back later. Alright, I'm rolling into the shop gym, let's see Mr. Chewbacca uncircumcised himself, floating into the gym out here, we'll see how high he is today. Get him back tonight, and then I'll go out for my cheat meal later, we'll see, I think I'm gonna get breakfast soon, I don't know, we'll see, we'll see, we'll see, I'd run the camera into the gym, but it looks like it's raining right now, might have to forgo the camera, is it raining, is it not, is it raining, I don't know, it looks like it's stopped, I'm all rolled to dice, there's a guy waiting next to me, he's trying to get in my parking spot, there's a parking spot next to me, I need to break into this bro, he's trying to fit in this parking spot, but it ain't gonna work, he's gonna make it work, there's a truck that's like half parked in the spot, he's intent, he's ready to make it work, there's a grocery store here that's always insanely busy, and people venture down into the gym parking lot, the park, cause there's no parking spots at the grocery store, we'll see what's going on here at the shop tonight, week post show, my workouts aren't crazy hard, trying to ease them back into things, it's easy to get injured week after show, usually take a week or two and kind of ramp your workouts back up, strength's gonna be down, there gonna be problems anyway, so if you go too hard, you'll end up tearing something, see what's going on in here, I love this place, it's the best gym, it's the best gym in the D.C. region, probably in all of East Coast really, it's one of the best gyms out here. we'll find Chewbacca, Colin, I don't know where my dude is at, probably in the bathroom, there he is. There he is, I wish I had his biceps, I got gypped on that. All right, we're done with the workout, got Colin Harding, we got it in, Colin made my biceps look small. Now it's time to figure out where the fuck I'm going to eat, pretty sure it's Silver Diner. My daughter doesn't get off work until 11, so that's about the only option. Anyway, so we're just going to have to go with what's available. Got a couple hours before then, hopefully I don't go hypo, we might need to eat some Swedish Fish in the meantime. We're a thousand carbs deep now, target for the day is 1200. Goes down a lot easier now that I'm not taking Winstraw. It's funny how the appetite increases when you stop Winstraw on the AIs. Actually, I'm not completely off the AIs, I've just reduced the dose. It's cut in half, I guess. See you, man. But we got to figure out what we want for dinner. Go home and get a little work in before, do a couple more check-ins before I pick my daughter up from work. She works close by to the house. Does not have her driver's license yet, she is almost 17 so I got to get on her ass about getting that done. But here soon she'll have it and she can drive herself to work. She'll have it and she can drive herself to work. But for now, it's daddy Uber. Hopefully this guy doesn't run over me. I'll pick her up. And then we'll get some food. That was a half-ass workout, by the way. Week after show, you're always a week after a show. Strength goes down. That's typical post-show. Strength is going to go down post-show. It comes back pretty quick. Guys get freaked out about being weak post-show. Usually within two to three weeks, you're back at pre-contest prep strength. It's just glycogen depletion and lack of fluid. You don't have leverage. You're just weak and run down from the show. But it comes back pretty quick. In fact, a lot of times you've got to be careful post-show that you don't injure yourself. Alright, on to getting dinner. Alright, I'm going to Silver Diner for dinner. That's the verdict. I figured out what it would be, but it's the only thing open right now. My lens is probably fogged up because it's pretty humid out. We'll see how it looks when we get on there. But Silver Diner it is. Alright, so the million and one dollar question. What do I want? I'm not sure. Do I want to keep it lower fat or get a little extra fat and eat something? Usually I get an omelette. There's a couple choices with omelettes here. There's some lower fat ones. There's a California omelette. Sometimes I'll get the Western omelette. And then there's a Philly cheesesteak omelette that's really freaking good. You have the California omelette here. That's egg whites, chicken, tomato, jack, cheddar, scallions, black bean salsa. This one's pretty low fat. It's 638 calories. So it's 27 grams of fat, which is quite a bit. I'd be surprised at that. It comes with fruit and toast. A lot of times I get the Western omelette. You know what a Western omelette is. It has potatoes with it and a biscuit. Sometimes I get this Philly steak omelette, which is really good as well. And then I'll get a side of pancakes with it. No butter and syrup. Which is pretty freaking awesome. I get my carbs up high. I get my calories high. I need to push my weight back up because my weight had come down from the show. Which is like normal people. Most people gain a bunch of weight after the show. I'm actually down. I'd like to get myself back up to 250. I was in the low 240s this morning. I don't know what I'll be after the high day. Usually I'll bounce back up to like 247, 248. But I probably need to get back up to about 250. But I don't know. Actually, I was almost 240 this morning, I think. But we'll see what I am tomorrow morning. Well, I had to scratch my fucking plans for dinner. What I was going to get. They were out of breakfast stuff. They said they've been slammed. No goddamn pancakes. And none of the stuff that I normally order. So I went with a fried chicken sandwich instead. And some french fries. Fuck. I wanted pancakes. Goddamn it. I wanted pancakes. Alright, we'll make do. Paul, I'm going to have to slum it. Paul's going to have to slum it. No pancakes. Sad, sad times. I've been looking forward to it all week. Alright, and I got my food. Finally. It's a little late. And it's not what I wanted. Sad, disappointing face. But here we go. Here's what we got. You can see it here. The chicken sandwich. I got a little bowl of turkey chili with it. Some french fries. I probably won't eat the coleslaw because I don't really like coleslaw. That's it. That's the cheat meal for tonight. Now you know. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail dot com.