 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, Battle Tested, Expert Formulated, Expert Formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. 10% off. And today TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV TV Handing hamstring curls. Two important cues on this movement are to keep your toes back and to hold yourself forward on the chest rest so that your hamstring stays stretched the entire time you're in the eccentric position. You can really see his hamstring working here. We alternate between the standing hamstring curl and the lying leg curl machines. We are seated as well. Colin Harding, were you staring at my butt? Colin's working that dump truck. This workout's sorta half-assed because I'm on contest prep so I'm not slinging the weights that we normally do. Part of the thing with contest prep is trying to get your workouts in with enough stimulus but not completely murder yourself. So, you have to manage fatigue a lot when you're on contest prep. Our goal when we're on contest prep is to lose fat, not get hurt, and maintain what muscle we have. So one day I've been wearing my booty shorts while doing legs on camera. Well, your butt looked really nice, Colin. Thank you, I appreciate that. I admire it. So for time's sake, I'm not gonna show you all the sets that we're doing, but generally we do somewhere between 3 to 4 per exercise. Once again, volume's a little bit lower since I'm on prep because I'm trying to preserve energy a little bit. So, if you have my high volume program that I have on my website for free, I'm running somewhere in the week 3 to week 4 amount of volume. I get the last four weeks of prep. So we're trying to manage fatigue and not push the volume so hard that we're not recovering from our workouts. Alright, next up we have leg extensions. I know people think leg extensions are lean and sissy exercise, but I think it's because most people don't do them correctly. They put way too much weight on, they don't get a full extension, and they don't work their legs at all, their quads at all. So, for leg extensions, you want a weight you can manage, you can get a full extension and a lockout. And I'll usually use that to prime up my quads, and then either follow it up with hot squats, or we'll do sissy squats. On contest prep, probably sissy squats to manage fatigue. Remember, I'm not trying to gain muscle right now. We're trying not to lose muscle, not to get hurt, to lose fat and be ready for the show. Alright, so you can see here I'm getting a full extension and a lockout on these. I'm not doing one of these jobs where it's three quarters. If you're doing that, you got too much weight on it. You can see a full extension, good lockout, you're getting a good squeeze on the vastest meteorologist, and the quads. And so, on the leg extensions, we're going to do probably four sets. Once again, I'm not trying to kill myself on prep. Probably somewhere between the middle of minimum effective volume, and maximum recoverable volume we're doing if you're familiar with the RP stuff. So probably four sets of these before we move on to our next exercise. Colin has a secret weapon here. My anabolic sandals. Anabolic sandals. Makes every lift 10% more anabolic. That's science. 10% more anabolic. Can't argue with science. On the leg extensions. People in the comments section. Anabolic sandals and hairy legs. I apologize for nothing. They love your anabolic sandals, Colin. Oh, I know. They're very polarizing. It's like my username. I did not wear mine tonight. I feel left out of the party. But bros, you can be grossed out about the sandals. It's all good. We're gonna do the torque, boot, and ham. One of the things the judges told me last year is that I needed to bring out my booty. Of course, the ladies like a good booty too, so we need to make sure we have a good booty. Colin is a booty aficionado, so he's my official booty trainer. And so we're gonna do a few sets of this to make my booty nice and tight. And so, we're gonna do a few sets of this to make my booty nice and tight. So, we're gonna do a few sets of this to make my booty nice and tight. So, we're gonna do a few sets of this to make my booty nice and tight. Okay, so, next up, we got this piece of shit, the sissy squat. And, everybody thinks the sissy squat is for sissies, and I can promise you, if you do it correctly, it is hard as F. It is one of the hardest quad exercises you can do. I literally have done widow makers with 405 on squats, and it's not as hard as this thing, if you do it correctly. The key on this is you want to sit back into it and get your quads into it. You don't want to do a good morning when you're doing it. I think that's why a lot of people do it incorrectly, and they end up not engaging their quads at all. So, you want to sit back and sit deep. I'm gonna show you how to do it. What is a little bit of annavara trend. That's the secret. See how I sit back? It's not a good morning. You don't want to do this crap, which is what I see a lot of guys do. That's just working your back. You want to sit back into it, and let your quads do the work. Get a good stretch at the bottom, and sit up. This is all quad. This is not. That's hamstrings. And that's how you do a sissy squat. All right, we got big Colin doing these. See how he's sitting back? Get a good angle here. See how he's sitting back into it? He's not doing a good morning. And that's how you do a proper sissy squat. Now, I promise you if you tried these, you'd be a good morning. You don't want to do a good morning on these. And that's how you do a proper sissy squat. And I promise you if you try these, it's going to murder you. All right, we got Big Colin doing these. See how he's sitting back? Get a good angle here. See how he's sitting back into it? He's not doing a good morning. You don't want to do a good morning on these. And that's how you do a proper sissy squat. And I promise you if you try these, it's going to murder you. Those are hard, aren't they, Colin? Fuck yeah, those are hard. These will take the wind out of you, put hair on your chest. That's how Colin got all that hair on his chest. That and whiskey. Whisk back there showing me his quads. You're showing me your quads, man. Let's see the quads, Ron. Oh, shit. All right, now we're going to fix your calves. Colin, what's the big mistake people make on calves? Not using enough weight, Paul. Yeah, you want to put the whole stack on, and then we have Ron sit on top of it, and you get about one inch range of motion, and that's how you make your calves grow. So, no, but most people use way too damn much weight. They don't get a full range of motion, not a contraction up top, and not a stretch at the bottom. So I'm going to show you the proper way to do calves with not much weight. And we're going to have Ron sit on top. So you can see here, full stretch, extension at the top. Full stretch, squeeze at the top. You can see how much contraction I get in my calves doing it this way. This damn thing's slippery, my feet always slide off, but you can see the point here. Full stretch, contraction. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today. And get off the front line today today. And get off the front line today today. And get off the front line today today. And get off the front line today today. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. Hustle game, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.