 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, big Paul here today and I'm starting my day off with the treadmill, doing some cardio. I'm going to show you what a full high day of eating looks like. I usually start my morning off with a full high, I usually start my morning off with a, I don't know, I do 10 minutes or so on contest prep in the morning on the treadmill just to get my digestive system going, wake myself up, help with insulin sensitivity a little bit. I don't know how much of a difference it makes, but just a short 10 minute walk in the morning to get started. And I'll dig into all my food here in a minute. This is a high , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I've , I ready. I'll work on that this morning. First meal for a high day, I do cream of rice with chicken breast. I'll do fat-free Greek yogurt as well. It's one of the things that I'll do. I prepare all of my chicken breast in advance. I have all that done. I cook, I don't know, I'll cook like six pounds, five pounds of it up at a time. I can hear my crazy dog out here. But I'll have the chicken breast. Got to get the day started off with some coffee. If I didn't have coffee, things would be crazy. So I usually do 12 ounces of coffee. I do these pods. I do the Pete's medium roast, what I do for, I don't know if you can see this, but Pete's medium roast for coffee. I'll start off with cream of rice. I keep all my measurements up on my refrigerator for my food. I don't know if you can see it over here, but I have everything up here on the refrigerator. I have a quick reference guide that I use that I have if I need to measure things out on the fly. But I have my diet up there as well. So I do that. Coffee's brewing right now. I will do some, I have some low calorie creamer that I use as well in the coffee. I get this Starbucks Zero. This is caramel macchiato. There's a little bit of fat in it. So one tablespoon has one gram of fat in it. And there's a total of something like 15 calories, one gram of carbs. So it's really insignificant. As I get deeper in prep, I'll cut some of that crap out. With the cream of rice, I do two cups of water with the cream of rice. I like my cream of rice a little bit soupy. Some people like it a little more firm. But I'll do two cups of water with the cream of rice. And I will do an eighth of a tablespoon of sea salt. And with that, I have been using this no salt on half of my meals. Now the no salt or light salt, whatever you can get various brands of it. But the this stuff has 50% less sodium in it. And it has magnesium and potassium in it as well for balancing out your your electrolytes. I get my you know, your bodybuilder when you buy rice by the 25 and 50 pound bag. So I have my 25 pound bag of jasmine rice that I use and I get my rice cooked in the morning, I do four cups uncooked. So I have fresh rice through the whole day in the trusty Zojirushi rice cooker. The awesome thing with this Zojirushi, not that I ever use it, it has an extended warm feature that you can turn on that will keep the rice warm for up to 48 hours, kind of gets nasty after a day. So I cook a fresh pot each morning, morning and I'm eating a lot of rice anyway. I start off with my vitamins. I always put them in I get these these little containers. And I have everything in here in the morning. It's a multivitamin, my Tomasartan, one fish oil pill. Since today is a high day, there is suppressor from first detachment, which is a berberine supplement to help with glucose sensitivity when I get on contest prep, but glucose sensitivity is not an issue. It's more of an issue in the offseason. But I'll pop my pills before and I try to drink a full 16 ounces of water. As I'm prepping my food in the morning, I drink 16 ounces before I do my cardio. So 32 ounces of water and before I get my day started get hydrated, most people are very dehydrated in the morning. You take my pills. So coffee is done. I will measure, you know, contest prep, I get more anal of the things in the offseason. I'm not going to lie. I don't measure everything. So I'll do one tablespoon as a serving of the creamer. A lot of times I actually do less than that. And that's the 20 calorie serving I talked about. So that's plenty. I don't need any more than that. Gets me started in the morning with the coffee. I'll get the cream of rice goinGHere in a second. Fire up the burner here. I do my cream of rice. You guys are probably going to be completely disgusted by this. But IMix my chicken in with my cream of rice. It just makes it go down easier. For this meal, we're doing 80 grams of cream of rice. Uncooked. IMeasure it uncooked. That's accurate. The most accurate way to measure the cream of rice is uncooked. This cream of rice, everybody gets worried about the iron content. And it is fortified with iron. There's a little bit of nice in it. So there's 12.6 milligrams of iron. 12.6 milligrams of iron is not going to make your hematocrit go through the roof. It's probably that antagirl you're popping, dude. So like, I don't know what bodybuilder it was that said they were concerned about this. Maybe they were selling the iron-free cream of rice, but it is fortified. So it does have some B, vitamin B is nice and in it, some other things, calcium, vitamin D. But this is not going to kill you, dudes. You're worried about this when you're popping antagirl. So that's the least of your worries. I wouldn't sweat that one. So like I said, we're going to do 80 grams. 80 grams. This works out to be 75 grams of carbs from the cream of rice. 80 grams uncooked. IMeasure my protein cooked versus the uncooked with the cream of rice. Rice is cooked as well because it's impossible to measure out. Reason why, IMean, you see my big tub of chicken here, my plain chicken that people love to make fun of. The reason why I do it this way is because it's going to be damn near impossible to portion out your chicken. And most dummies, when they weigh their chicken, they're weighing it with the, they're weighing it post cooking with the pre-cooked weights. So they're actually overeating the protein that they need to eat. I hear guys all the time come to me, Paul, why are you eating six ounces of chicken? It's because the chicken loses water weight as you cook it. So you're probably going to lose about an ounce or so of water. So look at what the cooked weights are, not what's on some stupid app. Look at the, I think it's the USDA servings of, of whatever the stuff is. All right. So with the cream of rice, um, I whisk it when IMake it. Um, that's the easy way to make it to keep it from clumping up. When people talk about it clumping up. Um, if you, if you whisk it while you make it and you don't cook like a caveman, you're going to keep your cream of rice from being lumpy. Nobody likes a lumpy cream of rice. Um, it usually cooks, you know, in a minute or two, it doesn't take super long. All right. So cream of rice is done. We're going to portion that out or put my portion it out, but I will put the chicken in the bottom of this. Like I said, you guys are going to be completely disgusted by this. Um, honestly, I don't even taste it. I, I don't have much of a sense of a taste and people get disgusted that I don't season food. I, when I'm on contest prep, I'm not eating for flavor. I'm eating for, for a purpose. If I want, you can see Milo here, he's waiting for his chicken breast. He always gets a little piece of chicken in the morning. So does Max. I have two English Mastiffs here. My boys that wait for their chicken. I, you know, I, I just don't season food. I just, other than salt, because it impacts my digestion. I have, come here boys. Come here. Milo sit. Milo sit. So Milo gets his piece. Max knows how to sit. He's old. So here's Max's. There they are. My two English Mastiffs. Creamer rice. On top of this, I know you guys are going to be completely disgusted, but you can't even taste it. And what I do on the high carb days, my first meal meal is a 135 grams of carbs, no added fat. So a little bit of fat in the chicken, but we're not going to count that because it's not worth, it's worth calculating out, but there's no added fats other than one fish oil pill. That's all I use for, for added fats. We're not worried about that. And then I put some jam on top of it. So half the carbs on the high day, half the carbs can come from sugary sources. I use Bom and Mom Jam. You'll see here. It is the fruit preserves and the ingredients. Check this out. All right, Raspberries, cane sugar, and lemon juice, that's it, really simple ingredients, all natural, it's nothing that we need to worry about, and folks, for all the people, the sugar makes you fat, people, sugar does not make you fat, eating a calorie surplus, eating like makes you fat, I eat sugar, and carbs, my entire contest prep, and I get as ripped as anybody does, So this whole notion that carbs make you fat is not true. Eating too much of them can make you fat. Eating too much of anything can make you fat. In fact, it's easier to overeat fats because fats are very calorie dense. And despite what you hear, fats are not satiating. Everybody says fats are satiating. I think people mistake protein is very satiating. Hey, dude, don't like that. So I think they mistake protein for the satiation from fat. So just think about it. On the satiety index, a baked potato. So think about it. On the satiety index, the baked potato is the most satiating food there is. You take that same baked potato. So you fry it in butter, fry it in oil, make potato chips, make French fries. Suddenly you take a very satiating food and make it very appealing and something that people are going to crave. It's not the case when the potato is by itself. So what has changed? The only thing that has changed, we have added fats to the equation. So fats are indeed not satiating. IMean, think about it. A tablespoon of peanut butter is something like 130 calories. A full baked potato is like 200. So two tablespoons has more, a peanut butter has more fat in it than, or more calories in it than a baked potato, but which is going to fill you up more. All right. So this is meal one. I know you're going to be disgusted by this. My chicken and cream of rice. That's it. All right, folks. I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together. The scientific principles of anabolics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. All right. We're on to meal two now. I usually space my meals out about two, two and a half hours. Three would be ideal, but realistically with my schedule, I can't get them three hours apart. So I usually end up doing two hours apart. This is just going to be a boring ass chicken and rice meal. You'll get my flavorless baked chicken. I'll do a food prep video one day, but IMean, people are disgusted by my chicken. As IMentioned earlier, it's just plain ass baked chicken, nothing on it. I bake it at 350 for 25 minutes or whatever it is. I chop it up into pieces. Some tools that I use on this meal. A neat little trick that I learned from Justin Harris. You can see him here. There's chopped pineapple. And this, hey, don't lick that. Don't lick. He likes to lick everything I put on the counter. Pineapple has an enzyme in it called bromelain that will help break down protein. So if you have issues digesting your food, which sometimes my digestion is a little slow, I'll throw that in. And I also use a digestive enzyme complex on the high day, which helps a bit. I don't know why it took me so long to figure this out. And I speculate a lot of people make this mistake with the digestive enzymes. They don't take enough. If you look up the dosing schedule on these, and these are a broad spectrum, so there's multiple digestive enzymes in here. Really, you should probably get specific digestive enzymes based on what meal you're using. So if I'm having a high fat meal, I will get lipase is the one for high fat meals. So this has a bunch of different ones in it. This one has protease, amylase, lipase, lactase, which I really don't need because I don't eat lactose, maltase, and a bunch of others. But long story short, people don't take enough digestive enzymes. So I looked at the dosing schedule on these. You need like seven or eight of them to accommodate the meal that I'm eating. It's actually quite a bit. So I'll take some digestive enzymes just to make sure that these meals get digested in a decent fashion while I'm eating them. So I'll chug those down quickly. I also, as IMentioned earlier, I take Suppressor from First Detachment. This is their Burberry and product. I take one of these with each meal during my high day only on contest prep. In the offseason, I'll take it with every meal. This is to help with glucose sensitivity. And this meal, it's really just chicken and rice. And then I'll get some sugar. And like I said, half of my carbs could come from sugar. So we'll get, and this is not the weight of the rice, but we will get 75 grams of carbs from the rice, which IMeasure out for this meal, accommodating the pineapples that are in there as well because there's some carbohydrates in there. I don't measure trace fats. They're just not worth measuring. I use on this, I use a little ponzu sauce. This is citrus flavored soy sauce. There's really not much in it. A tablespoon has seven calories. It's just a little bit. There's one gram of protein and like a gram of carb. And it's, it's really, IMean, I don't go apeshit with it, but there's enough in here. And then I will use the light salt that I talked about earlier that has potassium and magnesium in it as well on top of the sodium. I am not measuring sodium at this point. I'll get down to the last couple of weeks of contest prep. Then I start measuring out my sodium intake to make sure it's consistent. I did measure it in the first meal, but you can see here what I'm doing. And then for my simple carbs in this meal, hopefully I have enough, but you'll see here, you guys are going to laugh at me. I do Swedish fish. I am a child inside. I have people freak out, you know, that's not bodybuilding food. You can't eat that on a bodybuilding diet. Well, I did. And I do. And I ate it all the way up to contest prep last year. I'm not saying it's the most healthy way to eat. Sometimes I'll do fruit and fruit juice as well. But this, when I'm dieting and the calorie deficit, this helps keep me sane on contest prep. So I enjoy having some Swedish fish. Looks like I'm going to have just enough. Damn, like, I'm actually a little short, but whatever. Close enough. I want to be a couple grams short. So close enough. I finished off this family-sized bag of Swedish fish, which is crazy. But anyway, so that's it. This meal is super simple. Chicken, rice. I have the pineapple in there. I also put a little bit. So this is my seasoning strategy. Guys, I, you know, I told you I don't season for flavor. I season for function. I put a little bit of ginger powder in here. Ginger powder is going to help with your digestion as well, too. I have a very sensitive stomach. And my stomach is just a mess. So I have to be really, really, really careful with what I eat and how frequently I eat it. It's one of the reasons why I run a lower fat, higher carbohydrate diet as well, because I'm very sensitive to carbs or fats. If I eat a ton of fats, it makes me sick. I just can't digest them. And my body responds better to this type of diet. And then chicken is a lot. You don't have to see me chop up chicken, but I'll break the chicken up into little pieces, heat it up in the microwave. And that's meal number two. This one has 50 grams of protein, zero grams of added fat, and 135 grams of carbs, if memory serves me correctly. All right, we're on to meal three now. If I can get it up. My old basketball refereeing day three. Three pointer. Meal three. We're going to keep this one simple. There's a lot of food volume today, so I go with stuff that I can digest easily. That's the thing I want to point out here on the high day. People freak out when they see me eating sugars and stuff like this. This is not a diet for longevity. I want to be clear about this. We're trying to maximize glycogen synthesis on this day, and we're trying to shove down as many carbohydrates as we possibly can in the easiest fashion that I possibly can without destroying my gut. So I'm not trying to eat a lot of high-volume food. I'm trying to eat calorie-dense stuff that is easy to get down. That's why up to half of the carbohydrates are from sugar. That allows me to get the food down more easily. If I were going to eat, say, 1,000 grams of carbs all from rice, we are talking about 20 cups of rice. There's no damn way that I could put down 20 cups of rice without being extremely bloated and feeling uncomfortable. It will probably make myself sick. So we can cut that in half and use things like simple sugars. So for this meal, I know I've talked to you guys before about how I don't do a lot of protein shakes. I have a hard time with protein shakes. I find that most people end up with some sort of allergy to whey. I think it's probably from crappy quality whey or maybe from the artificial sweeteners that they put in them. I have been trying to incorporate at least one shake into my days now just because I have a hard time getting the protein down sometimes. I don't have a super high protein diet. On contest prep, I go up to about a gram and a half per pound of body weight. On my high days, it's probably more like a gram and a quarter. But I am running some protein powders from True Nutrition. Dante Trudell is an old friend of mine. I probably was one of the first people to actually order protein from his company, me and maybe Skipp Hill. But I have been experimenting with different protein powders. Dante's been working with me and suggesting some different ones to try out. But I am going with today, I'm going to try the cold filtration whey. What I've found so far that works the best is a combination of whey and egg protein. So I've been doing a mix. I tried to do the pea protein. I just couldn't take the taste of it. But on this meal, what I'm going to do is I'm going to mix the protein shake. And you guys are probably going to be disgusted by this with organic orange juice. I get this simply orange juice. I don't know if you can see the stuff. But there's nothing in it but oranges. I always get people that freak out and say that's not organic orange juice. Whatever. It's close enough. I'm trying to get calories down today. So I will do 10 ounces of orange juice. This is a fruit-based meal. I get these dummies that all the time say that fructose makes you fat. You'd have to eat an ungodly amount of fructose to make you fat. You'd have to fill up. One, you'd have to be in a calorie surplus. You would have to have glycogen completely topped off in the liver before you even could think about being in de novo lipogenesis. It's just not going to happen. Unlikely. I was eating fruit all the way through my contest prep last year. No issues whatsoever. None. So I'm going to do measuring this out. I'm going to do 60 grams from that. I am. I'll mix that up. I'll put a little bit of water in there too. I'm not going to do that right now. But that's too dense for that small of a shake. It ends up tasting. I know it looks gross. But the orange mixed with the vanilla protein powder ends up tasting like a creamsicle. It actually tastes really good. The orange juice. I know it seems weird. I'm going to do some rice again. We're going to do a little rice. I'll put some soy sauce or some liquid aminos. That is another trick that you can use as you get further into your diet. Liquid aminos. Tastes like soy sauce. There's no carbs in them. It's just protein. And I look at protein as sort of a free pass on calories. I'm not saying that it's exactly a free pass because we're going to take that and run with it. It's still not energy balanced. Calories in, calories out. I'm going with the light salt again on this one. The salt that has magnesium and potassium in it as well. I'm going to do, this time I'm going to do soy sauce. Because soy sauce, if we look at the calories, one, same, same, really. It's the same. It's just protein in this, really. Ten, it's ten calories. Eight of it is from protein. Two of it's from carbs. So I do a little bit of soy sauce. It's all measured out. And that's pretty much it for that. I will measure out a banana. I'm also having a banana as well with this meal. I just, I like bananas. Usually it's about a whole banana. We'll see if it's exactly a whole banana. I should have left it in the peel. But usually it works out to be close to a whole banana. And insulin. People ask me about insulin. On high days I run it with meals one, three, and five. Five being my pre-workout meal. I'm not going to talk about doses. If you want to learn about insulin, I have an entire insulin section in the Anabolic Z course. So online if you want to check that out and learn all about insulin. It's very comprehensive. Probably the most comprehensive thing out there for insulin use of bodybuilding. And this is meal three. All right, bros. Meal four coming up. I am getting to the point now where I'm full. This is the trick that Justin plays on me. Justin Harris, my coach, when it comes to the high days. Even on contest prep, I don't really get hungry until like the last few weeks. I have a very low appetite. And on these high days, he puts a cheat meal at the end of the high day up to 1,500 calories. I'm probably going to go to Texas Roadhouse tonight. I think that's what I'm going to do. But we'll find out. But anyway, at the end of that day, I'm not that hungry. And I really don't want to have a gigantic cheat meal. So that's the game that he plays on you. So these last couple of meals before I go to the gym. Meal five would be my pre-workout meal. We got one more meal before the pre-workout meal. It's, I don't know, it's four. I usually work out 7.30, 8 o'clock at night and work out late. So it's around 4.30 right now. And I usually get up in the morning about 7.30 and I start off early with my meal. So this is meal four. And it's another chicken and rice meal. I'm going to do the pineapples in here as well. The masters are waiting for their share of chicken. These guys are on a high-protein diet too. They're bodybuilding, right, boys? You guys are gettinGHuge. But anyway, you know, so that's what I do here. This chicken, you see him. I'm such a caveman. I just rip it up into pieces. It's pre-cooked. I am the ultimate lazy bodybuilding chef. I am terrible when it comes to food. I had a friend that's a chef and he cringes at my food that I do. Actually, I have a family member that works in restaurants and says I'm awful. It says that chicken makes him cry. But as IMentioned earlier, I really do not care. It doesn't matter to me. I'm just trying to get the food down. We are going to put some pineapples in this as well. The pineapples, from what I understand, you know, what IMentioned with the bromelain earlier, the fresh pineapple is better for the bromelain. You do not want the stuff that's been, you know, bromelain gets ruined in the heat from what I understand. So you don't want to cook the pineapple. I think it needs to be fresh pineapple. And then the, so you have to be careful with that. We'll do chopped, chopped pineapples in these. And it's usually, I usually do about 15 grams of carbs worth of pineapples in this meal. It's not a crap ton. It's not a crap ton. And for my sugar in this meal, we'll probably do the Captain Crunch. And then I'm going to get my rice in here as well. Once again, with the, IMay need to make some more rice. I don't know if I have enough for meal four. We shall see. I think I'm going to be cutting it just right about right. And then we'll do the light salt again. With the ponzu sauce, I, I got to have a little, you know, even though I'm the non-flavor guy, I have to have a little bit in here. So I'm going to do that in the same deal as I did before with the ginger and digestive enzymes and the berberine. We're going to do that as well. Got the, once again, the first detachment suppressor. And I use the digestive enzymes from Enzymedica. All right. And for the last bit of food here for my sugar source, I'm going to do the Captain. I don't know. No crunch berries today. We're just doing straight Captain Crunch. And guys are like, oh my God, how do you eat that trash? Why do you eat that stuff? It's processed foods. I have, through my entire week, you eat 42 meals. And I had the Swedish fish earlier today and the Captain Crunch. I have had two servings of processed foods out of 42 meals. I don't think two servings of processed foods out of 42 meals is going to kill me. You know, I don't think that's, and last year I got absolutely shredded. It was 5.8% a week out on the DEXA scan from my show. And I got even leaner going into my show. So I was close to 5% body fat. And I ate Captain Crunch the day, two days out for my bodybuilding show. So what does that tell you? You can eat Captain Crunch and still get ripped. Oh, I forgot to feed the boys. Do you boys want chicken? Oh, I put it away. All right. I guess we'll have their chicken in the next meal. All right, guys. On to the next meal. All right, folks. Meal five, last meal before the gym. This is my pre-workout meal. I'll be honest with you. I am not hungry right now. So I'm going to have to force this one down. All right. I have a terrible appetite. I know people don't believe that, but I have to force the food down sometimes. I like actually taking a break from eating sometimes. But I'm on contest prep. You would think I wouldn't want to eat. I get hungry towards the end. But right now, early on, you know, 14 weeks out, I'm not that hungry. Really, I'm not hungry at all. I kind of enjoy cutting my food back. I don't really get hungry until like the last month or so. So last meal here I am doing. I have these meal prep meals I get. It is. I don't know if you can see this or not. But Kevin's barbecue chicken. They're called paleo. I don't know what the fuck that means. But yeah, it's paleo. But it's just chicken breast in a sous vide. So three and a half grams of fat in this. It's, you know, just what's in the chicken. It's a sous vide chicken with a Korean barbecue sauce. There's no fat in the barbecue sauce. It's just sugar. There is a total in this of 21 grams of carbs. So that'll be some of our simple carbs that we count towards the meal. This meal is actually 150 grams of carbs. I'm actually going to go with pineapples, banana. For my simple sugars in this meal, it's going to be fruit. Remember, folks, the morons on the internet will tell you that fruit makes you fat. Fruit does not make you fat. Only dipshits say fruit that makes you fat. I have never met a fat person in my life that eats a ton of fruits. Fat people usually eat fried food, eat processed food, eat calorie-dense shit. They're not eating fruit. They don't eat fruit and vegetables usually. Just in my general experience, that is not congruent with being obese. So I don't know where this bro science came from, the fruit making you fat. I have never met a fat person that eats a lot of fruit. Maybe there are some out there. There's exceptions to every rule. But in my general experience, that just does not happen. I think I got all the pineapples out of here I can get. I'm going to cook this sucker in the microwave for three minutes. That's what it requires. And we will check back after this is ready. All right, the chicken is done. I'll get it out in just a second. And for my intro workouts, I am doing field rations from first detachment. I've already got that ready to go. Did that while the chicken was cooking in the microwave. And I have it mixed up in my blender bottle. I'll do 50 grams of carbs in the intro workouts with 20 grams of EAAs. Chicken's ready. Now, Milo, you're not getting any of this. And you better not be hijacking it when my back is turned. You never know with these guys. So we'll get some rice on here. Hopefully I got enough. I don't know if IMade enough today. We'll see. IMay have to improvise on the carbs if I don't have enough rice. I am going to be cutting it very close. Let's see if we got enough. Yeah, right. I think I'm going to be good. Yep, right on the money. Look at that. Just a little sliver of rice left in the pot. IMade just enough. I've been doing this for so damn long. I know exactly how much to make for my days. I can eyeball stuff pretty fucking close at this point. So we're right on track. Intro workout ready to go. Jam my food. Head off to the gym. And then I believe Colin, Mr. Chewbacca Uncircumcised, and I are going to do Texas Roadhouse for my post-workout meal. Justin Harris allows me a post-workout cheat meal once a week, one contest prep on my high day of up to 1,500 calories of whatever I want to eat. Within reason, I try to keep it relatively clen. About to hit the gym with Colin, Chewbacca Uncircumcised, and my pre-workout drink with me. Usually I do my high days on leg day, but today I've got it scheduled for a push day. Just happened to be how my schedule worked out. So typically on contest prep, I do it on leg day because it's the highest energy expenditure day. And when you get deep into contest prep, that's when you start to feel like crap, and you need that extra boost on a leg day. So I'll usually hit it on a heavy leg day. But today we're doing it on push day. That will change coming up. That's just how my schedule shook out this week. All right, Colin and I are here at Texas Roadhouse. Going to get some steaks. They're playing their shitty country music up here. But I'll forgive them. Get my rolls ready. My extra honey butter. That's prep friendly, right? Prep friendly, right? Hey, calories don't count on cheap meals. All right, so I'm going to pick out what I'm going to do for dinner here. I usually do the sirloin. Look here at the menu. I get the, I don't know if you can see it here, but I get the 11-ounce sirloin. Typically, a loaded baked potato and a salad. Justin gives me up to 1,500 calories for my cheat meal. And so that's typically what I do for the cheat meal is somewhere around there. So, and I'll have a roll or two, but it might be plus or minus a little bit. So I think the, if I remember right, the loaded baked potato, the calories one is around 500. The salad's like, a side salad's like 300 and some change. The steak itself, an 11-ounce sirloin is 460. So we're like at 1,300, 1,400. And then a roll probably puts you right around 1,500. And that's what I do for the cheat meal. The life of having a big meat. I don't know what to tell you. I get robbed on my cheat meal. Colin gets the good steak and I get the shitty one. How does this happen? Look at this bullshit. Big ass steak. I got the little one. I guess it's thicker. It's got better girth. You're cutting anyway. Girth matters more than length anyhow, right? That's what they say. All right. We're going to go with that. Anyway. 11-ounce sirloin. The sweet ass loaded baked potato. See here. I'm going to chow down on this motherfucker. Well, I beat Colin Harding to the finish line. He's still working. My plate is empty. No bacon bit left behind. Well, okay. Here's one. I'll get it. That bacon bit got eaten. It is in a good place now. So, cheat meal done. Not another one until next week. I'm locked back in. I do love myself some Texas Roadhouse. Call me simple. I'm a simple kind of guy. I like a steak and a potato. All right. So, the last meal of the day to prep is for Milo and Max. What do you guys think? Is it time to eat? Time to eat, Milo? You want some food? Max? Max, you want food? All right. I'm going to get these guys some food. We got a meal prep for the boys. They got to be fed. And I feed them. My boys get the finest food. So, I feed them a grain-free rice-based dog food. So, they are eating chicken and rice, too. And they get chicken bits all day long. I feed them twice a day. And I don't know if you can see Milo here. Milo, are you excited about eating? You excited about eating, bud? Huh? You want food? They're on a bulk. I'm on a cut. So, these guys are in the bulk phase. They're on a 365-day bulk. Yeah. He's excited about it. Milo gets more excited about water. Dude wants water first. So, he drinks water. I have to ration water because he'll just drink until he pukes. Isn't that right, dude? But you're very excited. I'll get you some stuff here in just a second. All right. So, last bit for the day after I feed the dogs. You can hear them over here eating right now. They're very excited. Eating and drinking. They're very loud eaters. I finish the day off with a shake. And in the shake, I do some psyllium husk. And I do some super greens. One of the things I didn't talk about, too, is I do, even though it's almost no fats on the high-carb day, I will do a couple of fish oil pills throughout the day. I do one every other meal. So, I get some DHA and EPA and four essential fatty acids. And that's it. So, I don't eat a lot of fiber throughout the day. So, like I said, I do the psyllium husk powder. I get the cheap stuff from Costco. There's other more expensive brands if you like some other stuff. But I get some fiber at the end of the day with the greens powder for people who are worried about micronutrients. So, that's where I get it from. Ideally, it would probably be better to eat real vegetables, but they upset my stomach, most of them. I do get some vegetables in here and there. Not on the high day because it's just a high volume of food. I did have a salad with dinner, as you saw. But, you know, what's in that? But on my medium and low days, I do toss some vegetables in. I'll do some spinach, mostly fruit. I do fruit with each meal usually. So, that's where I get my micronutrients from. And that is a wrap, folks. That is a full high day of eating. Now you know what a high day looks like on a carb cycling diet. Well, let me know in the comments section below what you think. And if you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.