WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up gym bros? Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A. This is where I answer your questions about trening, nutrition, and responsible performance enhancement, all while getting you better results and saving you from the stupid crap that you bros like to do. On today's episode, I have some great questions lined up from my school anabolic bodybuilding members community. If you want to join and get your questions answered, you can go do so. Link is in the video description below. A few of thEQuestions I have on deck include, my estrogen runs low even on high test doses. What would you recommend as a ratio of anabolic to bring everything in range? Have you ever seen anybody react poorly to TestProbe? I've tried multiple brands and the PIP is intolerable. Do oral steroids have a legitimate place in an off-season growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone plan and if so, how do you implement them safely? Does exogenous GH use shut down your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone production permanently and is using a secretogogue a safer option? I have all thesEQuestions and several more lined up. We'll dig into all of them in just one second. All right, my bros, my dudes, let's dig into thesEQuestions. Hit that like button, subscribe to my channel if you haven't done so already. If you haven't, you're a filthy bastard, please do so. First question here is from Lucas R. Are you keeping any dietary fats in on high carb days for natural lifters? Asking for a friend. I really make no structural differences in my diet setups from natties to enhanced lifters. The only major change IMight see is just guys that are on gear can get away with more food, typically, because they're going to have the effects of increased metabolism and nutrient partitioning that are going to happen from taking the anabolics, but it's not as profound as you would think it is. Largely, most of the guys that I have that are natties, I coach quite a few natties, the diet's exactly the same. I even have some natties that are pounding a shit ton of food, so there's just not a huge difference between the two from what I have seen. And in theory, when we're talking about the high carbohydrate day, we push the carbohydrates super high to synthesize glycogen. That's sort of the idea is we want to leverage that day as a day to replenish glycogen, get our glycogen stores back and be in a caloric surplus while minimizing fat gain. And in an enhanced world, we are going to be leveraging things like insulin to help with the nutrient partitioning on that day to push the carbohydrates even higher. But for the most part, we want to do the same principles with natty lifters because if you are eating more carbohydrates, whatever the upper threshold is for a non-enhanced lifter, when we're pushing the carbohydrates high, in theory, your natural insulin production is going to increase as a result. That's why a lot of times with my high carbohydrate days, I'll actually mix in some simple sugars with some starchy cards because the simple sugars are going to cause a quick and rapid increase in insulin production and you're going to have that insulin spike and then you're going to have the starchy carbs as a sustained carbohydrate source. It sort of mimics, in theory, what it would be like to take insulin exogenously. That's the game that we're playinGHere. And when we're in a state where insulin is going to be high, we want to minimize fat gain because insulin is going to promote nutrient storage. And when you're in a caloric surplus, while insulin is high, those excess fats that you're going to eat in a caloric surplus only have one place they can go and that's to be stored as body fat for the most part outside of some essential fatty acids. Glucose, on the other hand, carbohydrates can be synthesized into glycogen, which primarily is what our goal is on that high carbohydrate day. We want to limit fat gain. We want to maximize glycogen synthesis while in a caloric surplus and get all of these downstream metabolic effects, increased IGF-1, increased mTOR, lowered AMPK, improved glycogen synthesis, increased insulin secretion, all of these other things that would definitely benefit a natural lifter. So I think there are some hormonal advantages for doing that. So no, I like to keep the fats as low as we possibly can on the high carbohydrate day, regardless of whether or not you're a natural or an enhanced lifter, the same principles apply here. It's just that your body's making its own hormones versus taking them exogenously. Certainly we can push things harder with an enhanced guy where we are using exogenous insulin. We can get kind of stupid with the carbohydrate intake sometimes with some dudes north of a thousand grams of carbohydrates on a high carbohydrate day. You probably can't get away with that with a natural guy. I don't know that insulin production is going to keep up long-term with that. So that is a limiting factor that we have there, but the principles are still the same regardless of being natty or enhanced. Next question here is from Steve S. Steve says, my estradiol stays very low, even on higher testosterone doses. I previously ran Primo at 140 milligrams with 280 tests. It's A-50% ratio and my E2 reached 10 to 11. At 350 milligrams of tests, my E2 was still only 19 to 20. Now I'm moving up to 500 milligrams of tests. If I add Primo, what dose would you recommend and how should I ramp up? IMean, consider yourself blessed by the gods if you can run high dose testosterone with little to no estradiol conversion. You're one of those rare individuals that can get away with running the coveted test and D-ball cycle, probably. I'm not saying that that's something you should run out and do, but generally when I've seen guys say they love D-ball, it's the best steroid they've ever taken, they get so much out of it, are the dudes that are low estrogen converters. And they feel fucking fantastic when they get on D-ball and have that methyl estradiol conversion and all the effects that D-ball brings along with it. Whereas somebody who typically is a dude that converts estrogen at a high rate, the fatties, the fatty bros, usually end up just growing titties and getting zits when they run D-ball. So just something to consider. You might want to play around with other compounds, see how you respond with other compounds. You could consider, and a lot of times I'll see, you know, the old school bodybuilders used to run test, EQ, Deca, and D-ball. That was kind of what they would use for their off-season push. And I'm not saying you should run all those compounds if you're not a competitive bodybuilder, probably unnecessary. But those guys tend to do well with other compounds that increase estradiol conversion, the low estrogen converters. You could always consider just runninGHigh dose testosterone by itself with no primobolin. If you can only run a low dose and it absolutely smashes your estrogen, then maybe you don't need the primobolin in there. I look at primobolin as testosterone's wingman. It's really there to lower the effects of the negative effects of testosterone. It helps increase free Testosterone. It lowers estradiol conversion. It is an anabolic without the androgenic effects. But if you don't get all those side effects and you actually end up with smashed estrogen, why not just take advantage of it and just run more testosterone? You know, maybe you don't need to run primobolin. Everybody's unique. There is no one-size-fits-all cycle. Or maybe you run something like test primobolin and some D-ball or some Deca with it, or maybe even try testing Deca by itself. A lot of people don't handle Deca well, but what I've seen is the guys that tend to be low estradiol converters are the ones that tolerate Deca better because most of the side effects, the negative ones that we get from Deca are from the increased estradiol conversion and how that affects the amplification of the progestinic effects that we get from 19-nors and the downstream effects of lower dopamine and increased prolactin and all this stuff that comes from the downstream effect basically just as a result of the higher estradiol conversion. Maybe you could benefit from something like that. So I would play around with other things, see how you respond, listen to your body, get blood work done, make sure you're doing an ultrasensitive estradiol test. It's another thing I remind guys of the regular estradiol tests from what I've seen are just fucking useless. I used to have guys get them. I definitely have learned my lesson. They're the hard way. I've seen some huge discrepancies on the standard estradiol test versus the LC-MS ultrasensitive. You're going to be better served by spending a few extra dollars and getting the ultrasensitive test. But monitor it and see how you respond, man. Maybe a test-only cycle with some GH. Test and GH. IMade a video the other day about test is best. If you're interested in more information about cycle construction, I do have my anabolic cheat sheet up on the website. You can pick that up or if you want the super deep dive into some of this stuff, we also have the science of anabolics e-course that Curt Havens and I have put together that's fantastic. There's like close to a hundred hours of videos on there that we go deep into some of this stuff and talk about some of these outlier situations. But you sir are what I would consider an outlier. This is not typical. I'd say maybe one out of 20 guys that I run into are low estrogen converters and can tolerate high doses of testosterone well without estradiol issues. Consider yourself blessed. That is a superpower. All right. Next question here is from Christopher E. Christopher asks, have you seen people who seem allergic to testosterone propionates? I've tried multiple sources and the PIP is extreme even when mixed with cipionate. Is this a known issue? Prope has a shorter ester chain and this is known to cause issues. They can't run the concentrations of Prope as high in solution either. Prope has to be run at lower concentrations because it tends to fall out of solution. I've heard some speculation of some of the PIP may actually be from the crystals forming after you inject it that it tends to turn back into crystals easily, more easily than say other compounds. I wonder sometimes if it's not dosed too highly. I can't remember, but I think the old school test prope back in the day was like 50 milligrams per ml and they have to use more solvents and whatnot to keep it suspended. test prope is just famous for causing issues with PIP. Now my question is, why the fuck are you using test prope? Outside of contest prep, I can't think of a compelling reason to ever use test prope. Just run an anthate or cipionate, pick one of the esters that are a medium length ester, and then that way you will get the compounding effect of the drug. You're not having these peaks and valleys with Prope. You're going to be up and down. You have to take daily injections to keep somewhat stable levels. Whereas if you run an anthate, you're going to have the building effect as the dose goes up over the half-lives, over the four half-lives. It's fully peaked at five, but it's pretty close to it aT4. I think you're going to get better results from cipionate or an anthate without all the side effects and PIP. I don't understand why you'd put yourself through all that, unless there's some compelling reason outside of contest prep. Even on contest prep anymore, most of my guys, I don't have them switch to Prope. It used to be the old school bodybuilding thing. We're going to switch to Prope so we can adjust it in and out quickly. I just have not found that to be necessary in most situations. I usually leave the esters alone on contest prep anymore, and I've found that guys look just fine just leaving an anthate or cipionate, whatever you're running in, in place and not fucking with all that. The short answer is stop fucking using Prope. If it hurts, if it burns, if it feels like a meal kicked you in your fucking thigh, don't run it. There's no reason to continue to run it if it's causing you problems, and it's very common. I had the same experience with Prope. It feels like a goddamn billy goat kicked me in my ass when I use it. I end up with welts and lumps and inflammation, and it hurts. I can't sit on my one side forever. That's why I pulled it out of my contest prep regime for me, because regimen, sorry. It's why I pulled it out, because it just wasn't worth it. The juice, a little bit of cleverness there, the juice was not worth the squeeze. So yank that juice out, pick a different one. All right, next question here is from Scott C. Scott's got some serious issues going on. Let's see if I can help you out a little bit, Scott. I have recently tested with severely low cortisol while on only 200 milligrams of testosterone, TRT. Chronic stress is suspected, and I'm seeing an endocrinologist. I've lost 25 pounds, and I can't tren normally. Any diet or supplement suggestions while recovering? Man, this is, I've seen this before with some people. There's, thEQuestion is what's causing, it's likely some sort of adrenal dysfunction. ThEQuestion is what's causing it. It's possible it could be Addison's disease. It's possible that, you know, and these are just outlier things, it's possible that there's some sort of tumor, a pituitary tumor or something else going on. I don't want to terrify you and make you think that that's what's going on. It's more likely that it's just adrenal fatigue, and you probably have dug yourself into a fuckinGHole. Cortisol, paradoxically, the more cortisol you release, your body has this negative feedback loop where the brain actually will see too much cortisol and then sends, essentially, you know, in a layman's turn, a signal out to everything to say, just don't make it anymore. Stop making it. And then people end up in adrenal fatigue just from being in this constant sympathetic nervous system drive all the time, and then they end up not making cortisol at all, which is terrible. The weight loss would concern me, man. So here's what I would say. Sort it out with your doctor. Obviously, that's the reasonable solution here, the reasonable advice that I can give you. Hopefully, the endocrinologist is working with you. But at this point in time, with your diet and your supplements, you want to make sure that you're getting all the micronutrients that you need to be healthy, getting plenty of essential fatty acids. You want to do things that are going to reduce stress on the body in case it is adrenal fatigue. I would say, more than likely, you would want to be in a slight caloric surplus at bare minimum, isocaloric. Definitely not in the depths that I think a lot of times when people get into these states, they're like, oh, shit, I can't work out right now. Doctor said I can't work out hard. Maybe even consider taking a couple weeks off from the gym. I know that's probably not an answer that you want to hear. And if it is adrenal fatigue, you're likely going to need to take some time off the gym and just let your body heal, recover, get back to some sort of homeostasis. And I would do a healthy diet, high in protein, high in essential fatty acids, high in micronutrients. Make sure that it's micronutrient dense. Supplement in all your micronutrients, vitamin D, vitamin C, zinc, magnesium, all of these important things that you're going to need for your metabolic and immune health. And just let your body breathe a little bit. And then hopefully you find out some answers soon. I don't know what the course of action is from your endocrinologist. I would imagine they're probably going to want some diagnostic testing done, probably an MRI or CT scan to look for potential adenomas that may be causing this, just to rule that out. Hopefully that's not it. It's more likely that it's something more benign, that you basically just drove yourself into the dirt. If you have a high stress job, if you don't sleep much, all these things that we want to optimize to help with this, probably reduce stress load, obviously. There's only so much you can do that with work, family, and if that's part of the equation as well, but you can certainly reduce trening or completely pull out trening, maybe do the light walks or something. In the meantime, I would run maybe a Mediterranean style diet that's micronutrient rich. I would keep it definitely not in a calorie deficit. You do not want to add that additional stress to yourself. And I'm sending my positive thoughts and prayers towards you, man. Hopefully you can get this sorted out and figure out what's going on and you recover. I'm sending all my positive energy to you. Keep us posted. Let us know what the doctor finds out and how you're progressing. And I hope all the best for you, my friend. Hopefully this is nothing big. This is just a short term blip on the radar that you'll get sorted out with just some rest and recovery. Take care of yourself and we wish you well. All right. Next question here is from Marco M. Marco asks, are you attending the Arnold this year and will you have a booth there? Man, I did the booth at the Arnold last year and the Olympia before that I split it with Chase and Vigorous Steve and it was fucking overwhelming. IMean, it was nice having a place to sit. I have a bit of social anxiety and my social meter went down to zero super quick. I had to go run and hide after three, four, five hours of shakinGHands. Being at a booth all day long, shakinGHands, talking to people is my version, my micro version of hell. Now that's not to say if you see me, don't come up and say hi. I certainly would love to talk to people and I'm going to regulate things myself this year. I'm not going to stay out there for seven hours straight and absolutely kill myself like I did the last two years. Kill myself socially. It's amazinGHow seven hours of standing at a booth will just completely fucking drain you. It was cool meeting everybody and I don't want to sound ungrateful, but I've had social anxiety my entire life. It's funny that I'm on social media of all things when I have social anxiety and after a while I just get overwhelmed and I can't fucking deal with it, but yeah, I will be there. So if you see me walking around, come up and say hi. I will probably be hanging out at other people's booths. I think Chase has a booth there. Justin, I believe, Troponin Nutrition will have a booth there. I'll probably make some visits. Those are my two friends. I definitely want to hang out with Chase a little bit and see Chase since he's on YouTube's persona non grata list right now. He's been exiled from the platform. So I don't know if I can mention his booth, but if you know, you can go find it. I don't want to say anything for Bowdoin on here, but I'll probably be hanging out there a little bit and at some point I'm going to grab a workout too probably at the pros gym. That's where everybody seems to work out when they're in Columbus for the Arnold. It's a charming dump, no offense guys, but it's a neat little place. It's kind of a dungeon type gym where a lot of the bodybuilders, local bodybuilders work out. I'll go there. IMay check out John Meadows gym, American Barbell while I'm there. I'm not sure yet, but I'm just going to be living the bodybuilding tourist life. Enjoy the show. Enjoy meeting people, hanging out with my friends. I have a group of friends that we're going with, but I will be there. If you see me say hi, I will be walking around the crowd of a hundred thousand people. I'm pretty hard to miss because I'm tall. I'm not as big as I was, so I don't know if you would call me big Paul anymore. Medium-sized Paul right now. I've been on the TRT life, recovered from the shoulder surgery for the last year, but if you see me, please don't be shy. Come up, say hi. I would enjoy meeting people and when I start to feel overwhelmed socially, I will make my quiet exit and go back to my room. Simple as that. I hope I see you there, Marco. All right. Next question here from Richie N. of the School Antibiotic Bodybuilding Members Community. If you want to join, the link is in the video description below. You can get your questions answered on thEQ&A like Richie here. Richie asks, do oral compounds have a place in an off-season growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone phase? And if so, how should they be used responsibly? I used to run a lot of orals when I was younger. I think everybody goes through their oral fascination phase. Orals definitely are potent. They have an immediate noticeable effect when you use them. They also tend to have the most complex and pronounced side effects. All the compounds may be outside of tren. I don't know, or DHP. Here's the thing with orals. The way I look at orals, there are some things that certain orals do uniquely well that you just cannot replicate with another compound. For example, Winstrel on Contest Prep. There's just nothing that gets you as hard and dried out as Winstrel. But man, it is harsh. Makes your joints feel like shit. You smash your lipids. You might shed all of your hair off the top of your head. So I limit the use to a very distinct window of a couple weeks when I want to leverage a certain look. Anadrol would be the off-season equivalent. Anadrol, there is nothing that quite replicates the strength and central nervous system drive that you get from Anadrol. Anadrol, especially if you are a strength athlete like a strongman guy or a powerlifter, there's really nothing that can replace Anadrol. But after you run Anadrol for a period of time, usually abouT3 to four weeks, what you'll start to notice is you can't eat. Your appetite gets smashed. Even if you don't have those side effects, not everybody gets the smash appetite. To me, it fucks my stomach up after about two weeks of being on it. The red blood cell count hemoglobin hematocrit can go through the roof. And even if you don't get that, on top of that, usually it smashes your fucking lipids. So I do like some Anadrol. I love me some A-Bombs. In the past, I used to run them quite a bit when I was younger. I would say if I were to run them in an off-season setting, I'm going to limit it to the lasT3 to four weeks of a push. I do get very concerned about the negative impact that it has on lipids. That's really my primary concern with running any extended amount of orals. Anymore, my go-to oral is just Anivar. I find I tolerate Anivar fairly well if I'm going to run an oral. Anivar doesn't seem to have all the negative side effects. Outside of maybe smashinGHDL, it will aggressively lower HDL. So that is something to be aware of. It doesn't smash my appetite. But even then, I limit it to like a four-week run of it, something like that. I wouldn't run it for more than four weeks. So Anivar is an option in an off-season. D-Ball does some unique things with the methyl estradiol conversion. If you're somebody who's a low estrogen converter like the bro we talked about earlier, D-Ball might be the best thing since sliced bread for you for nine out of ten people. It's not. It's going to make things worse. You know, there's a bunch of other oral compounds we can mention. But I think most guys that have been at this for a long time finally get to a point where they're just like, yeah, I'm done with the orals. I've been through that phase. I've had that. I'm not going to do that anymore, just because of the negative effects that it has on the GI alone. I've heard of many guys end up with bleeding ulcers and things like that from overdoing the orals, the increase in blood pressure, the acute effect of them. After a while, you just kind of get to a point where you just feel yucky when you're on them. You just feel sick. You feel gross. And then you get away from running them. So at this point for me, probably the only thing I would have in my toolbox as an older bodybuilder is probably some Anolvar and some maybe Winstrel at the end of contest prep. You could convince me maybe on some spot duty, like on a leg day or something, maybe I would take an A-bomb just for the fuck of it, just for the fun of it. But really, I think you want to limit your exposure to oral steroids because they have all the negative side effects. They are, I think a lot of the long-term health issues that guys end up with are probably from overdoing orals to a certain degree or overdoinGHarsher compounds. I would say you would want to spend the majority of your time in the off-season running well-tolerated compounds that are going to allow you to eat a bunch of food so you can get big because if your appetite's crushed, you can't eat, you're not going to grow if you can't eat. And that's the primary motivator, the primary tool that we're using in the off-season to grow is hard trening. If you feel like shit and you can't tren hard, if you can't eat, you're not going to have the substrate for facilitating growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So I just would say limit them to a very specific window. If you're an older guy, probably stay away from them completely. And if you were going to run it as an older guy, I'd probably just stick with Anolvar in a very short window, like four to five weeks. I do like Anolvar for the pumps and the strength. I'd say it's not on the same level as Anadrol as far as strength motivation, but I get 75-80% of what I think Anadrol gives me without all the nasty side effects that I get from Anadrol. So it's good enough for an old dude. But yeah, for the most part, orals, if you're a non-competitive guy, limit them. Small runs, you don't want to be on them throughout the year, four to six week window, that's it. Get in, get out, no more than that. And if I were going to run it in the off-season, it would be at the end of a push phase when I need just a little more gas to get over the top. All right, next question here is from Peter H. Peter asks, what compounds pair the best with testosterone and HGH during a health-focused TRT phase between cycles? Nothing. You're still in cycle if you're doing that. IMean, I could see maybe an argument if you're a high estrogen converter to run a low dose of, say, primobolon or something like that to mitigate estradiol conversion rather than taking an AI. Is 50 or 100 milligrams of primobolon worse than running a milligram of aromidex a couple of days a week? I don't know. Maybe not. But my thought process when the TRT health phase is we want to get ourselves back to baseline. We want to be just on bioidentical hormones. We want to let our body achieve some sort of homeostasis. I think it's more difficult to do so when you are usinGHormones that are non-bioidentical that do have some downstream effects. Even primobolon, as mild as it is, can have some negative effects on lipids. It can have some negative effects on SHBG. We want to let all that stuff recover while we're on a health phase, let our body get back to some sense of normalcy, and just let it breathe a little bit. Save it for the next phase. Save that for, and I think guys get worried about losing size and losing progress and all that stuff. Of course, you're going to be a little bit softer when you're on your cruise or your health phase. You just can't stay hard like you can on gear year-round. That does happen. There is going to be some decline in body composition. I actually find a lot of times my strength maintains or even goes up while I'm on a health phase. Bizarrely enough, that seems counter intuitive, but maybe the washing off of the stress and all of the negative stuff that comes along with being on gear. Who would have thought this? That being on gear non-stop might fuck you up. I find that I feel healthier and have more energy in the gym, and a lot of times I have more drive to lift the weights after I come off and take a break and go down to TRT and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, but I would run something like 200 mgs of test, two to four units of GH. Those are essentially replacement doses. Fuck, I've been on 300 milligrams or less of testosterone for the last year now, essentially the last year, and I've been, I stayed 260, 270. I'm not saying I look like a stage-ready competitive bodybuilder right now, but I have been able to hang on to most of my strength. I've been able to hang on to most of my size. I'm certainly not hard or chiseled right now, but I feel like all in all, I've held up fairly well, all things considered, with all the stuff that I've had going on, shoulder surgery and everything, you know, just coming back down to baseline. So eight weeks, 10 weeks, whatever your health phase is, don't worry about it. Just pull back down. Just commit to being on hormone replacement only. Let your body breathe. Let yourself get back to some sort of baseline. Let your blood markers get back to normal and then have your body fresh, ready to go for another push. That would be my advice. All right, next question here is from Billy H. I am on 150 milligrams of TRT and just cut down from 20% to 9% body fat at 180 pounds. Congrats, Billy. Well done. I want to start a lean bulk and possibly add equipoise or Masteron at a two-to-one ratio. How would you recommend increasing the dosages 50 milligrams or 100 milligrams every six weeks to gain 15 pounds over 20 to 24 weeks? All right, so a couple things to unpack here. One, there's like no real ratio that you could say is rock solid and prescribable when it comes to this stuff. These are just general rules of thumb. And what I've seen, and I am revising my recommendations on equipoise. Equipoise has just been fucking crazy aggressive at lowering people's estradiol. Now that we have more data on equipoise, really people weren't using it with the Masteron craze that was going on. Everybody was running tests to Masteron and now we have six, eight months, year worth of data I can look at with people that have been running equipoise. And what I can tell you with some confidence with equipoise, even at low doses, it absolutely smashes your estradiol in most cases. There are some outliers. It seems to be very aggressive at raising red blood cell hemoglobin and hematocrit. I can say that with a fair amount of confidence. I've seen that in most people, not all. So maybe the ratio of equipoise needs to be even lower than 50% for most people, maybe something like 25, 30% to start off and see how you respond and then adjust accordingly based on your response. So I would say that would be where you want to be. Another thing to unpack here too, you talk about a weight gain goal. I think that also can be dangerous too. Don't, I think guys get too hyper-focused on the scale, both in contest prep and the offseason. It's not to say that you don't want to gain weight. I usually do like to drive weight gain and I, in the offseason, that's the time to get aggressive and then push the weight up within reason. As you said, you want to do a lean mass phase. You don't want to get fat, obviously, but some fat gain is going to be unavoidable, but really we're going to push the food up and we have the two knobs that we can turn or levers that we can pull in an off-season muscle gain phase and that's really increasing food and increasing PEDs and usually what I'll do is I kind of alternate between the two. I'll start with food first. I'll see what we can get away with with the PEDs and I, you know, this is the thing like I don't think, I think guys a lot of times have a predetermined escalation point. I used to do the same thing and map my cycles out for a year in advance and I figured out well you can't fucking do that. Your body doesn't work that way. Sometimes you react poorly to things. Sometimes you need to make adjustments. Sometimes you don't need to make adjustments, but here's what I would say. If you're making progress, let your gym performance drive most of your decision making. Use the check-in pictures as a measurement of decline in body composition. If you see body composition declining, a lot of times I'll just throw a little more anabolics at it and that clens that up as long as the diet's clen and tight. If I'm progressing in the gym, if I'm getting stronger, if the scale is going up, then just leave everything the same. Don't escalate your doses. Don't change a thing. Leave the diet alone. If the scale is going up, body composition is maintaining, performance in the gym is driving up, then leave it alone. A lot of times what I'll find too, and it's bizarre how, and I guess it kind of makes sense, you'll see performance in the gym actually increases before the scale comes up. They don't seem to correlate directly with each other. One happens, then the other. To me, it makes sense that strength would increase and then weight would go up or vice versa. That's usually what I will see. It's not a linear thing. Then just save the escalation in doses for when you need it. My goal usually is to hit peak doses around 8 to 10 weeks into a 20-week cycle and then just hang out there and then maybe at the end, as IMentioned earlier, IMight throw in an oral for the lasT3 or four weeks if I just need to get over the hump. But if you're still progressing, if you're still making progress, if you're still improving, just leave it alone. Don't make arbitrary changes just for the sake of making changes. If things are going great and you're getting by on less gear, use the lowest effective dose and preserve your health and get the most out of it because there will come a time where you do need to press the gas pedal down a little bit. And if you've gone too high, where are you going to go? All right, next question here is from Westside Aaron. I'm following your carb cycling diet with zero fats on the high carb days and on the medium days around trening. Is there ever a time to combine carbs and fats? And if so, which fats work the best? Well, you're never going to be truly zero. When I say zero, I'm talking about zero added fats. Even on the high day, you're going to have some trace fats from your proteins. Even if you eat chicken breast all day long, you're still probably going to get 30, 40 grams of fat in. So it's truly not zero fat. It's low fat. We'll just say very low fat on the high carbohydrate days because we want to minimize, as IMentioned earlier, the synthesis of adipose tissue. So we do not want to add additional fat gain on those days. So we keep it because of all the things I explained earlier. Now this does have some subjectivity to it. I find there's some dudes that just can't gain weight on super low fat diets. There are guys where I have to put a little bit more fat into their diet to get the food moving or get the weight in the scale moving up. I find that women tend to need a little more fats and less carbs than men. That is also subjective. Sometimes I've had issues with goinGHypo during my workout and I can put a little bit of fat in my pre-workout meal to keep me from goinGHypo. I'm talking about like seven grams of fat, you know, half a tablespoon of olive oil or something like that, or half a tablespoon of nut butter or whatever the case is. But I would say for the most part, with the way I construct diets, what I try to do, we assume that the majority of the saturated fats we're going to be getting is coming in from our protein sources. They're going to be coming in from dietaries, indirect dietary sources. The proteins that we eat are going to have some saturated fats in them. Saturated fats for the most part are energy. You do need some in your diet for bile production and whatnot. But for the most part, when we are putting in added fats, which is what I talk about with my carb cycling diet, I want them to be predominantly from omega-3 and omega-6 sources. Fish oil, flax oil, nuts, nut butters, avocados. If you want to eat a fattier piece of protein, such as salmon or something like that, that's rich in omega-3s, you can remove the added fat from the meal and use that as something. Typically in the workout window or on the high carbohydrate day, I like to keep the fats close to zero. That is with the assumption that a lot of guys are going to be running insulin. If you're not running insulin, then maybe you could add a little bit of fats on your medium days into the pre-workout window if you find that you go hypo during your workout. Those are all things. But keep in mind that none of this stuff is written in stone. It's all subjective. It's based on how somebody responds, how their body handles the food, and we make adjustments based on that. We listen to what the body is telling us. We don't try to force it to do things that it doesn't want to do. It's a lesson I learned a long time ago. I think a lot of guys, coaches, young coaches specifically, have a formula that they try to jam down everybody's throat and make it work for everybody. And sometimes there are just some outlier cases where people just don't fit the paradigm that works for 95% of people. I'm a bizarre case myself. I cannot gain weight in an off-season unless I eat some trash food. And most people aren't that way. They're just going to get fat. I literally, in the past, had to incorporate McDonald's daily into my diet just so I could gain some weight because I hit an upper limit of carbohydrates. I was eating, I think Justin had me eating an unlimited amount of carbohydrates on my high-carbohydrate day, and I could not gain a fucking pound. I was eating 1,500, 2,000 grams of carbohydrates. I hit my upper limit of what I could handle feasibly with digestion, and I could not grow. But then other dudes would just get, you know, most dudes, I would say, would get super fat from that. So there are some times that I need more fat in my diet, but I do have to be careful because I have genetic dyslipidemia, so I have to be careful with how that skews and affects my lipids. So that's another thing that needs to be paid attention to. But general rule of thumb, you want to keep carbohydrates and fat separated during the workout window. In some outlier cases, you need them. You want to make sure that your fats are coming from predominantly omega-3 and omega-6 and the added fats that you're putting in your diet. And your saturated fats are going to come from your protein sources. It really kind of just boils down to that. All right, next question here is from my coaching client, Daryl G. If you want coaching, you can inquire below in the video description. There's coaching information, a link to my website. After completing a successful blast with meaningful muscle gains and controlled body fat, should a calorie intake be reduced in parallel with the lowering of the androgen load? Or is it more effective to keep calories elevated for a period of time to preserve as much newly gained muscle as possible? What Daryl is talking about here with my structure, with how I put cycles and phases together, I will do a full-blown off-season, a massing phase, a muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone phase, bulk, whatever the fuck you want to call it. We'll run that for 16 to 20 weeks. We come down to a health maintenance phase, a cruise for eight weeks or so, maybe 12, depending on the need for it. And then we go back into a cutting phase. We just do the seesaw back and forth. If you want to see how I structure the stuff, I have my cycle cheat sheet that you can pick up on my website for 30 bucks. I detail the blast and cruise methodology that I use where I have full-blown outlines of how the cycles works. The link's in the video description below if you want to get a hold of that. But what I would say, Daryl, when we come down to that cruise phase, I've heard some coaches say they like to clen up body fat a little bit. They like to use that for some cheap fat loss. I do not like to do that. I like to maintain body weight. Now, what I will find when you reduce the androgen load, yes, body composition can take a hit during that time. So what I find with my carb cycling approach that I use with diets, when we cycle through the carbs, typically in an off-season, I'm going to run two, in some rare cases, three high-carbohydrate days where we're pushing the caloric surplus very high, two to three days per week. I'll just reduce that to one day per week in the health phase. And I find that that often is enough to maintain body weight. What it seems to me, and I'm sure there's probably some physiological reasons for it, that if you go straight into a cut after an off-season, then a lot of times dudes end up losing that new size. That size needs to cement in. I know that's a very bro thing to say, but there's some physiological things that are at play here. The body is going to strive for homeostasis and it does not like being big like that. And what I have found is that you need to sort of reset your homeostatic point and let your body acclimate to being a certain weight, get used to holding weight there. I can easily hold 260, 255, 260, 270 now. I can eat nothing and run TRT and my body holds there. But when I first started lifting, I was 180 pounds. And I remember I could not break past 200 and getting up to 200 was a chore for me. And then as soon as I would pull back a little bit, then I would just be right back down to 180 pounds. And then like kind of the next big number for me was 220. Then it was 230. Then it was 240. Then it was 250. And you have to let your body settle in at these, these weights for a period of time, and then let yourself get into the cutting phase. I think if you shift straight, especially if it's new weight, like if you're just going back up to a weight you've been at before, not a big deal sometimes to shift into a cut afterwards. But if this is new territory for you, like I've never been this big, I've never been this lean at this body weight before. Your body needs to settle in for a period of time if you really want to lock in those gains and hang on to those. You need to establish some sort of homeostasis and just stay there for a while. So I like to, for the health phase, maintain for a good eight weeks minimum before shifting into a cut if we can help it. Sometimes schedules for shows and otherwise prevent that, and we do have to shorten the timeline up. And that just, that's just kind of how it is if you're a competitor. If you're a non-competitor, then I will let things settle in and hang out there for a while. All right, next question here is from Dave L. from the School of Antibiotic Bodybuilding members community. Dave says, does taking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone suppress natural GH production? Is using a GH secretagogue better for long-term health or is exogenous GH still the better option? There's no evidence that GH use has a long-term suppression on the pituitary like, say, like the, like you get with testosterone. GH is pulsatile, whereas testosterone production is static. What we have when we are on testosterone, for example, is the Leydig's cells can atrophy or completely shut down. There's no evidence that the pituitary has the same effect when you're, when you're exposed to GH and it seems the pituitary function returns pretty quickly when you come off a GH. It's, it's not, not a big deal. Now here's the other caveat. When you're over 40, which Dave, you're, you're, you're an older guy from when I, when I say your, your body really doesn't make a whole lot of GH, especially 50, 60, I would suspect that most men over the age of 50 probably aren't making a whole lot of GH in, you know, in my instance. And I would say that you probably, I think personally, you know, you'll look at guys like Sylvester Stallone, that's clearly using some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in, in reaping the benefits of it. I think if you're a dude that's over 50 in reasonably good health, it probably makes sense to just have growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone on deck year round. The secretogogs, and I've talked about this ad nauseum on past Q and A's, the secretogogs aren't a great option, especially for older guys that, you know, your younger dudes take them and say, oh my God, it's fantastic. I don't remember the exact numbers, but I think on some of the secretogogs that maybe it was Cimerellin, I don't, or Ipamirellin, I don't remember, recall it direct, directly, but I've seen studies where it shows like up to A-50% increase in growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone production. And if you're 24, 25 years old, and you're making the equivalent of four units a day or two units a day, I don't know what the number is, but let's just say for simple math, four units a day, and you have A-50% increase in production, you're making six units a day. That that's a pretty significant, you know, it's a two unit bump, the equivalent of taking exogenous growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. If we want to speak in milligrams, it's two milligrams. The problem is, is when you get older, like let's say you're a 40 year old guy and you're making a half a milligram per day of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, or sorry, you're making a half a unit a day of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And you get A-50% increase and you're making 0.75. What is it really fucking doing? What does that quarter unit increase of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone production doing for me from taking the secretogol? It is doing absolutely dick all for you probably wouldn't even notice any difference whatsoever. So my thought process is just take the exogenous GH and there's really not even hypothetically there was some risk of shutdown. What are you shutting down anyway? There's nothing to be shut down when you're an older dude. So it's pointless to even be worried about shutting down your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone pituitary when you are not making any to begin with now testosterone is a different story. You know, we know like letting cell product function is can in some dudes can get permanently shut down. That's very uncommon. Most guys I've seen with with some protocols can get things going again it really depends on age but I would assume at this point I'm fucking 52 years old. My body ain't making testosterone ever again. I got to get it from a three cc needle. So I'm just committed to it at this point. And just rolling with it. But I look dude, I would say at our age, just run some exogenous growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone call it a day. Don't fuck with the secretogols. Don't worry about anything getting shut down because there really is nothing to shut down anyway. What the fuck are you shutting down? You're worried about losing that quarter unit or that your 60 year old body is making naturally or if it's making any at all might not be making any at all. And really you can if you want an example of this like a real life live example of how GH has changed the bodybuilding world before affordable exogenous human growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. There weren't that many competent masters bodybuilders competitors. Think about it. You know even 10-15 years ago how many really good 50 year old bodybuilders were there? Albert Beckles. You know some some weird outliers. Some dudes with some fucking freak ass genetics. But there weren't there weren't you know when I when I won a fucking pro car there were 50 dudes in the in the over 50 class and some big ass motherfuckers too. Guys that beat you know regular guys at shows you know guys that are winning overalls at shows are 50 years old. That ain't happening 15 years ago before growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. That's what changed. Guys started taking fucking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and then and then boom that was the area that where guys were deficient. That's the the the cheap access to affordable human growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone has trensformed the ability for an older man to still look like a young dude. It's the fountain of youth for for a lot of guys. It's given guys longer IMean think about some dudes that are in sports that have been playing for a long time. I don't know IMean look at Tom Brady. I'm not I don't know anything in any inside information but if I were a betting man I would I would speculate that there's probably some some HGH and hormone therapy going on there. Dude looks like he's 25 and you know I know he's meticulous with his diet and does everything else correctly and all this other stuff but yeah he looks better than he did when he was younger. So just consider that. All right folks that's all I've got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of you even the haters in the comment section that say I suck, I love you too, you need a hug more than the rest of us. So this hug is for you all the haters in the comment section. You guys rock. I'll see you on the next episode. you