 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up Dickknockers, it's Big Paul. I haven't done one of these in a while. I took a break. I was doing my cruise. I think I was on cruise for about seven weeks. So I haven't done a check in in a while. There really wasn't a lot to report. I was just running 250 milligrams of tests. I dropped all the GH. I dropped all the insulin. I dropped everything else. So essentially, I call it sports TRT. I think that's what Braddock Chavez calls it. But, uh, um, so it's, I, for all you, the guys that like to split hairs, it's not technically TRT, but it's TRT plus, you know, it's a low dose for me. So, uh, 250 milligrams of tests for the last seven weeks or so, nothing else with it. I just wanted to give my body a break, scale things back. Uh, but anyway, we'll dig into it in just one second. All right. All right. So I am in week one of my blast. Uh, just kind of taking things. I was going to plan out a cycle and do a bunch of stuff, um, um, ahead of time. And honestly, contest prep, you can sort of plan out because you know which gear you're going to put in at what week and sort of have a protocol. But the offseason, it's really not that complicated. You, you, you pick, uh, you pick tests, you know, you're taking testosterone and you pick one or two anabolics that you like and you just ride it until the wheels fall off. That's pretty much how it goes. And I'm going to slowly escalate doses over the 16 to 20 week period that I'm going to run it. I like to extend it out to 20 weeks if my body holds up, but if my body breaks down and feel, I feel like shit, then I'll pull back. Um, so I don't know that I have a predetermined roadmap. I, I just, you know, I want to get, get, you know, get some good progress out of it and then we'll escalate doses as, as escalation is needed. Um, I took a pretty long cruise. I usually, I don't cruise this long. Usually I do about six weeks, but I'm pretty close to two months. I think I've been on cruise. I didn't really check it. I checked in a couple of times during the cruise with you guys. I'll be honest with you. I kind of got a little sloppy with my diet over the last few weeks. Um, I, I wasn't eating six meals a day like I normally do. Um, and I was probably about 85, 90% compliant. There were, there were, I was grabbing a few double whoppers too many every, every week. Uh, but for the most part, it was, it was a bodybuilding ish diet. I just needed a mental break. I'm going to treat this offseason like contest prep. I'm going to, once I'm locked in, I'm locked in. I'm sort of an all or none type of guy, but I wanted to take this time to let my body heal up, get myself ready psychologically for a push because I'm going to go into masters nationals next year. At least that's the goal. As long as my health holds up, you never know what's going to happen. Uh, but you know, as long as I hold up, I'm going to do masters nationals, which is in late July. I'd like to get a good offseason push in and a solid contest prep. Uh, my coach wants me to put on some additional weight this winter. Winter. I, my daytime weight's been holding pretty steady around 270 since I've been on the cruise. I haven't really lost any strength. I haven't lost really any size. I'm definitely a little softer than what I was at the B, you know, coming off contest prep. That's for sure. Uh, but that's to be expected when you're not running all of the anabolics. Uh, so, and then plus my diet wasn't that great. I'll be honest with you. People, I laugh when people say that you can't maintain on 250 milligrams of test. You can absolutely maintain on 250 milligrams of test. I, I, I see guys do it all the fucking time. As long as you train hard and you eat clean, you certainly can maintain all 250 milligrams of test. Now I would be full of shit if I told you that you could gain on that. Uh, that's, you can't. Now I would say after a period of time, things start sliding backwards. Uh, but not in eight weeks, you know, maybe in a year, six months, you'll, you'll start to take a step backwards physique wise. I mean, you can't be a competitive bodybuilder running 250 milligrams of test year round. I don't think, um, I think there's some dudes out there that say that and they're full shit, uh, for the most part, I think. But, but you can, you can maintain for a pretty long time. You don't need to run doses as high as you think. I do it all the time with my clients. I've cut, I've had some dudes, I've cut their doses in half and then we get their diet straightened out and they make the best progress they've ever made. So, you know, while more anabolics do work, they're just a piece of the puzzle. So your training's got to be on point. Your diet's got to be on point. Um, and, and, you know, then you use the PEDs wisely. So right now my fasted weight's about 264. My daytime weight's about 270. It fluctuates between 270, 272 in that range. Um, that was my peak offseason weight last year. So that's what I worked up to last offseason. So I'm just sort of maintaining my, my max weight from last offseason. I'm definitely not as full right now as I was last offseason, but we'll get there. Um, current blood pressure is around 135 over 78 is what I checked. I, what I checked yesterday is what it was. My fasted glucose has been hovering around a hundred, maybe a little higher sometimes. I don't know if I'm pre-diabetic or what. I think I probably am, or maybe in some state of diabetes, but, um, it runs in my family. So, um, health, I feel okay. Digestion's better. Sleep is better. Uh, I'm going to dig into it here in a second. I got my blood work done. Um, and honestly, my blood work was worse, uh, at the end of my cruise than it was at the end of contest prep. I've never fucking had that happen before. And it was because I got sloppy with my diet. The single biggest thing you can do to affect your blood work is getting sloppy with your diet. And I'm living fucking proof of that. Um, you know, we'll, we'll take a look here at a second. Really, it was my lipids that were just blown out of proportion, um, at the end of, at the end of my cruise. My lipids were perfect at the end of contest prep, which is the wild part. Um, the only thing that was, it was slightly elevated in the contest prep was my, um, my liver values. And that was just from running orals, but everything else was really, really, this was the best my blood work has ever looked at the end of contest prep. I, I had, I had slightly elevated liver values, nothing crazy. And, uh, everything else was perfect at the end of contest prep, which kind of blew my mind. It's probably why I felt good at the end of this contest prep when usually I feel like I'm fucking dying at the end of contest prep, but I did get a little sloppy with my diet. I was eating too much saturated fat. Um, I was eating fattier cuts of meat like flank steak. Um, I thought I could get away with it. Uh, flank steaks, ribeyes. Um, I was eating some, you know, for my cheat meals, I was getting, uh, double whoppers from, from Burger King. I don't know why I just like after contest prep, I just had this fucking craving for double whoppers. And suddenly for my cheat meals, I was getting two double whoppers from Burger King, uh, for my cheat meals, uh, which are just loaded with fucking saturated fat. And I wasn't very good at maintaining my, my glucose control during, um, I stopped taking the Lantus. Um, a lot of times when you see, uh, triglycerides go up, when triglycerides elevate it, elevate, it's usually from poor glucose control. Uh, your liver starts spewing out lipids, uh, when, and the same thing with, uh, LDLs. Now my HDLs were, were good. Um, they weren't actually that bad after contest prep this year because I pounded the fish oil, the citrus bergamot. Um, you know, so everything seemed to stay relatively in line. And I, almost every blood panel I look at from people that are on PEDs, I see the same thing skewed for everybody. Almost everybody that are on PEDs have low HDL. Almost everybody that is on PEDs have elevated creatinine. Almost everybody that are on PEDs have elevated hematocrit. Almost everybody on PEDs have elevated AST and ALT. Um, uh, you know, I, I see that on just about everybody who's run, what people that are running higher doses. Uh, this is really the first time my hematocrit's ever been elevated and I was just running, you know, the TRT plus. Uh, so that kind of threw me off. Now I, I have a home hemoglobin meter and I check my hemoglobin and hematocrit, uh, regularly. And I found that it fluctuates wildly from day to day and it's hydration that when, when you're hydrated, your hematocrit comes down, which would make sense because more of your blood volume has, has water in it. Uh, so I would think that would skew, um, that would skew it. So, uh, there's, uh, you know, the creatinine, I don't know. Usually my creatinine is not elevated, but I did add creatine while I was on cruise. So creatine can falsely elevate creatinine levels. And also it seems, it seems like a lot of people that are on PEDs and weight training hard have elevated creatinine levels. Um, but anyway, those were the, these were the things that were skewed on my blood work. Um, I am going to work on bringing the lipids back down. I'm cleaning my diet up. I'm going to treat my offseason like a contest prep. I completed my first week of dieting on my offseason and I, I no cheap meals and everything was super clean. I'm keeping my fats low. Um, so we'll see, we'll see how it goes. I'll get my blood panels done again in like four to six weeks. Um, and see if things have cleaned back up a lot of times, which is weird. It's, it's, it's sort of counterintuitive. My blood work often will improve when I'm one cycle. I don't understand it. I don't see that with other people. Maybe I, it's probably because honestly, when I think about it, it's probably because I'm more disciplined with my diet, my training, my cardio. When I'm on cycle, I'm paying attention to that more than I do when I'm off. So that is probably why my blood panels improve. It's not, it's not some magic from the PEDs. I don't want to mislead you. It's probably because I'm paying attention to my, my diet more. It's really that simple. Uh, my A1c was a little bit elevated too. My glucose control wasn't good. So I have a feeling that dropping the Lantus ruined my glucose control that I probably am somewhat insulin dependent at this point. I don't know. Um, but I put the Lantus back in. That was an experiment that didn't go as well as, uh, as I thought. All right. So my progress picks, uh, uh, I'll be honest with you. This, these were from last week. Um, I didn't take any this week. Uh, I didn't do a check in with my coach cause he was sick. I was leaving him alone. So these are from last week. Um, considering how shitty I ate, I was on vacation last week. Um, you know, considering how shitty I ate while I was on vacation, I drank a lot of beer. I think all in all these things, these look pretty decent. I can still see my abs. My kind of my, my threshold is if I can't see the outline of my abs, I'm getting too fat. I don't let myself get a good. I usually try not to let myself get to the point where I can't see my abs. Uh, so I think things look pretty good. Still have some separation in my legs. It's hard to see where I'm at with all the body hair on me. I'm a big fucking gorilla and I'm too lazy to shave all this shit in the offseason. It is a, it is a project to shave this body down. Uh, it is, it is a multi-phase project. Um, my back is where I tend to carry my fat. I mean, you can see that. So, and there's also a lot of hair on it. So it's kind of blurred out. You can't really tell where the definition is at. Um, but overall I think, you know, for doing a six week rebound, um, eight week, uh, or seven or eight week, uh, you know, it's been about four weeks since I really have been on any heavy gear or was training hard. So I think all in all things have held up pretty well. Uh, current diet from Justin. Uh, this is my week one offseason diet. Um, right now on the low days, which I only do one low day per week because I train six days a week. Um, right now we're doing, uh, 330 grams of protein on the low day. I remind everybody, people ask me about this all the time. I, or we only count direct macros. So I do not count the protein from things like, uh, from, you know, oats and shit like that. This, the, this is direct protein. So from animal sources, this, this is my added protein to my diet. Same thing with carbs. I only count direct carbs. Same thing with the fat. I only count added fats. I do not count the fats that are actually in the meats. So my calories are probably 15, 20% higher than what it says on here. Um, and people are like, how does that work? How does that work? Okay. You know, it's inaccurate. It doesn't matter if it's inaccurate, as long as you're consistent with your measurement and consistent with your system, it's all relative. So if I cut my macros back, I know I'm going to lose weight. If I increase my macros, I know I'm going to gain weight. I don't really need a calorie count to do that. Just don't. Um, so it's, it's all relative. It's just math. Um, so low days right now, 330 grams of protein, 300 grams of carbs, 60 grams of added fat. Um, I don't know that if we're counting direct macros that works out to like 2,600 calories, it's probably really like 3000 calories on my low days. I generally start losing weight when I get below 4,000 calories. So that day is likely in a deficit for me. Uh, medium day, which is all my training days that are all the training days that are, um, uh, non-high days. Uh, we do high days on non-consecutive days. I don't do high days back to back. Um, so right now, um, same, uh, on high days, I'm doing 340. I'm sorry, medium days on the medium days. I'm doing 340 grams of protein, 600 grams of carbs on my medium days, and 28 grams of added fat. This diet is relatively low fat. I keep my protein sources lean as fuck. Uh, I, I got sloppy with that. During my cruise, I was eating fattier cuts of meat and my blood panels went to shit. Lipids went up. So for those of you guys that say you need more fat in the diet, I disagree. Your lipids get really skewed when you're on PED. So you got to be really, really careful with the amount of saturated fat that you consume unless you want to have a fucking heart attack. Um, most people vastly over consume fat. It's just been my experience. Um, okay. So, and then high days, we're doing two high days per week. Right now I'm doing my high days on a leg day and on a push day. Um, so, and those are separated by about, uh, I think there's three days between, between my, my two high days, something like that. Uh, but right now my high days are 290 grams of protein, 1000 grams of carbs and a zero added fat. Now the last meal of the day is an optional sheet meal. I can take a sheet meal. Um, if I want to, I try to keep it cleanish. Usually, usually I'll get like sushi or kebabs, um, hamburger and French fries. Those are generally my go-to. Maybe Chipotle, like a burrito bowl. Those are you, it's not an excuse to eat donuts and pizza. That's unproductive for your physique. Right now I have not been taking the cheat meals. I've been skipping the cheat meals. Uh, I feel like I need to just sort of get myself back in a better place with my blood work. So I'm skipping the cheat meals, keeping the fats low so I can get my lipids back under control. All right. So my current PEDs, I am going to mash the gas pedal down this fall. I know I always tell people lower doses get, get the most out of the least. Um, I'm going to make a run at nationals and see what happens. I'll, I'll find out next year if I'm competitive or not. I'll know whether or not, um, I can stand on stage with, with these other guys. I feel like I can, but I could be delusional too. It's hard to be objective about yourself. So I'm going to try to play it safe with the PEDs, but I'm also going to be aggressive, more aggressive than I have been in the past. I have a specific goal in mind. Um, I'm not just taking it for the fuck of it. I am trying to make a run at nationals and see what happens. Um, so out of the gate, I'm starting off with 500 milligrams of test, 300 milligrams of BQ, 400 milligrams of Primo. And I will escalate up from there as needed. I'll see how long I can stretch that out and get something out of it. Uh, but I am probably going to press down the gas pedal and move up to like two, two and a half grams, um, about eight weeks in. So we'll, we'll, we'll see what that does. Uh, I, I, every pro I talked to, um, not everyone, but most of them I talked to when they were making their push to get their pro card, they were running somewhere between two and three grams. It's just the facts. Um, people lie to you and tell you that it's less. There are some people that have done it on less. There's some people that have actually turned pro natural. They're far and few between. I don't have those sort of genetics at, and also I'm old. I don't have that sort of natural hormone profile to accomplish that. So I have to be a bit aggressive. So I'm trying to stick with safer compounds. I know there's some debate over equipoise and kidney damage. I have not seen it in blood work, but I know there is a potential risk there. I'm taking a risk. Calculate risk. Uh, primabolin is probably the safest antibiotic you can run. Testosterone's fairly safe if you manage it properly. Um, I am going to manage my blood pressure. Uh, my other health markers, I need to get my lipids down. I know that I may go back on a statin and, uh, maybe add ezetimibe to it to help get my lipids back under control. So that is the biggest thing I'm concerned about right now is getting my lipids under control. Um, I'm going to work hard to do that. We'll see where, where that's at in like six weeks or so. Um, but, um, I think I'm going to talk to my doctor about getting back on. I was on a statin before and I was on ezetimibe before. But then when I was on contest prep, my lipids were actually low. Um, so I didn't feel like, felt like I would try to get away without it, but I clearly need it. Uh, so also running six units of people always ask me what type of GH I run. I just run generic blue tops. I have run the expensive pharma grade shit before. I have run the generic before. My IGF one levels are no different between the two. This is something a lot of people, they think there's some magic about pharma grade GH that it's better. It's either growth hormone or it's not. It either has 191 or 192 amino acids or it doesn't. It's just that simple. It is either real or it is not. Um, and so if you get your blood tested, your IGF one levels are elevated, then it's probably real. If they're not, then it's probably fake or it got spoiled in transport. Generic can get spoiled in transport and so can pharma grade. If it's coming from overseas, it's been sitting on a hot shipping container, it can get ruined. Um, so I'm also running 1000 milligrams of metformin per day, 1500 milligrams of berberine per day, 80 milligrams of telmosartan per day. Sometimes in the offseason, I will switch to XForge if my blood pressure, as I escalate PEDs and my weight goes up. Sometimes I need something with a little more oomph to it. So I will run XForge, which also, which has an ARB and a calcium channel blocker. Um, I am running Humalog on high days as needed. People always ask me what my Humalog doses are. I don't have a prescribed dose for Humalog. I just take what my blood glucose levels dictate. So I measure my blood glucose levels pre-meal and I let that dictate how much Humalog I need. I don't get too hung up on doses. Your body will tell you how much insulin you need. I run a basal insulin. I run 25 units of Lantus pre-bed. People say that's a lot, but that's what their, if you look at their website for a person my size, that is the suggested dose. Um, that helps take some pressure off my pancreas. Um, and then allows my pancreas to have a little in reserve for the surges with, during the day with my carb. So I just keep an eye on my, uh, glucose levels and I let those drive how much insulin I use. Not the other way around. Um, and that's pretty it. Pretty much it. That's how the PED protocol works. Uh, training. I am doing a six week block of my advanced volume training. I have a spreadsheet up on my website. You can download for free if you want a copy of it. Um, rep schema. I don't do anything to failure. Failure is subjective. Um, you know, I think I train harder than 99% of people at the fucking gym, but I'm not taking things to absolute failure or beyond. I'm not doing forced reps and shit like that. I don't do any set extenders like rest pause or, or drop sets or anything like that. At this point, those, when I was young, they were great. Now that I'm old, they just get me hurt. Um, the same thing with heavy weights. I don't really lift heavy weights anymore. I use moderate weights and try to squeeze and get the most out of the muscle. Everything is like 10 to 12 reps on compound movements, 15 to 20 reps on isolation movements. I don't get too hung up. You know, I'll progress weights when I can. Uh, but I really try to master that weight and get the most out of it that I can create them. The mind muscle connection, they call it, which really just boils down to feeling that muscle when you're working it, getting a maximum squeeze out of it. So that's what I try to do. Uh, cardio right now is 15 minutes of hit four times per week. I'll be honest with you. I fucking slacked on it when I was, uh, on my cruise, but I was doing a lot of hiking and walking too. So I don't know. It sort of balances out. I, during the winter, I'm not going to be doing the hiking and the walking outside. Um, so it's sort of a wash. I, I'm sure if I really looked at the, um, the step count and the caloric expenditure, it's probably the same fucking thing. I really do hit cardio in the offseason just for cardiovascular health. That's really the only purpose of doing it. Um, hopefully we'll bring the lipids back down and help with glucose control. Um, plans and thoughts right now. Um, my last time I checked in with you guys, I was having some issues with IBS. That seems to have settled down. Um, I don't really know for a hundred percent sure what was causing it. I pulled out some vegetables I was eating that I think maybe were upsetting my stomach. Um, and I stopped drinking the, well, a lot of, I was drinking like four or five Coke zeros a day. I think maybe that was causing issues. Sugar alcohol sometimes can lead to, uh, IBS flare ups. Just something to keep, keep in mind on. I do like sugar alcohols. They help deal, help you deal with cravings when you're on contest prep. But sometimes some people can't tolerate them. Um, I have to limit my doses of them or I get in trouble. Um, strength and size health through the cruise. Just fine. Like I said, I'm feeling pretty much back to normal. Like I feel good. My sleep is not dysfunction, dysfunctioned anymore. I'm back to getting a normal night of sleep. Um, I did have some anxiety when I was on the rebound. I was running MPP. I don't know if it was just the withdrawal from the stimulants from, uh, contest prep that was causing it. Or, or if it was the actual MPP that was causing the anxiety. But I, I had a couple like semi-panic attacks during the, uh, rebound from the show. I've never had that before. It was really weird. Um, I don't know. Uh, but I'm feeling better now. It seems to have settled down. My sleep apnea settled down too. I don't, I'm not having too much. Um, told you guys I went on vacation. I, this is stuff that I do and I, and I tell my clients, they get like worried about taking a, like some of like people that are super neurotic. I have some people that are, um, super neurotic and other people that don't give a fuck. I mean, that's just how general population is. But for those of us that are super neurotic, taking a week off from training in your diet once a year is not going to kill you. It's actually probably good for you. Give yourself a mental break. Um, you know, your, your family, your loved ones, whoever you're vacationing with will be thankful for it. That you're not packing fucking chicken with you everywhere you go. Just be normal on vacation. That's what it's for. One week a year is not going to kill you. I take one week a year and I take a diet break. I take a training break and I just enjoy myself. So, um, and then it's back to work. Uh, so, uh, coach's feedback with, with Justin was, uh, telling me, um, he wants me doing more cardio this week, this, this winter for my lipids and heart health. Um, and, uh, and then, um, he wants me to get up to, uh, uh, 285 at relatively the same level of leanness I am right now. So, we shall see what happens. Alright guys, that's all I've got for you. Hopefully you find this helpful. If you have any questions, put them in the comments section below. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Put my name at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp3rd at bigp