 k my school anabolic bodybuilding members community. Some of those questions include, what are the best approaches to lose stubborn body fat in the belly and chest? Nutrition, training, and performance enhancement included. What blood pressure ranges should you aim for when on cycle? And what medications should be considered to treat it when it's high? How should you adjust testosterone and anabolic doses during a 12-week cutting phase? What major changes do you see coming to bodybuilding in the next 5-10 years? I have all these questions and many more, and we'll dig into all of them in just one second. All right, first question I got lined up here is from Gator Gaines. Gator asks, my lats are lagging, are a lagging body part. Would IGF-1 LR-3 help bring them up? And if so, should he be taking pre or post-workout? And is injection into the lats localized more beneficial? Well, Mr. Gator Gaines, I'm not a big fan of IGF-1 LR-3. I personally, I don't think it does a whole lot. Anchoralex, we can make an argument for. I've seen quite a few bodybuilders use Anchoralex and get great results from Anchoralex, but I don't think IGF-1 LR-3. IGF-1 Anchoralex is bioidentical to your body's naturally produced IGF-1. It has a short half-life and could potentially have a localized effect. IGF-1 works systemically. I've heard some people say they do get a localized effect from IGF-1 LR-3, but that's just an anecdote. To me, it makes no sense that it would have a localized effect, but look, it's possible. Anecdotal evidence from bodybuilding uses do show some localized effect, but I don't know. On paper, it's unlikely. LI3 is a synthetic analog to IGF-1. It was an attempt to make a half or a longer half-life and to have an IGF-1 that didn't interact with binding proteins. The problem with this is that because it doesn't interact with the binding proteins, that it does not have any sort of selectivity to how it affects. It's going throughout the entire body. LR-3 is enhanced with a three-a-minute acid modification that reduces binding to IGF-1 protein, as I mentioned earlier. And it circulates through the entire body, through the bloodstream, and has a longer half-life. So anybody who says they're getting a localized effect from LR-3, it's more than likely just a placebo. I know plenty of dudes that will inject it into a muscle group pre-workout and say that they've noticed better pumps, and et cetera. It's likely just a placebo at that point. IGF-1 needs to be circulated systemically. And any effect that's going to happen is going to be localized. And so you would have to inject it right directly into the cell to have any kind of effect from what I understand. So long story short, no, the timing doesn't really matter. It has a really long half-life, something like 36 hours. So if you're going to use it, you can inject it whenever. It doesn't really matter. It is systemic in nature. So injecting it into the body part that you're trying to work, it's not going to hurt anything, but it's likely not going to provide any additional benefit from what we know. And honestly, I worry about LR3 with cancer because of it not interacting with binding proteins. The binding proteins are there as a break. All IGF-1, as far as muscle, has a localized effect. And when we take the binding proteins off of it, it can bind anywhere in the body that has an IGF-1 receptor, the intestines, anywhere. Now, I just personally, I don't know how well it works. I have seen some people that love it, say they get great effect from it. It's probably just the mimicking of the insulin-like effects that it has that people are feeling. But if you want to try it, try it out, see what you get out of it. I personally don't think it does a whole lot. It's likely, and I do worry about cancer risk with it, but it's likely at a best case scenario. I'm doing very little. And in worst case, it's probably just a placebo. All right, next question here is from Brian C. from the School Antibolic Bodybuilding Members Community. Brian asks, I am new. What's your recommendation for, I'm assuming new to lifting, what's your recommendation for losing the last bit of stubborn fat left on the belly and chest? Looking for some guidance on nutrition, training, and any performance enhancement protocols that are specific to this. We know there's very little that you can do to spot reduce. Now, I will say this, that that chest fat, that lower abdomen fat tends to be more estrogenic and an estrogenic pattern. I would, you know, a lot of bodybuilders towards the end of contest paper lean heavily into DHT-derived hormones to, you know, to suppress estrogen and androgens are going to have an effect of shrinking those areas. Now, a lot of that is to say that this is mostly genetic, man. For me, when I was younger, it was always my lower back, my love handles, my boobies were the last place that I would lose body fat in. I was always, those were always the stubborn problem areas for me. Everybody's got those stubborn problem areas. I know a lot of pro bodybuilders, the way they deal with it is they just go get liposuction done and then you're permanently rid of those fat cells in those areas and then get rid of it that way. And I'm not saying that that's what you should do. But if those are your stubborn areas, the most likely scenario is it's just going to be the last place that comes off. Last place off is usually the first place back on. Like I said, for me, it's my love handles, my lower back. I'll have shredded glutes before my lower back is lean. We're all built differently. It used to be love handles for me. I went and had liposuction done shit a long time ago, 20 some years ago, and got that removed. I had gyno surgery. When they do gyno surgery, they do liposuction. I still need to get my right side touch back up because I had that done 20 some years ago. Never got that touch back up. But really, it's just the last place to come off and just being in a caloric deficit. Probably that fat deposit is going to be likely estrogen-mediated. You're probably going to have to bring your estrogen a little bit lower to get that last little bit of stubborn fat off. Lean heavily, more heavily into the DHT-derived androgens. I'm not telling you what to do, but that's what I've seen work for other people. It's what I know bodybuilders do to get that last little bit off. All right, next question here is from Derek R. What blood pressure number should you aim for while on cycle? And at what point would you recommend starting blood pressure medicine? Well, I'm not going to recommend anything for you because I'm not your doctor. That's something you should discuss with your medical professional. But here's what I do and what I consider for myself. In bodybuilding terms, your doctor may disagree with this, but in the bodybuilding world, what I've seen when we're carrying a bunch of weight, what most bodybuilders would consider being normal is 130 over 80 or below. 130 over 80, once you get above that, you need to kind of keep an eye on things. So long story short, there's multiple pathways that can increase blood pressure that may need to be addressed. The primary pathway that we see with most synthetic androgen, synthetic hormone use is the increased water retention that these compounds cause. The drive of the renin-ingiotensin-aldosterone system that causes increased water retention usually that's the first pathway that needs to be treated. A lot of times, it could be just other things causing it too. HGH is going to drive renin-angiotensin-aldosterone pathway. High estrogen can drive it. A lot of times, I think guys can fix the high blood pressure just by getting their estrogen under control. There's this notion floating around that high estrogen is somehow protective. To a certain degree, it is. But once we get into high ranges beyond the normal reference ranges for men, you end up with severe water retention and a bunch of other side effects. You know, you hear pregnant women talking about being bloated. I'm sorry, women on their period being bloated. It's from the extra, everything that's going on and from the extra estrogen are going to cause water retention. That's why they get bloated. So if your estradiol is the same as a menstruating woman, what do you think is going to happen? So that is one easy pathway. I think most dudes way overdo the salt and underdo potassium. And then we end up with sodium retention and additional water retention as a result. But the first line of defense, usually if they are going, you know, most doctors, they know this because most Americans eat a shit diet and they eat way too much salt. They don't get enough potassium. So they use a, something that's going to modify the renin-angiodensin aldosterone system, which would be either an ACE inhibitor or an ARB. Those are going to increase potassium retention in lower, in called sodium excruciation. And so we end up with a better balance. You could probably do that through just eating less salt and more potassium to a certain degree. Naturally, if you want to avoid taking the medications, that would be an easy, controlling estrogen would be a way to do it. But sometimes some people need it. I've been on blood pressure medicine since I was in my late teens. My daughter is already on one. She's 18 years old. It's just genetic in my family. And it's mostly driven by water retention, aldosterone. So I am on Talmasartan, which is an ARB. A lot of doctors like ACE inhibitors. I see doctors now starting to move towards ARBs. Now there's other pathways that can cause water retention or cause blood pressure to increase. The probably the second most common way would be central nervous system motivation through high androgen load. You see dudes like running Tren. Even though Tren doesn't cause estrogen to increase, it doesn't cause water retention. What it's going to do is drive sympathetic nervous system. Basically, what you're going to do is your heart's going to start pumping harder. You're going to have increased pulse. You'll see it on Tren from the central nervous system motivation where guys, pulses increase. And they end up with an increase in the systolic blood pressure, the high number. So when you see a systolic increase and diastolic stay the same, so like if you're 150 over 80 and you were 130 over 80 before, it's more than likely central nervous system motivation from too many stimulants, probably stress. You could play a role in there. And the increase in androgen load causing sympathetic nervous system drive and then you end up with this high systolic blood pressure and high pulse. And in that case, ACE inhibitors are what most doctors would use. In our case, in the bodybuilding world, a selective beta blocker or sorry, not ACE inhibitors, I said beta blockers. I misspoke there. Beta blockers are what most doctors are going to use. So when it comes to a beta blocker, in our world, we want athletes want to select a beta blocker because propanolol or some of the other ones that are non-selective, I think propanolol is non-selective, don't quote me on that, but the ones that hit both the beta 2 and the beta 1 are going to decrease athletic performance VO2 max and other things that we need. Fat burning, inhibit fat burning, whereas nabivalol is a selective, and there are other ones, but nabivalol is a selective beta blocker that's going to block specifically the beta 1, which is most of what's going to cause the increase in pulse, increase in blood pressure from the heart pounding to heart. It'll help bring down the increased pulse that you get from running things like TRAN or clenbuterol or other things like that. But you could also just not run those things. That is another option. And then the third possible pathway is vasoconstriction. You'll hear a lot of bros love taking their Cialis for high blood pressure. That is only going to affect vasoconstriction, which is the less common cause of increased blood pressure. It's why a lot of guys will take Cialis and see little to no change in their blood pressure because it doesn't address water retention. It doesn't address central nervous system motivation. It only makes the blood vessels open up a little bit more. And from what I recall that they've trialed Cialis as a blood pressure medicine and it wasn't very effective. Now, if you have vasoconstriction, it certainly can help. Certainly the increase in nitric oxide and all these other things are going to increase endothelial health and be better for overall cardiovascular health. So it certainly doesn't hurt to use those if you tolerate it well. Calcium channel blockers are another thing that doctors will use to treat vasoconstriction. Calcium channel blockers though also can affect muscle contractions and calcium channels are very important for muscle contraction. So probably the last choice if you are dealing with high blood pressure but sometimes they're necessary. So I would work with your medical professional. Find somebody who understands our world. If you have high blood pressure, I would say 130 over 80 is kind of the red line for bodybuilders. Your doctor may disagree with that but ultimately defer to your doctor. Usually something such as a ACE inhibitor or an ARB are going to be a first line defense for dealing with water retention. Then we get into the world of central nervous system motivation. I am personally prescribed by my medical doctor. I'm not going out and brewing it up and getting it on my own. Most doctors are more than willing to give you a prescription for blood pressure meds and cholesterol meds if you just ask them. My doctor actually gave me the specific ones I requested. So I'm on Telmsartan 40 milligrams and I am on Nabivolol 5 milligrams and it seems to work quite well for keeping my blood pressure under control. Marco M. I eat 4 meals per day and take 500 milligrams of metformin with meals 2, 3, and 4. 1,500 milligrams total. I also take 7 units of Humalog with my pre-workout meal and 50 grams of carbs intra and 100 grams post. Would it make sense to add 500 milligrams of metformin to meal 1 pre-workout alongside of my insulin? No, I don't think so. I've been on metformin for a decade or so for you punch your big Paul Bingo card for being diabetic. I'm a type 1B diabetic. But metformin lowers liver-mediated glucose production by lowering gluconeogenesis and increasing AMPK. It makes it hard for your body to convert lactate and other substrates into glucose which can negatively impact gym performance. So you probably want to keep it away from your workouts to be honest with you. It's mostly used in diabetics to improve basal insulin level or sorry, basal glucose levels when those rise so for example you wake up in the morning your glucose levels are high you have high glucose levels throughout the day. It is a first line of defense before they prescribe other things. Now GLP-1s probably have kind of come in and taken its place especially now with ratatrutide and it works through a different mechanism but how it works through glucagon agonism probably addresses a lot of those problems maybe more efficiently than metformin does. but it does seem to have a mild effect on improving insulin sensitivity so it does have that benefit as well but I would keep metformin away from my workouts because it can have a negative impact on workouts as I mentioned earlier because of how it affects lactate and other substrates of glucose metabolism that are important for when you're lifting weights. Really the benefit that we're trying to read from it is the improved insulin sensitivity and glucose regulation and I would you know I think the way in diabetics the way it's used is for overnight for maintaining glucose levels while you're sleeping a lot of times guys will have these spikes in glucose levels the smoke effect that happens in or is the dawn effect I always get those two confused but that always happens in bodybuilders and there's two different types of metformin 2 there's the extended release and the regular release I would probably just take all as long as your stomach can handle it I probably would just take all 1500 milligrams at bedtime use it as an overnight if it's necessary that's how I take it I'm not your doctor and telling you that's how you should do it but you know that to me makes the most sense you're keeping it away from your workouts so you're not negatively impacting your workouts and you're getting the benefits from it there's also some there were some studies out that showed that it does lower IGF-1 and I know bodybuilders freak out about that I just personally I've been on it for a decade and my IGF-1 is always in the 400s when I'm on GH I've not had an issue with it lowering my IGF-1 levels I just have not seen that I do think it can negatively impact your gym performance but not necessarily because of the IGF-1 but because of lactate and the other path the metabolism of glucose that we were talking about that may negatively impact gym performance I've heard guys say they feel malaise upset stomach loss of appetite things like that that can negatively impact gym performance but I don't think it has anything to do with the IGF-1 but if it bothers you don't take it take something else you know so you know but I would keep it away from my workout window I think that's the most optimal way to use it all right next question here is from Donnie F from the school anabolic bodybuilding members community if you want to go join it's 30 bucks a month you can head over there link is in the video description below if you want to join we have a great group of people and I answer questions over there as well on our forum I have some free coursework over there but Donnie ask during my last bulk I used Lantus to manage my fasting glucose levels and A1c as calories increased my weight stalled but body fat increased could this be due to insulin resistance and why would weight stay stagnant while body composition worsens yeah you're insulin resistant you answered the question that's that's what's going on and I think people fuck up and misunderstand how to use Lantus it just drives me absolutely insane I see I don't know where this notion came from and you know and look I get it it's better than rolling around with an A1c of 7.8 it's better to use Lantus but here's the problem with Lantus Lantus is a basal insulin it was designed to replace the background insulin that your body has present at all times and in type 1 diabetics or people that have pancreatic insufficiency what ends up happening is that they lose that basal insulin that's present at all times or it's up and down like in my case sometimes it's there sometimes it's not and then you end up with the situation where where your glucose levels your postprandial glucose levels your fasting glucose levels where they may sit at around an 85 I'm just using that as an example number an arbitrary number they may jump up to 105 or 115 throughout the day because your body is not making enough insulin to keep up with the demand or it's insulin resistant and in your situation it's insulin resistance if you're having to use insulin to keep your glucose levels lower because your postprandial and your fasting glucose levels have gotten too high you have insulin resistance and what happens when you throw more insulin at insulin resistance you just continue to make the problem worse and I know a lot of bros do this because of GH use the old school bodybuilders would just throw more insulin at it just to deal with it and then they make their insulin resistance work worse and then they have this spiral this negative spiral where they become completely metabolically disordered start accumulating a bunch of visceral fat but specifically when you're insulin resistant visceral fat accumulation increases and body composition works if your insulin sensitivity is high and you are using exogenous insulin you shouldn't need that much and you should have normal fasting glucose levels you should have normal postprandial glucose levels and you should have an improvement in body composition so what you need to do in that situation is fix the insulin resistance not take more insulin that's that's otherwise you're just going to make yourself diabetic make the problem even worse so in that situation when you get to that point it's time to pull the plug on that fucking bulk just quit the bulk shift into a calorie deficit get the fat off and now we have GLP-1s that we can use as a tool to improve insulin sensitivity I just talked about metformin that's another tool pioglitazone is another potential tool that you can use but honestly just a hard diet some cardio going in a calorie deficit getting the body fat down getting yourself just enough to fix it and don't let yourself become insulin resistant the next time around that's why I like the carb cycle for a diet carb cycling helps you avoid this because you do have days where you keep your carbohydrates low you're not using insulin every day you are intermittently using insulin in my case you know I push the insulin twice a week on a high carbohydrate day so you have these programmed in breaks where you're not just pounding yourself 24-7 with all these carbohydrates and you're going to be more metabolically healthy when you do so it's just a better way to do things in my opinion I've seen it work for a lot of people but long story short man you got fat because you're insulin resistant you had to use insulin to force the issue more insulin is going to make you more insulin resistant if you're fasting glucose levels and it just absolutely drives me fucking nuts that there's numbskull coaches out there telling guys to use Lantus to bring down their fasting glucose levels you're just making the problem worse if that's the case maybe you need to quit the GH run a GLP-1 go on a diet there's a million other things you need to do but you're not going to grow muscle if you're insulin resistant you're just not you're just going to get fat all right next question here is from Brian C he says if fertility isn't a concern do you recommend using HCG alongside testosterone no I mean if you don't give a fuck about the size of your balls I don't know I mean look the benefits of using HCG would be increased LH and FSH would be your testicular health if you're concerned about testicular health keeping your balls functional keeping your balls big and full yes I could see an argument for using some HCG small I think in most TRT protocols that I've seen it's something like 500 units three times a week or something like that but if you don't care about fertility if you're going to be on TRT if you're a TRT for lifer like the rest of us woot woot chugga lugga if you don't give a fuck I wouldn't I wouldn't worry about it you know some dudes get obsessed with the size of their doodads I don't give a fuck about the size of my huevos it really really makes no fucking difference to me I don't think any woman cares any dude that thinks a woman cares has no idea what's going on I just you know look if you want to use it certainly you can the downsides of it is you're going to see increased estradiol conversion HCG will make your estrogen higher there's positives you know there is an argument that you do feel better on it I have noticed it does seem to help with mood a little bit but if you're all aboard the TRT or the TRT plus train what fascinates me is when guys are running a thousand milligrams of testosterone and taking 500 units of HCG three times a week like what the fuck is that going to do it's like pissing on a forest fire look if you're living the TRT life you know if you're running 150 mg of test you want to keep your balls full you want to be Mr. Vitality and all that shit then yeah I could see an argument for using some HCG Westside Aaron ask with injectable dianabol is it better to run the full eight week stretch at the end of the blast I don't know where or split it between the middle and end also what daily dosage would you suggest for a first time user I you know I'm opposite everybody else a lot of other coaches a lot of people like to frontload antibiotics I just have never understood the reason for it because really when you're at the beginning of cycle it's when you get the most out of the least I don't know why people come out of the beginning of a cycle throwing the kitchen sink at everything you don't need a lot at the beginning of a cycle just a little bit a lot of times like fuck I'm getting ready to start my contest prep cycle up I'm going to start off with I think 300 tests 200 primo something like that probably going into the Arnold where I was running 300 tests 150 primo and then I just been back down to 200 megs a week for the last six eight weeks something like that but I'm going to start off at 300 300 tests 150 200 primo probably 200 primo and a couple units of gh and then I'll save the orals for the end of the thing but you're going to get progress out of that at the beginning so why come out of it just blasting everything throwing the kitchen sink at it so I would save it for the end if you've never run dbol before man I be quick to pull the ripcord that's all I'm going to say people get upset when I piss on dbol dbol if you are a person that responds to it you're going to think it's the greatest thing you ever you've ever taken if you're the person that has problems with it it's going to be a goddamn nightmare and I would say more more times than not I don't know what the number is but I would say like two out of ten people that take it love it and everybody else thinks it's the worst fucking steroid they've ever taken I'm in I'm in the column of I don't really fucking like it every time I've ever used it it just makes me a bloated mess makes my blood pressure blow up I feel like shit I get emotional I get you know I never get fucking acne it's the only thing that gives me acne it's probably the methyl estradiol if you're sensitive to estrogen conversions problems you know gyno water retention high blood pressure all I can say buckle your fucking seat belt up man if you run into those issues pull the ripcord quick man just get off of it I I'm it's I think it's has a bunch of mythologies surrounding it because it's was Arnold's favorite steroid and it's what all the guys used in the 70s but what you have to remember back then those guys didn't have any way to control estradiol um they didn't use any AIs none of this none of the stuff and essentially what those guys were doing was running DECA and D-Ball back then and they were using the D-Ball as their testosterone alternative they probably would guys later on figured out oh wait wait a minute we can use testosterone and get the same thing out of it without all the uh methyl estradiol problems and the guys that did well with the D-Ball were were the survivors there's some survivorship bias going on here people say well you know Arnold and so and so used it what you didn't see the fucking 30 other dudes that end up with gyno and bloated masses and that never made it to that level I don't know man you know just tread lightly 10 milligrams a day is usually what would I hear that most people use for a starting dose um I think that's probably more than enough to start off with and then tread lightly into these uncharted waters for yourself all right next question here is from Christopher E what are your top three cardio exercises during a cutting phase uh walking walking and more walking fucking hate cardio oh no all kidding aside I I have bad knees so I try to stick with stuff that doesn't hurt my knees I really prefer walking a brisk walk I just like being outside doing something some cycling light cycling I think is good uh uh occasionally I'll get you know I like the elliptical too the elliptical will get my pulse up and like eventually you get in such good shape that walking is not enough to get your pulse up into that ideal zone like I basically get to a point where like I can't get my pulse over 100 when walking and then I'll shift to the elliptical I know some dudes love the stair climber it just beats my knees up and my legs shrivel up into nothing I don't like the stepper to be honest with you I think if you're in a caloric surplus you're young you got healthy knees you want to do something that's high intensity the stepper's totally fine but you just have to find what works for you as far as cardio goes we have to remember that there's really two main purposes for cardio and it's really a different style of cardio for both that for fat burning we really want slow and steady for fat burning the fat oxidization the the keyword being in there the oxidization you you need oxygen to burn fat and if you are pushing so hard you're in an anaerobic state you're not going to be burning fat you're going to be burning other metabolites at that point so so you have slow and steady is better for fat burning for cardiovascular health we want to get our pulse up right we want to work our heart and we want to work our heart hard so we have to remember when we're doing cardio there's two different purposes so you really should separate your cardio out is this a fat burning session is this a cardiovascular conditioning session for cardiovascular conditioning I prefer HIIT cardio a higher intensity cardio or interval type training you know sprints if you have good knees you can go out run run sprints you can run stairs you can do sprints on the cycle I like cycling I enjoy cycling I've always loved cycling you can do sprints on the cycle that that's an option um so these are the tools in the toolbox but honestly I have a preferential preference for brisk walking for fat loss I think most bodybuilders figured out a long time ago that that's probably the best way to burn fat and not lose all your muscle all I'll say is you've never seen a jacked marathon runner you do see jacked burners because they're not burning off muscle tissue but and and to me it seems for fat burning it seems to be the upper limit of a productive session is somewhere around 45 to 50 minutes and then it starts to tail off it's not like you drop off a cliff I can't remember where I saw this but there was this study or some science one years ago I saw where where fat burning sort of peaks out around that 40 to 45 minute range you start off and then it and then it's kind of starts to tail off you get into get into burning up you know other things after like your muscles your body starts burning up muscle tissue you can tell if you're in gluconeogenesis if your body is frying up muscle tissue to make glucose with and use glucose as a fuel that's why you don't see a jacked marathon runner or or or anybody who's doing a sort of extreme endurance exercise as your body shifts into gluconeogenesis and starts breaking down protein structures for glucose to fuel your performance but if you smell like ammonia that's a dead giveaway that you're in gluconeogenesis and that you're burning up protein structures not good for our population if we want to be jacked if you know look it's it's all based on your goals but if you want to retain muscle tissue if you want to burn fat and do it optimally slow and low is the way to go all right folks next question I got here is from andy p andy ask what strategies help keep your mind off of food while dieting well andy it's really simple um we got glp1s now if you can't keep your mind off of food that's the easiest fix you know look I'm not telling you to go use a GLP-1 but we do have tools available to us now if food noise is a problem for you and I think that is the biggest advantage of using a GLP-1 why you see so many people having success with weight loss that didn't have success with weight loss before because the lower gastric emptying the improved uh food or hunger hormone signaling of ghrelin and leptin that happens with GLP-1 use has improved people's ability to be compliant with diets it really is that simple a lot of people were metabolically unhealthy and that's another another way of doing it but in the old days before we used glp1s one strategy that I would use often is just to replace foods with higher volume foods higher volume volume lower density food so for example lower caloric density food so for example uh this is one I learned from my my friend dr todd lee uh many years ago with a simple example would be like when you're cutting calories one cup of peas has the same amount of or has half the amount of calories as one cup of rice so you can swap out things like that you can go with higher uh higher protein choices lower fat choices so for example a 99 or 97 99 chicken breast is going to be less calorically dense than say eating a ribeye making choices like that protein is very satiating so for and I look at it the the whey protein gets metabolized in the body it's almost a free pass as far as eating in excess calories and for your body to convert protein into body fat it's it's I'm not saying it's impossible but there are multiple metabolic steps that needs to be have that need to happen your body needs to denature that protein and then go through gluconeogenesis and turn that protein into glucose and then liponeogenesis and turn that glucose into into lipids and then store it's just they're like fucking multiple steps to get there and it's just going to be pretty pretty unlikely that that extra piece of chicken that you eat are is going to cause you to get fat so if you get in a situation where appetite is high eat high satiety foods you can look at the satiety index surprisingly a baked potato is the highest satiety food or boiled potato I think it might be but you take that same food and you mix it with with uh with fat you fry that potato in a french fryer and you come out with french fries then you have a food that is highly palatable and easy to stuff down and most of the foods that get us in trouble are the foods that are high both high carb and high fat those are the ones that are going to get you in trouble and often make you hungrier also knowing what foods are your trigger foods and avoiding those foods when dieting that that also is a big help as well I know for me like I just I have to stay away from cookies and pastries and donuts and cakes and shit like that I just lose my fucking mind cookies especially cookies I just I just I can't be trusted with cookies just can't be trusted with cookies so cookies need to be completely removed from my diet or I'm gonna I'm gonna lose my shit staying away from trigger foods I do things when I'm dieting like sugar-free jello pickles any anything that vegetables I mean vegetables are a free pass for the most part you can eat almost unlimited protein in non-starchy vegetables you know leafy greens broccoli asparagus things like that you can almost have an unlimited amount of them and not not have to worry about any fat gain so those those you know if you don't want to do the glp one around that that is a really great way sugar-free drinks are also helpful you just have to be careful with overdoing the sugar-free stuff because the sugar substitutes the artificial sweeteners can really fuck your digestion up that's I don't worry about like people get worried about getting butthole cancer and shit and whatever that's that's the least of my worries uh the main thing I'm worried about when using sugar-free stuff is is it going to blow my stomach up am I going to get the bubble guts from and shit my pants you know it might be great for dieting you know if you a little case of occasional diarrhea might be good for losing some weight but it's not an ideal way to live so just be careful with the sugar alternatives the artificial sweeteners especially sugar alcohols can get you in trouble as far as digestion goes but that's kind of my tricks all right next question here from the school anabolic bodybuilding members community is from jr he asked how should testosterone be titrated up during a cut if someone is coming off a bulk on one gram a test and 500 milligrams of anabolic how would they adjust both over a 12 week fat loss phase well jay i'm not trying to give you the sales pitch here but i have my my cycle cheat sheet available on my website for 30 bucks i go through the whole blast and cruise methodology that i use with bulking cutting and cruise phase with the rebound and i detail it all in there it's 30 pages of cliff notes i try to make it as simple and dummy proof as possible not saying you're a dummy but i have it all in there but how i structure it i would say look if you're coming off of a blast i'm assuming that you've been running your gram a test and your what was the 500 milligrams of your anabolic for 16 weeks you're probably due for cruise before shifting into a cut phase what i like to do before shifting into a cut phase is to take eight maybe 10 weeks something like that pull back to TRT let my body get back to some sort of homeostasis because when you're going to do a diet and if you're going to do a diet effectively you're going to be placing a lot of stress on your body you want to be ready to go you want to be metabolically set you want to have all your your hormones ready to go you want to have your blood markers your organ health at baseline and be ready to push everything should be ready to go and you're going to get a more effective cut that way what i would say you know so i would you know look first and foremost i would come down to HRT or HRT plus for me i usually run something like 200 milligrams a test in two to four units of gh that's typically if you have estrogen problems i might sprinkle a little bit of primobolin in there but typically i just come down to to that two to three hundred milligrams to test two to four units of gh that's sort of bodybuilding cruising enough to let your hormones get back to baseline and let your body get healthy usually blood work will improve during that time period so that's what i would do take about eight weeks and then before starting your cut i would say if you want to run a full and effective cut 12 weeks probably isn't going to be long enough unless you're super lean already like let's say if you're 12 body fat and you want to get down to eight or something like that i like to take this that cuts slow and low one to two pounds a week for fat loss nothing i don't want to press more than that anytime you press more than that then you are going to risk losing muscle tissue and as far as how the ratios of how everything goes i start low even if i was at a you know i'm getting ready to start my contest prep right now and i've run as high as three grams my week one dosing is 300 tests 200 primo simple as that you know or 150 i'm not sure yet what i'm going to do i'm going to start next week but that that's going to be where i'm going to start off and i'm going to titrate up if you're doing a true contest prep then we tend to tilt the ratio more towards the DHT derived steroids and away from testosterone uh tip on a cut i towards the end like the last eight weeks i maybe go to one to one ratio just just depending and i don't have a certain milligram target in mind i just see how my body's responding and i just based on where i'm going to yeah i would predict that i'll probably end up somewhere i don't know a thousand milligrams of tests thousand whatever my anabolic is going into this contest into this contest prep the last eight weeks something like that but i would say give yourself a full 16 weeks for your cut get a good rebound after it afterwards that's the reason we want to do a cut if you're not competing is to leverage that rebound phase and to be ready to go to put on some great muscle tissue when you're lean uh take your time don't don't don't think about having a certain milligram goal with your cycle just listen to your body let your body dictate where you end up all right the next question here is from sky r sky asks how much should IGF-1 levels influence HGH dosing if two units has already raised IGF-1 from 150 to 400 is that a sign of increasing the stop increasing the dose um look there's a bunch of factors that go into IGF-1 levels your your your liver health your genetics your insulin levels your carb intake your estrogen levels um you know there's a there's a million different factors that go go into it i i tend to have high IGF-1 levels on basically nothing and i think it's genetic in my maybe it has something to do with my diabetes i i i don't know i i what i see is is typically when IGF-1 gets lower is when guys are calorie restricted specifically when they lower carbon tech it would make sense because insulin is going to be lower um guys that tend to be high estrogen converters have higher systemic IGF-1 levels but also keep in mind that systemic IGF-1 levels are also not a great indicator of of muscle growth too i do think we want to be careful pushing IGF-1 levels too high and in your case i know you're asking specifically about where you want to be i would not want my IGF-1 levels to be much more than 500 i think that's sort of the upper limit of the safe range and really if you look at z score anytime you're over 300 you're increasing risk from what i recall it could be off on that but i would say in the 400s is as high as you want to go and if you're getting that much from two units why use more you're getting really the IGF-1 is the primary reason why we use gh if you're in in that range already then then you know you you should be um you should be golden i would i would assume but just just play around but also keep in mind localized IGF-1 is really what matters for for muscle growth but we don't have an accurate way of measuring localized IGF-1 we'd have to do muscle biopsies to do it so we don't have an easily accessible way of measuring local localized IGF-1 production but it could be just right now your estrogen's high and you're eating a shit ton of carbs and you know it could be it could be that you'll see it on diet phases when guys go on contest prep and their IGF-1 is absolutely buried and then they're like why what's wrong i'm taking 10 units of gh and i have a 200 IGF-1 level it's because you're calorically restricted and you're you're in a state of low insulin you're not going to have high probably low estrogen you're not going to have IGF-1 conversion going on all right next question here is from louise m louise asked during a cut is it better to delay implementing high carbohydrate days earlier on with a carb cycling diet also how do you adjust when metabolism speeds up mid-cut and how do you use that to get leaner um i keep the high carbohydrate days on throughout the the whole thing the reason why we're doing them is to prevent metabolic slowdown most people not everybody is going to have metabolism that speeds up like i do towards the end of the cut i'm kind of an anomaly there i would say most people tend to lose metabolic rate as they get deeper into cut their metabolism slow down uh they tend to have they tend to have less less need for food we have to lower food you'll see it where we have to keep cutting food as you get into a cut uh to to keep up keep a calorie deficit going to keep the fat loss going and and that's from metabolic slowdown our metabolisms adapt and that's our survival mechanism if we our metabolisms everybody's metabolism sped up when they were in a starvation state they probably we probably wouldn't have made it through the high stage and and it could be in our case like with bodybuilders it's the peds that we're using it's all the other shit that we're using and in my case you know maybe maybe the diabetes has something to do with it or just how i'm put together but no that's not common and the reason why we leave the high day in is because we have that day as an ability is for for glycogen replenishment and also it seems to stimulate um metabolism i i noticed that the thyroid levels tend to stay higher when we have the incremental high day sprinkled in i i i've known you know i've heard some coaches talk about how they have to put T3 in towards the end of contest prep or diet phases because people will get low T3 i just have not seen that happen for the most part with with carb cycling diets it seems to prevent that from happening in a lot of instances i'm not saying it's a guarantee but that's why we put that high day in now that high day is not an excuse to go eat like an asshole my dude you got to keep the diet clean keep the fats low keep the carbohydrates high on that day but i i put it in from the start sometimes towards the end as we get deeper deficit on on the other days what i'll do is increase the high days that seems to keep the metabolism going but it's all case-by-case scenario every person's different every person responds different sometimes people have a cut where it goes easily in in we we actually have to crank calories up as we get deep in the other ones that you have to really fucking beat yourself up there you just have to see how your body responds and act or react accordingly all right next question here is from william p william mask once somebody starts TRT is it typically lifelong if they stop can natural testosterone production recover to baseline well whole reason why people start TRT is because their body isn't making testosterone in a clinical setting are we talking about bodybuilding TRT here are we talking about bro TRT here we're talking about doing a cycle for performance enhancement testosterone replacement therapy TRT is replacing something that's missing it's like saying you know or being a type one diabetic and saying well can i stop taking insulin some day down the road once i start taking insulin your body's probably not making testosterone anymore so if you're let's clarify here if you're doing a cycle of taking testosterone for performance enhancement that's a lot different than TRT now if you do that yes it's possible to recover i was on and off gear all through my out my 20s i i that was back when we used to cycle on and cycle off all the fucking time uh maybe that's what saved me i used to do PCT i do my this stupid eight weeks on and eight weeks off bullshit that we did back then i never really got much gains out of it i made very minimal progress and had these huge hormonal crashes but i was able to come off i was off gear completely from 32 to 42 i didn't use anything um i have had my second child during that time period i think my testosterone level probably kind of fucking sucked uh when i finally gave up i was feeling like shit at 42 and i went in and had my testosterone levels checked and they were in 200s i think i remember my estradiol and my testosterone were exactly the same i think they were both 200 doctor was like oh this is normal you know it happens for some people i'm like really can i can i get on some TRT oh no you're fine this is fine this is normal i'm like yeah fuck this get on the internet fine fine where to find testosterone i started self-medicating at that point um anyway yeah so look dude if you're on TRT there's a reason why you're on TRT your body's not making testosterone anymore why the fuck would you want to come off later on i don't know to me it's i tell people to get bit by the vampire once you're a vampire you're always a fucking vampire uh so potentially yes you could come off with the proper proper fertility protocols but i asked why the fuck do you want to come off um if you're not you know if you're just getting on to get off then don't do it in the first place all right last question here is from kevin g kevin asks with the rise of peptides GLP-1 compounds which are peptide and mainstream interest in bodybuilding what major changes do you see coming in the next five to ten years any new training trends fads or or etc on the horizon i mean there's always some shucks are out there selling some new fad i mean they've come and gone there's always i'm sure there'll be some new diet fad that comes comes down down the pipe sugar diet had its time in the sun a year ago there was carnivore keto uh veganism i think all those kind of faded off i remember the south beach diet back in the early 2000s i'm sure some shuckster some scam artist is going to come up with some some diet fad it's going to have a product line associated with it to sell to all the dummies out there on social media that are looking for my hope here's my hope is that you know and this is why i'm trying to talk about this stuff more and have an open dialogue and discussion about this my hope is that we finally see testosterone removed um and moved back unscheduled basically here in the united states my hope is is that we can decriminalize and remove performance enhancing steroids anabolic steroids from from being scheduled substances in that hopefully mainstream pharmaceutical companies can actually start researching anabolics again because i we're using 60 year old 70 year old technology at this point it's just it's just sad to me that there's this stigma around all this stuff that could benefit so many people you know like i love it for bodybuilding like we do all kinds of dumb ass shit and stupid shit that's not healthy but imagine if if we could get in a situation where like a cancer patient is recovering or on chemotherapy and could use a little bit of premobolin or or that we come up with a new anabolic that works better that prevents muscle wasting gives them a better quality of life i'm sure with the the GLP-1 craze right now it has sort of re-sparked interest in some of the stuff maybe we'll see true myostatin inhibition i know there's some research going into glp1s paired with myostatin inhibition and IGF-1 potentially maybe we're going to see more research money go into developing anti-catabolic agents potential new selective androgen receptor modulators that actually work and work well i mean that was sort of the idea with serums i mean steroids are are are steroidal serums but maybe we'll see some new stuff going on then maybe there'll be some new things going on with genetics i think we've largely got training and nutrition figured out at this point i mean i'm sure there'll be some training changes but i i'm sure the peptide craze which is going on right now we're going to continue to see especially with AI being implemented into research now we're going to see a rapid increase in in the speed of development of new drugs new peptides uh you know maybe here in the u.s if it doesn't you know that we don't get our heads out of our asses and decriminalize some of this stuff and allow major companies to research more of this stuff it's probably going to happen elsewhere in the world somebody's going to do it russia china india some place is going to be smart and start researching that stuff i i would hope at some point that we could stop drug testing athletes i think i think this is just or have some allowable amount of performance enhancement in in athletes this is just a prohibition never works right most of these professional athletes are skirting the system in in some that aren't but wouldn't it be great if a pro football player who's beating the shit out of himself could maybe avoid using opioids or NSAIDs things that are harmful to their actually harmful to their health and could use a little bit of growth hormone maybe some peptides to to help you know not that some of the guys aren't already doing that but i i'm hoping that you know with more open dialogue like the type that i'm having here more people talking about this stuff on social media that we could get to a place where we can actually have free and open access to the stuff and intelligent conversations about it new research um people you know we can remove this crazy stigma uh we saw it with marijuana i never thought i'd see marijuana decriminalized and legalized and sold in stores in my lifetime i just just assumed that was never going to fucking happen i'm not a huge pot smucker myself but um i think we've seen that the decriminalizing marijuana has not really had any negative effect at all if anything it's lightened the load on law enforcement hopefully we see more of that and and really it's to me it's ridiculous that you're considered a fill in if you take testosterone and gh seriously i mean who the fuck are you bothering you're only making yourself better you're you're not hurting anybody not causing harm to society actually making yourself healthier if you do it responsibly so that's my hope man that's that's the change that i hope see incoming new research hopefully the glp ones the craze with glp ones are is moving that forward now that people are being more accepting of performance enhancement and that we can have uh more open access to the to this stuff all right folks that's all i got for you on this one i'll see you on the next episode i appreciate each and every one of you thank you you motherfuckers rock adios for coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today i can help you with optimizing hormones fat loss muscle gain physique athletic performance nutrition and health for more information shoot me an email at big p3rd at gmail.com you