WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up gym bros? Big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A. This is where I answer your questions about trening, nutrition, and responsible performance enhancement. All while getting you better results and keeping you safe from the stupid crap you bros love to do. I've got some great questions lined up today from my school anabolic bodybuilding members if you want to join and get your questions asked on thEQ&A. Link is in the video description below. A few of thEQuestions I have lined up today include What organ imaging tests are important for bodybuilders to use on top of blood work? Does sublingual anivar actually work as a pre-workout or is that just a bunch of bro myth? Is cruising between cycles actually safer than running a PCT and coming completely off? I have all thesEQuestions and many more coming up in just a second. So, first question is from Nathan Y from the school anabolic bodybuilding members community. Nathan, I apologize IMissed this question in the last Q&A. Nathan asks, Is there a golden zone for testosterone levels you aim with clients in the off-season for consistent growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, before additional increases stop providing overall benefit? For example, does 1500 to 3000 test levels, assuming labs, blood pressure and heart rate are solid, if someone is a high responder, e.g. 850 mg per week yielding A-5000 test level, but health markers and E2 are controlled, do you still dial them back or change doses? I don't think there's really a corresponding testosterone level for performance. I just haven't seen that be the case and in the past, I never really had people test testosterone levels. To me, it's kind of irrelevant once you're at a super physiological range. Once you're above 1500, I'm not saying it's all the same, but once you're above 1500, I don't know that you can correlate a certain number with certain levels of performance. What I will tell you is everybody gets obsessed with total Testosterone and total Testosterone is somewhat meaningless. It's really free Testosterone that matters as far as your overall effectiveness of how the drugs work. total Testosterone is bound, free is unbound and usable by all of the cells in the body, so that's the number that's actually providing us benefit. But I used to not get guys to do testosterone tests because they're just expensive and they don't really provide us with much intel. I'm not saying they aren't important, but I don't know what conclusions I can draw from a 3800 testosterone level versus A-5000 when it comes to gym performance or anything like that. Maybe we can extrapolate that some people are just better responders than others, but now I'm starting to wonder if we shouldn't test our testosterone levels every time we get blood panels because I have seen some fake testosterone lately. I've seen dudes running pretty high doses and coming back with T levels at 300, 400, really low T levels, one blasting gear, which that math doesn't add up my friend, that is a cue that tells us something is going on. Also when you're on contest prep and you are running your 200 milligrams of testosterone or whatever, whatever you're doing in your 1000 milligrams of what you think is Masteron or Primobolan, because you're taking your test low and your DHT derived compounds higher and then you get a super high testosterone reading, something's fucked up. That Primobolan or Masteron you got is probably test probe. So that is of some value to us now in this current environment that we're in where there is a scarcity of quality PEDs available. So that's something to consider and whether or not your stuff is being dosed correctly. Ultimately, you should probably just get everything tested at this point and find out for sure if it's real. But I digress on that. Long story short, I don't know how much of a value there is in trying to correlate performance with testosterone levels. I just haven't seen that be of much benefit. I do like to keep an eye on estrogen levels once in a while. Somebody's having side effects, I'll have them check DHT. I think a lot of the side effects guys actually get from testosterone are primarily driven by just letting their estrogen get out of control. I'm not saying everything, but it is a big contributor to some of the side effects that guys experience. Anyway, hopefully you found that helpful. All right, next question here is from Ryan S. from the School of Antibiotic Bodybuilding members community. Ryan asked, you've talked about left ventricular hypertrophy and coronary artery disease before. What test or imaging do you consider essential in addition to regular blood work? Is it only cardiac imaging or are there other organs worth routinely scanning as well? And should these be done say after every cycle or on a yearly or bi-yearly basis? Well, I've talked about this ad nauseum, but when we look at the risk and dangers of bodybuilding, when we look at the guys that typically die young from bodybuilding, it is almost always some sort of unfortunate cardiovascular event. Stroke, heart attack, clot, blockage, left ventricular hypertrophy, almost always it's something with cardiovascular events that are going to sneak up on people and cause acute death. It's almost, you know, we look at Boston Lloyd, we look at some of these other guys that have passed away. It's all related to the cardiovascular system and issues there. Now, as far as imaging goes, we do the standard tests. IMean, there's things that we can sort of keep an eye on. Lipids are important to manage. The blood pressure, obviously, that's something you can do daily and keep track of and manage. We want to keep an eye on inflammation markers, C-reactive protein, which is not always related to coronary artery disease in our cohort. So CRP scores can be misleading. You could be having a reaction to a solvent or oil in a gear. You could be just from hard trening that you have some systemic inflammation, but usually CRP is strongly correlated with inflammation in the vascular system and inflammation in the vascular system leads to damage, which can lead to cracks in the arterial walls and laying down a plaque, all of those fun things that go on. But as far as imaging goes, I would say, yes, for cardiovascular health, I would get a echocardiogram done probably every couple of years. You want to make sure that your ejection fraction is correct, that your heart is pumping. Usually it's accompanied with an EKG, so we can check to see if there's any sort of arrhythmias going on. That's another thing that's important to keep an eye on. We need to take a look at the thickening of the left ventricle, left ventricular hypertrophy. Now some LVHs, don't panic if you have LVH. Pretty much every athlete has a mild amount of LVH. It's just when it gets out of control that we end up with problems. Typically, that's going to exhibit itself as an arrhythmia before you actually have an issue before you would go in for testing. So if you're getting an EKG done, it is part of your regular physical, if you see an arrhythmia, they're going to tell you to go get an echocardiogram done. Maybe a stress test once in a while just to make sure. A calcium CT score to see if there's any plaque laid down. Now that's not going to account for soft plaque. I know there are some soft plaque tests that can do now. If you really want to do DNA testing, you can see if you have genetic dyslipidemia. If you're a guy that has trouble controlling your lipids, you can say there's nothing that seems you can do with your diet. My cholesterol is always high even with controlled diet. And I found out that I have genetic dyslipidemia, so I really have to aggressively treat that. Somebody who doesn't have that might not have to. An aortic ultrasound to make sure that there's no plaque buildup or bulges going on there. You know, those are things that you can do to make sure that you don't have an aortic anemone going on or anything like that. Other imaging that you can consider, maybe getting a liver ultrasound once in a while to see if there's any fatty strips on your liver. Kidney ultrasounds to make sure there's no polyps or cysts or any cysts or anything on your kidneys or atrophy of the kidneys. Those are things that, you know, a lot of times when there's early kidney damage, there'll be signs of atrophy in the kidneys. You know, those are things that you could also do if you really want to plunk down the money and you want to pinch your nose and go do it, you could do a full body MRI. Virtual Physical is a popular brand of it, but the thing with this full body MRI is I think a lot of times they freak people out because it finds every little node and nodule that's inside of you and everybody has things that need to be investigated that could be potential cancers. It will definitely, I've had one done and I had some splenic granulomas, which evidently are really common and I went through all this battery of testing thinking I had a fucking spleen cancer in my spleen. There's just things like that that you're going to have to just be, you know, you have to be prepared to deal with that psychologically that you might have a stressful couple of weeks waiting for some additional testing to be done because there's almost always something to follow up from those. And obviously a colonoscopy, IMean, outside of acute cardiovascular events, I would say kidney disease is one we have to keep an eye on. But cancer, cancer is a huge risk. A lot of guys end up with cancer long term. You see a lot of dudes, especially dudes that run a lot of GH and let their estrogen run wild, end up with fucking colon cancer. And then plus power shoving all this food, they have polyps and those polyps can turn into cancerous lesions in your colon. So colonoscopy is probably important to get done. Endoscopies, I had a hole in my esophagus from acid reflux one time. I didn't even know about it. I just thought I was just having acid reflux, went in and had an endoscopy. It was like a goddamn hole burning my esophagus. So things like that, you just want to keep an eye on, you know, all depends on the money, money that you have to burn. But I would say low hanging fruit would be definitely get an echocardiogram done in an aortic ultrasound every couple of years and a calcium CT scan done yearly probably. EKG probably should be done once or twice a year, bare minimum. Those are cheap and easy. Your doctor will do it as part of your annual physical if you're not a true bro and don't do those. But anyway, those are the tests that I would recommend. All right, Gator Gains with a question here. This is another one that IMissed. Gator, I apologize. This is a long one. So I tried to shorten it up the best I could. Gator typed in an elaboratEQuestion. Gator said, I started TRT in June 2025 at 160 milligrams of low-dose semi-glutide at 230 pounds and 25% body fat, eating 2000 calories a day, lifting a PPL and doing daily cardio. I dropped to 210 pounds over four months. In November, I increased to 300 milligrams of tests and added 150 milligrams of Mastron and switched to Retitrutide with the same calories but lower carbs. I guess he swapped some macros around. That just goes to show you that macros matter more than calories. Fat loss sped up. And now I'm down to 190 pounds and very, very lean. According to the InBody, I am 7% body fat. Don't believe those InBodies. They're bullshit. Not saying you're not lean, brother. That's incredible fat loss. Congratulations on that. What could I add to the 300 milligrams of tests and 150 milligrams Mastron setup, if anything, and how many calories should I increase to start gaining lean muscle without overshooting? My goal is to stay under 200 pounds while maintaining roughly my current body fat. This is what I, in my bro language, and I've got this from Justin Harris, is what we call the rebound phase, my friend. And typically during the rebound phase, I keep shit real simple. You would probably want to bump your testosterone up a little bit more. I would just keep running the Mastron. If you have it and you're sure it's real, then it's actually Mastron. That's always a debate whether or not it's real Mastron. But if you're sure your Mastron's real, keep that in place. And I don't see any growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in here, so I would add some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And I would keep running the Retitutide since you're a former fat guy, so you don't have weight regain as body fat, which is always something that we have to worry about with fat guys coming out of extreme fat loss phases, that you're going to have a rapid gain in body fat. We do not want that, so we want to prevent that. And as far as food, increasing the food, what I would say is just start tapering up the carbs. I find that carb, as long as you keep the fats reasonably low, you don't have to go super low on the fats, but I would say 50 to 60 grams a day, mostly omega-3 and omega-6s. Slowly increase the carbohydrates and see what you can get away with. That's usually what I do with people. I start cranking up the carbs. And a lot of times what I'll see is guys get back up to their pre-diet weight and are much leaner. I'm not saying you're going to get back up to your full 230, 25% or 30% body fat weight that you were at, whatever that was. I'm not saying you're going to get back up there, but don't get obsessed with staying under 200 pounds. You might get up to 210 and be fairly lean. So let the pitchers, your progress pitchers, be the guide on where you're at. And probably want a second set of good eyes, maybe a coach, if you're not able to be objective about yourself. Everybody thinks they're getting fat when they're a former fat guy, when they gain any weight. Don't worry about the scale. In fact, IMay even tell you to put that fucking scale in the closet. Don't step on that fucker and just take weekly progress pics and make sure that you're staying relatively lean as you put that weight back on. But carbohydrates are the dial that you turn. If you're carb cycling, I simply start off by adding a second high carb day each week. Not running those days consecutively, that's where I start off at. And then I'll just slowly start turning up the carbs a little bit each week to see what we can get away with. And IMake small changes. I'm talking about like adding 25 grams of carbs on aromasingle day and see how that goes. That's only 100 calories. And if we can get away with that, put another 25 grams in and just keep slowly over the weeks, turning that knob up and seeing what you can get away with and see if you can fill yourself back out with the PEDs. Just keep it super simple. Like I said, test, Master, Honor, Primo and some HGH. That's all you need, my friend. If you want to play with moving the doses up a little bit, you can certainly do that. You can certainly move the doses up and increase those. But other than that, that's all I would do. Keep it simple. Keep your diet under control. That is the biggest piece of advice I can see. A lot of guys end up getting really hungry during this rebound phase, especially when you start adding some calories back in. Just be reALCAReful. Do not cave. Keep yourself strict. And slowly and incrementally raise the calories. See where you end up. And I promise you, man, if you can keep your shit together, you're going to put on a lot of muscle, the most amount of muscle that you've ever put on in your life. And congrats again on that weight loss. That's amazing, dude. Well done. All right. Next question here is from Marco M. Marco asks, who's your favorite bodybuilder of all time across Open, Classic 212 and Men's Physique? I'm going to give you the typical old guy answers. Probably everybody from my generation has the same fucking answers. I really have three favorite bodybuilders. My favorite pure bodybuilder, like my favorite bodybuilder bodybuilder is Dorian Yates. I just love that dude. I grew up blue collar. I grew up dirt ass poor. Dorian is a guy that didn't have a lot of resources available to him and just made the most out of the least. He solved problems. He had a hardcore I'm going to suffer. I'm going to do whatever it takes mindset to get shit done. He didn't seek attention. I've always kind of been an introvert myself. That's why I struggle with doing fucking social media stuff. Sometimes I don't like attention, to be honest with you. IMean, literally the dude stayed in Birmingham, England. I think that's where he's from. And never went to California and did the whole bodybuilding experience. He just stayed in his little dungeon gym and kept to himself. Back then it was before social media, so there was like really no pictures of him trening other than the few things that got into the Weider magazines. And dude was just kept silent, kept his mouth shut, put in the work, worked hard, solved problems. The way I like about Dorian, he is a minimalist. And I think a lot of times, especially in modern bodybuilding, the thing that I loved about Dorian is that bros just overcomplicate the fuck out of the shit. And I'm not saying that there's not more nuance and there's not complication that we can add to things. We certainly have grown and evolved, but Dorian was a guy who mastered the fucking basics and did the basics really well. He was super disciplined and did the basic really well. To me, he's like the equivalent of a football player that is a machine at blocking and tackling. If you can block and tackle, you don't have to be fast, you don't have to be strong, you don't have to be super smart. But if you are fucking great at blocking and tackling, you can be an elite level football player. There are guys that have made careers on the same thing with basketball. I was a basketball player. If you can play defense intelligently and grab some fucking rebounds, you can make a career out of basketball. And Dorian was a guy who mastered the basics. Now, I have to put Arnold in there in the equation. Arnold's the whole reason why I started my bodybuilding journey. I remember seeinGHim in... Commando was the movie I first saw him in. And I'm like, holy fuck, I want to look like that guy. How the fuck do I look like that guy? And I found his book, The Encyclopedia of Bodybuilding. Anybody who knows, knows what I'm talking about. It was this black and white book. It was like this fucking thick. And it had a bunch of shit in there about trening and diet. All of it was terrible. Terrible advice. But it was a start. But there was one section in that book that just triggered something in my brain. Turned a switch on that I did not know existed. Arnold had a section in there about mindset. And he talked about the mindset of just basically willing yourself to achieve a goal. Having no alternative but success. Figuring out how to get it done. Silencing that voice in your head and doing all of that shit. And Arnold's mindset is something that I really admired and strove for. And that was something that I really, really, really, really liked. And then my third guy that I'm going to put in there, and I'll like them all for different reasons, is Jay Cutler. Jay, I am an entrepreneur. I've run businesses in my life. I'm a guy that, I don't run businesses for the money. IMean, certainly making money is a nice side benefit of business. But I love the problem solving. I love to grind at something. I love having a goal. I like being professional about things and having a professional approach to things. And to me, Jay Cutler was the best businessman, bodybuilder of all time. IMean, you could probably put Arnold in there. I know Arnold ran multiple businesses. But Arnold did everything. Arnold did everything. He excelled at everything. But I think Jay embodied that mentality. And it's the thing a lot of people don't know about Jay. Jay has been incredibly successful as a businessman. And Jay still works. Jay hustles. He gets up every day. He hustles. You go to any of the events that Jay puts on, he's out there shakinGHands and talking to people. And he's very humble. Jay's very humble, easy to talk to. He's approachable. He seems to be a kind man, but very calculated, very smart, very intelligent. You never hear Jay talking shit about people. Jay is always very, very much aware of his image. Jay is very much aware of how things impact his business. And he's a very, very, very, very, very adept businessman and clever at runninGHis business. And that's why I admire Jay. And I think Jay is just a model example of how to conduct yourself as a business person slash bodybuilding. Really, if you want to make a career in bodybuilding, if you want to make money from bodybuilding, you're not going to do it by being in the IFBB, that's for sure, unless you're Mr. Olympia. You have to know how to run your business yourself. The CEO of Jay Cutler Enterprises, for example, you have to be able to market yourself. You have to be able to manage yourself. You have to be able to find opportunities to make money because it's certainly not going to come from competing and winning prize money or having sponsorships. You're not going to make yourself rich that way. All the guys that have made themselves wealthy from bodybuilding in the current modern bodybuildinGHave done it through other means. And Jay Cutler embodies that for me. So those are my three. Those are the ones I admire the most. All right. Next question here is from Chris A. He's like, how do you optimize sleep while using anabolic steroids? I already use a CPAP and supplements like magnesium and glycine, but even low doses of AASs drastically increase my restlessness in nighttime awakenings. More than likely, this is just central nervous system motivation. This is the thing about androgens and the thing that people don't seem to understand. Not only are there androgen receptors in the muscles, there are androgen receptors in your brain. And depending on the type of steroids that you use, some that have a higher androgenic ratio to anabolism. The ones that are very androgenic have more CNS stimulation, which is great for movinGHeavy weights around, but not so great for resting. And then there are other PEDs that affect dopamine and serotonin and have effects there. GABA, other sex hormones such as DHEA and pregnenolone get affected. Neurosteroids, all of these other things that are going to negatively affect mental health, which is all going to have a cascade effect on your ability to sleep. But most often, I think it's just the androgen load, the total androgen load that's going to do it too. Now, if you're ultra sensitive, if you're a guy that can't sleep even on low dose TRT, then you're probably hypersensitive to some of this stuff and you just need to keep the doses lower. I found that my tolerance to the stuff has increased as time has gone on. IMean, there are things that you can use that will help to a certain degree. There are ways you can construct cycles that are going to help to a certain degree. I have definitely found that 19-nors seem to really affect dopamine and therefore have a downstream effect of negatively impacting sleep. TRN would be a perfect example of that. TRN is also very androgenic. Anybody who's taken TRN knows that you can't fucking sleep when you're on TRN. Most people. There is that rare dude who's like, oh, I slept like a baby on TRN. I would say if you're already a high, strong person to begin with, it's just going to turn the knob up on all of that stuff when you're on gear. Another problem I see dudes that run into, especially when they're dieting and in diet phases, is they turn up the stimulants. They're, they're, they're using more caffeine. They're using fat burners like beta agonists that are also going to have a stimulatory effect on the central nervous system. And then you just get into the state of just being in overdrive all the fucking time. Been there. And then you can't fucking sleep with all the, all the androgen load plus the stimulants. And you got a double whammy for not being able to sleep. But I would say just first and foremost, stick with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and testosterone. Build your cycles out from, from there. I would, if you're a person that, that really struggles with CNS stimulation, I would consider running PEDs that have low androgen load and are more anabolic, probably Primobol and Amastron would be good choices for you. Staying away from things like Tren and Deca, 19-nors, and Adderall, that is a heavy androgen. You know, some of these other ones that are more androgenic, you know, God help you if you've tried some halo tests or something like that. You know, just be careful with other stuff like that and really consider the androgen load. You can supplement GABA, you can supplement Pregnenolone, DHEA, see if that helps a little bit. Melatonin, there is some melatonin depletion that happens with some of this stuff. GABA depletion happens with some of this stuff. It's only going to help a little bit. I find that it doesn't make that big of a difference. But that's where I would start, man. All right, next question here is from Aaron W. I have a very sedentary job as a truck driver. I find that I'm drinking about a half a gallon to threEQuarters of a gallon of water per day. It keeps me in line and keeps my hematocrit stable and my urine color normal. If it matches the output, is there any need to push up to one to one and a half gallons per day? IMean, probably not. You know, I don't... When you're running PEDs, you definitely want to keep your kidneys flushed and more water. Water is nature's solvent. It's used to, you know, you're going to use it to dilute toxins in your body and help your kidneys excrete those toxins. More water is going to help with keeping electrolytes in balance. What I've seen, you know, and I had a family member who drove a truck and he always had fucking kidney stones. I know that's a problem with truck drivers. Truck drivers often get kidney stones from not... They're on the road, they don't want to stop the P so they don't drink a lot and then they're doing a bunch of caffeine on top of it, drinking coffee and energy drinks, which is going to further dehydrate you. Things like that. So, you know, just something to keep an eye on. But I would say if you're getting threEQuarters of a gallon, I would probably try to target a gallon a day if you can get up there. I'd say most men, most adult men should probably be hitting a gallon a day. But it also depends on how much you're sweating. If you're just sitting in the truck all day long and air conditioning and not unloading freight and things like that, then probably you could probably get away with it. But, you know, keep an eye on your kidney markers on blood panels. But, you know, threEQuarters, it's probably... Man, the average American, I don't even know what they drink. I think eight glasses of water is what the RDA, eight cups of water per day is what the RDA recommendations are, which is 64 ounces. That's a half a gallon of water. That's the minimum. That's the minimum effective recommendation from the government. So keep that in mind, man. If those fuckers are saying that that's the minimum recommendation, that's what the fat people that sit on the couch and do nothing all day longer, that's what they want them to get to. I know some people that have never drank water. They just live off of sodas and energy drinks. But I would try to push, especially if you're drinking coffee and if you're drinking energy drinks and doing other things, I would try to get closer to a gallon so you don't... The big thing I would be worried about with a trucker is just getting fucking kidney stones. It's something to keep an eye on. But anyway, that would be my two cents on that one. All right, next question here is from Richie N. Richie asks, man, this question, this one's been bugging me for a long time, so I appreciate Richie asking this one. Does Anolvar actually work as a pre-workout or is that just a bromo? Does it have any acute performance effect? Is there any evidence that crushing the tablets up and using them sublingually speeds up the onset of it? All right, so I'm going to break this up in two parts. If I recall correctly, Anolvar has something like an eight to 10 hour half-life. If you're trying to maximize the effect of Anolvar, you probably would want to split the dose up into two to three doses per day if you want actual saturation of the drug to get full effect from the drug. Now, what I have experienced personally and anybody who has taken Anolvar, that it does seem to have an acute effect pre-workout. Now, you can make an argument that maybe that's a placebo, but I have noticed if I take Anolvar two to three hours pre-workout, which is probably the amount of time it takes for it to peak properly. Logically thinking about this, I'm looking at the pharmacokinetics of the drug. If you take it two to three hours pre-workout, you should be at peak effect during the workout and there is some central nervous system motivation that does seem to happen. Pumps increase when you're taking Anolvar during your workout. It does seem to have some impact and effect when using it as a pre-workout. Now, if that's all placebo, I really like that fucking placebo. It's worked pretty well for me in the past. I like popping some Anolvar a couple times a week just to get an extra pump during a workout. I like how it makes me feel. You know, maybe or maybe not, maybe it doesn't do anything, who the fuck knows. Now, as far as the sublingual administration of Anolvar, this is one that has also bothered me and I've heard many different answers from many different people. I've heard people say that, oh, if you suspend it in an alcohol solution, then it is orally sublingually available. If you crush the tablets up and put it under your tongue, you're just getting ended up swallowing them anyway, that it's not sublingually available. And anyway, I reached out to multiple people and I talked to a friend who is a chemist and here's what he told me. This is not the gospel. Feel free To dispute this if you want. I'm not saying this is the be-all end-all answer, but what he told me is that it is a fat soluble drug. It is lipophilic and therefore requires fat and bile to be absorbed and needs to be absorbed through the gut. That when you use it sublingually, even when suspended in the alcohol solution, the saliva in the mouth doesn't have the right makeup to make it absorb because saliva is mostly water. There are some digestive enzymes in there, but for the most part, saliva is just water. It's just mucus and water and that's going to do very little to allow it to absorb in the mouth. There's no bile. There's nothing in there to make it absorb through the mouth sublingually. And also he told me that the skin in the mouth sublingually is not the right type or thin enough even for it to permeate anyway. So the short answer is that he said that what ends up happening when you crush the pills up or use it suspended in solution and you put it on your tongue, you just end up swallowing it anyway and it's getting absorbed through your stomach. So that is likely just a placebo and nobody's actually getting anything from it sublingually. That's what he told me. Now like I said, that's not gospel. That's what I was told. This guy's a very smart guy that I trust. Seems to be very smart. If you think you know otherwise, leave a comment in the comment section below and we can debate it there. All right, next question here is from Dave S. He asked, after nine weeks of 300 milligrams of testin, 300 milligrams of Masturon, my HDL hasn't dropped at all from a baseline of 84. Holy fuck dude, the God's gifted you. Is that unusual? Yeah bro, that's unusual. Does that suggest IMay tolerate compounds like Primo well long term given its reputation for beinGHDL friendly? It means that you got gifted with good genetics and that you don't get smashed HDL like everybody else. I could also wonder, you said that you were running 300 milligrams of testosterone and 300 milligrams of Masturon. I wonder if your shit is real. There's not real Masturon around right now, at least not Masturon Enanthate. So I would make sure that your Masturon is actually real, that you're not just running a bunch of testosterone, which often Masturon has been faked with testosterone propionate from what I've seen. And I'm not saying that's what's going on here, but that is a possibility that you need to be aware of. Now even with that said, an HDL of 84 in an adult man is crazy. I don't know that I've ever seen one that high. You would be an extreme outlier if you are that high with your HDL, so consider that a gift from the gods. And that means yes, you probably would tolerate some, as far as lipid skewing goes, that you would probably tolerate some of the other stuff. And very well, if you are truly that high with your HDL, you probably have some sort of genetic thing going on there that changes how your liver metabolizes lipids, and consider that a blessing. So yes, you're an outlier my friend. I don't see that very often at all. Occasionally I'll see a guy that's in the 40s, high 40s, maybe 50. That's very rare on PEDs. All right, next question here is from Scott C. Scott says, I've experienced rapid unexplained weight losses alongside of suspected chronic stress and thyroid nodule that's being biopsied. From a nutrition and hormone perspective, what would you prioritize while waiting on endocrinology answers, especially since I have been advised to avoid intense trening? Yeah, man, that's concerning, dude. If you've had rapid weight loss and you have a nodule in your thyroid, I'm not trying to fucking scare you here. There's always a potential for thyroid cancer, and this is something that you need to consult with your doctor. I'm not giving you medical advice. I'm not a medical doctor. Now with that said, the probability is it's something more benign, and I have seen more dudes lately, and it's very common in women more so than men. People end up with thyroid nodules, and I have some theories on this, and my leading theory on this is low iodine, and the reason why I think it's low iodine and why people have low iodine is this cult of eating sea salt. Everybody uses sea salt. Look, I love sea salt. It tastes great. It has a nice texture. It tastes really good, but people get their pink Himalayan sea salt or their Celtic sea salt or any of these other sea salts that aren't iodized, and iodine is not something that you get in your diet on a regular basis unless you're a beet farmer and you're eating beets all the time, but iodine is not something that is really abundant in the average American diet, so people end up deficient on iodine, and one of the things that can happen when you're deficient on iodine, you end up developing thyroid nodules and having issues with thyroid, so that is something that is a concern there. Another thing to consider too is that GLP-1s have been linked while in animal studies. I don't know that there is conclusive human data, but they have been linked in animal studies to thyroid cancer, and that is something that does concern me just a little bit that we need to keep an eye on with long-term use of GLP-1s as potential thyroid cancer. That's something that was shown in animal studies. Now the thing that I read said that that was just a genetic anomaly in the rats that they were using for testing, that that doesn't seem to be an issue in humans, but they still put the warning in there that you shouldn't take this stuff if you've had any history of thyroid cancer in your family, so something to be cognizant of and keep an eye on there. Now as far as diet goes, I would say you probably want to be eating a baseline diet. Healthy diet, plenty of EFAs, some carbohydrates, you don't need a ton of carbohydrates if you're inactive, if you're not allowed to exercise, probably 150 grams per day. You want to make sure you're getting plenty of omega-3 and omega-6s, and you want to have foods that are micronutrient rich and prioritize protein. To keep yourself healthy, to keep yourself from a state of where you might atrophy, I would stick with, you know, healthy foods. Maybe a follow-up Mediterranean style diet, that seems to be the most healthy style diet. If I was just going to walk away from bodybuilding and not weigh and measure food, I'd probably just eat a Mediterranean diet. A very healthy way to eat, very easy way to maintain health. Look up the Blue Zone diet sometime. Those are people that live in these types of regions. Lots of fresh foods, fish, foods with high omega-3 and omega-6s in them, and eat that in the meantime. And I'm going to keep you in my thoughts and prayers and hopefully that you find out some answers soon and that it's nothing too serious. Maybe you were just unlucky and didn't get enough iodine, like I've seen with some other people, and that's what caused your problem. But keeping you in my thoughts, hopefully everything works out great. Keep us posted on what's going on. All right, next question here is from Kaylin S. from the School Antibiotic Bodybuilding Members Community. Jaylin asked, I'm done with having kids. Is it acceptable to cruise between cycles long-term or is a proper PCT after each cycle still a smarter move? I don't know that a proper PCT was ever a smart move, but it's what bros did back in the day. It was the old school way of doing things where guys just would come off shit completely, crash their hormones, make themselves feel like shit, gain a bunch of fat, and get into a low testosterone high-ish environment, and then meanwhile run some harsh PCT drugs, and then things like Clomid and all this other shit that would further exacerbate estrogen, and then you would just feel horrible. I remember coming off and PCTing back in the early 2000s, late 1990s, and you felt like absolute dog shit. You got fat, you got watery, you lost all your gains, and then you went back on cycle and felt like Superman again. But it took you eight weeks just to get back all the shit that you fucked up from your PCT. And the thing about PCT to me is if you're not concerned about restoring natural function, why would you come off and do that shit anyway? And then it takes months for you to actually get your natural function going back up again. Take a look at the Harlem study sometime, and there's some interesting information in there about PCT and about it being basically fucking useless. And what I would say some conclusions we could draw from that is if you're not going to be off for six, eight months or more, just go on TRT and come down to a health phase. Let all that stress wash off. You're actually going to be healthier if you just come down to a low-dose testosterone, just enough to keep you functional. You're going to feel better. You're going to maintain your gains. And if you're an older guy, why the fuck would you do that to yourself? Running more drugs so you can run drugs again never made any sense to me. Actually, if you think about it, if we come down to just testosterone, a little bit of GH, and maybe an aromatase inhibitor if we needed to manage estrogen rebound when we come down, we're coming down to three drugs rather than just running all or two drugs rather than just bioidentical ones, by the way. Ones that actually occur in our body, testosterone and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, rather than running a bunch of fuckinGHarsh ass PCT drugs that are going to make you feel like shit. So I just never thought PCT made any goddamn sense whatsoever. It has no health benefit or anything. It probably makes things worse. So don't waste your time with PCT if you don't care about having kids anymore. Just cruise. All right. Next question here is from Daniel B. For a first time in PP cycle, how concerned should I be with someone about prolactin? If the issues are more downstream from estradiol or low DHT, does adding a DHT-based compound like mascaron make sense to mitigate the mental and sexual side effects? Yeah, the whole prolactin thing is vastly overstated with it. And generally, and I've talked about this many times on this podcast slash YouTube channel, it's often just, it's a result. It's not that 19-nor, testosterone, nandrolone, MPP, whatever you want to call it, it's not that it directly causes an increase in prolactin, it's indirect. It's what happens is guys end up letting their estrogen get too high with the testosterone in the mix. And 19-nors seem to exacerbate aromatase expression to a certain degree. I don't know there's any hard science on that, but it's just what I've seen. Guys end up with higher estrogen conversion when they're running a 19-nor testosterone, nandrolone alongside of their testosterone. So they end up with more estrogen. Estrogen amplifies the progestinic effect of nandrolone. And what ends up happening is that lowers dopamine, and dopamine is the break for, all right, sorry, that, yeah, dopamine is the break for prolactin. And then prolactin gets high when dopamine gets low. So you end up in this weird state where you have high prolactin, high estrogen, low dopamine, and you end up just feeling like a nervous fucking mess. And you have all these issues. So for the most part, if you control your estrogen, then you're not going to have those issues. So I would choose a secondary compound along with your testosterone that's going to help mediate estradiol conversion. So probably premobolant or even equipoise would be a good choice. The old school bodybuilders from the early 2000s, they all ran test, EQ, and DECA. That was their go-to. And then keeping the doses reasonably low. You can't get too crazy with nandrolone. I'm not a big fan of nandrolone anymore. I do think it's great for putting on size. It's probably one of the best compounds I've ever used for putting on size. But to me, the juice is not worth the squeeze anymore with the side effects that I get from it. It's just too much to manage. It's too complicated to manage. And it's spin the wheel with erectile dysfunction, anxiety, panic attacks, insomnia, all of these other gnarly water retention and high blood pressure, all of these other side effects that come along with running nandrolone. I'm too old for that shit. I used to think drinking Jagermeister was cool. I thought running DECA was cool when I was in my 20s. I can do neither anymore. Those are both on the shelf for me. They are retired for big Paul. I stay away from that shit. So I don't know. IMean, but everybody wants to experiment and find out. So just see how it treats you. You may be the greatest thing since sliced bread for you. All right. Next question is from William P. This is going to be a short, quick answer. You recommended testing UGL compounds periodically. Where do you suggest sending your gear for testing and do you need to sacrifice an entire vial each time? Um, I don't know how much I can talk about this on online, but you can, you can go to any of the forums. There, there is a popular testing place in Poland that you can find. It's they're easy to find. They've been on another podcast and I would test everything at this point. I just wouldn't trust that anything's real at this point. It's, you know, 50, a hundred bucks, whatever it costs to get it shit tested, send it off, get it tested, find out if it's real. If you're, I have even seen fake testosterone lately. Not a thing I ever thought I would see, but I've even seen, seen that lately. So I would just assume, and I think they just need one ML of whatever the substance is to do the testing, but you can find, find them online. Just, just look it up. Google is your friend. All right. Next question here is from Maxwell in Maxwell S. What are your favorite exercises for ab development and how many total sets per week do you find to be the most effective? Uh, well, I think most people have, have very, very, very inferior ab development. You see it. And I think there's some common mistakes that people make for whatever reason. And this is, this is a thing that, that that's always confounded me. Abs are just a muscle like any other muscle in the body. And people do not tren abs with resistance trening. They do sit-ups, they do leg raises, they do crunches. They do all of these other things for abs, but they don't actually tren their abs with any progressive overload or resistance. And it's sort of like thinking that you're going to get jacked and huge from doing push-ups and pull-ups. You might get toned up, might be a little bit, a little bit, a little bit more fit than the average person, but you're not going to get jacked on just regular old push-ups. You gotta, you gotta progressively increase load and mechanical tension if you want to have an adaptation that's going to force muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And I see it all the time when the amateur body building stage, you see these dudes that have missed, they have missed the mark when it comes to balancing their development. They either have huge arms and huge shoulders and no legs and no abs or they have huge, you know, dudes that love leg trening end up havinGHuge legs and no abs and no upper body. But one thing that's common, none of these motherfuckers on a local stage have any abdominal development. I see it all the time and I would either, they're either not trening them at all or they're just doing crunches. So it doesn't really matter what machine you choose. I like the hammer strength ab machine that pulls from both the top and the bottom. It's great for trening the rectus abdominis. I think that is a fantastic exercise for that and I progressively increase the load and try to get stronger with my abs and that leads to those nice chunky, thick, thick abs that look really good on stage. It's another thing that guys worry about. They worry about thickening up their waist. You know what looks bad on stage are guys that have no abs, even at a low body fat. That looks bad, you know. So you need some ab development there. I say, you know, you need to tren their rectus abdominis. You need to tren the trensverse abdominis if you're going to be able to pull vacuums and keep your gut sucked in tightly, you know. And this is one that doesn't necessarily need to be resistance trening, but just doing some vacuums in the morning. Every morning when you get up, you get in the shower, you bend over, you can look up videos. I'm not going to go into details about it, but I would throw some vacuum trening in daily just so you can learn how to control your waist and keep your waist tight when you're on stage. And then have something that's going to tren and develop your rectus abdominis so you can crunch down on those abs and have chunky abs on that front ab and thigh pose that most people look terrible on. Christopher E. asks, what are your thoughts on Terinobal? It seems to be rarely discussed despite being considered relatively mild. How would you use it in bulking phases, if at all? You know, I've never personally fought with Terinobal. I have some clients that have used it and, you know, so I can't give you my personal experience on Terinobal. But what I can tell you about it, it doesn't seem to be especially useful for bodybuilders. I, you know, I'm not, look, I'm not saying that it should be completely thrown in the trash can, but here's my thing. All orals are, are, are, are methylated, some alpha-alkylation, whatever. They're all orals, all oral anabolic steroids are going to have some liver toxicity to a certain degree. All oral anabolic steroids, even the mild ones are going to cause lipid skewing. And if I am going to take a chance with any of those potential side effects, all orals seem to negatively affect gut health and digestion. So if I am going to take the chance in having any of those side effects, I am not going to use it on something that's not especially potent or doesn't do anything uniquely well. I don't know that Terinobal does anything uniquely well that you can't do with other better compounds. You know, if you're going to run an oral, you might as well fucking go for it and run some Anadrol or, or, you know, Anadrol does some unique shit that other things don't do. Certainly as far as CNS and strength and motivation, Anadrol, Anadrol is a King Kong of the jungle. Anivar is also very, you know, I would say really Terinobal is just a shittier version of Anivar. Just take Anivar. You know, it's a less effective version of Anivar. If you want something mild and you want to keep the, that's the effect that you're looking for. You want to keep things safer and you want the, some of the positive effects of running an oral, some of the central nervous system motivation and other things that go along with it, just run Anivar. I don't know. I'm, you know, like I'm not, I've never run Terinobal. I've never seen a compelling use case presented for it. I don't know that I would put it in my repertoire of stuff that you need to use to be a competitive bodybuilder. But if you want to play around, by all means, experiment. All right, bros, that's all I got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of you. I will see you motherfuckers on the next episode. Love each and every one of you. Even the guys that hate me. I love you too. You need a hug more than anybody. Peace out brothers.