warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, big Paul here today. One arm, Paul, I guess now I'm not big Paul with an update on my rettotrutide experience. I ran rettotrutide for 90 days and I wanted to see what effect that it had on my lipids and my A1c. I have seen some pretty dramatic results with people that have shared their blood work with me and show me what has happened while they're on rettotrutide. It seems to lower lipids better than a statin from what I've seen. And I wanted to compare it to my own experience. I've been on a statin and ezetimibe for years, a long time. IMean, probably a decade or more. I have been on it. I have dyslipidemia. So I have to stay on a statin to keep my lipids under control. And I can never really get my lipids below my LDL specifically below 100 and my HDL never really gets much about the mid thirties while running PEDs. And I'm going to show you here in just a minute, what happened from 90 days of rettotrutide to my A1c, which was too high in my lipids. It was pretty shocking. The results just from running one milligram of it every fifth day. Before we get into that, I want to remind you folks about my science of anabolics e-course that I put together with researcher Kurt Havens. It has over 100 modules and 60 hours of videos. If you want to do deep dives into PEDs, we have some stuff up there now on peptides. Kurt and I are going to be adding some new content here soon. We're probably going to go down the peptide rabbit hole, adding some more obscurecompounds that people are interested in and talk about that. The course is fantastic. You can catch it over at anabolicbodybuilding.com. I have a link in the video description below. If you want to go check the course out, it is the deep dive into PEDs. I also have my cycle cheat sheet. If you just want the cliff notes, if you don't really care about going into the deep dives, it's 30 pages of how to put a blast and cruise cycle together like a professional bodybuilder. That is also over at anabolicbodybuilding.com link is in the video description below. All right, enough of that stuff, folks. We are going to dig into the rettatrutide video in one second. I'll talk about my experiences with it and what results I've gotten from 90 days of running it. All right. I am shocked at how much rettatrutide dropped my lipids. I have never, even with a statin really been able to consistently keep my LDL below a hundred and I eat a pretty clen diet. I'm a professional bodybuilder, even on contest prep. IMean like, and with the PEDs, I definitely, there are some, there is some lipid skewing from the PEDs. So probably if I drop the PEDs, that would maybe help a little bit. But I have, and honestly, when I look at blood panels, I look at hundreds of them annually. I have probably seen thousands of blood panels over the last several years. I do a ton of console calls where people share their blood panels with me. So I get to see all kinds of stuff and I almost never see dudes with LDL below 100 and almost never see guys with HDL over 40 with using, you know, when even TRT, even on TRT and using PEDs, it just doesn't happen. I'm also a type 1B diabetic. So my A1c is always a challenge to keep under control. I got a little sloppy with things last fall with my insulin usage. I wasn't eating a lot because I just, I get tired of eating and when I, I'm the exact opposite of people when I come out of a show. A lot of times I end up losing weight when I come out of shows because I just don't eat. I get tired of eating. I eat less and then I end up losing weight. And in my head I told myself, well, I have pancreatic insufficiency and sometimes my pancreas keeps up with things. Sometimes it doesn't. If I am not eating a lot, I probably don't need to take insulin. So I fooled myself into thinking I didn't need insulin and January when I got my blood work done, I hadn't had it done since like September. So my A1c shot up to 10.6, which is insane. It's never been that high before ever, but that's what happens when you're diabetic and you don't take Lanta. So I told myself, Oh man, I got to get my shit together. I got to get this back under control. So I started up some retrotide. I started taking my insulin again and make sure that I had that managed. I'm actually seeing a new endocrinologist now who recently switched me to Munjaro. I'll have to see how the, which is trizepatide. I'll have to see how the trizepatide affects the blood panels over the next couple of months. See if it has the same effect that the retrotide did. She wanted me to do that instead of the retrotide since it's not FDA approved. So I got a prescription for Munjaro. I figured what the fuck, I'll just, I'll try it out and see what happens. I hopefully, you know, the, the idea is with the pancreatic insufficiency that the GLP one will help with pancreatic function. But I do think there is an added component with the retrotide with the glucagon agonist that helps with glucose control. I have never had my fasting glucose stay consistently below 100 until I started the retrotide, even with insulin and metformin. Never. Usually high nineties, low one hundreds with type one B diabetes. It's about as good as it gets for me. I was consistently in the mid to low eighties with the retrotide implant. It was fucking crazy. I've never had that happen before. So anyway, blood work, what happened with my blood work? I'm going to show you here. This is lipids after 90 days of using retrotide. My total cholesterol came back at 125. My HDL came back at 39, which I know there's going to be guys that saying it should be higher. That, that is 39 is sort of the cutoff of the rest of its range. Ideally they want it over 40. I hear the doctor, the doctor told me that it should be 60. I never see anybody with an HDL of 60. I'm sure it exists, but I, at least not amongst the PED using crowd that I work with. Like I said, I look at hundreds of blood panels annually. I can't remember ever seeing an HDL of 60 ever, not once, once in a while I'll see low LDL, you know, guys, you know, very rarely do I see LDLs below 100 for bodybuilders using PEDs almost never. Occasionally I'll see it, but the HDL over, over 60, I just hit, I can't off the top of my head recall ever seeing it that high. I'll see guys in the mid forties sometimes occasionally, but the majority of the PED users I look at, they're, you know, anywhere from 20 to mid thirties and on contest. Perhaps sometimes I've seen guys when they're crushing orals, get down into single digits with the HDL. It's pretty shitty. So really the thing that we can, we have more control over as a PED user is the LDL. We can bring that down with diet. We can bring that down with statins with an, with these out of my, um, I know guys are all over my ass. Like, Oh, he's out of my, it was a miracle worker. It'll bring your, your, your LDL down. Is that a my only will produce dramatic results if your fucking diet sucks. If you're eating like shit, then you might see dramatic results from the ease out of my, but if you're not, like if you're eating a low fat diet like I am, it makes very little difference. Like I, I swear I see almost no difference taking is that a mob and not takinGHis out of my, I'm running Resuva statin. Resuva statin is a hydrophilic statin versus a lipophilic statin like most of the other ones, which makes Resuva statin safe, safer for muscle problems. A lot of people have issues with muscles, muscle issues, cramps, weakness, things like that, that happened to some of the side effects that happen with, with it beinGHydrophilic, it doesn't pass the blood brain barrier or the, uh, or into the muscle cells easily beinGHydrophilic. So Resuva statin is safer for us in our community. It's not maybe not as effective as the hydrophilic statins, but the hydrophilic statins penetrate the muscle more easily and penetrate the brain barrier, blood brain, blood barrier more easily, causing more problems for guys that are on statins in. So like a lot of the side effects that guys are worried about from taking statins are from hydrophilic statins or from lip lipophilic statins. So if you're running a hydrophilic statin, you're going to be safer in that area. So I am on Resuva statin for that reason. But you can see here, my total cholesterol came down below 125. My triglycerides were 110. Now ideally I would like the triglycerides to be a little bit lower. Uh, they really, we should shoot for them to be under 100, but that is one of the things that goes along with diabetes and blood sugar control. When your blood sugar isn't well controlled, triglycerides will go up. Your body starts making more trigs when it can't deal with the glucose. When glucose gets high, your body starts spewing out more triglycerides. So that's usually a sign of poor glucose control. My LDL was 66. It has never been that low that I can recall. And non HDL cholesterol was 86. My apolipoprotein B was 76. We want it below 90. It has never been that low. My lipoprotein little a was less than 10. Holy fuck. Less than 10. It should be below 75. That is crazy. This is the best I've ever seen it. So you can take a look here. I can show you the trens. You can see here, this is the lasT3 years of blood blood panels on here. There's some other blood panels that are missing from this, but generally, generally my triglycerides are usually, to be honest with you, they're usually around 150, a little below 150. They're just like right at the top of what's considered safe. 150 is considered the cutoff. Ideally we want it under 100. My triglycerides usually just roll around there. You know, and there's part of it's just the, the glucose control issues with being diabetic. And you can see here where it dropped down almost 50 points after being at 40 or so points. Sorry. After being on the right of true type, my LDL cholesterol went from a one 12 down to the 60s to 66. It went in half and half. And keep in mind I was on a statin before like my, my LDL usually ranges between a hundred to 150 depends on how crappy my diet is. And when I'm in a bulk, it's going to go, it goes up. When I'm on contest prep, it comes down, which makes sense because you're eating more food. Um, and that's what, that's what, that's with lipid management protocols in place. You can see the dramatic drop my cholesterol, my HDLC ratio. Look how this dropped down to almosT3 from around six. That is crazy. That is insane. And all of this from taking one milligram of red a true tide every fifth day. I went up to two milligrams for abouT3 weeks, two, three weeks. And it just, I, my heart rate went up. My, my stomach kind of got upset and so I pulled it back down to one milligram. So one milligram had this profound of an effect on my lipids. Not only that, my A1c, as IMentioned now, it's hard to discern what was what here because I did start taking my insulin again. So I'm sure the Atlantis helped out some here as well. But my A1c was a 10.6 it came down to a 6.1 and I know bros are going to be like, Oh, it should be around five. I'm a diabetic. Anybody who's a diabetic knows that if you can get it down around six, that's about as good as it gets when you're a diabetic. You know, if you're a regular person, you're, you're, you have full pancreatic function, you're metabolically normal. You know, you know, if you can get it down in the low fives, that's fantastic. But for me, this is about as good as it gets. It's about as good as the glucose control gets. Now I will tell you, I have started the Menjaro. I have done, I've been three weeks into the Menjaro now. I have not been out. My, my fasted glucose has not been as low on the Menjaro. I'm taking two and a half milligrams of Trezepatide a week. My fasted glucose has been back up around a hundred again, a hundred to 110. It has not been the 80 to 85 that it was on the Retetrutide. So we'll see. I will say this, the Menjaro, the Trezepatide does seem to have a stronger appetite suppressing effect. I do not want to eat on that shit. Holy fuck, man. It is potent when it comes to the appetite suppression. I literally will forget to eat sometimes. I sat here at my desk the other day and it was like 6 p.m. and I thought to myself, I'm like, have I eaten today? And I'm like, holy fuck, I have not eaten yet today. And I wasn't even like hungry at all. And not only that, like I don't want to drink, like I forget to drink, which is not me. I'm usually drinking all the fucking time. So I don't know. IMean, I guess, you know, it depends on what your goals, I would say it looks like just anecdotally going off of what I have seen with myself that the Retetrutide might be better for diabetics. And also if you think about it, if you're an off-season bodybuilder, one of the big issues that we run into, one of the big risks that we run into with bodybuilding as we push the food up higher, as we push the PEDs up higher, lipid skewing, cardiovascular risk and insulin resistance, creating a situation where you're, you're causing metabolic damage from impaired glucose sensitivity, or insulin sensitivity and glucose can impair glucose control and skewing your lipids while your blood pressure is higher. And all these other things that go on in the offseason that eventually catch up with bodybuilders. I know there's going to be some crazies in the comments and the cholesterol doesn't kill you. Okay, whatever, bro. Um, that's fine. Uh, you know, keep doing you, but I'm telling you from what I have seen, this stuff improves everything on your blood work. Your A1c is improved. Your lipids are improved. I have seen C-reactive protein came, but that's another thing. My C-reactive protein was high in January. Obviously if my A1c was that high, it probably was high too. I don't think it was anything crazy. It was in the, it was like three something. Uh, but, but you know, higher than what you want. It was like 0.3 or 0.4 something like that on, on the most recent blood panel that I had. It came way back down. And I also see liver enzymes improve on this stuff too. My, my ALT and AST were in the like low thirties, which is crazy as well. So everything on my blood panel got better while I ran retitrutide. It is insane, man. You know, so I, I don't know. I, I'm, I'm curious to see how the trizepatide, the Menjaro that's prescribed by my endocrinologist, how that works out longterm. We'll see. I'll compare the two results and let you folks know what happens with those. But for right now, man, it looks like just anecdotally speaking and from what I've seen so far, it looks like retitrutide is trening to be the winner over Menjaro for metabolic health and for improving blood panels. We'll see. We'll see. But I, I can't tell you how impressed I am. I was kind of, I believe me, I was a GLP one skeptic like a year or so ago and I'm a believer now, especially the new triple agonists and there's new ones coming out. There's going to be new ones that are going to have a, that are in phase three clinical trials right now, or I'm sorry, not phase three, but that are in clinical testing right now. Retitrutide is in phase three clinical trials. Sorry, I slaughtered that. So it should be approved next year for probably next year for human use by the FDA. But some of the new ones that are in testing in development right now are going to have either myostatin inhibitors attached to them or IGF one, which is going to be even crazier because one of the things people are concerned about with the GLP ones is muscle wasting. Now I would tell you if you look at the clinical trials on this stuff, there was some muscle loss, but you got to keep in mind that the people that they were doing these trials on likely aren't working out. They're likely eating a really shitty low protein, high fat, high carbohydrate diet. And my guess would be is that when they do the trial for the GLP one, they just eat less of the same food they were eating before not working out. They're also not taking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, testosterone, premable, and equipoise all the that we do. So I don't think the concern about muscle loss is anything we need to really think about because we're, it's going to be hard to lose muscle when you're blasting a gram of test and taking the GLP one. I don't know. I will say this and I, you know, I know vigorously put a video out saying the GLP ones don't flatten people out. I have seen guys kind of look like they flattened out. That could be just from eating less. I don't know. I will say this. This is the lightest I have been in a long fucking time. Now, granted, I've been just running TRT for pretty much since my show about eight months. I'm around 240 pounds right now. It was 250 on stage last year. I usually get up around 270, 280 in my offseason. So this is light for me. I feel great. My health is great. My blood work looks great. Everything is great right now. This is, you know, I can sleep through the night. I don't need my damn CPAP right now. IMean, it's really tempting just to keep my weight here and just kind of say adios to bodybuilding competitively. But I know me, I'm super competitive and I'm going to want to get back in the saddle soon. So I know that's coming around the corner. Anyway, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. If you have used retrotide and you've had experiences with it, put your comments in the comment section below. Let me know how it's worked for you or if you used other GLP ones. If you've seen similar results, I appreciate each and every one of you take care. See you on the next episode for coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.