 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. WARNING, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, bros, it's big Paul and I'm here today with another muscle rant. This is one that drives me absolutely bat-time. And today All right, I am going to hurt some butts today, probably. We'll see if any butts are sore after this video is complete. But I'm sure there probably will be a few that are chafed. Getting big is not as complicated as you make it out to be. And the people that spend their time mired in minutiae that overanalyze things are the ones that never get big. They never grow. Progress stops. They get stifled in analysis paralysis because they're overanalyzing every little detail to the nth degree. Now, trust me, I like understanding the mechanics of how everything works. And I do dig into stuff. And I read scientific studies. I look at different training. I read books about training. I read things about PEDs. But at the end of the day, getting big in bodybuilding is not that damn complicated. People overthink it, overanalyze it. And at the end of the day, it's not freaking rocket science, guys. Here's how you get big. It's really simple. And I'm going to share the secret with you. And your head might explode. What you have to do to get huge is just train hard. Train progressively. Train like a bodybuilder. Do it over and over again. Day in. Day out. Year after year. For years on end. Be consistent with it. For food, you just need to eat meat and rice five to six times a day. As you get bigger, you eat more food. If you want to go from 200 to 220, you need to eat like a 220 pounder. It's not rocket science. You want to keep yourself lean. Relatively lean. You don't want to eat crap food. You don't want to permabulk. You don't want to get fat. But you want to keep yourself relatively in target. And when it comes to PEDs, it's not that hard with the PEDs either. Most of the big guys that are pros, they take a test base. Whatever anabolic they prefer. Usually something like Equipoise, Primabolin. Masteron seems to be popular now. And maybe one other compound. Maybe not. Growth hormone and some insulin. And you do it over and over and over and over again. And you take it at enough amounts. Fill the needle up enough to make yourself grow. As you get bigger, you're probably going to need to take more to get even bigger. If you're 160 pounds, you do not need to take as much as a 300 pounder. Same as with the diet. If you're 160 pounds, you don't need to eat as much as a 300 pounder. You're just going to get fat. If you're 160 pounds and you try to train like a 300 pounder and put 405 on the bench press, you're going to split yourself in half. So it's all relative. The most important thing I can impart on you, especially young guys, the most important thing, the single most important thing, if you want to get big, is to be consistent. People are going to tell you it's intensity, bro. People are going to tell you it's about the gear, bro. People are going to tell you about some secret off the wall, wacko fad diet. No, it's about doing the same boring crap over and over and over again, month after month, year after year until you get huge. That's all it is. It's not rocket science. Now, as you get bigger, as you progress from an intermediate to an advanced bodybuilder, yes, you do have to pay more attention to some details. My DMs just get piled up with people overanalyzing stuff. I get so many DMs per day, you know, hey, bro, what do you think about doing DHB, you know, five milligrams in the morning and then administering anal whatever, O-carnitine and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, in the osmolarity of my intra-workout shake. And then I ask him, I'm like, what are you doing for your diet? But you see the little bubble pop on up and they're trying to figure out an answer and they're not even following a diet. So don't get obsessed with the little, tiny little minutia until you have everything else buttoned up. Get your diet buttoned up first. Get your training buttoned up first. Keep your PED simple. Make sure that you're being consistent with things and don't worry about that little crap until you've exhausted all the other avenues. That stuff might make 1% difference. So I don't remember who it was, but I think maybe it was Justin Harris or somebody told me, don't worry about the 5% when you don't have the 95% buttoned up. It's a waste of time. Like I get guys all the time that'll reach out to me. They're so paralyzed with macros on diets. This is another example. Do you measure your food cooked or raw? Does it make any difference? Do you count your trace proteins or not trace your proteins? And blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And on and on and on and on. And I'm like, bro, just measure out a cup of rice. Put seven ounces of chicken on the scale or two cups of rice. Seven ounces of chicken on the scale. Tablespoon of olive oil. Eat that six times a day. And if you stop growing, up the amounts. Go up the chicken by half an ounce. Up the rice by half a cup. And if you don't grow, then up it even more. It's not that complicated. And if you want to lose weight, just cut the amounts back. So, you know, oh my God, this stuff just frustrates the crap out of me. This is why I am ranting about this. Another thing too is I get guys all the time, they're impatient. I see dudes that'll come in. I've had them as clients. I've seen them with other clients. The coach hoppers. The people that are with a coach for two months. They're not seeing progress. They're on to the next coach. They don't see progress with that coach after two months. They're on to the next coach. They think the answer lies with going to another coach, switching programs, switching PED protocols, switching up their diet. That's not the problem. That's not the problem. The issue is, is that you are not staying committed enough to anything for any significant period of time to see actually any tangible results. I will tell you from years of doing this, you do not see results from day to day in the mirror. A lot of times you do not see results from week to week in the mirror. What I will do is look at my progress picks or if I have a client that stays with me long enough, we'll look at progress picks over a long period of time. So like what I'll do on check-ins with my clients, I'll take and look at the picture they sent me today and I'll look at it 30 days ago. I'll take the picture that they sent me when they started and compare it to the picture now. I'll take the picture that they started at the beginning of a prep and see what they look like now. Now, as you get closer to the end of a prep, this might be an example of where things change from week to week and even day to day. But that's about the only time that you're going to see major changes happen in short periods of time. Really, this stuff is just a long haul and you have to stay committed to it. It is consistency over a long period of time. I cannot emphasize that enough for people. Stay consistent. Do the right things. Keep doing them over and over again. And you have no choice but to grow. And with the volume thing, whatever. Choose whatever you're doing. But if you're training like a bodybuilder, picking exercises that put you in a proper position to stimulate muscle growth, your form is buttoned up. If you progress those exercises, if you're doing exercise X for 100 pounds, for 10 reps, whatever it is, this year and you're doing 150 pounds a year from now for 5 sets of 10 reps or whatever it is, and you have progressed, you're probably going to be bigger. And if you are heavier on the scale, you're probably going to be bigger when it comes time to cut down for a contest prep. So, it is not that complicated. Keep things simple. Don't overthink about it. Do not worry about the osmolarity of your intro workout shake when you're not even following a diet. It doesn't matter. See, even Milo says, it doesn't matter. Just eat and you'll grow like me. Right? That's all you do is eat and you get bigger. Right? Eat, train, annoy me, and you get bigger. It's not that complicated, people. All right, folks. Appreciate you watching. If you want to support me, support my sponsor, First Detachment Nutrition. Link is in the video description below. My discount code is AB10 at checkout. That will get you 10% off. Rock on. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you.