 All right, all right folks, big Paul here, we just finished up the Arnold classic 2024, and Hottie Chupin is your champion, Chase, what do you think? I think he was the clear winner, I think he had the most muscle and the smallest waist, which is not common, IMean his waist, like I said yesterday, it was way smaller than it was at the Olympia, which was his big knock, so yeah, I think he definitely deserved it, but I think he definitely deserved it, but I think he definitely deserved it. Yeah, he really tightened up his waist from the Olympia, I think the other, last night it was clear that everybody else was a little bit behind him, but I think Samson looked a little better tonight, I don't know what you guys thought, the other guys brought it a little bit closer, but to me it was here in person, I know some people in the comments section last night, so they thought Samson should win, but when you're here in person it was clear that Hottie had it. Todd, what did you think? So, I think that Hottie was pretty much conditioning equal, Samson got better, Raphael got better, John I think got better, James got a lot better, James got a lot better, Akeem got better, and so that's why a few of my predictions were a little off on the back end, but I knew that Hottie was going to win for sure, it was actually close between Hottie and Samson, I could have understood it if he had won. IMean, I'll just keep it simple, I think it was just pretty obvious that Hottie was going to win from yesterday, and he kept it through today. Yeah, IMean, Samson definitely brought it a little bit closer tonight, and people were upset I didn't talk about Raphael yesterday, but Raphael looked really good. This is the best Raphael ever, the best John De La Rosa ever, the best Antoine I think ever, equal with the best Hottie ever, possibly the best Samson ever. This looked better than the Olympia did in 2022, that's for sure. So, question for you guys, like, I noticed everybody except for Hottie was a little bit off, they were a little bit soft, a little bit watery last night, do you think they were just saving the gas for tonight, or what was going on? I just, they don't have Hanny Rambot as a coach. Yeah, they just weren't peaking right for some reason, I don't know. Yeah, I have no idea. 18 units of Sarastem, that's the missing ingredient. That is the missing ingredient. 3 cc's. I was laughing at the guy who won the, I'm terrible, the Men's Physique guy that won. He was talking about how he went through some mental health issues and had to prioritize his family. Six weeks out, we call that dropping tren and not doinGHalo testing. He was speaking in code. Yeah, it was pretty clear, that's what he was saying, yeah. I didn't need to take tren, just hard work. So, I'm not the only one that interpreted it that way? That's what I heard, yeah. I'm not familiar with anything about Men's Physique or what they said. I don't think Arnold Schwarzenegger was either. I was laughing my ass off when Arnold said that, hey, you guys started trening legs this year, what happened? The thighs have grown. That cracked me up. He was definitely having fun with that. But Hottie looked fantastic. I thought he was excellent. I know Todd does not like the Men's Physique division, but I thought the guys looked excellent. Even though I can't remember who won. I'm fully acknowledging that the IFBB Pro Men's Physique guys have a bigger upper body than me. I just think it would be nice if they trened their legs, too. Because it looked like SpongeBob. That's it. I don't get it, why you wouldn't want to have legs to match your upper body. Yeah, I don't know. I think Men's Physique has come a long way since its beginning. They look good. I was impressed with them. Jay Cutler stole the night for me with his Lifetime Achievement Award. His speech was amazing and funny, too. Jay is the man. But Jay ribbing some of the other guys about beating them out. It was pretty hilarious. Any final thoughts on the 2020 for Arnold Classic, guys? No, we covered it all. Oh, big news. Arnold said he doesn't give a fuck anymore. And he's going to raise the grand prize to $500,000 outdoing the Olympia. So what's going to happen with the Olympia? Are they going to raise their prize to beat him out? But Arnold seems like he's saying, screw it, raising the prize money. So that is a big deal for the Arnold Classic. It's important for a special reason. The Olympia had always been number one. The Arnold was always number two. However, before it was called the Arnold, it was called the World Championship. So if Arnold raises the price to $500,000, there's no reason why Mr. Olympia may not do the Arnold also. In that case, that means there's no reason why you would skip the Arnold and save your money as a spectator for the Olympia. But ipso facto, the Arnold will have more money to raise the price higher again. And it will eventually have the best bodybuilders in the Arnold, making the Arnold more prestigious, my prediction, by 2030. Unless the Olympia gets with the program. You heard it from Todd Lee, folks. Ipso facto. Now, do you guys think they're going to raise the prize money for the Olympia to keep up? I don't think they will. No? No? No? Anyway, folks. Wrapping it up here at the 2024 Arnold Classic. It was my first time at the Arnold Classic. It was a fantastic time. Make your way out here. I think we're all going to probably go to the Olympia, too. So we'll be there. Thank you, folks, for watching. Take care. Take care.