 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, big Paul here today and I've got a good video for you. It's about how to manage blood pressure side effects from performance enhancing drug use, how to manage your blood pressure, how to manage your blood pressure, how to manage your blood pressure and to keep you alive. Blood pressure is the thing that probably is the easiest to mitigate when it comes to bodybuilding and the most likely thing to cause damage to our health. So it's important to keep an eye on your blood pressure and we're going to go over how to manage it, what are the causes of high blood pressure from PED use and various pathways that high blood pressure occurs. This is a free preview of a section from the website. This is a free preview of a section from the website. which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which And there are a lot of potential causes for CNS stimulation in our community. Overuse of stimulants. It's like everybody jamming pre-workouts and hammering caffeine all day long, using things like ephedrine. IMean, like some of the pre-workouts are nutty, how much caffeine is in them. And then there's also usually pump enhancers in there to increase blood volume as well, which probably is going to make your blood pressure go up. On top of the blood volume increase from the steroids. Yeah, on top of the blood volume increase from the steroids. Androgens are going to, you know, anything that's a very strong androgen is going to increase CNS stimulation, correct? Things like tren or Anadrol or things like that are probably going to increase CNS stimulation. Yes, there's androgen receptors on all those organs that are gettinGHit. And then you also have cellular receptors that are, they're considered androgen receptors, but they never go into the inside to cause gene trenscription. Those are immediate. And that's what you get. The more androgenic something is to generally more, it stimulates those. And that's where you get that really acute, like a halotestin, a Trembolone, Anadrol. And you know, it's funny, Kurt, this is the more evidence that cardio and diet play a role in this. I, in the off-season, have to run a blood pressure med. And I run pretty bland hormones in the off-season. It's mostly just test and primo. And then when I get on contest prep towards the end, when I'm running the nasty stuff like tren, Halo, these other things, but I'm leaner, I'm in better cardiovascular health, my blood pressure is normal without blood pressure meds. Yeah, well, that's why I always try to stay closer to being in shape all year round for that reason. It's just generally healthier. I think you respond to things better. There's just no need to push. You know, and I know we've both done both things where you've gotten heavy. Yep. I've gotten heavy. I don't really find it's really advantageous to really get out of shape. No, you just feel awful. You just feel awful. It's hilarious. I have to drop blood pressure meds on contest prep, usually. I'll start goinGHypotensive. I'll get people reach out to me like, hey, bro, I felt like I stood up too quick, and I felt like I was going to pass out. I'm like, yeah. You're hypotensive, man. Stop taking that. Tell Massard that certain world-class PED educators have told you to take. It's time to drop it. Other causes. Androgen-induced stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, which regulates aldosterone. We don't have to go into great detail about how it works, but management of that system through things such as an ACE inhibitor or an ARB is a possibility. But the androgens seem to stimulate that system, which causes more aldosterone production and more water retention. More water retention is going to equal more blood volume and higher blood pressure. Yeah, and you can see that even in the drugs that are supposedly drier, like windstrawling things. If you run too much of them over time, you'll see your body will start to flip the other way. Yep. High estrogen. This is one that seems to be completely ignored. I don't know why you and I were talking about this. There's this blip, the estrogen run wild belief. Now, this is another thing that's completely flipped on its head. 20 years ago, in the early 2000s, when I was heavy into bodybuilding, then everybody was barrier estrogen, barrier estrogen. And now it's flipped the other way. The estrogen's anabolic and the cardio and heart protective. And there's a sweet spot to run estrogen. IMean, you definitely- Usually some more in range. In range, right? The estrogen causes, once again, water retention, which will increase blood pressure. This body fluid retention could be in part due to the enhanced osmotic stimulation of arginine vasopressin, AVP. I don't know if you want to touch on that. Yeah, IMean, your body doesn't love all that extra fluid from the estrogen. So it's going to stimulate AVP through that. It's just, it doesn't make any sense. There's no, we probably could do eight videos just on estrogen alone. It's, people need to bring it back to range. There's no reason to bring it to 80, 90, 100. I saw, right, I put one up the other day. Guy was at almost 600. Yeah. So it's not anabolic in a classic sense. It does aid in growth hormone hormone hormone. It is not the driver of IGF. It is, it's, there's some amount that's needed with liver to do that, but that's not, it's not what's driving that's glucose. It's driving IGF. And it's, if you're using IGF as a marker of where your estrogen should be, that's incorrect as well, because most likely that's bound to binding protein one. So that IGF is useless. It's like looking at DHT in the blood. It's not, they're not really markers of effectiveness when you get those levels up. It's not equatable to something like testosterone where you want the level to be higher. Yeah. Yeah. And I just, like, it's, it's wild to me too, that people won't address that. And I would assume that, correct me if I'm wronGHere. I'm not a pharmacologist by any means, but taking an ARV or an ACE inhibitor is not going to address the pathways that are potentially causing the water retention here with, with estrogen, correct? Yeah. Yeah. And just address the issue, right? Because the only issue with estrogen is not the water retention. Estrogen poses a ton of issues in the human body. If you go back to the IGF thing for a second, there's a reason why women produce more growth hormone hormone hormone hormone, but have less IGF because they have higher estrogen. So if you're using that as a logic to make your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone work better, you'recompletely backwards unless you're a cow. So the, it's just totally complicated. I was going to say the moral of the story is here, you want to keep estrogen in range. Yeah. It's not. You don't want to bury it. You don't want to get too high. Women would be walking. Even in women, it's not the anabolic hormone. It's generally progesterone or progesterone based hormones that are doing that. HGH water retention. And then we've all experienced the water bloat from HGH, which seems to be caused by increased sodium pump activity. Kurt, can you go into this a little bit? Yeah. It just, it's, you're basically, your kidneys will start to hold more sodium, which will then subsequently cause you to hold more water. It's generally just an acute reaction to the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone as it goes up. You'll notice if you, it's most people get greedy with it and they try to jump into these big doses right away. Generally, if you titrate up slowly with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone, if you start with like two or three units, assuming you've never done it before and you titrate up slowly over months, you generally won't experience these issues. If you go right to a bottle a day, you know, or 10 units or whatever, your end goal is immediately you're going to retain a bunch more sodium and subsequent fluid from that. You can, there are ways to mitigate that, which we can get into. And your sodium potassium ratio is probably off anyway. Most likely you're not eating enough potassium rich foods. And there are, I don't know if you want me to go into the thing with the blood, the false blood testing. Yeah. You can talk about it. It's just kind of an interesting thing. So we, so our ancestors, Paleolithic men have like a 16 to one potassium to sodium ratio. Most modern Americans have a one-to-one ratio. So we're way skewed. And as bodybuilders, something we found is we tend to be more vascular than normal people. And when we get our blood drawn, a lot of guys will, will flex their forearm and watch their veins. And the problem is when you flex, when you contract a normal person, like when my wife draws her blood, they give her a little ball and she squeezes and her veins come out and then she relaxes and they put the needle in. And bodybuilders tend to keep their muscles tight and when they put the needle in it, it punctures a little bit of the muscle and it seeps potassium into the space. And so a lot of times the blood draw will show a falsely high potassium level. That's not actually there. Very rarely do you find people that actually have high potassium levels, except on some of these drugs that we'll go into in a minute. Yeah. IMean, that is an issue with some of the ARBs, Tom Sartan, Kinkos. Like for me, I have to supplement with potassium and I got rid of any. Water retention from growth hormone hormone hormone and the tingling. All that kind of stuff. And you, you touched on a good point there with the titration of doses. I have noticed too, like if I come right out of the gate with a heavy load of androgens and HGH coming off of a cruise or whatever, that my body seems to have this reaction where I do get a lot of water retention. Whereas if I titrate up slowly over a six to eight week period of time, I don't seem to have those issues. Yeah. Well, with androgens, you're looking at androgen receptor density, right? And so that, that's, that changes over time. The more androgens you have present, the more androgen receptors you'll have. And when you go, if you're blasting and cruising, when you cruise for a period of time, like I know you, you cruised for a good period of time last year. Yeah. Like four months. So in the four months time, and you brought your dose significantly down, although you've improved other markers of your health and stem cell proliferation. So that actually allowed your organs to heal your androgen receptors down regulated to an extent. And then if you were to then go right back to the big dose, you don't have the receptors to basically bind to all that extra androgen. So now they're going to hit the ones that are on the cell surface. They can hit the ones in your organs. It's just basically like an overflow. Your body doesn't know what to do with it. When you go right to a huge growth hormone hormone hormone hormone amount without titrating up, it's not so much a receptor issue as it is. Your kidneys don't know how to handle that load. So they're going to react harshly. And that meant, because I remember when I did growth hormone hormone hormone the first time I went from three to six to nine really quickly. And at nine, I couldn't feel my hands. My ankles look like I was pregnant, you know, but you get used to it over time, right? You can run whatever now and not get any bloat from it. Yeah. IMean, I'm at the point now where it doesn't seem to affect me. It did when I first started. I remember even four units would blow me up. So let's talk about common types of blood pressure medicines and treatments. IMean, there's a bazillion other ones, but these are just some common ones that you'll see doctors start use. IMean, most of the time when you go to the doctor, it seems like the first line of defense is going to be an ACE inhibitor. Usually what I see doctors prescribe when you go in is lisinopril. It seems to be the most commonly first ever. Yeah. IMean, it's old. It's been around forever. It's fairly well tolerated other than the dry cough, which I got a dry cough from. So there's ACE inhibitors. Let me back up for a second. So we have, I'm going to start here in the middle. So RAS stimulation and water retention, those are the two most common causes of increased blood pressure, right? Yep. That we're going to see in people and addressing RAS stimulation is usually where most doctors are going to start. They start off with ACE inhibitors, as IMentioned. And like I said, the dry cough can be an issue. Too much Bradykinin, am I saying that correctly, causes the dry cough in some people. Not everybody gets that. But, um, um, and then we have ARBs, which are popular in the bodybuilding community right now, um, because of, uh, it's, you know, they, they do have some other added benefits, whether or not they're what they are, but, um, would be drugs like, uh, Tomasartan, Losartan, Valsartan, um, uh, but they do have some potential problems. Like we've seen drug induced angioedema potential side effect from, um, from, uh, ARBs potential increase in potassium level levels, especially as you get deeper in contest prep. I've seen some dudes that are running Tomasartan that ended up hyperkalemic towards the end of contest prep when they're jamming potatoes. Um, when you're eating nothing but plain chicken, right? And asparagus, you put, you're no longer eating the food that is salted. Yep. Yeah. And it seems you might be sweating more tren things like tren will, you know, and Mastron will, you'll lose more minerals. So you might be losing some more sodium from those things. It does seem that, uh, we've seen some studies and I think this is why some people are promoting the use of, um, uh, Tomasartan and other ARBs. Tomasartan seems to be the one that's most effective of this, but there does seem to be some effect of lowerinGH, um, or A1c and hemoglobin and hematocrit from running, um, ARBs. I don't know how much it is. I've seen a little bit of a drop on my blood work, but nothing significant. And that's usually not why the primary use by guys are using it though, right? It's usually they're trying to get rid of this water. And then there's the shotgun approach using diuretics, which forces diuresis, diuresis to free To pee out the, uh, pee out the water. Um, and a lot of times you'll see some of these drugs combined there, there are combinations. You'll see, um, these drugs will be packaged with, uh, hydrochlorothiazide within the low dose of hydrochlorothiazide in them as well, which is unless you're have some sort of heart failure going on, probably it's unnecessary. There's bigger problems if you need a diuretic, uh, to flush this out, right? Yeah. IMean, I think all of these things you need to see a doctor first before self-medicating. I get it, right? We, people get their gear off the street, right? You're not getting, you're not getting echo poise from your doctor. So it seems ordinary then to just get your blood pressure medicine in the same way. Or I see people buy acne medicine that way as well. I think for some of these drugs, it's worth, it's absolutely worth seeing a doctor, especially if you're going to introduce diuretics. Diuretics will kill you, can kill you. Yep. And it's cheaper. Your insurance is going to pay for it. Yeah. Right. So you're unnecessary. And most of the time, like sometimes doctors will fight with you. Like I've seen guys where the doctors will fight with them about taking an ARB. They want to prescribe an ACE inhibitor. But most of the time, if you just ask or you just say, Hey, I've used this before and I've responded better to it. Is there any way I can get this? I'll, I'll work with you. Normally you guys will use the ARBs and not the ACE. ACE inhibitor is basically just blocking angiotensin one from converting to angiotensin two. And if your water retention that you have, your high blood pressure is from estrogen or from androgens, not through the raw system. Using an ACE is not necessarily going to do anything, but when you tell them a certain, you'll get, because it's, it's hitting the receptor at the kidney, you're going to get some water reduction, whether that's the right way to do that or not. I don't necessarily think it's the right way to do it. Especially if your angiotensin two is not elevated, just to take it prophylactically doesn't make any sense. I was talking to, when I did the interview with Dean, Dr. Dean St. Mart, he mentioned that he's seen a lot of guys that have serious stomach issues, IBS. They think it's IBS. And then it turns out that it's the Tomasartan causing them to shut their pants. Yeah. It bothered your stomach a little bit, didn't it? Yeah. A little bit. It was, uh, the, what got me was the cholesterol meds. Um, um, the, uh, the, uh, that didn't help either. Yeah. That didn't help either. Uh, that's a constriction, uh, constriction of the arteries and, and heart, um, can cause also cause, um, cause high blood pressure. Alpha blockers reduce a smooth muscle contraction. Calcium channel blockers causes the heart and arteries to squeeze, uh, more, uh, calcium causes the heart and arteries to squeeze more tightly and calcium channels block this, um, which also, uh, a fun side effect of calcium channel blockers is they make you weaker in the gym. Yeah. Well, you need calcium for all muscle contractions. For muscle contractions. Right. And then you'll, you'll hear guys using vasodilators. Most it's, everybody seems to have, uh, a love with, uh, Cialis. And when you look at the studies, Cialis doesn't really cause that much of a lowering of, of, of blood pressure. It's, it's very, it's very mild. IMean, you know, if you want to take it, I guess, why not? But it doesn't seem to have, be dramatically effective on lowering blood pressure. Yeah. I would, again, I would just use Cialis for what it's intended for. And it's great if it gives you some other benefit outside of that, but I wouldn't be using any of these drugs. Just. I don't recall the history on that, but wasn't the, like originally when they were researching these, uh, um, these were, these drugs that they're used for erectile dysfunction were originally researched as blood pressure medicines and were crappy at it. Yeah. Viagra. Yeah. And they, but they, they gave us a boners. So they were like, Oh, well, these were also guys that probably hadn't had, these guys are not healthy and they hadn't been erection a long time. Yeah. They probably reacted a little stronger to it. Um, and then CS, CNS stimulation, really beta blockers seem to be the only thing that's really effective at treating that. Um, or you could just stop the things that are causing CNS stimulation. As we mentioned earlier, um, beta blockers also seem to slow metabolism and inhibit fat burning. So that is a fun side effect for bodybuilders to consider. Yeah. So the, that beta receptor is the same one that things like clenbuterol interact with. And yeah. So yeah. So we want to block per se. So you don't want to be running that with clenbuterol is what you're saying. Um, uh, I'm going to briefly, briefly touch on this and I'll put a link to this in the, uh, video description. Uh, but there, there's a study where, uh, renin and geotensin aldosterone system in bodybuilders, um, using super physiological dose of anabolic androgenic steroids. Um, and it, it, what was interesting in the study is that they showed that, um, 17 AA steroids, or orals seem to cause, um, more stimulation and increase in, uh, LVH, causing LVH left ventricular hypertrophy and impaired lipid metabolism. So there is some left ventricular ventricular hypertrophy that is, we'll say normal. It's called Matthew's heart. That's from lifting. That's not what they're talking about here though. They're talking about when it's severely enlarged and you don't want to severely larger than the other. Like, uh, Dallas McCarver. What was his heart weight? Like over, over, over, it was a weight, like a kilogram. I think it was, it was over a thousand grams. I don't remember the exact number on the, on the autopsy. You can go look at it, but what is a normal heart? It's a couple hundred grams, right? Way too big. Yep. Um, AAS is called stimulation of the renin, angiotensin, aldosterone, uh, uh, system as we call it. It seems, it seems that orals seem to be the worst. Yeah. And another, another compelling reason to save the orals for the end of contest prep. Uh, uh, correlations. There is a correlation between higher aldosterone levels and left ventricular hypertrophy. Um, studies have proved that increased activity of the RAS also plays in, plays a role in the pathogenesis of cardiological disease, cardiac infarctions, um, arterial hypertension, tension, circulatory failure. And the overactive of the RAS system is a factor in eliciting changes in the cardiovascular system observed by AAS users. So that's sort of one of the compelling reasons why I think a lot of guys are advocating for regulating it. But once again, it's going to be dependent on dose, compound choice, other factors. Um, and dose. Yeah. Yeah. Body weight. Yeah. Body weight. So, yeah. IMean, most guys probably don't need, it depends. I see varying doses all over the place, but if you're actually causinGHarm, you probably should vote your doses. Yep. That is very much true. I don't want to go too much into how the RAS system works. We can make another video if you guys want us to do that and we can, uh, and dig deeper into how, how the RAS system works. I have a video, I think up on YouTube. Yeah. We can have a video just on that. IMean, it's unless people really find it interesting, it's probably boring, but, uh, it's, yeah, it's probably unnecessary. All right. Any parting words or thoughts on blood pressure, Kurt? IMean, it's definitely a serious problem, right? It's the biggest, it's the biggest killer bodybuilders. And it definitely should be looked at and managed. I just, I would love people to see a doctor though. They have an issue. I, I don't think your doctor is really going to be that concerned or yelling at you about steroids. Most likely they're not even going to know unless you are so large, you know, like if you're a 270 pound pro bodybuilder, perhaps they would notice, but I don't, I don't think doctors are, doctors are typically not that aware of it. You'd be better off at least seeing a doctor and getting the right medicine versus trying to guess what you need. Yeah. Yeah. And I would consider also the underlying causes of the hypertension. What, you know, why are you hypertensive? If you are hypertensive, is it, is your estrogen too high? Is your, does your diet suck? Is your sodium intake too high? Um, is your, is your body fat too high? Um, you know, are, are there other things going on? Does your diet suck? You know, all these other factors, are you doing cardio? So all these other factors that you can use to potentially lower, um, lower your blood pressure before you even have to go to a doctor, but it doesn't hurt to talk to a doctor. Um, I, I, I'm with you, man. I think self-medicating is probably the dumb way to go here. Talk to a doctor. Most doctors aren't going to give you a hard time about blood pressure medicines. Probably. I, I don't know. I don't know the stats on it, but I would assume that blood pressure meds have to be one of the most commonly prescribed medicines outside of, um, maybe statins. Yeah. And doctors are very fast to prescribe them. They're not going to give you grief for that. They'd rather put you on this stuff and not worry about it. But like you said, look at the, look at the underlying issues though, because most likely you're doing something that's causing this and it's not just blood pressure beinGHigh for beinGHigh sake. Yeah. One of my friends who is working in an ER, so they don't even bat an eye unless you're like 140 over 90. Most doctors it's, it's, they don't even get concerned. Now I, I'm not saying that you should let it get that high. You want, you want to make sure that you're keeping it more in line. It's, it's good to measure. I have my clients measure their blood pressure, um, several times a week and report in on their check-ins just to make sure that things are okay. Um, but you know, I think it's, it's good to keep it, keep tabs on these things and don't, don't fly blind. Yeah. All right, folks. I hope you enjoyed this one. Let me know what you think in the comment section below. Go check out a free preview of the science of anabolics e-course over at anabolicbodybuilding.com. And if you want to pick it up, I have 10% off sale going until Monday. Use the code a B 10 for 10% off. Thank you for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.