 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today. We are going to talk about training. Which is better, high volume training or high intensity, low volume training? The age old question. I get so many people that reach out to me and ask me about this. Talk about it all the time at the gym. I had a Dorian Yates shirt on at the gym the other day and had a guy approach me, asked me if I was a fan of Dorian Yates training, had another dude come up and ask me, I thought you were a high volume trainer. I'm going to dig into my thoughts on both HIIT style training and high volume style training. And we're going to dig into it in just one second. So which is better? High volume training or low volume high intensity training? Well answer is they both work. I don't know that one is particularly better than the other. They have better applications. There is a certain situations where they do work better. One works better over the other. Modern studies do show or seem to indicate that volume is the primary driver of hypertrophy. But I still do think that you have to push weights and train with a certain level of intensity to stimulate growth. But at the end of the day, we've seen people on the Olympia stage at the top level of bodybuilding doing both styles of training. So clearly they both do yield results. But I think the thing that people don't consider is where to apply each. And there are several factors that go into this. Part of it is your age, how old you are, how what your muscles respond to. You know, whether you're a fast twitch, slow twitch type person. You know, that also plays a factor into it. And just how your body responds. Sometimes you have to listen to your body. When I was young, when I was in my early 20s, I found Doreen Yates. I became obsessed with Mike Mentzer. And I eventually ended up with Dante Trudeau. And he trained me for many years. And I did a low volume, high intensity style training. And I got great results from it. I did it all the way up into my 30s. And then I started falling apart. Started getting hurt. Started having injuries. Started tearing things. And there's only so long you can fight the logbook before the logbook starts fighting back with you. I love fighting the logbook. That mentality that Dante Trudeau brought to me, that Doreen Yates brought to me, that you get one more rep, you do five more pounds each week, appealed to me. I like competition and I like something where I can compete with myself. That appealed to me mentally. And that made sense to me. If I'm getting stronger, if I'm doing another rep, if I'm doing five more pounds on the bench press, in my head, I've gotten bigger. Now that doesn't always translate in reality. I have certainly learned that over the years. And one thing that I did find out the hard way is that there's only so much you can progress weight and intensity before you just start tearing muscles in and it becomes counterproductive. So, training needs to, you know, there, to me, there needs to be phases of training. Like when you're early, you're a brand new trainer. If you enjoy that style of training, which I did because I'm highly competitive, I think that HIIT style training, low volume, high intensity style training is perfect for the young guy. It will get you results and it will get you results fast. It's a good way to grow quickly if you're keeping controlled form. But eventually you hit the brick wall and you can't progress anymore. And you'll see it. You see it in guys like Doreen Yates, where he started having all these massive injuries in his 30s. Ronnie Coleman, although Ronnie Coleman trained with both high volume and high intensity. He's the only person I know of that did that. But eventually that style of training catches up with you and you get hurt. I hear these guys in their late 30s, these bodybuilders talking about having that they need to retire because they can't keep up anymore. They keep getting hurt. And I, you know, I don't want to call anybody out in particular, but I think of a guy last year that retired that was in his late 30s. And, and to me, I feel like he's still in his prime. He should be, you know, but he retired because of injuries. He should be able to keep going. If he had just like taken a step back and switched up from the high intensity training and go on to volume training, he probably could have gotten another 10 years out of his career, made a bunch more money. Hell, Dorian Yates, if he had just taken a step back after he had achieved all that muscle and just sort of maintained, trained more like a guy like Kamal does or Jay Cutler. If you train more like Dexter Jackson, Dorian Yates probably could have, could have, could have been Olympia for Mr. Olympia for another five, six years. I don't know that Ronnie Coleman would have beat him. Maybe, maybe. Maybe, but Dorian, Dorian probably could have eked out another couple Olympias and made a bunch more money. So, you know, that's another thing to consider. So when you're looking at training, there are a couple of variables that you can ratchet up and down. And this is something that guys don't consider. If you're training with high intensity, you need to pull your volume down. If you want to recover and be ready for your next workout. If you're training with lower intensity, you ratchet up the volume to compensate for that. Okay. Use less weight. You don't pull back to proximity to failure. Maybe train with more frequency. You can't do both. You can't get away with both. Ronnie Coleman tried it. It worked for him for a while. And he's a freak of freaking nature. And eventually it caught up with him. And now he's in a wheelchair. And no disrespect to Ronnie Coleman. And I'm sure he wouldn't change a thing if he went back. You know, maybe if I could be guaranteed some Olympia titles, I might have even rolled the dice and done that too. But who knows? You know, so training, honestly, when it comes to training, what training style you do in the gym, you have to figure out what works for you. And it's amazing to me how many people do not listen to their bodies. Your body will give you feedback on what works and what doesn't work. I've had some guys that have, you know, especially as they get into their later training years, you know, advanced trainer, what I call advanced training age. They've been training for 10, 15 plus years. I got a lot of miles on the tires. And they're still trying to train like Doreen Yates. And then they start breaking down. They don't want to hear it. And a lot of times if we back off and put them on a high volume, lower intensity program, all of a sudden they start making progress again. It happened to me. I had some of the best progress of my life between 47 and 48 years old. That's not supposed to happen. But I changed my training style up. I went to a high volume, high frequency program, dropped my intensity back and I made some of the best progress in my life. And you can still progress weights. So, you know, for example, if I was doing, I would do a pyramid style workout before where I'd work up to one heavy all out set and then do a back offset. So let's say I worked up to 405 on bench press for reps. I'm just using this as hypothetical. I'm not saying that's what I did. If I worked up to 405 for reps, you know, maybe five or six reps, and then I did my back offset afterwards. Instead of doing that, maybe I work up to 275 and do five sets of 12 reps with 275 instead. You know, that's a lot less load on my joints and my connective tissue. And I can tell you, I don't feel as beat up as I did before. So circling back around on this high volume, high intensity training might be a better option as you age. It's something to consider. Hit the training. If you're a young guy and you want to advance fast, maybe it's the way to go. I don't know. But at the end of the day, I still go back to diet. And diet is the most important factor. People don't want to hear it. And the people that say it's not important are the ones that never done a proper diet before. I'm not saying the training doesn't matter. Training is very important. Believe me, anybody who comes to the gym with me and works out with me, I am a stickler for good form. I'm a stickler for training properly. I raise an eyebrow when I see people training like idiots. It bothers me. But training still plays an important role. But, you know, diet still king in my opinion. Anyway, guys, just some food for thought. I'm sort of rambling here about training. Let me know what you think in the comments section below. And thank you for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.