 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today and we are going to talk about what it takes to get shredded. And I am talking about absolutely shredded. I'm not talking about 10% body fat. I'm talking about getting down in the show condition, getting ripped, getting peeled. That's a type of lean that most people never achieve. And not that you have to. It's not like, you know, your life's over if you never get that lean. Being 10% body fat is pretty fucking lean, to be honest with you. But if you want to get crazy lean, like show lean, I'm going to talk about what it takes today in just one second.!!!.. what? what?! of all right.!.. what?!...!..?? all right.!...!.... all So, if we're talking about getting stage lean, contest lean, we have to evaluate what our objectives are and build our program around our objectives. So, if we think about this critically, our primary objectives are to lose body fat, preserve muscle mass, and try to keep full while we're doing it, if we can. So, there is an old saying in bodybuilding, you got to get flat to lose fat. And there is some truth to that. You do have to sometimes deplete to get body fat off and then you can fill it back up. But there are some things through carb cycling that you can manipulate doing strategic refeed days that you can keep your body a little bit fuller along the way. But, you know, we're not going to get too deep into the woods and some of that stuff today. But, you know, there are things that you can do. So, we want to get the fat off. We want to preserve muscle tissue. And we want to maintain fullness while doing so. So, to understand how to get the fat off and to get lean, we need to know how to do it. So, at the end of the day, it's just about net energy balance. And it does get a little bit more complicated. But at a base level, it is about net energy balance. Calories in, calories out. We have to create a deficit and burn more than we are taking in. It's really that simple. So, it takes 3,500 calories to burn one pound of fat. So, in theory, you need to create a deficit of 3,500 calories to burn one pound of fat. So, if we want to take a pound of fat off in a week, we need to be in a caloric deficit of 500 calories a day to get to that 3,500 calories, roughly. We have a couple different ways that we can create this deficit. We can eat less food. Typically, in a bodybuilding diet, carbs are the wild card. We generally keep our protein consistent throughout the year. Sometimes, we even increase it a tad while we're dieting to maintain muscle tissue. And just to keep you from not starving. Increase C, A, C, D. And so, carbs are typically our wild card. We might manipulate fats a little bit. I have gone extremely low fat before and you feel like dog shit. It is sort of like a last resort if you have some fat that you need to get off quick. But you can only do it for a short period of time because we do need some EFAs to maintain our health and maintain a healthy physique. So, there are no essential carbs. So, we can take carbs all the way out if we need to. And another way to create a deficit is to increase energy output. So, like doing cardio. Increasing your activity around the house. The NEAT, non-exercise activity or whatever the fuck it stands for. You know, doing higher volume training. Back in the days when Arnold and those guys got ready for contests, they didn't really do much cardio that I know of. So, they just did more volume in the gym. So, they burned their calories while lifting. Primarily. That's not so much the case these days. And you can increase metabolism through use of thermogenics, fat burners, hormone manipulation. But there's only so much you can do there. You can only make about maybe a 5-10% increase. So, it's not really that much. So, when we take a step back and look at it, the easiest way to create a deficit is to just eat less. So, if we wanted to lose that pound of fat in a week and create a 500 calorie deficit, we could get on the stair climber for an hour and maybe burn 500 calories. Or we could just eat 5 less tablespoons of peanut butter throughout the day. Or, you know, that would be, you know, let's say 500 calories would be something like 125 grams of carbs. So, we can drop 125 grams of carbs from our diet. And we would be in a deficit at that point of 500 calories. So, that is a lot easier than doing an hour of cardio. Or you could do a combination of both. And when you look at things like fat burners, like people, I think a lot of times people, their first thing they lean on is fat burners. Which I usually don't introduce until later in the diets. At least the extreme stuff. When you look at a fat burner. So, let's say you have a 2,000 calorie BMR. And you increase your metabolism by 5-10%. You're only talking about 100-200 calories a day. That's one tablespoon of peanut butter worth of deficit that you're creating. It's easier just to eat less peanut butter. Now, you do get to a point in a diet where every little bit adds up. And you need to use fat burners. Especially if you want to get crazy ripped. So, those are the ways that we create a deficit. Usually, it's a combination of all of the above. But the very first thing we start with is a little bit of cardio out of the gate. And dropping some carbs. That's typically what I do when I start a fat loss diet. Drop the carbs. Buy an appropriate amount and add a little bit of cardio in. You know, setting realistic expectations about how much fat you can lose in a week. This is just my general experience. And there are outliers. There are some people that lose faster. There are some people that lose slower. But generally, I have seen between 1% and 1.5% of your body weight that you can lose in fat in a week without sacrificing muscle tissue. If you push a deficit higher than that that would lead to that sort of fat loss, you're seriously risking losing muscle tissue. So, for a 200-pound man, we're talking about somewhere around 2 to 3 pounds a week. That's typically what I see you on a diet. That doesn't seem like much. And I know people get frustrated with that. But that's pretty normal. With a woman, you're talking about a 120-pound woman. You're talking about a pound to a pound and a half a week. So, you need to plan your diet accordingly and have enough time to stretch out. So, enhanced lifters can press the deficit harder than a natural lifter. A natural lifter may need to diet for longer and at a smaller deficit if they don't want to sacrifice muscle tissue. So, that is the benefit of using PEDs is that there is some ability to preserve muscle tissue when you're in a caloric deficit. You know, so, pressing more just ends up with losing muscle. Ultimately. So, let's think about energy storage too. We need to understand how our body stores energy. And glycogen is a huge way that we store energy. Fat stores is another huge way we store energy. When we are trying to lose weight, we want to get rid of the fat. More specifically, subcutaneous fat. But your body does store fat subcutaneously, which is between the muscle and the skin. We want to rid ourselves of that. So, you can see the muscle definition. Visceral fat is the fat that tends to be under the muscle and around the organs, which is the fat that kills you. Honestly, we don't want that ever. At least we want to minimize it. Usually, it's a result of insulin resistance. So, we want to lose visceral fat if we can. And intramuscular fatty acid stores, those don't really affect our appearance. But they do tend to deplete as we lose body fat. But you can see it like on a piece of steak. If you take a piece of steak, it's the fat that's marbled within the steak. That does not affect our appearance when we get on stage. But it will go down. And a lot of times, I'll see guys think they've gotten smaller when they diet it. And it's not that they've gotten smaller. They've just lost the fat that was in the muscle. It makes the muscle look smaller. The muscle hasn't actually gotten smaller. You've just lost that fat that's in the muscle. It's like a fatty piece of steak. If you take that fat that's in that steak, if you take that fat out of it, that steak looks smaller. And we also have protein. Our body stores energy as protein. That's the stuff we don't want to break down. So, muscle tissue, other organs that contain proteins, we don't want to break that down when we're losing weight. So, we want to lose the fat, primarily subcutaneous. We want to keep our glycogen stores full where we can. You are going to deplete it when you diet. That's just how it goes. And the neat thing with glycogen, the bigger you are, the more that you can store. And this is how sort of carb cycling works and how the neat trick with carb cycling. So, a large man, a guy my size, on high days during my contest prep, I was eating 1,500 grams of carbs and still losing body fat. So, you can do some crazy shit when you get bigger. Now, obviously, a 120-pound female would not be able to do that. But, you know, she might be able to have a couple hundred grams of carbs if she has some muscle mass. So, the more muscle mass you have, the more room you have to play with food when you're dieting. This is also, I have wrote down here, the keto conundrum. I wanted to remind myself of this. And this is another thing that I see. People that do keto, and this is not a slam on keto. Keto does have applications. Certainly, if you have somebody that's morbidly obese and issues with insulin sensitivity, keto is a tool that you can use to get that person back in shape, improve their insulin sensitivity. But I think there are better options for physique enhancement if we're trying to get ripped for bodybuilding shows. But here's the thing with keto. I talk to a lot of people that do keto diets, and they're like, I lost 10 pounds in two weeks. Well, the majority of that is not actual fat. The weight that you lost is just from depleting your glycogen stores and all the water that comes along with the glycogen. And so you've just gotten flat. You may have burned some fat. That's possible. That's very possible. But you don't lose 10 pounds of fat in a week, okay? It's just water. You're just dropping water, and it's glycogen depletion and things like that. So really, with bodybuilding, if you're not concerned about bodybuilding, it doesn't really matter. I guess weight off is weight off. But if you're a bodybuilder, we want to keep ourselves full and our glycogen stores full. So keto is probably suboptimal for bodybuilding. And even the guys, like I see coaches that do run keto for bodybuilding, it's not even really keto, to be honest with you. Because keto, in a real keto diet, you eat more fat than you do protein, typically. And these diets that I see that bodybuilding coaches claim to be keto are really not keto. They're just high-protein, higher-fat, lower-carb diets. And they have refeed days. So they're not really true keto diets. So we have chemical intervention, too, for those of us that are enhanced. Fat burners, as I said before, they're not as effective as you think. Maybe a 5% to 10% bump in metabolism. Maybe a little bit more. I mean, it varies from person to person. But this is just my anecdotal experience. They make a difference. And that does add up over a 16-week contest prep. If our BMR, let's say somebody like me, my BMR is like 3,500 calories. If I do a 10% bump, that's 350 calories a day. Over the course of a week, that's almost a pound of fat, like three-quarters of a pound of fat. So over a 16-week contest prep, I might burn an extra 10, 12 pounds of fat from using fat burners. So that is pretty significant over the course of a 16-week prep. From day to day, it's imperceivable. Week to week, it's imperceivable. But it certainly adds up over the course of a contest prep. For a smaller woman, it might not be that much of a difference. Anabolics are certainly a benefit. As we mentioned before, they preserve lean body mass. So we can be more aggressive with our deficits and our cardio. We can go harder after it and preserve muscle. Like I said before, natural lifters have to be more careful. That's why you don't see any 270, 280-pound mass monsters that are natural. Because you just can't, you see a lot of big natty guys. I see some huge natty power lifters that are super strong. But when they diet down, it's hard to preserve muscle tissue and lose that body fat and maintain it. There are some exceptions to the rule, but those people are outliers. Ronnie Coleman was supposedly natural when he turned pro. But there's only ever been one Ronnie Coleman that I know of. So it's not a good example. And anabolics also improve body composition. They give our body composition a better appearance. It's not saying that you have to use them. I see a ton of people that get, some of the guys that are natty competitors are absolutely fucking ripped. Probably more ripped than some of the enhanced guys. But there's just a certain look that you get to a physique when you use anabolics that you can't achieve without them. That big, full, bubbly look, I guess you would say, that the enhanced lifters have. And some people like that, some people don't. I don't judge. It's whatever you enjoy. I am a bodybuilder, so it's a tool in the toolbox to use anabolics. You can use it or you don't have to use it. Same thing with the fat burners. This is the hardest part of getting absolutely ripped. It's the psychology that goes along with it. We have to learn to deal with hunger. Hunger is just inevitable. The further along you get in the diet, the more hungry you're going to get. And there are chemical things that we can do to trick ourselves with hunger, to suppress hunger. I used Metformin this last year to suppress hunger. It worked pretty well. So there's, you know, Graylin ultimately wins in the end. You're going to get to a point where you're going to snap. That's why I like to get the fat off as quick as I possibly can. I usually like to do a 16-week prep. Anything much more than 20 weeks, I've found that people just lose their fucking minds. And they just get diet fatigue and the body just stops responding. It's just been my experience. And then you have to take a diet break at some point. Somewhere in that 16 to 20-week range is where people just tap out. There are other things you can do to manage hunger, such as food volume. Eating higher volume food that is lower calorie. Things like more vegetables, higher fiber foods. Things like that that you can trick your body with. But ultimately you will. The leaner you get, the more hungry you get. And when you get crazy. That's why you see dudes. It's crazy. You'll see guys at shows. Anybody who's competed at bodybuilding shows. They literally will bring backpacks full of fucking snack foods. Like there's some trick to getting on stage and having a backpack full of gummy bears and Doritos. It really doesn't make any difference the day of the show. Maybe like a 1% difference. Dudes just do it because they're fucking hungry. And they're starving. And they're thinking about eating that bag of Doritos and gummy bears. And drinking a Coca-Cola after the show's over. So anybody that's been backstage knows what I'm talking about. Guys go apeshit. Eating a whole dozen of donuts. They just lose their minds after a show. One of the things that you have to be ready for when you're dieting is dieting delirium. And this is why I think it's important to have a coach. I'm not saying that because I am a coach. I'm saying that because I have a coach. Everybody needs somebody to keep them on track when they're dieting. I found very few people can keep themselves on track with dieting. You end up losing your mind after a while. And I found honestly the beginning of the diet seems to be the hardest. The first 8 of the 16 weeks seems to be the worst. Because the progress is so slow. You're losing that 1% of your body weight. So if you're a 200 pound dude you're losing 2 to 3 pounds a week. And you don't see any difference in the mirror from week to week. You're getting weaker in the gym. You're getting flatter. You feel like shit. You're tired. You're hungry. And a lot of times guys will just give up and think that it's not working. They're like why am I not ripped? Why am I not ripped? Why am I not ripped? It's not until the last 4 to 6 weeks usually that I see that physiques start to pop out. Depends on how fat you are. The fatter you are the longer it's going to take. If you're like super fat then you might need 2 16 week runs. You know if you're 12-15% starting out then you can get through it. But people get diet delirium is what I call it. They just lose their fucking mind. They start second guessing themselves. They start second guessing the coach. They think they aren't losing weight. They think they aren't making progress. They think they're missing out on some drug plan. Some protocol. Some something in their diet that's not right. And they start second guessing themselves and doing stupid shit. Fuck up. They give up. A lot of people can't make it through. That's why you need someone to keep you on track. It is a slog. And I tell this to everybody that I coach through a diet. You got to get through it. You just got to get through it. You go through this phase where you just get smaller. You don't look any better. You get weaker. And you feel like shit. And it's really a mind fuck. Another thing to deal with too is people that have slip ups. I call it the off fuck it mode. Where they eat one gummy bear. And then they eat the entire pantry afterwards. They're just like fuck it. I'm done with this diet. And they go completely off the rails. If you make a mistake. Just stop. Get back on track. It happens. If you're trying to compete in a contest. You got to be perfect. But if you're just trying to get in shape for the beach. Don't worry about it. If you make a mistake. Just get back on track. To get super ripped. To get like crazy ripped. Like stage ripped. Attention to detail matters. Little details matter. And add up over the course of a prep. Weighing and measuring your food. And being exact with it. Every single ounce of food that you put in your mouth. Every condiment. Every drink. Everything needs to be measured and accounted for. If you want to get absolutely fucking ripped. And I'll give you an example. Let's just say you're one tablespoon of peanut butter a day off. In your measurement. One tablespoon. If you're just eyeballing that tablespoon of peanut butter. And it's actually two tablespoons. Not one. That's 100 calories a day. Times seven days. Times 16 weeks. We're talking about 11,200 calories. That you've miscalculated. Divided by 3,500 pounds. Or 3,500 calories for a pound of fat. That's an additional 3.2 pounds of fat. That you did not burn during that contest prep. If you were off by two tablespoons per day. Which is not much. Then you were talking about six and a half pounds. Six and a half pounds. Or three pounds. Whatever is the difference between winning and losing a show. That's the difference between being first place and fifth place. You know. If you're just getting ready for the beach. Doesn't matter. But if you're trying to get ripped. Like super ripped. Paying attention to every little fucking detail matters. Alright guys. There's a whole lot more that goes into it than this. But this is just some high level stuff. To give you some insight on what it takes. To get absolutely ripped. I hope you enjoyed this video. Please leave your comments in the comment section below. Whether you think I'm right or wrong. I want to hear from you. Take care. For coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com To book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones. Fat loss. Muscle gain. Physique. Athletic performance. Nutrition. And health. For more information. Shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com