warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, Big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A today. I've got some good questions lined up for you from my school member site and from the YouTube users that follow this channel. SomEQuestions that we have today is, does deca cause left ventricular hypertrophy? Will it damage your heart? Deca and NPP, nandrolone-based anabolics. Also I have, is goinGHypo on PrEP normal? Does that typically happen? Also, safe cycles for 66-year-old competitors. What would you consider to be safe for an older competitor who wants to extend his career in master's bodybuilding? Many of thesEQuestions came from my school anabolic bodybuilding members site. If you want to have your questions featured on the anabolic Q&A weekly, you can join for $29 a month. It's super cheap. I also answer questions over there. If you have things you want to ask me directly in the group, we have over a hundred members. It is a great value. Also some free courses on the blast and cruise methodology, insulin use, carb cycling, et cetera, are also included as a part of the $29 a month membership. It's a great value. Go over and join today. I think you'll be very happy with what you receive over there. All right, folks, enough of that. Let's dig into thEQuestions in just one second. All right, first question I got here is from Sean Thompson from the school anabolic bodybuilding members site. I goofed up last week and I totally missed Sean's question. I talked about it in the leader to the video and I just whiffed and missed it. I apologize, Sean. Sean's question is when prepping for a show, is it ideal to be ready early, but how early is too early? And at what point does reversing into a show stop being beneficial and just become maintaining a depleted state longer than needed? Yeah, this is a complex one. I have my thoughts on it and I've tried it both ways. I've tried being ready for shows super early with people. I've tried running it up until the last minute. Neither are great if you ask me. I was ready really early for my show last year. I thought I looked my best about six weeks out from the show, five weeks out. And then I think I just got flatter and flatter as I got closer to the show. For a big guy like me, sometimes it's hard to maintain fullness and maintain conditioning going into a show. And that's what I've seen. It really just depends on what body fat you start off at and what metabolism you have. Some dudes have higher metabolisms than others. And some guys are like me where my metabolism just gets faster and faster and faster towards the end of prep. I don't know why mine is like that. And I have seen a small handful of dudes that are like that where their metabolism just spins up, heats up, and they just burn through more calories and flat. Now, there are other dudes that I have to drive up until the last minute to get all the fat off. Those are also not fun either. I would say in an ideal world, I like to have guys ready about two weeks out. Two weeks out is perfect. 10 to 14 days. If you're ready too early, it gets to be really hard to maintain a certain look. You don't want to be in a caloric surplus going into a show every day. You don't want to accumulate fat. So it's like this game you play where you're in a deficit for a few days and you push up. You're in a deficit for a few days and you push up and do a high day. At usually a week out to seven to 10 days out, if a guy is already in shape, what I like to do is go ahead and push them, their food back up, pull the cardio back, lower the intensity with the trening and get them freshened up. And a lot of times we still are in a caloric deficit, but let's say if I have somebody eating 100 grams of carbs on a medium day, IMight push them up to 200 and IMight pull the cardio, like let's say if we're doing an hour of cardio, IMight pull it back down to 30 or 20 minutes, something like that, about 10 days out and kind of get them freshened up. And IMay sprinkle in some high days here and there to fill out glycogen. And we just really see what they look like and what's the best look. A lot of it's just a judgment call, it's nuance. I do like to have people ready early in an ideal world. So really on a 16 week prep, if you can be ready by week 14, I think that's good. Really where IMash the gas pedal down when I prep people is somewhere in that 10 weeks out to two weeks out range. In that range, I like to push things and then back off as we get closer. The problem is if you keep pushing up until the day of the show, what I've seen is dudes just look worse and worse and worse. If you're trying to burn fat all the way up to the show, it just doesn't usually yield a better look. If you're not ready by seven to 10 days out, you're just not ready, period. You just probably should do a later show, pick something later. I also like to sprinkle in, and I've been playing around with it. I have tried different approaches, but I like to sprinkle in these hard pushes where it may be, let's say in the middle part of prep, like something like six to eight weeks out where maybe I'll take two or three days and basically do a protein sparing modified fast where I will have them do zero carbs, zero fats for like two or three days, nothing crazy, two or three days, and then we will do a high day and fill back out and use that as a strategic push to get fat off. And then sometimes when guys are lean and ready early, we'll start creeping the calories back up. It really just depends. It's nuanced. It's based on how somebody is looking, how their body is responding. I wish I could give you a tried and true formula, but it really kind of the ideal is to be ready at 10 to 14 days out. That should be when you're nailing your fat-free point. And then we slowly reverse up into the show. Really peak week should be easy. Anybody who stresses out about peak week beinGHard, you're just not ready. Peak week, when I prep people, really it's pushing the calories back up. It's lowering the cardio. It is lowering the trening intensity. It is increasing food. And then we do a water depletion starting at about 36 hours out, something like that. We start cutting water. And that's how we get guys lookinGHard and chiseled for shows. All right, next question is from Jake Maurer. Is goinGHypo the lasT4 weeks of contest prep something that is normal? What are some ways to mitigate goinGHypo after morning fasted cardio when it's far away from the weight session and carbs are introduced in goinGHypos while sleeping on low days? This dude just happens. And what that is, this is my theory on it. I'm not a scientist by any means, computer scientist maybe, but I am not a exercise physiologist or a medical doctor. But I speculate what happens is once you get to a certain point of leanness, you'recompletely glycogen depleted. Your liver has no glycogen. And if we're using GLP-1s, GLP-1s prevent gluconeogenesis. They especially retitrutide, from what I understand, prevents gluconeogenesis in liver glycogen synthesis. And so you get into the state where you really have no emergency reserves to tap into it. I would suspect that it's probably even worse on something like retitrutide. And you're at a point where your body is pretty much fat-free, so there's no fat left to burn either. What is the end result then? If your body can't make ketones, if your body cannot go into gluconeogenesis and convert amino acids into proteins or glucose, if your body has no liver glycogen, the only thing left that is going to happen is to go hypo. So probably at that point, if you're at that point of contest prep where you're goinGHypo randomly in the middle of the night, if you are goinGHypo when you're doing cardio, it's probably time to back off. I would guess that at that point, you're essentially fat-free. That would be my speculation based on the physiology of how everything is working at that point. I would probably reintroduce some carbs, maybe not do fasted cardio at that point, do fed cardio during the day, at the end of the day. I do have a preference for fasted cardio. I know the science says that fasted cardio really makes no difference. It's net energy balance. I just have not seen that to be true in practicality. I know the science people, their heads are going to explode. Maybe there is some component that we are missing. Of course, it could all just be in our damn heads. It's just the way bodybuilders have done things since the beginning of time. I do like keeping my cardio away from my weight trening sessions. I try to keep those sacred if possible. There are some times where it's just unavoidable if you have to do multiple cardio sessions throughout the day. Doing cardio post-workout is just a necessary evil at that point, but in an ideal world, we want to keep it away from our trening sessions so our trening session can be sacred and we can use that post-workout window to get carbohydrates in and replenish a little bit. At that point, if you're goinGHypo from fasted cardio, if you're goinGHypo in the middle of the night, I would probably reintroduce some complex carbs. I probably would stop the fasted cardio or maybe lower the cardio, depending on what your condition looks like. You'll see it sometimes. The precursor to this is guys will wake up in the morning towards the end of contest prep and they'll have high blood sugar. They're like, what the fuck is going on? I'm depleted. I should be insulin sensitive. Why am I waking up with high blood glucose levels? And what's happening is you're probably goinGHypo in the middle of the night or having a bit of a dawn effect or Samoghi effect where your glucose dips and then you have the spike in cortisol and glucagon and glucose comes up as a mechanism to prevent you from dying. Now, Retta Trutide and some of the other GLP-1s and fat burning agents that we're using may alter this response from the body to protect you and may increase the risk of goinGHypo. I would assume that that's probably a risk with Retta Trutide specifically, since it's a triple agonist and has glucagon agonist in it, which I would assume would probably increase the risk of goinGHypo during a contest prep. Anyway, those are my thoughts. That's what I would do. All right, next question here is from Scott Brinkman. Scott says, I am a 66-year-old competitor. I just started competing two years ago and I want to keep doing it for as long as possible. In order to be as safe as I can, I'm limiting my PED use to testosterone, masteron, primobolin, and serostim in as small dosages as will yield results. Maybe some orals thrown in the last few weeks before show. What preventative health measures would you recommend to offset whatever risk there may be in commitment to traveling down this risky path that a lot of us can't imagine living without? I just posted on Instagram today about bodybuilding not beinGHealthy and being a dangerous sport full of risk. Now, with that said, I always like to use the analogy of riding a motorcycle around a racetrack at 200 miles per hour. There are safer ways to ride a motorcycle around a track at 200 miles per hour, but doing crazy shit like that is still inherently associated with higher risk than it would be just staying on your couch. Now, if we want to live life, accepting risk is just part of it. That's just how it goes. If you want to be a badass, climb a mountain, play football, get in the MMA ring, whatever you want to do, if you want to be a real badass, you're going to accept some risk. That's just how it goes. Now, there are things to do that we can mitigate risk with PEDs and competitive bodybuilding. As an older competitor, I think your compound choices are probably pretty safe. The devil is in the dose too. It's not just compound choice. Dose and compound choice play a factor in toxicity and danger and risk. And when we look at the risk of PED use, what is the largest potential risk as far as PED users go, it's cardiovascular health, number one, I would say. Number two would be kidney health, renal health. I don't really see, you know, usually when you hear of bodybuilders dying from PED use or long-term abuse, it's usually a cardiovascular event most commonly. You do hear of guys having renal failure and end up on dialysis, and then it's a slow decline into death and demise. And, you know, they slide out of control. You know, there are other secondary risk factors, you know, diabetes and liver damage and such things, but I would say those are the biggest risk for acute health events. So I would prioritize managing your cardiovascular health as number one, managing your blood pressure. The same shit goes for young guys as it does for old guys. I would start with blood pressure first. Synthetic androgens are going to stimulate the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. They are going to stimulate the central nervous system. So you need to manage that probably with some sort of drug that's going to modulate angiotensin enzyme. You know, you can use an ACE inhibitor or an ARB. Talk to your doctor about that. Potential CNS stimulation with something like a beta blocker is something that some people may need. Keeping your diet clen, doing cardio, taking breaks from the PEDs. I like to program in long breaks myself. You know, I've been on TRT pretty much since my show last year. IMean, I've been on 200 milligrams of tests and three or four units of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, basically 10 out of the last 12 months. I think taking long breaks, I'm not saying you have to be off that long, but you know, probably a few months taking a break and pulling back down to TRT and just letting your body recover, heal up, have a break, room to breathe is probably intelligent. I would say limiting the use of toxic compounds such as orals. Orals, I don't, you know, everybody gets worried about orals and liver health. I have yet to hear of a bodybuilder dying of liver failure. I'm not saying that it hasn't happened. I just don't hear of it that frequently. I do hear plenty of guys having cardiovascular problems, blocked arteries, heart attacks, strokes, blood clots, things like that. That's very common. And orals are going to smash your lipids. They just do. The safe ones like Anuvar are going to trash your lipids. So I would really limit your run of orals to five to six weeks per year. IMean, that's probably it. Add in things like fish oil, potentially outside of blood pressure management, you're going to need to make sure your lipids are in range. If your lipids aren't in range, you may need to consider using statins or ezetimibe, something like that. I'm not saying that everybody needs it, but it's something to consider if you're at risk. Maintaining your lipids and watching your lipids, not just the HDL and LDL, but looking at your particle sizes, making sure that your ApoB is in check and keeping an eye on that Apo little a, keeping an eye on that, keeping an eye on your kidney numbers, making sure that your kidneys are healthy. A lot of that's just going to be from managing blood pressure. So I would say those are the things that you want to keep an eye on. And the same thing goes for young guys. It's not just older guys. And then, you know, dose and compound choice matter. Dose and compound choice matter. You probably don't want to be running Trenin and Adderall when you're 65. Or, you know, if you are, understand the risk that you're accepting and keep it to very, very, very, very limited time periods. IMean, I'm talking about the last few weeks of contest prep. Last year for my contest prep, I essentially ran no Trenin. I tried it for like a week and then had to dump it. I did run high doses of test, Primo, Masteron, and I held the Winstrel until the last 15 days or so. That was it. And that was the healthiest I've come out of prep. I actually, I think my blood work was worse on cruise, probably because my diet sucked, than it was at the end of contest prep. Anyway, hopefully those tips help you. Next question is from Nathan Yamazaki. Nathan asks, moving to daily pinning after watching your video on injection frequency using shallow IM, what are your general recommendations for pinning areas to rotate over four to seven days? If you're running shallow IM, it's not too, you know, too big of a deal. IMean, I rotate, I do left delt, right delt, left tricep, right tricep, left glute, right glute, left quad, right quad. I know some guys don't likEQuads. They have issues with quads. I have more problems with my glutes than I do with quads. So, IMean, you know, you've, IMean, what do we got here? We goT4, six, eight injection sites. So I'm hitting one spot every eighth day. That is going to be relatively safe and you're not gonna have to worry too much about scar tissue accumulation. I usually use the, for shallow IM injections, I get the 25 gauge, one CC insulin needles, the five eighth inch long ones. Now, if you got so much fat on your ass that you can't get through all that, you might need a longer ones, but if your body fat is reasonably in check, the five eighths should get it done or use a one inch. One inch will probably get it done. The only downside of doing the daily injections is it is a literal pain in the ass. I fuckinGHate doing injections. I get tired of it. Sometimes I just get lazy and I do one or two a week when I'm cruising because I just get tired of penning all the fucking time. Now, the benefits you're gonna get from more frequent injections, you're gonna have more stable blood levels. You're going to have lower estradiol conversion and probably better conversion to DHT. I don't know. IMean, it's really subjective. I know some of the science says that, you know, if you're using longer esters, probably twice a week, you could get away with, you'd be just fine. I find that guys that struggle with estradiol conversion tend to do a little bit better when they're doing more frequent injections, really it's a personal choice. I just get tired of penning and I'll do it when I'm on blast just for convenience sake. So I remember to take my shots and I don't want to be injecting three cc's of gear every other day. So I just cut down the volume and use the daily frequent injections and do it shallow IM with the 25 gauge 5 8 inch needle. That's what I do. Anyway, hopefully that helps. Next question here is from Patrick M8020. Patrick asks, do artificial sweeteners have their place on contest prep? How soon before the show would you cut out diet drinks and gum? I live off of Coke Zero on contest prep and sugar-free sweetener in my coffee. It keeps me sane. I have a sweet tooth. I get sugar cravings. It helps me to stay on track with the diet. I would say if it helps you to stay on track with the diet, go for it as long as it doesn't upset your stomach. I will say this, sugar alcohols, I would be on the lookout for sugar alcohols. There is definitely an upper limit of sugar alcohols that you can use before you get into shit your pantsville. Your stomach will blow up at some point and your guts are going to pop out your butthole after you eat too much sugar alcohols. So just be careful with the sugar alcohols. I usually cut artificial sweeteners, anything that's got food dyes in it, et cetera, really and just stick with water and natural foods the last 10 to 14 days before show. I don't know that they really have much of an effect on your look, but we just want to have everything buttoned up. We don't want to leave anything to chance going into a show. You don't want to sit there and think, God damn it, I wish I hadn't drank those Coke Zeros the one peak week. Does it make a difference? Probably not, but I would rather be safe than sorry. So I just drink water, no flavored water, no sparkling water, nothing like that, just good old spring water the last 10 days before a show and black coffee. Those are the only liquids I'm putting in my body. I don't use any GQ sauce. You got to watch a lot of the sauces. A lot of the sauces have a lot of sugar alcohols in them, just something to be mindful of and chewing gum too. I've seen people, Roman talked about it the other week on the live where he had a female competitor that was eating a whole tub of gum every day and there's still a few calories in that if you look at it, even the energy drinks. IMean, I drink a lot of energy drinks. If you look at them, I think there's still like something like 30 calories in a 24 ounce or 16 ounce Monster, whatever they are. I think they're 16 ounces. You know, if you're drinking five of those a day and eating a whole fucking bucket of gum, IMean, you might have another five or 600 calories in your diet that you aren't accounting for. Same thing with the sauces. The sugar-free sauces still have calories and sugar-free ketchup. IMean, there's still calories and if you look at it and if you're dumping it all over all your shit all day long that adds up after a while if you're a person that has trouble losing fat. So that is something to be mindful of as well is to make sure that you're accounting for the calories that are potentially in these sugar-free, calorie-free Things. Roman was talking about, I can't believe it's not butter. I know this is not a sugar-free Thing, but we did the math on it. There's like something like 1100 calories in that whole jug of, I can't believe it's not butter. And if you're taking the top off of it and dumping it on your shit, or if you're dumping a bunch of sugar-free syrup on your stuff. And it also is sugar-free. I don't know what the fuck it is. You can look at my Instagram posts. Recently, I've been testing out sugar-free drinks at Starbucks. I don't think they're really fucking sugar-free. There is something going on there. My glucose will blow up to like 250 after having a sugar-free latte at Starbucks. You know, I know there's still some calories in it. IMean, there's going to be some carbs in the milk, although usually I get almond milk. I was doing oat milk and oat milk definitely has more calories in it. The almond milk still has some, but just something to be aware of. There's a lot of stuff that people don't consider and then it just adds up over time. And then you end up eating way more calories than you think you are. Anyway, my main concern with sugar-free stuff is how it's going to affect your gut, causing gut distention, bloating, and fucking up your digestion. Those are the main things I worry about on prep. Next question is from Roland R.O. Roland asks, does Nandrolone really cause left ventricular hypertrophy? Nandrolone being Deca and MPP. I'm going to do a Nandrolone-only cycle with a little test, 25 to 30 milligrams weekly for E2. I wonder how much Deca I can push without causing left ventricular hypertrophy. I want to start at 600 milligrams. Bro, I can tell you I've done Deca-only cycles before they are terrible. Don't even fucking do it, man. It's just a dumb way to do your cycles. There are some people out there that advocate for it. It's, even at 25 milligrams of testosterone a week, that's probably not going to be enough to get adequate estrogen conversion. You also are going to be missing out on DHT conversion, which is also necessary for your health. And with, Nandrolone does just weird shit to you. I'm getting away from the LVH stuff. Doing that kind of Nandrolone, I'll tell you, I can tell you from firsthand, Nandrolone-only cycles, you know, I love when the guys say they're side effect free. Really? I didn't notice that. You might not have the upregulation in the aromatase expression that you would get when you, or estrogen, the estrogenic effects that you get when you run it with tests, but you certainly have other problems. I had full-blown anxiety. I had erectile dysfunction. I was, just felt really fucking weird. It just was not a good thing. I just think running a Nandrolone-only cycle is really, really fucking dumb. I don't know why people want to reinvent the wheel. It makes the most sense to have testosterone be the base of your cycle, because we know the downstream effects is testosterone. We do need some estradiol conversion. We do need some DHT conversion to be healthy, grown adult men, and there's really no additional benefit for doing the Nandrolone-only cycle. Now, to address the LVH thing, there are studies that show that high-dose Nandrolone in rats, I wrote down some notes here, it led to a 30% increase in LVH wall, in wall thickening of the heart, and a collagen content in the heart muscle two to three times that of the rats in the control group. Now, I'm not saying that trenslates directly one-to-one to humans, but you end up with LVH, that rats ended up with LVH in fibrotic hearts, which is not good. I have to wonder if the additional collagen synthesis doesn't have downstream effects that are unintended. It also seems to elevate the expression of renin-angiotensin, I'm sorry, angiotensin-converting enzyme, and there was elevated ACE enzyme detected in the cardiovascular system when these rats were tested. You're going to have increased function of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. There's going to be stimulation, which is going to cause additional water retention and high blood pressure, also not good. And it also seems to increase expression of calcium channels, which calcium handling disruption, which is also going to cause vasoconstriction and all kinds of other problems. So really, IMean, the only way it sounds like to mitigate any of this stuff would to be use an ACE inhibitor and a calcium channel blocker, which is not ideal. Calcium channel blockers are going to impact your performance in the gym. Now, I would assume a lot of this is dose-dependent. This was in high-dose nandrolone-only cycles, but you can look at guys in the past that were doinGHigh-dose nandrolone-only cycles. A lot of them ended up with heart problems. Some famous people that come to mind, Mike Mincer and his brother, both were famous for running nandrolone-only cycles. Neither one of them, I believe, made it to 50. They both died of heart attacks. Now, some of that could be genetic. I know Mike was a meth addict. That probably didn't help things. But running nandrolone-only is probably not smart. And really, are you going to get more gains from it? I'm not really sure why people want to do it. I tried it out myself. Look, I've made every fucking mistake you can possibly make when running cycles. I've done every stupid thing you could possibly do. I saw no additional benefit from running nandrolone-only cycles. I didn't gain anything more. And I ended up having worse side effects than just running tests, a DHT derivative, and just keeping things simple. Test, DHT derivative, and GH, or whatever you tolerate well. And if you want to throw in some nandrolone, run a low-dose nandrolone along with that cycle. But weird things happen with nandrolone. Nandrolone, I did love Deca when I was younger, paired with testosterone. I felt like I got the most growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone out of it. Who knows, though? Maybe it was just all the extra water retention I got from it. When I had my best look, when I was making my best progress over the lasT4 or five years is when I ran test, Primo, and GH at higher doses. Just kept things really fucking simple. That's it. That's all I ran. Really, for the most part, when I went from a stage weight of 185 up to 250, pretty much mostly test, Primo, GH. You don't have to, some guys like Primo, some don't. Whatever, run Masteron, run EQ, whatever. Whatever floats your boat. But the base of my cycles were test and GH. That's it. Super simple. We know how the test and GH are gonna behave in the human body since they are bioidentical. Stick with the bioidentical stuff as your corecompounds. That's going to make the most sense and have the best safety profile. All right, next question I've got here is from Ant Santabello. He asked, do you think it is deleterious to take around 35 supplement pills, vitamins, et cetera, a day? Yeah, it's gonna be deleterious to your wallet and your bank account. Oh man, look, man, this is, I've been guilty of this myself, taking way too many pills. I had to have two fucking pill boxes. I was taking so much shit. And I went through and I kind of like, do I really need to take all this stuff, analyze everything I was taking and like, what is necessary? What is unnecessary? And I just got rid of all the stuff that didn't really provide any benefit. And saved a bunch of money, saw no detrimental effect to my health, nor my performance in the gym. And I saved a bunch of fucking money. Really, I think at the end of the day, what you need as far as core supplements go for most men would be a good multivitamin. Vitamin D, most people are deficient in vitamin D. Fish oil, most people don't get enough DHA and EPA in their diet. Probably some magnesium in there as well. And really, IMean, just keep it super simple. Just get the basic vitamins and minerals that you need. And then you can layer in other stuff as needed. You know, like if your liver enzymes are up, maybe run some NAC to pull them down. If you're struggling, you know, if your eGFR is kind of getting goofy, maybe run some astragalus to help with that a little bit. But for the most part, I would say the majority of supplements that people take, and you just end up accumulating them. Like they just become part of your routine. Some of the stuff I was taking, I wasn't even sure why I was even still taking it. I had just been taking it for years. It was something that I added to my routine and just continued to buy and put in my pill box. I was probably taking 50, 60 pills a day at some point. My guess would be from all the different supplements I'm running. If they're not contributing anything, and if they're not necessary at the given time where you're at, then dump them. Just keep it simple. Get your nutrients from good whole foods. You know, just run the basics. Multivitamin, vitamin D, vitamin C, a good fish oil pill, some magnesium. Those are the primary things I see people that are, they're deficient to, and vitamin D with K2. Look, you've got a handful of pills there you're taking, and that's gonna cover 99% of what you need throughout the day. Eat a diet with a variety of whole foods in it, and you're probably gonna get all the other micronutrients that you get. There's also somEQuestion about whether or not the stuff that's in a lot of supplements is even absorbed in your body. A lot of the stuff is not really regulated that well, and who knows if it's even real, or if it's even getting absorbed, or if it's even bioavailable. I have literally taken vitamins before where the binders were so strong in them, I saw the vitamins just sitting in my poop afterwards. My body was doing nothing with it. They just, you're pooping out pills. I don't remember what the multivitamin was I took. And a lot of it's just really fake stuff, a bunch of fucking binders, and just a bunch of BS. You know, look, there are some things that really work, like NAC, IMean, if you've got liver issues, NAC fucking works, I've seen it work. Astragalus does seem to have some effect on eGFR. It's not crazy, but it does seem to have some effect. And just keep things super simple and basic. All right, next question, and the last one, last but not least, is from bernardvance9041. He asks, when trensitioning from a blast to a cruise, should you titrate down over a few weeks, or do you just start your cruise injections right away? There's no reason to taper down at the end. The drug itself, the pharmacokinetics of it, it's going to half, based on the half-life, so for most people running Enanthate, esters, if you're running Enanthate, it has a six-to-eight-day half-life. The dose of the drug is going to half at every six-to-eight days, so it's going to taper down on its own. Now, I do like to taper up going into cycles, and the reason why I do that is because I do find that people tend to get big side effects when they go straight to max dose coming into cycles. IMean, some people do it. I know plenty of coaches that have people just start off on max doses. I usually taper up over a four-to-six-week period of time, but there's really no compelling reason to taper down. The drugs are going to eliminate as the half-life dictates towards the end, and just save yourself the additional complication and just come down to your cruise dose. Most of the time, guys don't even cruise enough time to actually let the doses come down. They'll be like six weeks, and they're running DECA, and they're ready to go back on blasting, and I'm like, bro, that guy's still not even fully cleared, or EQ. I laugh, because I heard some older bodybuilders from the early 90s talking about how they would come off completely for two months, and I'm like, well, EQ's got like a 10, 12-day half-life, something like that, and if you're running fucking EQ, you're talking about 60 days for it to even be effectively eliminated, and you're going back on cycle after six weeks of being off. Bro, you stopped injections, but you're never really off. So, that is a consideration that you have to make. So, to me, just go straight to your cruise dose. I would stay on cruise probably eight to 12 weeks minimum, depending on the half-life of your drugs, and then let your blood work dictate when you're ready to go back on blast. I like to see everything sort of back at a established baseline, wherever your normal baseline is. Make sure that kidney and cardiovascular health and all these other things that get skewed while you're on cycle are back to your baseline, and then you can turn things back up again. All right, folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. I'll catch you on the next episode next week. I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. You guys rock. You're the best. I love all of you. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.