WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, gym bros, Big Paul here today and I've got another video for you. We're going to talk about how you can eat a crap ton of carbs and not get fat. How I've eaten up to 2,000 grams of carbs on a high carbohydrate day and gotten leaner at the same time. Bros, I hate to break it to you, insulin and carbs don't make you fat, your crappy diet does. And I want to dig into how that works. I want to talk to you about how carb cycling works, how you can get lean eating a crap ton of carbs. But before we dig into that, I want to remind you folks about my ultimate cycle cheat sheet. It is fantastic. It's only 30 bucks right now. I have it at half price. It's normally $60. You can pick it up. I detail PED profiles, insulin, HDH, peptides, side effect mitigation, the blast and cruise methodology for gettinGHuge and getting ripped. How my approach to it works, it's 30 pages. I cut through all the bull crap on how to get big and distill it down into its simplest format and condense it all into just 30 pages so it's easy to read. For those of you that want something a little more detailed, I have the Science of Antibiotics and PED eCourse that Kurt Havens and I have put together. There's over 60 hours of videos there. If you want the deep dive and 100 plus lessons and we do a monthly livEQ&A, you can pick that up as well. Links to both are in the video description below and enough of that crap. Let's dig in on how to eat a shit load of carbs and not get fat. All right, so let's dig into this a bit. So how do you eat a crap ton of carbs and actually get leaner, have fuller, rounder muscles? This one perplexes bros, but Big Paul, they say. Don't carbs and insulin make you fat? They can if you're not handling things correctly. They can also make you huge and big, round, full, and look like your favorite pro bodybuilder on stage if you leverage them correctly. And I'm going to talk to you how and it's not by eating the typical bro diet. It's funny how bros get obsessed with fats and eating a crap ton of fats and fats literally contribute almost zero to building muscle outside of some EFAs. But Paul, what about hormones? What about your hormones, Mr. Paul, Mr. Big Paul? You need your hormones optimized. Hormones, steroidal hormones are made predominantly from, well, they are made from cholesterol. They are derived from cholesterol hormones. Steroidal hormones are derived from cholesterol. I have yet to see anybody with a blood panel that's deficient in cholesterol. I have yet to see anybody on a blood panel that is deficient in lipids. In fact, most people are over consuming fats and their lipids are way out of whack. Also, bros, you're getting your hormones from a 3cc, 22 gauge needle if you're savage like me. If you're a TRT bro, you're injecting it subqtaneously through an insulin needle. So why are you worried about hormone production, steroidal hormone production? You're already taking steroids. So insulin, carbs, glycogen synthesis, fat storage, I'm going to explain all that to you and how we run a carb cycling diet. You kind of get the best of both worlds. We trick, not really trick, but it's a way of manipulating the energy management systems, energy storage systems of the body. As a bodybuilder, we probably want to maximize glycogen storage to increase performance in the gym. Whether you like it or not, carbohydrates enhance performance in the gym. Try it out yourself. Go a day without eating carbs. Write down your numbers in your workout. See where they end up. Go in and eat a bunch of carbs. See where they're at the next day. I promise you, your performance in the gym is going to improve. I know there's going to be some guys that delude themselves and say, no, that's not the case. You're wrong, my friend. It's not the case. In fact, your muscles like carbohydrates, glucose so much that they actually have a built-in gas tank to store them called the glycogen stores. Your liver can also store glycogen. So we need to think about this critically. Carbs are essentially just fuel. I'll hear the argument all the time that there is no such thing as essentiALCARbohydrates. Bro, there's also no such thing as essential saturated fats. They don't exist either. There are EFAs. Most guys don't eat enough EFAs, eat too many saturated fats, too many omega-6s, don't get enough omega-3s, don't get enough EFAs in. You do need a certain amount of EFAs to be healthy, but it's not a lot. 20, 30 grams a day, maybe. You can push the fats up a little bit higher. You're going to have trace fats from all your meats that you eat. So with this system, with the carb cycling system, what we do is manipulate carbohydrate intake based on energy output. On low days where we're not working out, we'll keep the carbs low to a minimum. Something like, for me, 100 to 150 grams of carbs is plenty for me to function. You need somewhere around 150 as a decent-sized man for your central nervous system to function correctly. Otherwise, you get into this nether state where you're not in ketosis, but you don't have enough carbs so your brain works properly. So we need to have enough carbohydrates in so we can function during those days. You can even go zero carb on low-carb days when you're not working out, if you wanted to. That is a potential option. We also get into a state, eventually, where we're glycogen depleted. You'll see it with keto guys. When guys switch to keto diets, they talk about, wow, I lost eight pounds in a week. That is just water loss from loss of glycogen. For every gram of glycogen synthesized, there's going to be three grams of water, two to four, let's say three is an average, that's going to go into the muscle cell as part of the glycogen synthesis. You're going to have water retention as part of that. So what we do, we get ourselves in a glycogen depleted state. A large bodybuilder, a guy my size, can store an incredible amount of glycogen. And over a period of time, of years of trening, of doing this style of dieting, I have found that you can increase that glycogen synthesis. It seems there is some sort of adaptation that happens. I know the science nerds out there are going to say that you can't synthesize more than 500 grams of glycogen per day. I have not seen that to be the case. There are no studies on dudes like me. When I was on contest prep last year, there were high days where I would have 2000 grams of carbs and not gain an ounce of fat. I continued to get leaner. And I'll explain to you how that's possible. There's guys like Roman Fritz that'll go, Roman does some insane high days. Roman will go, you know, thousands of grams of carbs. Dennis Wolfe, I recall him, I think they carved him up on something like 6000 grams of carbs over a couple of days. I don't remember exactly, but it was a crazy amount of carbohydrates they would carve him up on. And dude got leaner and harder. So clearly there was no fat storage going on. And he had a huge capacity for glycogen synthesis. Now on the high carbohydrate days, when we do a high carbohydrate days, we are going to want to keep fat intake as close to zero as we possibly can. Here's the trade-off. insulin, when present, signals the body to use glucose as its primary energy resource instead of fat. So you ask yourself, what happens to the fat when insulin is present? That fat gets stored as body fat. It's probably not the carbs that are making you fat when there's insulin present. And when you eat carbohydrates, your insulin levels are going to rise. When you take exogenous insulin, definitely going to rise. So in the presence of insulin, any excess fats that you eat are more than likely going to be stored as body fat. It's just how it works. And in theory on this high day, we can eat in a caloric surplus because of how your body partitions these nutrients. If we keep it high carbohydrate and low in fat, we can skew that energy storage towards glycogen synthesis. If we keep the fats low and no fat gain or minimal fat gain. Let's say if you're a large dude like me, I've tested the upper limit before and I do a thousand grams of carbs. I know that I can synthesize more than that in glycogen. I know I can go upwards of 2,000 grams of carbs. I've done it before. If I do that, in theory, I could be in a caloric surplus. Let's say my BMR is 3,500 calories. I'm getting 4,000 calories just from carbs alone. By the time you count in my protein, I'm probably up in the amount, the base amount of fats that I'm getting probably 30, 40 grams from my protein that I'm eating, maybe less. I'm probably eating 6,000 calories in a thousand gram carb day, something like that. So I am in a 2,500 calorie surplus in theory and not gaining any fat. Now how that works is through glycogen synthesis. When I am eating those excess carbs, glycogen synthesis is increased in the muscles and the liver. If we get in a situation where we tip over, we eat too much carbohydrates, then in theory, we could have those carbohydrates stored as fat, but it needs to go through liponeogenesis and convert it into lipids by the liver first, then it gets stored as body fat. And there's the added benefit of being in a high carbohydrate state. High carbohydrates, lower AMPK, increase mTOR, increase IGF-1, increase glycogen synthesis, increase insulin production, and in turn, increase the potential for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. We are giving ourselves an opportunity to grow muscle, synthesize glycogen, have extra amino acid uptake on those days, and you pair that with higher volume trening. I think this is an area where guys make a mistake. You hear the guys that take insulin talk about getting fat from taking insulin. I think the mistake they are making is they're pairing it with high intensity, low volume trening. So there's not actually enough volume in that trening to stimulate GLUT4 trensport. The more volume trening you give, the more GLUT4 trensport there's going to be, thus, more glycogen synthesis stimulated. Now, that's not to say you just go balls to the wall and do unlimited amount of volume all day long. And you'll see it in a system like Milo Sarchev, what he uses, he has these guys doing these giant sets where they're doing a crap ton of volume, and they're doing a crap ton of volume, and they're doing a crap ton of volume, and they're doing a crap ton of volume, and they're doing a crap ton of volume, eating a crap ton of carbs with no fat, taking a crap ton of insulin, and they're forcing a bunch of glycogen synthesis, and they come out of the day looking full as a house. And if you do all this correctly, while keeping the fats low, in theory, you can be in that calorie surplus and not synthesize any new body fat. I continue to do it on my contest prep. As I got deeper into contest prep, you become more glycogen depleted throughout the week because of being in a calorie deficit and having carbs a bit lower. And then you have to super compensate on those high carb days. I've super compensate on those high carb days. I've also seen it on rebounds where dudes will just blow up quickly post-show from the additional glycogen synthesis. We can do the math on this here. People freak out when they see the scale go up after the high day. They think they are getting fat. If, let's say, in theory, I am synthesizing a thousand grams of carbohydrates into glycogen, it's going to take two to four parts water. We'll split the difference, three, to synthesize that glycogen. So we are adding three grams of water per every gram of glycogen, plus there's some amino acids in there that are going to be part of the storage. So we're talking about, let's just round out the even numbers, we're talking about 4,000 grams of additional stuff that we're pushing into that muscle. That's four kilos times 2.2 pounds per kilo. That is 8.4 pounds of additional size coming out of a high day. Now, how do you think you're going to look on stage or in the gym two days later? It takes up to 48 hours to fully synthesize glycogen. It's 24 to 48 hours. And you'll see it when you do this, that you look your best two days after your high day. That's why you should carb up a few days before show. I think dudes all the time are trying to carb up the day of the show, the day before the show, and when they're dehydrated, which is just stupid because you need water to synthesize glycogen and you're water depleting, you can't really synthesize glycogen. And there hasn't been enough time to actually really synthesize any glycogen because they're doing it too late. You're really just doing nothing at that point. But how do you think you're going to look with an extra six, eight pounds worth of stuff shot into your muscle through glycogen synthesis and water retention in the muscle, not outside the muscle. We want it in the muscle. I think you're going to look a hell of a lot better on stage. I think your workouts, if you're not a competitor, are probably going to be a hell of a lot better if you synthesize that much muscle. You're going to look a lot better at the club, bro, with that much additional glycogen synthesis. All right, folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. Hopefully this helped cleared up how you can eat a bunch of carbs and not get fat and why insulin may or may not make you fat depending on what you eat. If you eat a shit diet full of bacon, sausages and ribeyes with your carbohydrates, you might get fat, probably will get fat. Anyway, bros, I appreciate each and every one of you. Leave a comment in the comment section below. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com