WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today with a topic you all are going to love. I'm being a little sarcastic here. We're going to talk about cholesterol and how steroids up your lipids. I know this is the one you've been waiting for. I'm going to make it anyway. I know probably it's not going to get a ton of views, but I think it's important information that we need to know about. I do a ton of consults annually. I think I did close to 500 last year and the large majority of them are blood panel reviews and I see a ton of blood panels and almost everybody that I look at that has used PEDs has completely screwed up lipid panels. Some worse than others, some not as bad. A lot of it depends on diet. If you are a keto or carnivore bro and you're pounding the saturated fats, dumping butter on top of your ribeye, you're probably going to have worse lipids than the guy that's eating a low-fat diet and we'll talk about that. We'll talk about how to manage lipids while you are on PEDs and to keep things in line and reduce risk. This is ultimately about harm reduction and reducing risk while on PEDs because we all know if I tell you not to take them, you're still going to take them anyway. So let's just be honest and try to make this as safe as we possibly can if we're going to be idiot bros and take PEDs. Look, I'm no person to judge. I do the same thing. I take risks. I do dumb things sometimes, but let's talk about how we can do it a little bit safer. Before we get into that, I want to remind you guys about the President's Day sale. It's still going on for the Science of Antibiotics and PEDs e-course that researcher Kurt Havens and I have put together. We have a lot more stuff in there about side effect mitigation. If you're concerned about how to manage side effects, do effective cycles and keep yourself reasonably healthy while you're doing so. We have information there on how to reduce harm. There's an entire side effect section that you can dig into. The course is 20% off right now. I think the sale ends on Monday if I recall correctly. Use the code USA at the checkout. There is a link in the video description below if you want to go over there and do it. There's also a free preview. Enough of that. Let's dig into how to lower your cholesterol while you're using steroids like a dunderhead bro in just one second. All right. Let's start tearing this one apart. We're going to talk about what causes high cholesterol with PED users and how we can mitigate that high cholesterol and make yourself a bit safer while you're taking PEDs. I think we sort of need to start at the top and work our way down. When you think about the risk from taking PEDs, the single biggest thing that gets bodybuilders in trouble, the one that kills dudes, is managing cardiovascular health. That is the cascade that falls apart where bros end up in serious health decline. You get high blood pressure. You get cardiovascular disease, clots, strokes, heart attacks, aneurysms, left ventricular hypertrophy from poor cardiovascular health, kidney disease that's ultimately a result of unmanaged cardiovascular health for the most part. There's some things that might be directly nephrotoxic, but mostly it's just from unmanaged high blood pressure, bad cardiovascular health, and there's a cascade of things that happen that cause this. One of the big things that we need to look at is lipids, managing lipids. Most guys just ignore that part. They check their blood pressure. They don't give two fucks about their cholesterol because some meat-eating guru on Instagram has said, nah, you don't need to worry about that stuff. It doesn't matter. Now, look, I'm not saying that everyone with high cholesterol ends up with cardiovascular disease, but most people with cardiovascular disease do have high cholesterol. There is a direct correlation between that, whether you like it or not. It's sort of like riding a motorcycle without a helmet. You may be perfectly fine. Never get into an accident. Never split your cranium open on the pavement because you just got lucky, or maybe you're a super skilled rider. I don't know. I always like comparing bodybuilding risk to riding a motorcycle because it is a dangerous and really fun and cool activity. I love riding motorcycles. I love doing bodybuilding. They're both silly. They're both stupid bro stuff, and I'm stupid bro. I'm right there with you guys. So managing cardiovascular health should be our top priority if we look at the things that are going to kill bodybuilders, and a component of that is managing lipid health. It's an undeniable thing. We need to pay attention to our lipids. Now, there is going to be some lipid skewing from taking PEDs. It just happens. We can mitigate some of that. We can reduce it. We can keep it at a minimum, but it is sort of cost of doing business. The liver, just like other parts of the body, has androgen receptors, and some people won the genetic lottery, and they don't seem to have a response to the stuff where it doesn't bother them in a negative way. It doesn't seem to activate the AR in a negative way, or they just don't have the genes for that. Some guys don't grow muscle. Some guys do grow muscle. Some guys lose their hair. Some guys don't lose their hair. Some guys get acne. Some don't. Some dudes get a 300 LDL and a 5 HDL. Some guys don't. Now, from what I've seen, from having looked at hundreds upon hundreds of blood panels over my time coaching, almost everyone I see that's on PEDs has suppressed HDL and high LDL. That is just normal for guys that are on PEDs. Now, I'm not saying you should accept that, and there are things that we can do to mitigate that. So, what happens is, anabolic steroids activate the androgen receptor in the liver, altering lipid metabolism to favor HDL suppression and elevation of LDL. HDL is known as the good cholesterol, and the good cholesterol assists with the clearance of LDL, the bad cholesterol. When the ratio of LDL and HDL is skewed, the risk of cardiovascular disease increases. Now, that does not mean that you're going to get cardiovascular disease, but it means that you are at a higher risk if there are other factors in play, such as high blood pressure, which can damage the endothelium of the blood vessels, taking stimulants, smoking, drinking, other risk factors, not managing your blood pressure, having a terrible girlfriend that stresses you out. These are things that can contribute to poor cardiovascular health. Not doing cardio. I'm guilty of that one. I've been better about it. I've done cardio five out of the last seven days. Give me a gold star, folks. I'm getting better about that. So, the HDL is lowered through increased lipase, hepatic lipase activity in the liver. Steroids stimulate hepatic lipase, an enzyme in the liver that breaks down HDL particles. This causes faster clearance of the HDL particles from the blood circulation, which lowers HDL levels, which we don't want. It also reduces APO-A1 production, APO-A1 lipoprotein production, which also lowers HDL. APO-Lipoprotein-A1 is a key protein in HDL formation and function. Steroids inhibit its production, which inhibits HDL synthesis. That's bad. Increased LDL and VLDL production. Steroids boost the liver's production of low-density lipoprotein, LDL, and a very low-density lipoprotein, VLDL, which can further disrupt HDL metabolism and reduce its levels. Oral steroids make this even worse. There are certain steroids that seem to have more suppression of HDL. From what I've seen, the DHT-derived steroids make it worse. More specifically, the DHT-derived oral steroids are the cholesterol bombs, something like Winstraw, Anadrol. You're going to get the worst. Even good old, benign, friendly Anuvar, I will see guys end up with single-digit HDL from Anuvar sometimes. Even the injectable ones, Primavol and Masteron, seem to lower it. Estrogen levels, estradiol levels have a role in it too, and estradiol is extremely low. That also furthers, further impairs lipid metabolism, and you end up with further skewed lipids. So you don't want to spend the majority of your year with smashed estrogen. It's just a bad idea. You want to keep it, I like to keep it at the top end of the reference range. There's really no additional benefit from having super physiological levels of estrogen, unless you like growing titties, being a bloated, emotional mess, crying at rom-coms. If you like that, then maybe it's a good idea to run high estrogen. You know, estrogen is high as an ovulating woman. Just run it at the top end of the reference range. You're going to get all the benefits without having a limp dick and an emotional outburst when you watch a rom-com. Um, so orals are bad. They're even worse. I don't, you know, everybody gets hung up on the liver, liver damage from orals. The liver is pretty resilient. I've seen some nasty, nasty AST and ALT levels from people running oral steroids and they bounce back and they're just fine. It's the lipid skewing that concerns me more and being suppressed for a long time. I had a guy I knew, a friend who loved to run and a draw 365 days a year. Guy ended up having a clogged coronary artery and died while he was bench pressing. And likely it was his high fat diet along with high blood pressure. I know that he had high blood pressure. He was a big dude, big power lifter along with the further HDL suppression and lipid skewing caused by running and a draw way too much. He loved his sustenon. He loved his decand he loved his anadral and it ultimately killed him. Um, oral steroids must pass through the liver first before entering the blood stream. This process increases the increases hepatic stren, uh, leading to more potent suppression of HDL and higher LDL. Oral steroids are methylated and that methylation needs to be cleaved through the liver before the drug becomes available for use. Injectable steroids bypass this process. Now guys think, you know, Hey, I'm going to take my injectable anadrol. It's not going to be as bad. It still is methylated. It doesn't change it. Um, this leads to more severe lipid disturbances than you're going to get from just a regular injectable steroid, uh, increased in hepatic lipase activity from taking oral steroids. Oral steroids more strongly activate hepatic lipase, an enzyme in the liver that breaks down HDL, the good cholesterol, which we don't want broken down. This leads to a faster clearance of HDL causing sharper reductions in HDL levels compared to injectables, a greater impact on VLDL. Oral steroids are alkylated C17 alpha alkylation requiring it to survive digestion. This is how, even if you inject it, this is why I say it doesn't make any difference. It's still C17 alpha alkylated. Uh, this makes them more liver toxic. This can lead to cholestasis, bioflow blockages. I've seen dudes with, with bioflow blockages. That's why you should take some Tukka while you're on oral steroids to help with bioflow. Uh, this impairs the liver's ability to clear LDL. So you have higher accumulations of LDL if bioflow is impacted. Uh, duration, the duration, the half-life of the oral steroids, they have very short half-lives. Most of them are like six, seven hours, some less, some more, you know, just, just ballpark. Oral steroids often have shorter half-lives, which requires frequent dosing. Guys that are taking them multiple times a day. Um, this leads to more frequent spikes in hepatic enzyme activity. And worsening of lipid profiles. Injectable steroids release gradually leading to more stable impact on cholesterol. This is why if I do take orals, I usually try to limit them a couple hours pre-workout just on lifting days. I limit my exposure to them. I just, you know, I find that I get better results that way. It's not as impactful on the liver. You can do other things that are going to help with liver function, taking NAC, Tukka milk thistle, that does seem to help. But from what I understand, that also reduces the effectiveness of the oral steroid. All right, so moving on. Here's a dirty word in bodybuilding. Statins. Bros crack me up. They will take Trin made in some dude's bathtub in Tijuana. Some experimental peptide that may cause you to get butthole cancer, but is going to make you grow muscle. They don't give two fucks about that. But when it comes to taking a statin, look out. I'm not taking a statin. The doctor told me I'm taking statin. That might blow up my gains. That might kill me. It is hilarious to me that guys are worried about, worried about a statin affecting their liver and killing them and they don't give two fucks about taking 200 milligrams of anadrol. It is absolutely hilarious and mind-numbing that people are that, that detached from the effects of the stuff that they'll, they will take those risks, but they refuse to take a statin. It's utterly ridiculous to me. Statins block cholesterol synthesis, the HMGA-CoA reductase inhibitor, if I can say it, co-reductase enzyme, which is responsible for cholesterol production in the liver. Sorry, I'm reading my notes here. This reduces the overall LDL, bad cholesterol levels, typically elevated with anabolic steroid use. A lower LDL means less competition for HDL, helping preserve HDL function. Now diet can come into play here, folks. What I found is we don't have a lot of control over HDL. HDL is largely genetic in the drugs that we take that are going to affect HDL. You can raise it a bit with some supplements and taking things like a statin. You can't affect it much through your diet. LDL is largely under your control, mostly. Some guys just have a genetic propensity to make more LDL. They, sometimes, also I'll see guys with insulin resistance and metabolic disorders that have higher LDL production. But what I will tell you is for the most part, at least when I have worked with people, I keep guys on low saturated fat diets. We put them on high EFA diets, high omega-3s specifically. We do get some omega-6s in there. We try to get the ratio of omega-3s, omega-6s balanced. And we keep the fats relatively low. And I always see improvements in LDL. LDL will come down. Now with that said, the standard on blood work now is 100 for an LDL. I almost never see anybody under 100. If you can get close to 100, that's probably about as good as it's going to get. It's the ratio of LDL to total cholesterol that really matters the most. I believe it's 5 to 1 if I recall correctly. Don't quote me on that. So that's something to keep in mind. You can control your LDL. Your HDL, you don't have a lot of control over, at least not as much control. You can greatly reduce your LDL with supplements, drugs, and diet. Diet alone is a lot of times just doing some cardio. Not dumping ghee and butter on everything you eat. Not eating bacon and sausages. I know it's good. I know it's yummy. Not having ribeyes for five meals a day. Statins also increase LDL receptor activity. They increase the number of LDL receptors in the liver cells, enhancing clearance of LDL from the blood. Since anabolic steroids raise LDL, statins help counteract this effect by reducing arthrosclerotic risk. Statins are anti-inflammatory and protect the endothelium of blood vessels. Statins improve endothelial function by increasing nitric oxide production and reducing inflammation in blood vessels. The cool thing about increased nitric oxide production is it helps give you good boners. And this reduces inflammation and swelling in the blood vessels. Since anabolic steroids contribute to vascular damage, statins provide a protective cardiovascular effect. The most effective statins for HDL, really the best for bodybuilders, is risuvastatin. And we'll talk a little bit about risuvastatin. It has the lowest toxicity risk amongst the potent statins, high-potency statins that we take. It is the lowest muscle toxicity. I correct myself here. Other statins, especially simfastatin and atorvastatin, can cause muscle pains, cramps, muscle weakness. That is an issue that you run into when you take statins. Risuvastatin is hydrophilic, meaning it doesn't accumulate in the muscle tissue as much as a lipophilic statin, like the other statins, reducing muscle-related side effects. So, it doesn't accumulate in the muscle tissue like some of these other statins do, reducing the negative effects on bodybuilders. It boosts HDL by as much as 5 to 10 percent. Now, that's not a ton. If your HDL is in the 20s, you know, maybe we can get it back up to 30. If you're at 30, maybe we can get it back up to 35, something like that. It reduces vascular inflammation, which is beneficial for athletes, especially for us taking PEDs and treninGHard. We're going to be in a high oxidative state with a lot of inflammation. It is most effective for mitigating dyslipidemia from anabolic steroids, from what I've seen. It's the best choice. How much? Depends. 10 milligrams? 20 milligrams? I'm not telling you to go out and self-prescribe this stuff. You need to have a discussion with your doctor about it. Most doctors are more than willing to put dudes on statins. I've never heard of a doctor objecting to putting people on statins. And most are more than willing to give you resuvastatin. I think brand name is Crestor, if you want to talk to your doctor about it. I currently am on 10 milligrams of resuvastatin. I posted my lipids up recently on my blood work review. You can go back and look at that. I think that video was up two weeks ago. It's up there. If you want to go check it out, you can see where my lipids are at. Even with my fucked up A1c, my lipids were pretty decent for a bodybuilder. Bodybuilder decent. And supplements. I know I'm probably not going to be able to convince all of you to take a statin. You probably should be doing all of the above if you have lipid skewing. So let's think about some supplements that are good for fixing cholesterol. Well the first big thing is fix your shitty diet. That is usually the biggest problem. If your diet sucks, if you're a keto or carnivore bro and slathering butter on ribeyes, that's a bad, bad, bad idea while taking PEDs. It's akin to riding a motorcycle in your shorts, flip-flops, and no helmet. It looks cool until you go down on the ground and you smash your head on the pavement like a cantaloupe. And the kids in the other lane that are driving by have to live and see that for the rest of their life. See that guy that split his skull open on the pavement? Don't be that dude that dies of a heart attack in the gym. And while he's bench pressing, his face is all purple. That's what happened to my buddy. Somebody's got to remember that and give you CPR. So just something to consider. So supplements to improve lipids if you're a stubborn bro asshole and don't want to take a statin or talk to a doctor about taking a statin. Supplements that will improve niacin is one of the best for improvinGHDL, but niacin sucks. Niacin is really hard to take because of the flushing effect that you get from niacin. And the no flush niacin, from what I understand, doesn't seem to lower or improve HDL much. It doesn't have much of an effect on it. You got to get the gnarly full flush niacin. I would say start off at 250 milligrams. Work your way up to 500. The higher the dose that you can go to, the better. I've heard of people taking up to 2,000. I can't go much past 500. I feel like I have a swarm of ants on my body if I go much more than 500. So I think that's a good place to start. Fish oil, five to 10% increase in HDL from fish oil aT4 to five grams per day. I know that sounds like a lot, four to five fish oil pills a day. You can get the high potency ones. I think they're, I don't know. I take 10 grams a day of fish. Well, I do a combination of fish and flax. It can raise your LDL a little bit. So that's just something to keep in mind. But the corresponding increase in HDL is probably worth it. Fish oil is also anti-clotting, so it helps with blood viscosity. That's another concern with bodybuilders. We know many bodybuilders that have died from blood clots. They throw a clot, pulmonary embolism, they die, they end up having a stroke, they end up having a heart attack. We know dudes that that's happened to. Fish oil, some low dose aspirin, I think 87 milligrams aspirin. You can do it like every other day. You don't need a ton. Citrus bergamot has been shown to lower HDL as much as 20% at 500 to 1,000 milligrams per day. Or I'm sorry, raise HDL, not lower. We want to raise it. Does that trenslate in practicality? I don't know. I do a stack of rosuvastatin, citrus bergamot, red rice yeast extract, CO2-10. I take psyllium husk every night. I do fish oil. I do some niacin. And I can usually get my HDL up in the high 30s, which is about as good as it gets for somebody on PEDs. I very rarely, if ever, see anybody over 40 that's taking PEDs with HDL. It like almost never happens. I very rarely, if almost, never see anybody with an LDL below 100 on PEDs. You can get close. Close is probably good enough. The only way to not die in a motorcycle accident is to not ride a motorcycle. The only way for steroids not to kill you is not to take steroids. And I know you're not going to do that. So we're talking about ways to reduce harm. LDL lowering supplements for LDL lowering. Psyllium husk, it's just an easy one. Just, just, and it helps you poop. Your poops are like magic. You, you, you take Metamucil, you get up in the morning, you take a shit and it just all slides out and you don't even need to wipe. It's such a pretty poop. You don't even need to wipe. And it lowers your LDL. It has that added benefit. I don't know why bros are so against fiber. I, I, like I've, like, that's a new thing to me. Like I've heard all these guys, it seems to be in the keto and carnivore cult community that they don't, they say you don't need fiber. Just unbelievable. Fiber helps with clearance of cholesterol. It helps get all the trash and garbage out of your colon. There's literally no downside for taking a fiber supplement, like zero, none. It's only going to help. Red rice yeast extract, um, 1200 to 2400 milligrams, Red rice yeast extract, um, 1200 to 2400 milligrams a day seems to reduce cholesterol as much as 15%. Now keep in mind this varies from person to person and it has a statin like effect. It's not as potent as a statin. You need to take CoQ10 with it. You also need to take CoQ10 if you're taking a statin because CoQ10 leads to muscle cramps and weakness and lowers mitochondrial function. A lot of guys that are on statins will report muscle weakness, although the Resuvastatin should be less, less, um, dangerous when it comes to that or less, you know, um, have less of an effect on muscle weakness. So, but still it's a good idea to take CoQ10. It's a strong antioxidant. It has other anti-inflammatory effects. There's all kinds of other benefits from taking CoQ10. So you might as well throw it in there. That's sort of what I use for my lipid stack. And another bonus one I'm going to throw in here. I have seen some crazy improvements on lipids from people taking retrotrutide. I feel like I'm the retrotrutide apostle now. I, I have had people send me their blood work. I have literally seen people half their LDL while taking retrotrutide. It is fucking crazy. It is insane. And you know, it could be a combination of just eating less crap food. I have noticed when I take retrotrutide, I can not eat fat. I generally eat a low-fat diet, but when I eat something fatty, it just flies through me. So the retrotrutide seems to improve lipid profiles. I've seen pretty dramatic drops in lipids. It seems, honestly, I think it lowers LDL in what I've seen. This is just anecdote. There's no scientific studies on this that I know of, but in my anecdotal experience, I have seen it lower it more potently than Resuvafatin does. And so why not stack the two together? And you get the increased benefit of improved body composition, improved metabolic health, just a bunch of other benefits. And you don't even need to run that high of a dose. It's something like two milligrams a day. I've seen work just fine. All right, bros, that's all I've got for you on this one. That was my lecture on don't be an asshole when you eat. Don't be an asshole, bro, about refusing to take statin because your doctor told you so. Look, I know doctors suck. I have a love-hate relationship with doctors. I've been interviewing and trying to hire a new doctor. I understand why people are skeptical of doctors. They have not given us a lot of reason to be faithful in them. And I have close friends that are in the medical profession. I know most of them are well-intentioned. It's a very tough industry. They also, a lot of doctors just don't understand what we do in our cohort. They have no idea what we do and how it affects the body. So we're sort of abnormal. But I hope to arm you with some information that you can take in to discuss with your medical professional when you see them to help you mitigate some of the harm that you're causing with being a doofus and taking way too much anadrol. And just don't take anadrol and don't eat carnivore diets and you'll be healthier. All right, bros, I appreciate each and every one of you. Sorry for the carnivore hate. I want to say this to my, I have some friends that are carnivore diets. It is better than the shit typical American diet. I'll give you that. But if you're taking PEDs, it does concern me. I am worried about you and your health. I'm not saying it to be a jerk. When I see guys with, I do a lot of these consults. I see a lot of guys come to me that have been running carnivore and keto diets with horrific, I'm sayinGHorrific lipid profiles. I've had guys come to me with plaque buildup. I've had guys come to me that needed stents put in from plaque buildup. It does happen. And when you're taking PEDs, you're further increasing that risk. So just be mindful of that. I'm not one to tell people what to do with their life. Live your life however you want to live it. If your way of living it makes you happy, rock on my man. Just do your thing. I just want to make sure you are informed and you understand what the risks are and that you're making educated, intelligent decisions when it comes to this stuff and go be jacked. All right, bros, take care. I thank you. Love each and every one of you. See you on the next episode. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.