WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Alright folks, Big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A. Today I've got some good questions for you from my school members site and also from the YouTube comment section from last week. If you havEQuestions this week that you would like answered on the next anabolic Q&A, put them in the comment section below. Also, please subscribe to my channel if you are not subscribed. Give this video a thumbs up. It helps me with the algorithm. YouTube doesn't seem to like me. They don't put me in the algorithm very much. I have some good questions up today. We're going to talk about alcarnitine, deca shutting you down, some other things we've got on decas well. We're going to talk about difference between running short and long esters, benefits and downsides of running different esters of hormones. And before we get into all that, I want to tell you guys quickly about my school members site with the Team Anabolic Bodybuilding group I have up on school. You can ask questions there. I havEQuestions that those folks get first priority for thesEQ&As. Also, I have a forum on there where I do answer questions that people have. If you havEQuestions and you want to ask mEQuestions, you can do it there. I also have some private videos up for the members of the site on how, you know, things like how to build a cycle and some other stuff that up there and discounts on some of my other products. If you're looking for something that's a little more detailed, I also have my science of anabolics and PEDZ course that I put together with Kurt Havens. It is incredible. It is full of a lot of detail about PEDs. It's probably the most comprehensive PED course out there with over 60 hours of videos in a hundred and so modules. You can check that out at the anabolic bodybuilding website. Link is in the video description below. All right, enough of that stuff, folks. Let's get into thesEQuestions in just one second. All right, first question I have here is from Drew Casper from the school community, the anabolic bodybuilding member site. Drew asks, I've heard that it's pointless to do a PCT after a decacycle because it doesn't clear out your system for six to 12 months. Is that true? And if so, can you PCT after MPP since it is a shorter ester? Here's the thing with this stuff. PCT, there's some debate whether PCT even works. I check out the Harlem study, H-A-A-R-L-E-M. It's a loosely done study. It wasn't controlled, but they took a group, I think it was like 75 or 80 PED users and follow them over a course of coming off of PEDs, a course of PCT to see what the effects were. And ultimately both had similar recovery. It didn't seem that the PCT really made much of a difference in recovery, long-term recovery. There may have been some faster recovery running a PCT. Now with that said, there are some things with DECA that probably make it more suppressive. It is a synthetic progestin. That would not make a difference whether you're running MPP or DECA. I have seen some studies that show that it is detectable in your system for up to 15 to 16 months, something like that. And depending on what you look at, the half-life of DECA is somewhere between 12 and 15 days. It really just depends on how your body metabolizes it. It's going to be at least five half-lives before it is eliminated from your body. So we're talking about 60 to 75 days, somewhere around there. Two to three months before it's even eliminated. And at that point, it would make sense to do the PCT if you were going to run one. Now there, like I said, there's some debate whether PCT actually works or does anything. I'll leave that up to you. I don't know that MPP would be much better in theory. It should be shorter, but talking to Kurt recently, Kurt says that MPP really isn't that much different than DECA and actually is probably worse. It just has a lower peak that it was shelved as a drug because they found that it wasn't as good or as effective as DECA. I found that it doesn't have the same side effects that it does, but if it doesn't peak as high as DECA, then that would explain why that it isn't as suppressive. So who knows? Some of the stuff we just have to figure out by trial and error. I would say this, if you are planning on coming off, if you want to come off, probably don't run Nandrolone. I would stick to things that are probably safer. I would stick to something like testosterone and maybe something like Masteron or Primobolan. That's predictable that you know what the effects are going to be. You aren't dealing with a synthetic progestin that's going to do weird things to your body. If you are going to come off, then make sure that you're off for a while. I would say if you're not going to come off for more than probably six to eight months, it probably makes zero sense to come off. I would just do a blast and cruise. If you're concerned about fertility, that's a different thing. If you're concerned about long-term shutdown of testosterone production, that's another thing. You probably should just stay away from steroids in general, if that's the case, or maybe just do something like a little bit of Anivar that's not going to be super suppressive. So I would probably just stay away from DECA altogether. Nandrolone, both DECA and MPP, if you're concerned about being shut down. All right, next question here is from Jason Coke. Why do you think that keto is better for obese people, just for appetite control? IMentioned this in my last video that sometimes that when people are severely obese, that something like a PSMF or maybe even a keto diet works better for them than something like carb cycling. I think there was a question in there about whether carb cycling is appropriate for obese people. I don't have a one-size-fits-all diet when it comes to working with my clients. I do like carb cycling for athletes, but carb cycling isn't always the best option. It is a tool in the toolbox, and this is why I think it's important not to get too married or entrenched in any single diet philosophy. I think that's where people get themselves in trouble, like with the keto, the carnivore, whatever your diet cult is that you choose, realize that you're taking away options for other diets that could help you in certain situations. So for example, like carb cycling would be fantastic for a bodybuilder, maybe fantastic for a performance athlete, not so great for the person that needs to lose 200 pounds. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. Something like a PSMF protein sparing modified fast diet would work great. Essentially, that's just meat and vegetables at the end of the day. Low fat, high protein, that's going to spare muscle loss and get fat loss off of you quickly. When you're eating low fat, you're going to force your body to burn fat. When you're eating low carbs, you're not going to have anything as fuel, any glucose as fuel. There's going to be no glycogen synthesis, so things like that would enhance fat burning. Some other thoughts with keto too, a lot of times when people are severely obese, doing a low carb diet could be beneficial because they could be insulin resistant or have some sort of metabolic disorder. That is another benefit of these GLP1s that a lot of people are running, ozempic, trizepatide, retrotrutide. I don't think it's just the appetite suppression that's helping these people lose weight. I think a lot of people that are obese have severe metabolic disorder. They're insulin resistant, they have all sorts of other issues going on from being insulin resistant, visceral fat accumulation, and the GLP1s help in that situation. Somebody who has that type of situation going on probably shouldn't be eating a ton of carbs. If you're optimized, if you're healthy, if you have good insulin sensitivity, if you're a bodybuilder and you're managing this stuff, you can benefit from something like carb cycling. But somebody that's fat, obese, probably can't. Some other things too, a lot of times when people eat carbs they get hungrier. I find also when some people just don't seem to respond well to it. When you're running a keto diet, the higher fat, high protein, low carb diets seem to affect ghrelin and leptin, seem to suppress ghrelin production and increase leptin sensitivity. And so there is that too that may help with hunger. When you shift into ketosis, you have to get into ketosis for that to happen. If you're doing a PSMF diet, you're going to force your body to burn fat, probably have some gluconeogenesis too from the, you do need some glucose. There's going to be that going, you're not going to be probably not have enough fat to actually get into ketosis. So that's another option too, that's probably the most radical way to get weight. It's the old school bodybuilder way of dieting where bodybuilders would just eat chicken breast and asparagus. It works, it sucks, but it'll get the weight off of you. Eat some dry ass meat, low fat, eat some vegetables that are fibrous. You'll lose weight, you'll get lean. That's how we used to cut back in the nineties. So these are some options. Anyway, long story short, yes, it is a tool in the toolbox. I'm not married to one philosophy. I am not team team carb cycling 365 days a year, 100% of the time. I look at each situation individually. I try to figure out what would be the best option for the person and I create a diet that would maximize their results given their certain, their, their very unique and certain situation that they're in. Everything is very specific for the client. Uh, Matthew Boldock, uh, ask a question, Boldock, Boldock, hopefully I didn't slaughter your name, dude. Do you see visual differences running shorter esters versus longer esters or is it just more bro lore? IMean, I think it's just bro lore. IMean, there, there could be differences in aromatization. I think where it comes from is shorter esters. You're going to have to inject more frequently. And it does seem like with testosterone and some, some other things that you do, you do get less aromatization, thus less water retention when you're injecting every day on contest prep, I'm usually injecting every day in the offseason. I'm too lazy to do that. I, I used to talk about microdosing, but I'm not giving myself shots seven days a week, 365 days a year. That I just don't want the scar tissue. And you know, there's shorter esters are hydrolyzed more easily, a longer esters are lipophilic, you know, and they're going to, you know, more slowly dissipate from the injection site. I don't know, you know, if that could affect inflammation or anything, possibly, who knows a shorter esters tend to peak faster. You're going to have faster peaks. So they're more effective. I think that's why more effectivEQuickly. I think that's why guys use them on contest prep. Mainly. It's not that there's some cosmetic benefit. It's because you can get them in your system quickly and you can make changes quickly. I think bros will start their Trenace or their Mass Probe and see changes within a week. And they think that there's some magic because of the short ester. It's just the drugs in your system quicker. You know, as we talked about earlier, it takes five half-lives for a drug to fully eliminate or peak. So we're talking about if you're running Trenanthate versus Trenace, if it has an eight day or a seven day half-life, we're talking about a month to a month and a half before it's fully peaked. So it's going to be a slow rise and you're not going to see the initial changes. Whereas Trenace has something like a 48 hour half-life. I don't recall exactly. So within a week, you're going to notice differences. I think that's where the key difference is here. And it's not that there's some magic in body composition. It's just that it hits faster and you will see differences quickly. So people assume that it's better for body composition. It's not that it's better for body composition. It's just how quickly the drug gets into your system, the pharmacokinetics of the drug that are different. So that has an effect indirectly on body composition, I guess. This would be my guess. All right, next up, my friend Rocky Fenton. Rocky asks, how often do you change up your exercises on prep? Rocky, I am a creature of habit, my friend. I hang on to my exercises like they're an old friend. I do not let them go. I will wear an exercise out. I will do the same exercise for years on end sometimes and don't change them. I don't know how true this is, but I have heard that Brian Dobson gave Ronnie Coleman his trening routine when he started working out at Metroflex. And Ronnie ran the exact same trening routine for his entire career, like decade more. Did the same thing every day, progressively got stronger on the weights. Dorian, you can look at Dorian's old trening stuff. He worked out a small-ass gym in a basement and they only had like a dozen machines in there. He just used the same thing over and over and over and over again, and you continually progress those exercises until, you know, I know Dorian brought in some different equipment when he won the Mr. Olympia, but it was just a couple pieces of machines. I think people are used to, now where you go into a gym, I'm lucky the gym that I work out at, the shop gym in Ashburn, Virginia, IMean, we have hundreds of pieces of equipment. I can go in and, if I wanted to, swap around and try something new every workout. But generally during contest prep, I don't fuck around. I stick to the same things. I don't want to risk learning a new exercise pattern. I don't want to mess around with something that could potentially cause an injury. I just stick to the stuff that I know works and I don't change a damn thing. All right, the next question. This one is from the school member's site. This guy wants to keep his name anonymous. Can a newbie in their early 40s possibly turn pro by 50 if they are just starting bodybuilding with no history? I'm guessing genetics is even more important, a clear indicator in that age range. Yeah, sure. I know plenty of people that didn't start until late and got their pro card. Master's pro card, you know, we'll put the asterisk next to it because we know everybody gets their panties in a wad now when you get a master's pro card. That's a hot topic I can go on a rant for or about. Anyway, the guy that got second place to me at master's nationals this year and won his pro card, from what I understand from talking to him, he had started working out in his 40s and got in shape, got hooked on bodybuilding and earned his pro card in his 40s. It's pretty fucking cool. I took a 12-year sabbatical from lifting weights. Now, granted, I lifted from age 16 until about 32. I guess it was more like a 10-year sabbatical. I don't know. And I came back in my early 40s. It was almost like starting over. IMean, there was definitely a base of muscle there from where I lifted when I was younger, but I was able to progress and get up there. I've talked to plenty of people that didn't start lifting until later in life and ended up earning their pro card. Now, you're not going to look like Nick Walker. You have to start lifting young if you want to do that. You probably need to start lifting as a teenager, to be honest with you, if you want to accumulate that sort of size. Only a young, fresh body is going to get that big. And there's only so far you can push it in your 40s. But you certainly can be competent. IMean, I stepped on stage at 250 pounds. I'm a hair under 6'2". You know, I'm the pros. IMean, that's a large classic competitor. I, you know, I would be over the classic class cap right now, which is 242 for my height, if I recall correctly. Don't quote me on that. So if I wanted to do classic, I'd probably have to cut down a little bit, which IMay do. But yes, it is totally possible. Don't let anybody tell you that nothing is impossible. Just work hard, put in the work, stay dedicated, and see what happens. All right, next question. After finishing a cycle, do you just drop down to test, or is there some benefit to keeping something like low-dose Primo on board, wondering at what dose? It's basically just homeopathic and not doing much of anything useful. Usually I pull down to TRT and pull out the secondary compounds. I have pulled back and done really low-dose cycles, test and Primo. You could make an argument that it would make sense to leave some Primo in with test or Masteron to deal with estrogenic side effects. Primo acts like a suicide aromatase inhibitor, and Masteron, from what I understand, acts like a serum. So if you wanted to pull down to something like 200, 300 milligrams of test and run like 100 to 150 of Primo or Masteron with it, that may help mitigate some of the estrogenic side effects. I will say this. When I see guys pull down to TRT, a lot of times there is an estrogen rebound after being on cycle when you pull those secondary compounds out. So sometimes an aromatase inhibitor is necessary when you're on cruise, when you pull back down. It's weird. It seems like it's more necessary then than it is when you're blasting full-blown, blasting gear. I see guys that are on TRT have more issues with estrogen conversion than dudes that are blasting two grams. It's just how it goes sometimes. The secondary compounds do compete and help keep estrogen low. So that is a potential benefit. But I would say, ultimately, if you're trying to have a health and recovery phase, I would just go down to testosterone, maybe a little bit of GH. You want to let your body recover. Let yourself come back to some sort of baseline or homeostasis for a period of time before you blast again. From what I understand in talking to Dr. Dean, that when you press the gas pedal down all the time, your body is using the stem cell pool for anabolism, for growing muscle, and there's nothing left for organ repair or your organ health. And that's why guys end up with serious issues with organ health because they're pushing the limits of hypertrophy and the body is devoting all of its assets towards hypertrophy. So if you want to let yourself recover, get healthy again, use that phase for health only. I think it's easy to get yourself wrapped up and not losing size. Believe me, I've been there. It starts to mess with your head when you kind of go back to looking like a mortal again. It's not fun looking like a mortal. We all want to look like Superman 365 days a year, but looking like Superman 365 days a year can get you in trouble and make you sick. Now you guys have seen what I've looked at look like after years and years and years of doing this. You can maintain a pretty decent physique on pretty low doses as long as you keep your diet together. Now you're not going to look like Mr. Olympia, but I've been able to hang out around 250. If you watched my video the other day with my progress update, I, you know, I'm probably 10% body fat, 9% body fat. I don't know. And I've hung on to most of my muscle. I've lost some of my fullness. I definitely don't look stage ready, but for the most part, I've been just running 300 milligrams of tests for the last seven, eight months. There was a couple little mini cycles in there, you know, where I upped it to 600 for six weeks to get ready for the Arnold. Otherwise I really just don't look a little better, have a little more pop for the Arnold. Otherwise it's just been TRT. So if you're coming down, just come down. If you're running a blast, just run a blast. All right, last question. And I'm going to eject after this one. Uh, is L-carnitine actually useful for fat loss? Seems like just a yet another random add-on in the bodybuilding version of Yara. Uh, IMean, if on paper, if you look at studies, it does seem to have some benefit in mitochondrial function. It helps with fatty acid trensport with mitochondria and metabolism of fatty acids. It seems to contribute some to that. I used a combo stack. Uh, I believe, um, uh, they call it Helios. It's an injectable L-carnitine, uh, injectable Clenbuterol and a little bit of Yohimbine. I've used that on previous preps. I did not this year because the Yohimbine makes me feel like dog shit. I will say this about L-carnitine. I have run it and I've not run it. I've gotten shredded with it. I've gotten shredded without it. I just get tired of taking a bunch of shots. It may, it may have some benefit. It, you know, if you want to give yourself another jab, sure, go for it. It's not going to hurt anything. I find those shots hurt and I've already taken a bazillion shots when I'm on contest prep and I just don't want to add another one. This year, I just kept it simple for my contest prep. Really, the only thing I use for fat burning this year was some occasional caffeine and a little bit of Clenbuterol. That was it. I didn't really need anything more. I don't even think I want more than 60 or 80 micrograms of Clen. That was it, uh, on my contest prep this year. I didn't use any L-carnitine this year. I didn't use any Yohimbine. I didn't run any of that other stuff and I got plenty lean just through diet, exercise, and caloric, you know, caloric restriction. Just keeping myself lean in the offseason. Really, if you, like where I'm at right now, at 10% body fat or so, wherever I'm at, I could be ready for show in eight weeks, probably. Eight, ten weeks. Wouldn't be, I would need to maybe drop five, ten pounds of fat at most and I could be show ready. That puts you in a lot better position so you don't have to run a bunch of stuff to get yourself lean and you're going to look better on stage as a result. So here's my thing with L-carnitine. It could have some benefits. If you've got the money to burn, sure, go for it. If you don't mind taking an extra injection, it's not going to hurt anything. There are a bunch of cool new peptides and mitochondrial enhancers, you know, exercise memetics that are coming out now that show a lot of promise and I am interested to see how the mitochondrial stacks, Vigorous Steve is recommending some stuff or suggesting some stuff now that there are mitochondrial stacks. Him and Dr. Dean, how those compare to running the good old-fashioned stimulants that used to run at bodybuilding. It might be safer in theory. We're not putting all the stress on our heart with those, you know, using a GLP-1 with maybe, you know, some exercise memetics and other tools that are available to us now, you know, so it could potentially work out that where it could be a better option for us as bodybuilders. We don't know for sure yet. I have not gone full bore in recommending that stuff on contest prep. I'm good sticking with the stuff that works. But for somebody just in a fat loss phase, you could potentially experiment with other tools for fat loss. And if you wanted to throw L-carnitine in there, it's certainly not going to hurt anything. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. I appreciate your support. Thank you. I love each and every one of you. It means a lot to me that you guys support me. I was overwhelmed at the Arnold Classic this week. So many people came up and wanted to take pictures with me. So weird and surreal. I didn't realize that many people actually listened to the channel and wanted to come by and say hi to me. It's really freaking cool. I love all of you. Thank you very much. It's really flattering that people take my word. Seriously, I try to do my best for you guys. I'm not perfect. IMake mistakes sometimes. I say incorrect shit. I try to correct myself when I do. I try to stay humble where I can. I appreciate each and every one of you. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you.