WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right my bros, it's Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A. I've got some good questions on deck today. We're going to talk about PEDs and acne, why they cause acne, why should you do short cycles versus long cycles, which is better for overall muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone long term. We're going to talk about getting fat post-show strategies to avoid that and some peak week strategies. I've got a bunch of other diet related questions as well, some really cool questions here. Folks, thesEQuestions are given priority from my team anabolic bodybuilding member site that is on school. If you're not already a member, go join. It's only 30 bucks a month. You have access to ask mEQuestions directly on the school membership site. I also have some exclusive content up there. I have a little bit of stuff on like how to build cycles and carb cycling and some other stuff on there in the classroom section of the school site. Like I said, you can ask questions. ThesEQuestions for thEQ&As come from the school member site. I do randomly grab some from YouTube and things like that. Also, if you're too cheap to join, I do have some free stuff on my website. If you want to go down in the video description below, I have a link to all the free stuff on my website. I have some video notes from past videos that we've done. I also have free articles up on my website, anabolicbodybuilding.com. I have free workout programs. I have my high volume workout program, an explanation of DC trening, such things. You can join my mail list where I send out exclusive content and also tips and information as well. I try not to spam people. I try to send you real legit information. I have that as well. You can go sign up over at my website. If you download the stuff that I have up there for free, you get free access to my email list. Make sure you subscribe when you sign up to the email list and I will get you that information. Anyway, enough of that. Let's dig into thesEQuestions in just one second. All right, first question I have here is from Daryl Gazy. Daryl asks, how do you manage post-show not getting fat? I am planning on going on vacation. I want to make sure I don't have a big fat rebound post-show. What are your strategies for dealing with that? All right, post-show. I do like to take a trip post-show. That's always something I usually do. I schedule a small vacation post-show and just get away and give myself a break. It's a good opportunity to spend time with family too because as you guys know, if you've done contest prep, you put everything on hold. Really, you put your whole life on hold. You put your family on hold. It's really a selfish endeavor. So a few strategies to deal with the post-show thing and I think this is where a lot of dudes screw up. I see a lot of guys that just quit all the gear cold turkey. They come off all the fat burners cold turkey. They stop trening. They stop doing cardio and then they just go on food vendors. And some of that's not even really your fault. Your appetite is going to be out of freaking control when you have been starving yourself going into a show and on top of it removinGHormones. Like the fat burners a lot of times also are going to have some appetite suppression along with them too. And you yank all that out. You end up having an estrogen rebound from pulling out all your AIs and moving your gear. And a lot of times guys end up in an environment where their thyroid's crashed. They crash their testosterone because they yank everything out. And then you have this huge estrogen rebound from yanking out the AIs and your metabolism is in the shitter and you yank all the fat burners cold turkey. So usually what I do is slowly taper down the fat burners over a two to three week period post-show. If I'm going on vacation I kind of leave them in place. Maybe back them down a bit so I'm not going ape shit. I back down the gear over a six to eight week period during that rebound phase. I don't come off everything cold turkey typically. Although I did last year and kind of fucked up. I'll do that with typically I'll do that. I'll yank out the orals and the harsh stuff like tren right away after the show to allow myself to get healthy. I usually what I'll do is just cut the gear in half. So let's say I'm running a you know a thousand grams of total or a thousand milligrams of total gear one gram. Sorry not a thousand grams Jesus. That would be a death cycle. If I was running a thousand milligrams of total gear I would cut it in half coming out of a contest prep. So like something like 500 and then taper down to more of a TRT style of dosing after about six to eight weeks. With the food when I'm in vacation that week after the show I have a strategy to keep myself from getting so super bloated and gaining a bunch of fat. Usually what I'll do is just eat keto style during the day. Basically having vegetables and whatever meats I want during the day vegetables fruits just things like that. I stay away from heavy carbs and I will have a cheat meal at the end of the day. Something relatively decent. I don't go eat shit like like last year I went to Mexico City after my show. I kept the food pretty tight during the day. Some days I would even fast. I really wouldn't eat during the day and then at dinner I would go have whatever I wanted really within reason and maybe have a small dessert with it. And really if you do the macros on it it's probably under 3,000 3,500 calories for the total day if you do something like that. And also just make sure you're active on vacation. A lot of times I find that I'm going to be walking and moving a lot more than I do normally. I sit on my ass all day long. Try to find a hotel gym even if you can just do a pump workout to make sure you get something in. Make sure you're tapering off all your stuff and if you do that and you eat within reason you can allow yourself a little bit of leeway. Have one meal per day that's something that you want to eat. And I find if you do that then most of the time I like I came back from vacation I weighed exactly the same as when I left. There was really not much of a difference. And I find that most of the time when my clients do that that's usually where they end up. And then you get back into a proper rebound diet when you get back home. All right so next question I have here is from Kyle Holland. Kyle asked why is it that generally it takes three-ish days to see visual differences from eating like shit. For example let's say I binge eat on pizza on Sunday. I get to looking full on Monday but let's say the diet is as tight as it can be Monday and Tuesday. I wake up looking soft as hell on Wednesday. Thought this was just me but I've seen it talked about many others and there's some reasoning behind it. This is a there's a lot to unpack here and I want to go through kind of like the processes that the body's going through. If you have a giant shitty meal say on Sunday night like you're talking about like if I went hammered a whole fucking pizza. One that is a very dense meal. A lot of fats, a lot of carbs, a lot of processed meats. Shitty stuff that's going to take a long time to digest. It might take you 24 to 48 hours just to fully digest that meal. You'll see it like a lot of times you just have the sad poops and two days later that thing's going to sit in your gut for a while. You're going to have a sort of a delayed reaction to some of this stuff. You're going to have you know there's going to be a shit ton of sodium in this meal as well. That's probably why you wake up the next day and look pumped and full because you're going to have that sodium pump from it. You'll see it at shows like guys will go out and have a cheat meal between pre-judging and finals and then they get that sodium pump. It's all the fluid and sodium. You end up looking vascular and veiny and gnarly when you're fat. But anyway, all that sodium is going to change the gradient of water retention in your body. You're going to have osmosis where you're going to be pulling all the water out of the cells intracellular. Not where you want it. It's going to increase blood volume. You're going to end up having water retention and that happens over a period of time as you hydrate and your body's trying to flush out over that sodium. So that might be over a couple day period of time. Aldosterone is going to regulate to wherever you're at with that. And so this is not going to happen overnight. Now you do get that acute change where you do have more blood volume where there's more fluid pulled into the blood that you'll see. But then after a while you just start looking watery. In bodybuilding terms that's what we call that spilled over look. Now glycogen synthesis. You're going to have some glycogen synthesis as well from eating all those carbs. Glycogen synthesis, and this is another thing a lot of people don't understand, can take up to 72 hours to fully synthesize. You'll see it when you run a carb cycling diet. Typically it's 24 to 48 hours. I find I look the best when I do a carb cycling diet after the high day. Usually the third day or second day after. That's why we carb up a couple days before shows. So we have that full look when we get on stage. But if you're eating a shit ton of pizza, that is going to, you know, you're going to see that glycogen bump over a couple days later. Now a lot of times people will have that shitty meal. See that pizza meal that you had. You might gain 7, 10 pounds. People are asking me like how Jesus Christ ate this meal and I gained 10 pounds. Obviously you didn't gain 10 pounds of fat. We can do the math on that. That'd be 35,000 calories. You didn't eat a 35,000 calorie pizza. So the rest of that weight has to be water retention, right? Glycogen, water retention, probably from the excess sodium. It's going to take a few days to wash that all off. And usually what happens is by that third day that you have, the meal is going to be fully digested by that time. You're going to have synthesized the new glycogen. Your body and aldosterone, you know, you put all this water extracellularly, if I can say that, extracellularly, if I can say it. And so you have all this excess water retention. You have the cankles going on and you look like dog shit. That's why you look like shit a couple of days later. And also you may have some gut inflammation on top of it. Maybe you have thrown things off with your digestion, have bloating and distension from that. A lot of times that doesn't happen immediately. There's a whole bunch of other things that can happen. The inflammation that happens from eating a shitty high sodium, high nitrate type of meal that would happen. So this is not going to happen overnight. But like I said, it takes a lot to gain fat. Now you may, you know, let's say if you ate a whole pizza, let's say that pizza was 3,500 calories. If that was in excess of your baseline diet, it's possible that you could gain a full pound of fat from that. Potentially, but most likely the majority of that shit meal is going to be just sodium, water retention, glycogen synthesis and things like that. And that's why it takes a couple of days. And then you'll notice after like the third or fourth day, you're starting to deplete that glycogen a bit. You're starting to flush out the sodium, water follows salt. Remember that, that wherever salt goes, water follows. So we have the sodium, potassium, potassium pulls water into the cell. Sodium pulls water out of the cell where we don't want it. This is a lot of times where guys fuck up and it's like everybody wants to dump fucking salt all over everything right now. It drives me insane. And then they wonder why they look like a big fat bag of water. They don't get enough potassium in, they eat too much sodium and then they end up looking like a big bag of water. So this is what's going on here. It's just a bunch of different things. Usually that'll flush back out after like a fourth or fifth day, you'll come back down to baseline. But that's why these meals make you big bloated and they're really not productive. Honestly, believe me, I like housing a pizza once in a while. I do like eating pizza. It's one of my guilty pleasures. But if you can avoid doing it, really you've kind of fucked yourself up for a few days. A lot of times what I see is after you eat that big shitty meal, guys don't want to eat. They've kind of got a bloated stomach that things take forever to digest. A lot of times guys end up eating less protein because their digestion is slowed down from all the heavy food that takes a while to digest. And then the day or two following they don't eat because they're bloated, they're gassy, they have a lot of water retention and they panic. And it just ends up fucking up everything. You know, really just don't do that. You have three or four pieces of pizza, not two pizzas, not the whole thing. I've done it myself, you know, I'm not one to point a finger. I've been guilty. But just anyway, that's typically what you see. That's why that happens. That's why it creates a bad situation. There's really no productive reason to do that other than you're just a glutton. Jason Hollis asked, what is the shelf life of Retta Trutide? The honest answer here is I have no freaking idea. I did some research on it. I looked, I saw in the lab setting that they say if it's kept frozen and dry that it lasts 24 hours or 24 days. I think it was something like that. Now keep in mind that when peptides are manufactured, that there are additives that they put in them to help keep them stable and keep the shelf life longer. Like GH can last for years if it's kept cool and dry. I would have to assume that the same thing is going on with the peptides because I've had peptides that I've picked up before that have been sitting in my sitting in my cabinet for months and they still work. They're just fine. I would say keep them in a cool, dark place. I usually keep my peptides even before they're constituted. I usually keep them in a refrigerator just to make sure that they are in a cool, dark, dry place, uh, away from sunlight. I would keep them away from sunlight. Don't have them some, some hot place where they're going to get heated up. And I would imagine that you probably have a pretty good shelf life if you do that. Now it's not like they go bad. They're just going to lose potency. They degrade over the time. I guess the proteins would, could degrade over time. I'm not a biochemist, but I'm just making assumptions here. But I would say if you keep it a cool, dark place that it's probably going to last for quite a, quite, quite a long time, possibly years. I would, I would imagine that they've probably made these things to last a good long time. I hope that's a helpful answer. I wish I had a better one for you, but I'm, I don't hesitate using peptides that have been sitting in my refrigerator for a year or two. I've done it many times and they've been just fine. All right. We got a question, a business one next from Brad Pfizer from our school team, anabolic bodybuilding member site. Brad asks, how did you get started coaching and how did you grow your business from there? Any thoughts on mentoring people to grow their own businesses? I have been trening people off and on since I was 19 years old. I never really actively marketed it until like the lasT4 or five years. I don't even know that I really marketed it that much other than making YouTube videos. And people have come to me because they've seen my success and they want to learn from me and, and, um, hopefully my knowledge has been something that's contributed to them and they want to be a part of that. That's, that's kind of where, where I've been, but I've been doing this for a long time. I've run multiple businesses over my life. I have been an entrepreneur in my entire life. I've been a CEO of, of multiple businesses and what I can tell you from building businesses, whether it's coaching, consulting, whatever, I came from the consulting world before that really where you start with is just being the best at what you do. You know, constantly learning, taking good care of your clients, giving your best to your clients. I'm not saying I'm perfect. I screw up. IMake mistakes. Sometimes IMiss check-ins. I forget. I get sidetracked. I'm not perfect, but I do care about people. I try to take good care of people. I try to give them my all. When people work hard, I work hard for them. You're not going to line up with everybody that you work with. There's some people that you click with better than others. And I think really just try to perfect your craft, get the best that you possibly can at your craft, whatever your chosen craft is. Constantly learning, constantly evolving, sharing information for free. I put tons of information out for free. I think that establishes your credibility. And once people have established that you are credible and trustworthy, they will come to you for business and then taking good care of the clients that you have. You only have one shot at your reputation as in business. If you soil that reputation by screwing people over, by not taking good care of them, by not providing them with good value, by misleading them, and not actually delivering on the knowledge that you have. If you overvalue your knowledge, people are going to figure that out pretty quickly. And just really just workinGHard. And over time, it just builds up. It's a snowball. It just builds up. I didn't really think that I would be coaching full-time. That's not something I sought out to do, to be honest with you. I had a pretty successful career in IT. And as a business entrepreneur, I do investments. I also have run up finance businesses. I've had multiple businesses. I've run or owned, I think, five or six different businesses in my lifetime. And I've built all of them into multi-million dollar companies. Coaching's not multi-million dollar, but I'm working on building up the coaching business. I think the big thing is just to do your best. Take good care of people. Always be learning and trying to improve. And that's really it. If you just do that and you keep workinGHard every day, eventually the business just grows. It just snowballs. It's just like bodybuilding. Business is just like bodybuilding. It's progressive in nature. The harder you work at it, the more consistent you are with it, the more dedicated you are with it. You accumulate progress over a period of time. It's just a little incremental progress, a little better each day, a little more business each day, another client, more people that are going to respect you. And then it just builds over time. And if you just keep doing that, it tends to accumulate over time in whatever business that you're in. And have I thought about mentoring people on this? Yes, I have done that. And I have helped a few people out in private. I don't advertise it. But yes, I have thought about making another YouTube channel that's focused on success and mindset and business, biohacking, things like that. I thought about making it more, it'd be something separate from this. This is really bodybuilding oriented, antibiotic bodybuilding, clearly. But I thought about making another YouTube channel where I focus on more success oriented stuff because I do enjoy that too. I have mentored a few people. I've had some good mentors myself. I've been really fortunate and I've had good people that have helped me over the years that have taught me how to be a good leader in business and how to grow. And I try to pay some of that forward as well. I do have several people that I do help currently. But anyway, that's kind of where that's at. Yes, that is something I'm considering doing is mentorship with people on business in the future. And that's something I consider doing. And the only thing I can tell you is just work hard, stick to the basics, do what you love, be really good at it, take good care of the people that are your clients. It's really that simple. All right, next question from Dave Fletcher. I'd appreciate your thoughts on lean bulking or leaner bulking or whatever the opposite of 30 bulking is. My break even calories per day are 25 to 2700 range depending on how much physical activity, cardio, walking I do. What is a good calorie goal day for me or an upper limit to live with? So I don't put on more fat than necessary and I add lean tissue. And I'd appreciate if you set a different calorie range for days that when I work out as opposed to days that I don't. All right, so a few things here. I have kind of come full circle on this. I used to get really super aggressive with pushing food up in an offseason to put size on people. And I do think there is a time and a place for that. But the first and foremost thing I can tell you, if you want to grow muscle, I feel like I say this every fucking week, but I'm going to repeat it again because I do think it's critically important. But the very first step for getting super results from your bulk is to get lean. Get lean first. Make sure you get fat as close to fat free as you possibly can before you start adding size. That's my suggestion. Get lean first and then work on pushing up the food. Now with the food, I wish I could give you a set macro count or surplus. There really is no such thing because metabolism is very dynamic. It's constantly changing. Also, macro nutrient distribution, how your body partitions those nutrients matters to the composition of your diet. So really not all calories are created equal. I know it is thermodynamics with fat gain and fat loss, but your body does store energy in different ways. Protein for the most part is used for tissue repair and other things. Fat for the most part is just energy. Same thing with carbohydrates. Fat, there are essential fatty acids. Some of those are used for certain metabolic needs and vitamin Trensport, etc. And the excess fat is either burned as energy or stored as body fat. Carbohydrates are purely just energy. They are used for energy, then stored as glycogen. So technically you could be in a caloric surplus eating carbohydrates and not gain fat. If you're glycogen depleted, you can store that excess energy as glycogen. That is not true with fat. If you eat excess calories and fat, there's only one thing that's possibly going to happen. Those are going to be stored as fat. So macro nutrient makeup of your diet does matter. I do carb cycle based on energy expenditure. Carb cycling is sort of self-regulating. We do low days where we keep the carbohydrates lower since they're just energy when we're not working out. Medium days on most workout days where you're either at a net neutral energy balance or possibly in a slight surplus. And then we will do high days periodically to replenish glycogen where we can be in a caloric surplus and potentially fill out glycogen without fat storage or minimal fat storage where we keep the fats low, carbohydrates high, protein moderate. And that's sort of the crux of the carb cycling diet. I let the pictures dictate how much we push food or pull food back. I don't let the scale so much dictate that. I look at the pictures and are we getting leaner? Are we getting fatter? Are we holding more water? And we adjust macro nutrients based on some combination of that and the scale. Once in a while I have people go get adexA scan to see where their body fat is and their muscle mass just to make sure we are headed in the right directions. And that's sort of how I handle the offseason. IMake sure that people aren't getting fat. Sort of my visual reference is if we can't see the outline of abs, we've gotten too fat, we need to pull back, go into a cutting phase, get lean, get down to where we're aromasingle digit body fat or close to it, reset, do another bulk push-up when we get to the point where we can't see abs and we've gotten too fat. Ideally we don't want to ever get to that point. And let that dictate how we structure the diet and where calories and whatnot are at. All right, next question is from Scott Brinkman. He asked, I know Justin Harris has coached you through several competitions now. I think it's four. Yeah, we've done four shows together. How do you guys approach peak week? Is it similar each time? Just wanting to understand the process. Thanks for creating a space where beginners can feel comfortable asking you anything without fear of being considered a dumbfuck. We all started somewhere and nobody popped out of the womb like Mr. Olympia except for Ronnie and Sergio Olivia. I appreciate that Scott. I try to be a teacher. I wish I'd had the information that's available now when I was younger. I was a dumbfuck at one point myself. I still am in some ways. I try to share what information I know to help those grow and learn. I know a lot more than many people and there are some people that know more than me. I'm always learning myself. There are some people I'm constantly learning from and I try to pay that forward and share with people where I can. As far as the peak week goes, there is sort of a general framework. I have a general framework that I work from. I know Justin does when I'm coaching clients. But honestly, the longer I've been doing this, I realized that every situation is unique and you can't have a formula, an exact formula that you do going into peak week because people react differently. I can tell you the things I see that we need to manage going into peak week and the adjustments that we need to make. I will tell you that every one of my peak weeks with Justin has been different. And a lot of it has to do with where your body composition is at. You know, first of all, are you fat free? Before you go into peak week, first and foremost, you need to be fat free. All the fat needs to be off your body. Second, when we get to that week, we need to manage fatigue. Are you completely fatigued? Do we need to wash off some of that fatigue? Are you getting flat? Are you holding water? We will adjust macros based on that. Usually I have people checking in with me every day going into peak week. On peak week, a lot of times it's multiple times a day. With their weight and their pictures, I am, sometimes it depends on how advanced we are. Like when I guys have guys on national show, IMean, sometimes I'm changing each meal as it goes. Guys on first shows, I don't get, you know, we don't get crazy with it because I don't want to stress them out. If we're constantly changing things and they get anxious, they have to worry about being exact with things. And sometimes that anxiety and worry actually is worse than being super precise with where we're at with things. But really, there's sort of a framework. When we go on into peak week, we want to first and foremost, like I said, make sure you're fat free. Then we want to fill out glycogen, not to the point where we spill over. And we want to get guys dried out before they get on stage. So we want to make sure they're rested. We want to make sure that we have them filled up within reason. We don't want to go so hard with the filling up the glycogen that we spill over. We want to walk the line there. I usually probably would play things a little conservative and go like 80%, maybe 90% if we want to be a little more aggressive with the national competitor. And then we got to get the water off. And that can be done with a lot of times, you know, for an amateur show at a local level, first competitor, most of the time, it's just some water manipulation. We're going to push water up and then pull water back down, or maybe a little bit of sodium manipulation going into the day. On show day, I just want guys to be dry, have enough food in them to keep them from passing out on stage. And a lot of times when you try to throw a Hail Mary, passes in the last 24 hours to make people look better. I see guys backstage dumpinGHoney in their mouth, you know, licking the salt block, you know, warming up with the bands for 45 minutes, doing all these Hail Mary things that just never ends up making them look any better. Usually the guy that wins the show is the guy that's just chilling out, laying on the floor, waiting to get on stage. And that's, that's the dude that's going to win. And the guys that are doing all the crazy rituals backstage, eating a bunch of weird ass food that they haven't eaten on their entire prep, they're usually the ones that look like shit when they get up on stage. I just keep it simple on show day and get up on stage, make sure you're, you know, if you're looking good, eating a certain way going into show day, then why not just keep eating that way? We might keep the foods a little simpler. I like keeping the foods lighter actually on show day myself. I usually will lower down my, my protein and my carbohydrates. If you're not drinking water or much water, you're not going to be digesting your food well. So you don't need to be eating a ton of food. You want to eat simple to digest stuff. And that's sort of the approach, get dry, fill up, don't be stressed out, have guys ready for the stage. And really each person is unique and individual. All right. Next question here is from username. What's your approach to trensitioning from bulk to cut phases, cruise, a TRT dosing? Um, uh, what, what, what do you do during these times? Uh, with food, PEDs, et cetera. Okay. So yeah, I have a methodology. If you want to pick up my PED cheat sheet, cycle cheat sheet, I have it on my website for 30 bucks. I have my blasting cruise methodology mapped out and how it works and what compounds I use and how long I do each of these phases. But anyway, it's short, sweet, simple. I like to do 16 to 20 week phases. I find that 16 to 20 weeks is pretty, pretty much, you know, where things start to Peter out and you need a break. So if let's say we're going from bulking phase, I like to do 16 to 20 week bulking phase. At the end of that bulking phase, we'll do six, eight, 12 week cruise where we go down to TRT doses, maybe a little bit of GH in there. I pull the diet back a little bit. I want to be at, if we're coming out of a bulk, it's going to be a little bit different with the nutrition. I usually pull down to one high day and probably would be right around maintenance or maybe in just a slight deficit during that phase because the drugs are lower, body composition is going to take a hit. So you don't want to be eating a ton of food, nutrient partitioning, and everything's going to be a little bit different. Plus you just want to give your body a break. You want to give yourself a break from all the food. You want to give yourself a break from the PEDs, let your body heal up, get healthy. I like to do an eight to 12 week cruise personally. Six weeks is probably the bare minimum. I think 12, I've even gone up to 16 weeks. Last year I think I did a 16 week cruise between shows. And then cutting phase, I like to be nice and fresh going into a cutting phase. 16 weeks is usually about the max for a cutting phase. Diet's a lot different coming out of a cutting phase. We are going to rebound coming out of the cutting phase. We're going to leave PEDs a little bit higher. Usually I cut PEDs in half, as IMentioned earlier. And what I'm going to do is actually push the food up coming out of a cutting phase. It's the exact opposite of a bulking phase. We are depleted. Gastric emptying is high. insulin sensitivity is high. Your body is primed to grow. It's going to be very anabolic. So we'll get a little aggressive with the food within reason, as long as guys aren't turning into a big bloated mess. We try to catch a six to eight week rebound after that phase and slowly taper down the gear over that rebound phase. Keep the food high. We incrementally push up the food. And then eventually that kind of comes to a halt. The rebound stops being productive. That is just something you just go by feel. But I find somewhere in the six to eight week range is usually about as long as the rebound will be productive. And then we shift into another cruise. Just like we did before. Before we go into a proper off-season bulk. That's sort of how I do it. All right. This next question sort of is a tag on to the one I just did. This one is from Paul Robinson. Paul asks from following up on the recent anabolic round table, what's your personal preference between a longer bio-identical hormone bulk, say a 20 to 24 week ramping up tests, AI say to 1.5 grams or more, shorter, more anabolic runs, get it in, get it done, get out, e.g. two to three grams of tests, EQ tren, antedral ramped up quickly over eight to 10 weeks or compromise between the two and then say, fuck it with the finishing out the cycle. What would you change if you were going to run this like twice a year? This question is meant for very experienced pro level guys, obviously. I'll tell you, I don't know many pros that run short blast and get much out of it. I personally find that 16 to 20 weeks for an off-season is the most productive range, as I just mentioned. And now we can think about the science behind it. There's probably some reasons for it. One, most of your PEDs aren't even going to be at peak dosages or peak peaked for, like, for example, if you're running testinante and you push up, it has a six to eight day half-life. We're talking about 30 to 45 days before it's even peaked. So coming off after six or eight weeks makes no sense to me. We also have to think about how satellite cell proliferation works. IMean, we're talking about a total of, you know, four to six weeks before satellite cells are fully proliferated. And even then, I don't know that the cells are fully cemented at that point. I know this is kind of bro talk, but what I've seen is when guys do short cycles and they come back down, I remember everybody was talking about the mass blast before. I never really saw anybody get permanent results from that. Really, the formula that works is well established and out there. If you look at how most pro bodybuilders do it, they all do it the same way. They're not just running tests. I don't know of any of them that just do bioidentical hormones test only and do that. I don't know any of them that do short six week hard blast and do anything out of it. These guys are blasting for long times, 16, 20, 24 weeks. They're running tests, EQ, GH, or Primo instead of EQ. Sometimes they put nandrolone in there. Sometimes they put in some anadrol in there. But most of the time, these are long ass cycles. I don't think you're going to get productive growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or cement in that growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, so to speak. That's very much bro speak. It's not very sciency, but it's what I've seen. Unless you run a longer cycle, I guess in theory you could just run tests in GH and insulin. Those are all bioidentical hormones and potentially grow. But I do think there is an upper limit of how much tests you can run before it becomes unproductive. Because you are going to have DHT conversion, you're going to have estrogen conversion, and then running an AI to deal with it. Then why wouldn't you just run an anabolic alongside of it? Something like Primobolan or Equipoise, it's going to help you manage the estrogen and have lower DHT conversion. A lot of the side effects that guys get from cycles are really from the DHT and estrogen conversion, unless you're running Tren or something, or running some nasty oral. So if you were going to run a higher dose, as most of these guys I see on the pro level, they're running two to three grams. IMean, that's pretty typical in an off-season, you know, gram plus of test, 600 to 1000 of their primary anabolic. IMean, it's, you know, 1000 to 1500 milligrams of test is typically what I see guys run. 9, 10 units of GH, sometimes more. And they do this for 16, 20 weeks, 24 weeks at a time. They put on a bunch of size that way. I just don't see anybody doing it the other way. And if it works better the other way, trust me, they would be doing it. I know there's a lot of science and breakdown on it. Now, one could argue the bioidentical way, like for me now at my age, maybe that's a safer option, potentially. I don't know, but I don't think you're going to put on maximum size that way. The formula exists. It's existed for quite a bit of time. Everybody's trying to reinvent the formula. Nobody's done it yet. We know that test, EQ or Prima runninGHigher doses, maybe sprinkling some Nangelone if you can tolerate it, Anadrol, insulin, GH as much as you can afford, run that shit for a long time. You know, that's how dudes get big. You know, sometimes even, even Tren, most of the time people are running Tren on contest prep. You know, that's the shit that people run to get big. All right. Next question here is from my friend Ed Portrenco. Can you please explain what causes acne from PEDs? Acne, first and foremost, is genetic. You're either cursed with acne or you're not. I have run copious amounts of PEDs. I've never once had acne in my entire life, even as a teenager. I just don't have the genetics to have acne. Once in a blue moon, I'll get a random zit somewhere, but I've never had acne issues. All my hair fell out. My nose got huge. Yeah, I didn't get, I didn't get acne though. So I don't have those genetics. Same thing with hair. Guys all the time talk about what causes hair loss and you know, what are ways to prevent it. It's ultimately genetic. It's sort of the same thing with acne too. Now you can reduce flare ups. You can prevent it from, from happening for the most part. Generally it is some imbalance of DHT or estrogen that causes acne in people. I, bad personal hygiene can be it too. Dudes are fucking sweating and having a bunch of dead skin cells on it. Increased IGF production from your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and other things that you're taking is also going to cause increased turnover in skin cell production. So you're going to have a lot more dead skin cells that could potentially clog pores from what I understand. You combine, you combine that with being a dirty motherfucker and not taking a shower after the gym. And you have increased sebum production from your estrogen being too high. Most of the time when I see dudes have bad acne flare ups, it's almost always from estrogen being out of control. It's usually, now it's not to say that DHT couldn't be the culprit, but most of the time when I see it happen with dudes, it's their, their estrogens out of control. Now DHT can certainly contribute to it. Progesterone can too, as well. I know guys that have gone through long term treatment for, for acne with Retin-A. And you can permanently get rid of it. If you run it for six months or more, you have to talk to your dermatologist about that. You have to be at a sufficient dose. It's going to really dry your skin out and dry your joints out. It's kind of a little rough on your liver, but there are options to permanently get rid of it. For the most part, most people have permanent resolution if they do that. But at the end of the day, it's mostly just genetics. All right, next question here is from Jeff Hartley. Jeff asks, what is it about GH that causes fluid retention specifically around the ankles and calves? Basically, when I take anything over five units, I end up with, end up with cankles, basically. HGH is going to cause some stimulation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. Androgens can do it. Some people are more susceptible to it than others. Once again, it's genetic. I usually don't get water retention from GH, but if I run my anabolics too high, or I let my estrogen get too high, I get, I get water retention. So I would say, look, you have to kind of look at the source cause of it. It could be dietary related too. If guys are eating way too much sodium, some people are more sodium sensitive, it's going to get worse. When you're taking GH because GH seems to affect, or GH, Jesus Christ, if I can talk, GH seems to affect antidiuretic hormone, ADH, which can affect water retention. HGH also makes capillaries more permeable, which seems to make water leak subqtaneously. So you end up with pooling of water around your joints, specifically in the hands and the ankles. HGH stimulates IGF-1. IGF-1 can promote additional water retention. IGF-1 may play a role in altering kidney function and water retention as a result. It's sodium reabsorption. So we have that to contend with as well. Diet, you know, a lot of times dudes when they're on their fucking offseason cycle, they eat like shit. They use it as an excuse to eat like an asshole. Creating like an asshole on top of it, it's going to make it even worse. insulin, if you're taking insulin with it can also play another factor in it. But if a lot of times what I find, it seems like after a while your body, your aldosterone seems to normalize to that. You can address the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system with an ARB or an ACE inhibitor. That could help some of it. You can make sure that you're keeping your potassium adequate. Ideally, from what I recall, don't quote me on this, but I think you need to have potassium at a three to two ratio with sodium. Now be mindful if you are taking a, um, you know, something like, um, it's almost sardine and ARB that you're going to have, um, potassium retention from that drug. So you do have to be careful with potassium intake. But for other people, you probably need to have a little more potassium in your diet to help with that. And ultimately, if you do get bloated, you can back off the doses. Uh, or if you do have water retention, I know there's the one day on one day off protocol that I've seen some people use or five days on two days off to help with the water retention. Or you can just back off the dose or just wait a while and let your body normalize. I would probably try to address diet issues first. Make sure that your electrolytes are in balance, that you're not eating a bunch of shitty food and then just go from there. I used to not be able to run over five units. You know, I got to a point where I could run up to 10, no problem. 18 I tried before, too much. I ended up with, with, with numb hands and, um, I was just tired all day long. All right, my bros, that's all I got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of you. I'm thankful for all of you. Very grateful for all the support that I receive from everybody. It really means a lot to me. I am thankful every day I get up to, I get to live the life that I do. You guys mean everything to me. I try to give back to the community where I can. I will see you guys on the next episode. If you have any comments, if you think I'm an idiot, you want to address anything that I said in this, put it in the comment section below. Peace out brothers. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.