WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, folks. Big Paul here today with the man, Justin Harris. What's going on, Justin? How you doing? Glad to be here. Good, man. So you got the Instagram world stirred up with your protein reel the other week. We're going to talk about protein requirements for bodybuilding today. Like I want to go at the start. I'll try to explain myself because this gets misinterpreted so much. I'm saying nothing about how much protein you need to eat. Absolutely nothing. I'm not saying anything about how much you need each day or any of that. It would drive me crazy because all I'm doing is I'm saying, let's take how much muscle mass you gained this year. If you gained 10 pounds of muscle, we know that about 3 pounds of that is amino acids. Now, if you said you were trying to gain muscle all 365 days, take that 3 pounds, convert it to grams, and divide by 365. That's how much muscle protein synthesis occurred on average per day. That's all I'm saying. And if you break it down and you gain 10 pounds of muscle, that you gained about, was it about 4 grams of muscle? 4 grams of amino acids got used to build muscle. So of all the protein you eat each day, on average, only 4 grams of it was converted to new muscle. I'm not saying that's all you need to eat. Maybe you need to eat 1,000 grams to get that 4 grams. I don't care. I'm just saying that if you take 4 grams times 365, you get 3 pounds of amino acids, which at 30% of a muscle cross-sectional area is 10 pounds of muscle weight. That's all I'm saying. I'm looking back. I'm not looking forward. There's nothing debatable or arguable or theoretical. I'm just saying take how much weight you gained and divide it by 365. And you're even assuming that 100% of the muscle is actual protein structures when it's more like 30, isn't it? Well, yeah, and I did convert it to that even further. Because if you do 30% of muscle as amino acids, then it's like 1.9 grams per day for every 5 pounds of muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone a year. Assuming that an average, all you can do is average it out over 365. Some days you had more. Some days you had less. Maybe you dieted at some point. But people hear that and they say, well, you're saying you only need to eat 5 grams of protein a day. No, I'm not saying anything about what you need to do. I'm saying what already happened. So you gain this much in a year. Divide that by however many days you were trying to gain. And on average, that's how much you gain. So all the protein you eat. And so what people get so worked up about is, and this was in response to, you know, Phil Viz saying something about 500 or 600 grams of protein a day. And I'm not saying you don't need that. I don't know. You know, I'm saying I don't use that much. But I'm saying if you eat 600 grams per day and you gain 10 pounds of muscle a year, you still only converted about 4 grams per day. So of that 600 grams, only 4 grams of that went to muscle protein synthesis. Now, to me, it seems like eating 600 grams of protein to get 4 grams of new muscle isn't the most optimal use of that protein. It seems like there would be more efficient ways to eat less protein and optimize the amount of muscle protein synthesis that comes from it, like used with carbohydrates, you know, insulin. insulin increases amino acid uptake into a muscle, something to trigger muscle protein synthesis, mTOR. Maybe IGF-1 plays into it. There's all these other things that I would think we should put the focus on these other things to maximize the amount of muscle protein synthesis we get from the protein we do eat rather than just dump more protein on the problem. But I'm not saying anything like I know anything about how much protein you need. And that's what people get so worked up about. I'm just saying, take how much muscle you gain in a year, divide it by 365, and then divide by 0.3 for, you know, multiply by 0.3 if you go backwards to get the amount of amino acids each day. Yeah. IMean, I think the attitude has changed a bit on protein consumption. I know in the 90s and 2000s, it was the old 2 gram per pound body weight thing, which was just largely over-consuming protein. At the end of the day, you're probably just eating really expensive carbohydrates. Well, yeah, yeah. Well, I remember even one time our guy in professional muscle was he thought he found the secret to muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone because he was using insulin and not eating any carbs, but he was eating 900 grams of protein a day. And, you know, and I remember like trying to explain to him that, no, the reason you're not getting 900, you know, like 900 grams is two pounds of amino acids. Anything less than two pounds per day that you're gaining is being wasted. What's happening is that protein goes through gluconeogenesis, gets converted to a carbohydrate, and that's what's covering the insulin. It's way better, there are way easier ways to cover the insulin than eating 900 grams of protein. Yeah. Cut out the middleman and just eat some carbs. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. And so that's just my big problem is like, you know, we know protein, muscle is made of protein, so we think eat more protein. And that, you know, first principles, that makes sense. But if you do the math, you know, 500 grams of protein is 1.1 pounds. So unless you're gaining 1.1 pounds a day, anything less than that means that protein is not being used to build muscle. That doesn't mean that, you know, who knows how much you actually need. And that's the other problem because we hear words like assimilate, like you only assimilate 30 grams of protein a meal. What does that mean? You can assimilate, do you mean absorb? Because I can guarantee you can absorb more than 120 calories from protein in a meal, you know, or else we wouldn't have the obesity epidemic. If you mean assimilate, you mean actually synthesize new muscle? No, you're not because if you do 30 grams of protein three times a day, that's 420 pounds of muscle a year. If I assimilate, you mean actually synthesize new muscle from it. So I just hate, we use these words that don't really mean anything. They're not well-defined and people just hear it and repeat it. Like that 30 grams per meal, I don't even know where that came from. But the only study I've ever found that gave an actual number was one study that showed upwards of after, I can't remember what the exercise was, some type of hard trening, some high workload, they found that the maximum rate of muscle protein synthesis following a meal was 10 grams, you know, and that would be like maximum. There's a brand new study out that people have been passing around, I can't remember the name of it, but where it basically showed that there was no upper limit, really. Like you could… Oh, yeah. IMean, well, look how fat people, IMean, there wouldn't be thousand pound people if there was an upper limit. Just put them on, just have them eat a ton of protein all day and they'd get shredded. You know, that's not true. We absorb calories from what we eat. We just don't, you know, we convert the protein to other nutrients. We convert it to glucose and then through the fatty acid synthesis pathway into fatty acids. IMean, that's, IMean, for it to actually get converted from glucose into fatty acids, IMean, you'd have to, I don't even know that that's even a thing to worry about. That's why guys get lean eating meat-only diets, I think. Well, it's the opposite. You don't need to worry about it because that, you know, that's an endothermic reaction. So you have a protein structure and you eat it and you have no use for those amino acids. Well, you don't want amino acids just floating in your bloodstream. That's like acidic. So you need to convert it to something else. So anytime you build something, it takes energy. So you take energy to convert those amino acids into glucose. And so like some percentage of those calories get burned in that process. And then eventually if that glucose doesn't get used, it can be converted to fatty acids. So it can, but that's another calorie that takes some of the calories. So by the time you get to the fatty acid aspect, as much as maybe 30%, probably more like 15% of the calories of that protein have been burned off just by in the body reforming the calories into a different usable structure. Yeah. And from what I understand too, correct me if I'm wronGHere, but I think there's a good bit of it that's lost through the process of gluconeogenesis too. I think it's like, isn't it something like three grams of protein per one gram of glucose converted? Something like that. I don't recall. I don't know. I know the percentage is somewhere around like 10 to 15% of the calorie count. So if you eat a hundred calories of protein, by the time it would be glucose, it would only be about 85 calories. Okay. Yeah. I thought there was a, some of it was lost through the process of glucose. I could be wrong, but I remember Kurt broke it down in his video. Yeah, it is. It's lost because, IMean, you burn some of the calories because, you know, like if I took, you know, if you picture it like if there's a, like if protein was shaped like this, the protein was shaped like this and I need to convert it to glucose, which means I shape it like this, you know, that took energy, you know, it takes energy to reform it. And so some of the calorie, about 10 or 15%, I believe are burned off in that process. Yeah. It's a pretty, IMean, you look at the process that it goes through, it's pretty it's pretty complicated. Oh yeah. Anyone who's had an exercise science or nutrition degree has had to learn it. IMean, you can see. Yeah. It's before it actually gets converted into. Yeah. It's funny, pyruvate, if you look down there, if anyone remembers in the mid to late nineties, pyruvate and pyruvic acid was sold as a fat burner. Yeah. I remember that. But yeah, anyway, people get very, very passionate about that. Now we, you know, of course we're going to have protein turnover. There's an amino acid pool that the body maintains. I don't remember the exact numbers on that, but most of the studies that you see on non enhanced people show somewhere, I think it was around 0.7 to 0.8 grams per pound of body weight is more than adequate. Yeah. I don't remember the exact, I remember being taught well, I remember being taught in a class that the highest rate of protein turnover would be in distance runners. And I remember being told like 50 grams a day for protein turnover from recovering from distance running. So if you just say that ballpark and you take a larger body builder, you can say maybe probably 75 grams of protein a day is needed for normal turnover, repair of damaged tissue, you know, intestinal muscle tissue. You know, like if you bump your shoulder into the wall and it bruises, that's damaged tissue needs to be repaired. So probably maybe somewhere on the order of 75 grams of protein a day for normal protein turnover. And then here's where people get mad. And then, so in a perfect world, if you could get 100% conversion of muscle protein synthesis from any excess protein, you would theoretically only need 80 grams of protein a day to add five pounds of muscle every year. But we're never going to get that. And that's where people misinterpret me. I'm not arguing for low protein. I overshoot 80 grams, you know, three times or four times, you know, most of my guys are three or 400 grams of protein. But I'm just saying, we know we're not synthesizing 400 grams of protein a day in a new muscle because that would be thousands of pounds of muscle a year. Yeah. This one I found, it said it's about one gram per three kilograms. Yeah. So that's, he adds only 30 grams for a hundred, for a 220 pound guy then. Yeah. Yeah. I remember specifically being told because as someone who was interested in working out and most of my professors were distance runners, they always had to make sure I knew, make sure I knew that they needed more protein than I did, you know, because they were always, that was, that was kind of the mid nineties where there was like a little battle between the bro science guys and the, you know, and the exercise science guys, you know, so my professors always made sure I knew that anything I read on bodybuilding told me to eat way more protein than I actually needed. Yeah. It says point, it said 0.4 grams per kilogram per meal is enough to maintain protein turnover. Most people, this is from the Journal of International Society per kilogram per meal. So 0.4, so that's four for 220 pound man, that would be 40 pounds per meal, 40 grams per meal. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's afforded a day. Sorry. Yeah. So 40 grams per day. Yeah. Yeah. And again, like I was told the highest rate of protein turnover would be in distance run, long distance runners. And I was told 25 years ago by my professors that it would be about 50 grams a day. And so I even, I even almost, you know, I even add 25% of that and I say 75 grams a day, you know, but, and I don't feed my guys 75 grams a day. IMean, you know what you're eating, what are you eating? 50 grams a meal, six meals a day, you know, 60, 60. Yeah. So you're eating, you know, over 350 grams a day. You're so, you know, that's direct protein too. So exactly. Yeah. So you're over 400 on within direct. Yeah. It's probably over 400. Yeah. But so that's what people get like misinterpreting. I'm not saying anything. I'm not saying you only need to eat five grams of protein a day. I'm saying if you gain, if you gain 10 pounds of muscle a day, you only synthesized five grams a day on average. That's all I'm saying. And that's, that's not, that's not controversial. Take 10 pounds, convert it to grams, take one third of that and divide it by 365 days in a year. And that's what you converted on average, you know, not every single day, but that is what the average would be. I'll say this, this offseason, of course, you know, I was a terrible client. I didn't check in, didn't follow a structured diet, but I ate way less. I don't feel like I lost anything, man. Jay Cutler used to eat 180 grams a day when he was at his biggest. He was eating 1,500 grams of carbs a day, but you know. Carbs are protein sparing. We know that, so. Yeah. And there's a, there's a mechanism of that. The reason they're protein sparing is one, you're not, it's the reason they're protein sparing is because you're not converting protein to carbs for one, gluconeogenesis, but for two, when insulin binds to a cell, and this is very important, you know, insulin binds to a receptor and it shuffles some proteins on that receptor, which basically opens like a, like a drain, like on your shower drain to allow more amino acids into the muscle. You know, so the insulin, the insulin that comes from the carbohydrates that binds to the receptor actually increases the potential for the amino acid you eat to be converted into muscle. So they're, they're, they're, you know, like anti-catabolic and also directly anabolic. And my nutritionist, Thomas Lackey, has a, an article explaining that. I don't even remember the pathway. It's really interesting, but they're showing that insulin is directly anabolic. Yeah, it's, it's interesting because these guys that do protein only diet, well, protein, basically non-carbohydrate diets, keto and carnivore, they're missing out on all of the hormonal response you get from eating carbohydrates. The increased insulin production, IGF-1, mTOR, IMean, all this stuff is a direct cascade of eating carbohydrates. You're losing out on a huge chunk of that. And that's kind of goes back to my point where I'm saying like, you know, like, yes, we can eat 600 grams of protein a day and guarantee we're going to get that five grams of muscle protein synthesis. Or since we know insulin improves muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, since we know all IGF-1, since we know these things benefit the rate of muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, why aren't we looking to that more closely and how we can increase the rate of muscle protein synthesis from a smaller amount of protein by utilizing these other nutrients to maximize the efficiency of the muscle protein synthesis we get? That just digestion, eating large amounts of protein. IMean, I have a hard time getting it down sometimes. It's really hard on the GI. You know, I think that's really more like when people talk about like GH guts. What I find more, and you guys, bigger guys will notice this for sure in contest prep, is your gut gets so dried out from high protein. You know, protein doesn't – because when you eat a bunch of carbohydrates and fiber, you need to draw water into the colon to provide bulk to get things to pass through. And one of the things people first notice when they're on a carnivore diet and they're not eating anything, they'll think, well, how am I pooping when I don't eat any fiber? Even worse, I have crazy diarrhea at first. It's because your body is still used to pulling all that water into the colon at first. It doesn't need it anymore because you don't have all the fiber and carbohydrates to mix with it, so you get diarrhea. But like a 16-week contest prep that's really high protein and lower carbohydrates, you stop pulling that water in the colon, and eventually your colon gets really dried out, and a lot of guys get very constipated. And I think a lot of the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, the GH gut that bigger guys get is really more just built-up constipation. And I have like a pretty good track record. I work with almost exclusively super heavyweights or enlarged pro-bodybuilders, and none of my guys ever get scolded for having a bubble gut or GH gut. And I think that's a big reason is we utilize things like osmolaric laxatives like Miralax or things like Ducal-X that increases mucus production in the colon so that they don't run into that problem. Yeah, IMean, I brought my waist down. It's smaller. I played around. It was interesting. I was talking to Roman. Roman was talking about, and I didn't know he did this. You know how he eats a shit ton of food? He fasts one day a week. He takes one. I never knew that. Interesting. Yeah. He has to take a break from the food to keep his gut tight. I'll periodically, I have my forced fast with the IBS. Yeah. But I've noticed that if I get ahead of it, I think I can feel the flare-ups coming if I get ahead of it and just cut the food out. I want to make a video about it. I actually did some fasting in the off-season this year. Just on low days, I would just not eat until like 5 p.m. or something just to kind of give my gut a break. And I didn't have the GI issues that I was having before. Well, it's funny, guys, because it's so hard to build muscle. And it takes so much work and so much food and so much trening and so much anabolics that we think it's going to fall off us if we miss one meal or something. But I actually just had a doctor's appointment, and I weighed 263. And I went back and checked, and I've been going to this doctor for six years or whatever. And I thought it was interesting because I'm actually trening pretty hard right now, harder than I have in a long time, and eating better than I have in a long time. And so I was curious, and I looked back. I've weighed exactly 263 pounds in 10 of 11 visits. The one I didn't, I was 262 pounds. And that was me being, you know, blasting, me being on a TRT, me not trening, me treninGHard. And obviously, my body composition was different. But there were some times in there where I wasn't weighing anything. I was eating whatever I wanted when I was hungry. Other times where I was super strict. And it just kind of like, like, every once in a while, I'll get like that reinforced, reinforced the idea of like, man, like, it's, it's hard, it's harder to change your body. You know, we think we know it's hard to change it in the direction of improving body composition. But we think it's the we don't realize that it's kind of, you know, it's hard to remove that weight from the body to it's, you know, like, you're not going to shrivel up from missing a meal. Yeah, it's interesting with bodybuilding to how you realize that your body kind of strives for homeostasis is with a weight. Like I this contest prep. I had started off just to start off at 252 to 50. I was essentially way the same as I started off. Yeah, my body compositions completely changed. But your body just kind of has a set point that it wants to be at. And you have to do some pretty extreme things to get beyond or above that, or even below it. Like you really have to, IMean, you know, man, you got to push food hard for sometimes for some guys to blow past that. But yeah, but to maintain it, and that's why I like when guys will say they're on TRT, and they didn't, they don't shrivel up immediately, and everyone thinks they're lying. It's like, well, you know, being on TRT for three months, if you're still trening and still eating, you're not you're gonna, you're not gonna look as hard, you know, you'll be a little bit softer, but you don't you don't disintegrate, you know, if you, you know, killed yourself for 15 years to get to a certain, you know, body mass, and you're, it's not like you're even off, you're still on TRT, you know, you're still on stuff, but just not so much. You don't, you know, you lose a little fullness, a little hardness, you look a little softer, but you don't in clothing, you know, like your average person, like your mom and dad would never notice the difference, you know, and I just like I said, I just realized that with this doctor visit, I was like, man, I was the exact same weight, every single visit. Sometimes I was barely trening, sometimes I was super serious, sometimes I was on a cycle, sometimes I was on TRT, but my weight really, you know, my, like, how I look, obviously, in like a posing suit would be dramatically different across those times, but my weight really wasn't much different. It wasn't any different. But I bet you if you went on a contest prep, you probably would be somewhere in that ballpark. Yeah, well, that's what, yeah, IMean, yeah, yeah, it's, IMean, it was fun. What you're, what you're experiencing right now is what I did, like my last real show was the 2007 USA's, and I remember I, because I didn't take much in the offseason. I really tried to be healthier that year, and I kind of wanted to see what I would do, like growing into a show. I remember I started prep at 262, and I was 266 at two weeks out. IMean, like, 266 after a high day. I was like 259, 257, like real weight, so I lost like five pounds, you know. Yeah, that's kind of the same thing you're experiencing. That's the first time I've had this happen. No, I just ran TRT in my offseason this year as well. IMean, people don't believe me. The guys were freaking out and saying I was a liar, but, you know, it was three, four months, whatever. Yeah, but you can show the, like, that is funny because people say that, but you can show the photos, you know. You'll see you're about the same weight, but you were softer. Yeah, not as full, not as hard. Yeah, and so, like, you know, it's like, you know, when did you start trening? In the 90s, you know, like, like three weeks, three months of TRT where you're still taking testosterone, you know. It's not like you're still, you know, buT3 months of TRT after 25 years of trening, you're not, you know, you're not going to disintegrate, you know, because you still, that's, you know, that's caloric weight, you know. Like, it's still, you got to be in a calorie deficit to lose that weight, you know. You don't just, some of the muscle can, you know, you can lose a little bit of muscle and gain a little body fat at the same caloric intake when androgens aren't as high, but it's not like weight just falls off you unless you're not eating. Well, I don't know if you've seen or followed Ian Valliere on Instagram, but he's been trying to downsize, and he's been running and doing stuff, and he still looks like he can, he said he can't get the weight off. You have to eat less and burn more, you know. It's like, you know, it just, just as, it's like, it's hard to gain size. It's not as hard to lose it, but it's not, it's still hard, you know. You know, you still have to, you have to be in a calorie deficit. Yeah, I think he said he's still like 250. Yeah. And he's a big dude. Yeah, and that's the thing, his appetite is still going to be for his size, you know. So, like, whether you're losing body fat or stored muscle, you're still losing calories from the body, and so you have to create a calorie deficit to get that. Yeah, it's really interesting to see these retired guys. Now, some dudes just shrivel up into nothing. I've seen that before, too, but. Yeah, and those, but those, again, it's calorie-related. Those would be the guys, some guys were naturally not big. You know, I was, I go back to 260, I was 260 before I ever took anything. I was a fat 260, but I was, so, you know, the guys that were, like, 160 pounds with no appetite and became bodybuilders by force feeding, they'll lose weight quickly because they don't have the appetite. I have the appetite for a 260-pound guy, so when I go off, I just, I stay 260, I just get fat. I've been every body type. I was super skinny in high school, then I got fat in my 30s. Now, I'm big again, but yeah, I think I was 160, 165 when I graduated high school, something like that. That's crazy. I was 135 pounds my junior year and 240 pounds my senior year. I was a late bloomer. Puberty hit me like a freight tren. Yeah, it's wild, though, to see the different body types, especially with, and you'll see it, like, coaching, like, with metabolism. That's been kind of the wild thing with, now that I've been handling more people, is how much food varies from person to person. It's crazy. It's still a bell curve and, like, you know, 85% of people are within kind of a band, but then you get some outliers that are just outrageous. Yeah, I'm pretty good at predicting. Like, I don't use, I used to have a formula I would do for the macros, but, like, I just, like, know, like, off the top of my head, here's what I'm going to start a guy off at. And, yeah, like you said, like, 80% of people are fine there, but some people can eat way more. Some people can eat way less. It's crazy when you'll see the difference. You'll have, like, a 280-pound guy eating less than a 180-pound guy, you know, at the very, very extreme, from slow metabolism to crazy metabolism. That's always mind-boggling, especially when they check in back to back, you know, back to back, and you'll have, like, this giant guy that's eating, you know, like, you can't get in shape, and, you know, like, he's really not eating very much. When I say not very much, probably eating 3,000 calories, but, you know, like, for a guy that's, you know, big. And then you have another guy, you had, like, Tom Shepard's one guy. He works a lot with elite FTS. He was, the guy, like, he could eat 10,000 calories a day, and it was, like, it just, I don't know where it went, but, you know, like, and, of course, if he didn't force feed, his weight just plummeted off, so he did have an insane metabolism. Another guy I have, Josh Debono, right now, his metabolism's like that, too, so much so, like, when we first worked together, I was sure he was, like, megadosing T3, because it was, like, no matter what they fed him, it just burned right through. David Bonilla Yeah, I feel like I have a fairly high metabolism, higher than most of my clients, I see, but they're pretty good, you know. I, like, Kurt, I helped him out with something with his diet, and he can just eat an ungodly amount of food, more than me, and he's, like, yeah, that's crazy. Tom Bilyeu He can eat a whole pizza and not get fat, it's crazy. David Bonilla I do, my stock meal is six ounces of meat and 50, and I'll get a couple of rice or 50 grams, so, basically, like, 50 grams of protein, 50 grams of carbs, I eat about five of those a day, and I hold, like, 265. Tom Bilyeu That's my prep diet, Justin. David Bonilla I know. Tom Bilyeu You know. David Bonilla So, I hated competing. The prep diet was just starve. Tom Bilyeu Oh, but I see guys, there's some guys that have to starve, it's, I feel bad for them. David Bonilla Yeah, they're the ones that, like, really, like, yeah, you feel bad, because a lot of them, like, have great, like, brown muscle bellies, but they just, like, and that's kind of partly why I left the sport, was it was just so difficult to get in shape, that there was no way I was going to compete four times a year, you know, like, I just had to go, like, so much lower than anyone else that I worked with. The last time I tried to get in shape, I was doing, I went down, like, to five ounces a meal, five meals of five ounces a meal, and either vegetable-only carbs or half a cup of rice, like, that calorie count, and I still struggled to get in shape. Tom Bilyeu Yeah, I wish I'd been more serious about this when I was younger, because I just, like, I just lean up super quick. David Bonilla Yeah. Tom Bilyeu And then people used to do that, like, gaining size was, like, it's always easy for me. I remember, like, getting on the internet at first, you know, and people were, like, oh, you can't get big on chicken and rice, and I'd be, like, I can get fat on chicken and rice. David Bonilla I have the opposite problem. It's hard for me to put on weight a lot of times. Like, I hit my limit on threshold on food, like, where I just can't eat anymore. Tom Bilyeu Yeah, well, you say you don't even, you're not really even hungry in prep, right? David Bonilla No, I'm not. Tom Bilyeu That's crazy. David Bonilla No, I haven't really been hungry. And once in a while, it'll hit me. Like, after a low day, I'll be a little bit hungry, but I don't I just hate that feeling, too. Like, that empty, like, your body's empty, your stomach's empty, energy's empty, and you're just hungry. You just don't feel, like, tight and strong, and you just feel, like, drained. I hated that feeling. Tom Bilyeu I have that skinny guy thing where I don't just have much of an appetite. Like, I don't know, I guess I do get hungry, but I just, like, it doesn't bother me. Like, there's some people, it seems like it's uncontrollable. David Bonilla It's funny, my buddy Brad Hall, we used to do Muscle Mentor together. He's a guy with no appetite, and it was, we were so different because he never wanted to eat, and all I ever wanted to do was eat. And I would, like, I couldn't understand, like, I don't know what it's like to not be hungry. And I would, like, you know, like, was your mouth dry? You know, because I'm just always ready to eat. Tom Bilyeu I used to be that way. I don't know what changed when I got older, man. Like, I just don't David Bonilla Could be the IBS. IMean, that's probably not helping. Tom Bilyeu Yeah, maybe. Maybe that changed. So, IMean, when I could, I definitely got fat in my 30s, I could hammer some food down. I think some of it's food choice, though, too. David Bonilla Oh, for sure, yeah. Yeah, it's way, IMean, eating clen, low-fat protein sources and complex carbs, it's hard to overeat. And it's really, if you don't have a big appetite, it's hard to even eat enough of those things. You know, they just don't, they're not juicy, they're not moist, you know, it's mostly dry foods. They're not really high in flavor. Tom Bilyeu It's pretty easy to get fat on Domino's pizza. David Bonilla Oh, yeah. Tom Bilyeu I think that's what I lived off of for about 10 years. David Bonilla Yeah, and then, like, the people who drink, like, drink beer and stuff. IMean, when you're talking like a non-light beer, you might be upwards of 300 calories of beer, you know, as you drink, you know, you have, you know, if you have three of those with dinner, you're almost at 1,000 calories right there before you even eat any food. Tom Bilyeu Yeah, people don't consider that. It's wild to me. David Bonilla Yeah, a shot's 100 calories. So, any mixed drink is, you know, like a full 50 milliliter shot is about 100 calories of a 40% ABV. So, like, that's, you know, like, and then if they do, like, a mixed drink with, like, a Jack and Coke, you know, you're doing 150 calories in the Coke and then 100 calories from the shot, you get 250 calories a drink. If you go out and drink 10 drinks, it's 2,500 calories. Tom Bilyeu Yeah, and then your liver's screaming too from… David Bonilla Yeah, and then you get pizza on the way home or Taco Bell or something too, so. Tom Bilyeu Yeah, that was the MO. I used to go out and get hammered and then get the pizza afterwards. David Bonilla Oh, man, that's great. Tom Bilyeu There's no better, yeah, oh, IHOP. Yeah, there's no better, there's no better food than IHOP after drinking and there's no worse food than IHOP when you're sober. Tom Bilyeu IMean, it's easy to put down 3,000 calories at IHOP. David Bonilla The syrup, yeah, like the full maple syrup, that's crazy calorie-dense. I don't remember the numbers on it, but if you ever look at it, it's like shockinGHow calorie-dense it is. Tom Bilyeu Well, it's not even real maple syrup they use. It's all the high-fructose corn syrup. David Bonilla Yeah, supercharged. Now I got to look up the syrup. IMean, it's crazy per tablespoon. Tom Bilyeu Yeah, I want to say it's like 100 grams per quarter cup, which you can do no problem on a stack of pancakes. David Bonilla Yeah, let's see here. Yeah, this is crazy, man. One tablespoon of maple syrup is 13 grams of carbs. Tom Bilyeu Yeah, so you're doing easy 100 grams of just pure sugar on any pancakes you're eating. David Bonilla Probably more than that because you have to dump it on there. Tom Bilyeu Yeah, yeah, so like easy, yeah. David Bonilla Sometimes I'll do that not during contest prep, but in the off-season for my high day, I'll go get pancakes and I'll scrape the butter off of it, but I'll do syrup. Tom Bilyeu Yeah, see, my metabolism sucks. I've never drank a regular pop. I've never used real syrup. I always use light syrup, and it's still fat. David Bonilla Well, hopefully we've settled the protein thing, man. It's like you said, you've got me eating protein. I still think it's necessary for bodybuilding, but most people probably overeat it. I've been actually pulling my protein back even lower than what you do for your diets. I've had people get pretty good results. I have them around a gram to a gram and a quarter per pound. Tom Bilyeu Yeah, the honest truth is I probably take protein about 20% to 25% higher than I would would really want to. I'd rather probably just disperse those calories between fat and carbs, but if you take protein too low, people freak out. There's just such dogma about it. If a guy's eating 35 grams of protein in a meal, then they start panicking that they're not going to add size, but if you put them at 45 grams a meal, they don't bat an eye, even though all they did was take 10 grams of carbs that they could have been eating or whatever. Just to reaffirm, I'm not saying anything about how much protein you eat. All I'm doing is saying that's how much protein synthesis we're getting. I'm just counting backwards and saying I would like that we could have a discussion, a better discussion just as an industry about finding better ways to optimize muscle protein synthesis rather than just plugging our ears and saying, you know, no, lots of protein, lots of protein. It seems like there's a better way. The answer is more steroids, more GH. I didn't say that. The cause of and solution to all of life's problems. All right, Justin, thank you for coming on, man. I appreciate you talking about this. Anything you want to promote before you go? Not really. Well, somethinGHere we got. This will be coming out here soon. It's an effervescent tab. I've been chugging it. That's why I'm so hyper. We're coming out with a product called ATP. It's an energy product. I can't say the ingredient, but it's badass. It's a novel ingredient that no one else has that has the number one most pronounced effect in studies is a sense of well-being. It's like a stimulatory nootropic. It's got some other ingredients also, but this main ingredient is a stimulatory nootropic that was studied as a nootropic, but with a Z-score of like 0.9, like 90% of participants reported an improved sense of well-being on the product, and it really does. It's awesome. We're going through final. That's obviously our tasting for sour watermelon, but it's awesome. You drop it in a water bottle. It's like an Alka-Seltzer. It fills up. It's going to be an energy drink, pre-workout fat burner. It's pretty awesome. You have to send me one. Yeah. That's how good it is because usually I send samples out to everyone, but I'm keeping them all for myself because I'm addicted to this stuff. That's awesome. Well, thank you for coming on, Justin. I appreciate it. And help. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.