warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up, Jim bros. Big Paul here today. We have some new information out on Reddit True Tide. Some of the phase three clinical trial data is starting to come out. There is some new information from the studies that have been submitted to the FDA for peer review and approval. And I'm going to go through all of that. There's some really neat information that's in this phase three clinical data. Not all of it's been released. There's just small bits that are coming out right now. I'm going to tell you about what they have found so far. A lot of it's stuff that we already knew, but some of it is pretty cool information and we'll dig into all of it in just one second. All right. Those of you in the bro verse, you already know what Reddit True Tide is and bro slang. Reddit for those of you that are new here, Reddit True Tide is a triple agonist GLP one GIP and glucagon agonist drug that is used to target appetite suppression, fat metabolism and increased energy expenditure used for metabolic disorders and fat loss. It's in development by Eli Lilly. It's in phase three clinical trials right now. Some of those clinical trials are coming to an end and being submitted to the FDA for peer review and approval for this drug for treatment of metabolic disorders and fat loss should be available I would suspect next year at some point. We'll see maybe 2027 maybe 2026 but we don't know for sure. I would suspect that it's going to be out in 2026 we have ozempic that's gen one. We have Trezepatide that is gen two. ozempic is semi-glutide and now Reddit True Tide. We don't know what the brand name is going to be as of yet, I'm sure they'll come up with some sort of cutesy cool name that they're going to call it and there'll be videos and commercials of people dancing around talking about loss as these silly pharmaceutical commercials tend to go when it does come out and I'm sure it'll be incredibly expensive when it does come out, but it is showing a lot of promise in clinical trials and bros in the bro verse. I already know that it works really well. We won't discuss how, but they do know that it works and we've seen some really cool stuff coming out about Reddit True Tide. But this new trial that was submitted to the FDA, this one is for evaluating obesity and people with osteoarthritis. It's the Triumph 4 study is what they are calling it. They wanted to evaluate the effects of weight loss on osteoarthritis patients and if they had a reduction in arthritis symptoms and any alleviation of their osteoarthritis. These people were particularly had arthritis in their knees in this trial and there's some data that came out from this trial that's been released publicly, not the full trial yet. So what's been shared publicly so far with the dosing? There was three dosing schedules with the Reddit True Tide titrating up to peak doses. We don't have information about it, but we can extract some thoughts from the phase two clinical trials. If I remember right, they started off at two milligrams and worked their way up. But the two groups that they evaluated in this trial were on a nine milligram dose and a 12 milligram dose. The placebo was given zero milligrams weekly and they were evaluated over the course of this duration for side effects, effects in weight loss. Dosing was administered once per week for you bros. There was no micro dosing, at least not that we know of. They weren't splitting doses up. Um, that's a whole other debate that we can get into about how dosing schedule, but in the clinical setting, the people that are developing the drug, the people that have researched the drug administered the drug weekly and they evaluated the results based on a weekly dosing. As IMentioned, nine milligrams and 12 milligrams and zero to the placebo group. Well, we can extract from the phase two clinical trials that dose escalation was done over a six to 12 week period of time. Like I said before, I believe it started at two milligrams a week and then they titrated up from there to the peak therapeutic dose. Um, in this case was nine milligrams and 12 milligrams in the two groups that were evaluated. Um, this step wise titration of doses is common in, in GLP one treatments. You see it with trens appetite and semi glutide was unbaked in, in, and is up bound for fat loss. You'll, you'll see that's, that's how they do that. Usually like for, for a trens appetite, usually they start off at 2.5 milligrams and then they work, work their way up from there. So this is how it works with the, with the retrotide. We can extrapolate that they probably did something similar in the phase three clinical trials, but those step wise, uh, titration up in dose has not been revealed yet. Um, but we can, we can extrapolate what that was from the phase two clinical trials. One would assume that it was similar to what it was and maybe they learned a few things and adjusted some stuff, but likely most likely it was, it was, if I were to guess, probably they bumped the doses every two weeks or so. What the results were from the trial, what we found in the 68 week trial on the highest dose at 12 milligrams, they lost 28.7% of their body weight on average of 71 pounds of weight loss, which is fucking crazy, man, 71 pounds of weight loss. In 68 weeks, just a little over a little over a year that that is fucking crazy, man. And I'm sure these motherfuckers weren't exercising. If I were to guess, these are morbidly obese people. If you had that much weight to lose, probably not the type of dude that's going to be working out. Maybe they did.  we don't know from the trial data, but this is just from the drug itself. The average weight loss between the two dosing groups, the nine and the 12 milligram group was still around 23%, which is fucking crazy. I'm still, still amazing.  you know, you can see how fat these people were if they lost, you know, I would say most of these people were, had to have been over 300 pounds would be my guess. Morbidly obese people, but pretty profound in, in,  we're talking about gastric bypass type numbers or even better as far as weight loss goes. There was some rumor floating around recently that they were disappointed with the weight loss results, but that doesn't seem to be the case with this trial. This is the largest reported weight loss out of any weight loss drug ever trialed during that period of time. It is fucking insane, man, fucking insane in, in bros that have experimented. No, this, no about this already. I'm not saying that you should do. This is not a clinically approved drug yet. It's not an FDA approved drug yet, but it is profound. The weight loss results that people have in it. And it's probably because of the increased energy metabolism. The glucagon agonism clearly has some, some additional profound effects that in addition to the GIP and the GLP one increased energy metabolism, increased fat metabolism, you know, just, just better glucose management overall, just profound effects that are going to have just have, have life changing life, altering effects on weight loss in people in regards to the reduction in arthritis, pain and symptoms. The groups reported a 74% reduction in arthritis, pain 14% in the nine milligram group reported complete alleviation of arthritis, pain. Anecdotally, what bros have seen and reported is that C-reactive protein greatly drops, which is a marker for inflammation. When you're on retitutide, I played around with it myself and I saw a significant drop in my CRP. All my inflammation markers were down on retitutide. It is pretty fucking wild with this, with this drug is, is doing with, with in regards to resolving arthritis. And I, I, from what I gathered is they may be evaluating it for arthritis treatment. Now we can extrapolate some things here. When you look at studies that compare, compare drops in arthritis pain with, with people that have had gastric bypass surgeries, you do not see the same reduction in arthritis pain. So there is some secondary effect that is going on here.  weight loss alone is, is probably going to make you feel better. IMean, common sense would dictate that if you drop 75 pounds or whatever the fuck it was that your knees are probably going to feel better. You know, if you go from 300 down to 225, yeah, your knees are going to fucking feel better. You're not going to feel so beat up, but there, there does seem to be some market effect on reduction of arthritis, pain, and inflammation from what we understand. Now there are some downsides. Let's talk about the side effects. During this trial, there was the typical ones reported that are with all GLP one drugs, which nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, lower gastric, emptying all, all of those. And typically the, it was noted that most of those subsided after the initial titration period with the most of that subsided, but there was an interesting additional side effect that a lot of people reported and had problems with. This was diastesia, which diastesia is this feeling of, of tingling, burning, um, this, this weird feeling with your skin. I've heard people talk about this. People that are experimenting with it that have this, this feeling. It's almost like the niacin flush. When you take too much niacin, you get this burning, tingling, um, just weird feeling in your skin. It was something like 21%. I think in the study, let me double check the numbers here. Yeah, it was 20.9% of the people in the study reported having diastesia, uh, which is fucking crazy. And there was actually people that, that was the most market, uh, reported side effect that people had the most problems with. Now, if you look at the phase two clinical trials, there was also the increased pulse rate that some people reported that was found to be annoying. Um, it does seem all GLP ones, there are GLP receptors in your heart. All GLP ones seem to have some impact on increasing pulse. Uh, retrotide seems to be worse than the others. And when it comes to that, so there are some downsides to this, but the diastesia is an interesting one. It doesn't seem to be life threatening or anything dangerous. It's more high on the annoying factor, but walking around feeling like you're getting stung by fire ants all day long probably isn't a pleasant side effect to deal with. Now, as far as dropout rates on the trial, they were higher than they were on other GLP one drugs. They had a high dropout rate. Uh, the most reported reason for dropout rate dropouts was excessive weight loss. I don't know really, we don't have much information behind that. The diastesia was another reported reason for dropping out. And then the nausea and upset stomach, um, was a, was a reason I, I am clinically prescribed triseptide and I've recently come off of it just because I can't fucking eat. My appetite is completely fucking smashed on it. Not great for bodybuilding. I will reincorporate a GLP one at some point, probably the Menjaro and hopefully at some point next year, retrotide will be approved for diabetes and for a diabetic, like diabetic, like myself, big Paul bingo card. If you want to punch that one off for today, big Paul said he was diabetic. Uh, sorry to talk about myself in third person. Um, but yeah, hopefully it'll get approved for diabetes treatment and I can get it prescribed through my endocrinologist, um, for diabetes treatment. That would be fantastic. Right now I am on the combination of triseptide and, and, uh, metformin and metformin. Kind of, kind of as a substitute for the glucagon agonism portion of the, of the retrotide, but the retrotide, the glucagon agonism seems to work much better than metformin does. Uh, but you know, long story short, um, you know, hopefully they will be able to prescribe this for us that are metabolically disordered, have diabetes sometimes here in the next year or so, that will be an option that, that that can be usable for us. But the dropout rates regardless are concerning. Uh, and I can tell you from triseptide, like, like I said, it just completely smashed my appetite and no desire to eat. Gastric emptying was a huge problem for me. I would say in my experience with GLP ones, myself personally, the gastric emptyinGHas been the most annoying side effect for me. My gastric emptying just completely comes to a cry. I literally can't eat more than two or three times a day and I have zero desire to eat any protein or anything like that. It, but I, I would say that is the most profound effect that I have noticed. Um, I've never had any of the diasthesia. I I've heard of people having diasthesia, but that is a profound effect of the retrotide in the current clinical trials from, from what we've seen. There's a very high dropout rate and maybe, and maybe the side effects are worse with retrotide. I know some people have said that it's better than, than the triseptide, but it seems the clinical trials are showing that the dropout rates are higher. At least what data we have so far, there'll be more trial data that would be coming out, but we shall see how that plays out. Now, keep in mind, these are some pretty spicy doses. We're talking about nine and 12 milligrams. That may be why the side effects are so gnarly. Maybe on lower doses, the side effects are not as profound and they could potentially get away with dosing it lower and still having some effect on weight loss, metabolism, et cetera. Now what to expect next. There are other, there are other parts of the triumph study group that are yet to be released. And those have not, maybe they are, maybe there may or may not have been submitted to the FDA. I don't know, but we'll expect full release of the phase three clinical trials in 2026. Um, the other study groups would be obesity with diabetes and obesity with tire, with cardiovascular disease. What bros that have experimented with retrotide reported a significant improvements in lipids while on retrotide, it seems to have a profound effect on lipid metabolism in greatly improving lipid metabolism. So I would suspect the effects on cardiovascular disease are going to be pretty, pretty amazing. Also rapid and significant drops in a one C and improved glucose, um, metabolism and insulin sensitivity. Anecdotally from, from, from bros that I have talked to that have experimented with retrotide. My, my own, you know, playing around with it myself. I had a significant drop in a one C was the best it's been in, you know, 10 years in my lipids were the best they had been in 10 years. It was pretty profound. I have another video up talking about my experiments with it and what I experienced with, with experimenting with it. You can check that video out on my channel. If you want to search, search up the word of true tide, but hopefully this drug will be approved for use in 2026. Those of us that have a need for it, hopefully we can get insurance to pay for it and get a prescription for it. Um, you know, that would be the ideal situation. I have talked to my endocrinologist about it. And right now the best option for me is the combination of, uh, Manjaro with, with, um, with, uh, metformin, you know, that's what we have right now. And hopefully read a true tie can take the place of that, um, soon. And we'll have to see how it goes with dosing. These, these, these doses are pretty spicy. Um, when IMessed around with it, I only use one milligram and I had profound improvement in my blood markers and maybe for type two diabetics and type one diabetics, uh, people in that population, maybe the dosing doesn't need to be as high as it is for the obese people who need to lose weight. Uh, maybe the weight loss factor needs, you need to push the doses a little bit higher, but pretty cool stuff. Let me know what you think in the comment section below more of this information is going to be trickling out here in the coming months. And I will keep you bros posted when it does come out, appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. I'll see you on the next episode.