 This video is brought to you by VIRS detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, battle tested, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, big Paul here today with Jerry, pun Ingram, Jerry lost 200 pounds, natural man, attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended attended some people that are severely obese and they get, I think sometimes just the thought of losing all that weight is so overwhelming that they get caught in this bad cycle and don't even start or even try because they just feel like there's no hope. True. True. IMean, I was that way for a long time. That's probably what took me so long to get started because I wasn't really ignorant to the fact that I knew what it was going to take. And you're close to 400, man. And I was that way for probably 25, 26 years. And it's like looking at this mountain that you got to climb, it's kind of demoralizing versus just getting started, to be honest. Yeah. And that's the tough part, man. It's the mental part. And I see it with a lot of people who struggle with diets is you don't see progress from week to week until you get really lean. That's when it really starts happening. And so that initial part is just so hard. How long did it take you to knock all that weight off? I probably knocked off 120 pounds in like four years, but man, I just was desperate. So I did a lot of like crash diet and a lot of cardio. And then back then I was working in like corporate and like manufacturing and stuff. And so I just done like a lot of cardio, cardio, cardio. And I got down and hated still didn't like the way I looked, but I was happy that I lost the weight. It was like, damn, I can't do this. But I still was unsatisfied. I looked droopy. You know, somebody get like a disease or they get sick and they lose a lot of weight and they just look droopy with no posture. Yeah. And that's still, but I was so egotistical and insecure. I wouldn't like reach out to nobody or hire a coach or anything like that. I just was kind of Googling and just trial by error. And so that was like the first trensformation. And then I started lifting weights. And then that's when I started like constructing my body, man, and trying to do like posture and focus on body fat percentage and not just chasing the number on the scale, to be honest. Yeah. Yeah. Lifting weights is the piece of the equation. I think a lot of people miss, they crash diet and then they do a ton of cardio and you end up exactly right. You look like somebody who escaped from a forced labor camp. What was your breaking point? What finally made you say, I got to do this? I got to get started. Man, I had a few, but honestly, like I say, working in the automotive plants, that's what we got a lot here in Alabama. They make Mercedes. So it's a lot of components to deal with that. But anyway, automotives, man, I was like just doing my job. I'm ringing it. Yeah. Just walking around doing my daily job. I'm just like out of breath. Like, like, damn, I can't even really work. You know what I'm saying? But it's coming from being out of school and not really doing work, just leisure stuff, just walking around normal. When I actually got out into the real world, into society, started doing things, it was tough, man. And just beinGHonest, I'm five, six, man. And you 400 pounds, five, six, like you just got to face reality. Like you clearly got a problem. You know what I'm saying? It's not like you're overweight, like you're obese. You know what I'm saying? And so I kind of masked it with like, I had like a lot of materialistic shit over the course of my life. And then I was kind of like the cool fat guy in school. And like, um, I'm from a small town, so kind of popular and shit like that. So like being fat, it wasn't like external pressure because I was kind of cool, had like a lot of social people and stuff, but, but just me facing reality, man, taking a hard look in the mirror. And I had a brother that passed from type one diabetes. Um, and just where I'm from, man, people that's like 50 and shit, they feel like their life is over and they mostly just go downhill. And honestly, I don't want to get all spiritual, but I've been had like this kind of image of myself on my mind screen for a long period of time, but I just knew it was going to take a whole lot of work and just being really 100% honest. I couldn't control what the hell I was putting in my mouth. You know what I'm saying? I knew I want to start this or I want to be in better shape, but I couldn't even control my habits. Yeah. Usually when you see people that get severely obese, IMean, I'm not trying to stereotype or look you in, but usually it's, it's a food addiction. And a lot of times it's emotional. They use food as a coping mechanism to deal with, you know, whether it's depression or just something in their life that's bothering them. But yeah, that's usually what you see. It's not, it's, it's, and then there, there can be other things going on too, like dysfunction, hormone signaling or stuff, but was food a way to cope for you or a way to deal with? Yeah, definitely. 100% like emotional eating and just really just, just over consuming. Yeah. Just really over consuming. And like, um, it was a coping, man. I wouldn't, I wouldn't say I was sad a whole lot of times, but yeah, food was my thing. And then I think it's kind of, to be honest, man, I take, I had, where I'm at now, I had to take a hard look in the mirror and just take like a whole lot of mental notes and cues. And like, I think it's really my personality because I did the same thing with pretty much everything that I've done as far as hang. When I went, when I got on in an adult life, hanging out, partying, using alcohol, like it just was like, it was never just consuming to actually enjoy to get the benefits of it. I was just abusing it, man. And it was with, it was with finances or with alcohol. It was with shit, partying, hanging out, dating. It was like either go nuts or nothing at all. And I guess that's, that's how I got to where I am right now. Yeah. IMean, that's the, that's the hard part with a lot of this stuff when short-term satisfaction is almost never best for the long-term you. IMean, it's, it's stuff that you have to sacrifice in the short-term to make long-term progress. IMean, it's the same thing with weight loss, but that's crazy, man. And you're type one diabetic too. That's, that's nuts. No, no, no. I said my brother was like, he, Oh, your brother was. Yeah. When you asked me what was start, IMean, started with just beinGHonest. I don't want to put it on nobody else. It was me looking in the mirror and me just really not being satisfied where I was and having, like I say, a lot of different cars, a lot of different materialistic stuff. And it still had a void inside of me where I felt kind of empty. It was cool for the moment and partying, hanging out, using alcohol, dealing with chicks and stuff. It was cool. It was fun, but it still was something in me just like pulling like, man, this ain't it, this ain't it. But as I got further into the journey, it was things that kept pulling me in. And then like I say, him being one in the, my, I had a daughter, she turned two years old, pancreas just stopped working and she got diagnosed with type one diabetes as well. And I just lost a brother from me. So that shit was like, Whoa. And that just kept pulling me further and further in, man. Cause IMean, it was, it was a tough journey. I ain't gonna lie. And I don't even want to talk like I, I overcame obesity, but I'm still in the journey, man. I'm going to work out when I get out there, out there's live with you. Yeah. IMean, anytime you, IMean, I I'm an emotional eater, man. I, I let myself, IMean, I wasn't that big, but I let myself get well over 300 pounds at one point. And it was just to deal with stress. It was like, I didn't, I wasn't happy in my marriage. There was things, and I just like eating, man. Like I couldn't stop myself. You get in this, I call it the off bucket mode where you just get in and it's like, I'm going to eat the whole pizza and have some ice cream with it too. I just don't care. Right. You know, that's where I got. Same, man. Same. I was the exact same way. Oh, and a correction for people that are going to murder me about the math. It was actually 700,000 calories is two, 200 pounds of fat. I just corrected myself. I should have had another cup of coffee, but still a lot, man. It's a lot, a lot of fat you burned off. And you think about it, you know, that's two, two, this is what I tell people when I, when I coach people, two pounds a week is a lot of fat loss. It's 7,000 calories burned. People get disappointed. I think a lot of overweight and obese people get disappointed when they only see the scale go down two pounds a week. It's still a lot, man. IMean, that's, that's seven, that's a thousand calories a day that you're burning off, whether through a deficit or through exercise. Yeah. I'm sure people, your, your pictures here, but so, IMean, you said you had the, did you work with a coach after you got down and started lifting weights? Is that when, when did you bring a coach in then? Or did you just figure that out? No, I never brought one. That's probably my most terrible mistake, man. Just egotistical, you know what I'm saying? And kind of insecure. Well, IMean, you figured it out, man. IMean, yeah, just being a student, like, like I say, how IMet you, man. Just when I come across people that the shit they say, it kind of makes sense. I always take notes. I try not to get too tough in the weeds because we all got personal things that work for us and don't work for this. And with this shit, what I learned is a whole lot of nuance that like, this might work for you. This might not work for this person. And so, IMean, I just was, man, when I was in the job, I would go on break and just read about carbs, how high glycemic carbs, glucose, regulating your glucose, how this spikes insulin, how this was just really infatuated with it, man. And like, looking back, I don't really, I don't have any regrets other than I should have started lifting weights earlier. Maybe I wouldn't have as much loose skin. And I probably should, because I had disposable income to hire a coach. I should have hired a coach. And that's what I'm doing right now, coaching people and stuff, man. So that's what I wish I would have done. But no, I just was insecure, man, and egotistical as well. And so I just kind of brute force my way through a lot of it while I was constantly learning the process. And once I learned the process and started learning what worked for me and what didn't, then I started being more, I guess, efficient instead of just brute forcing my way through it. Well, IMean, that's how you, IMean, it gets addicting, man. And it's fun to learn how the human body works. There's so many things that you can do. And that'll, honestly, that'll make you a better coach. Now you know what worked, what didn't work. You learned a lot of it by trial and error. Man, your pictures are crazy, dude. That's wild. IMean, you look great. IMean, you've got a little bit of loose skin, but IMean, that's going to happen when you lose that much weight. Yeah, I appreciate it. Have you had any surgery done or no? Nah. Now, on one of those peaks, I talk about that in there, man. A lot of people like locally, especially people like I went to school with or people that I worked with, I've been around when they seen me that big, they kind of, you know, they kind of like, it's impossible. And for years and years and years, Paul, man, I'm not going to lie, that kind of had me like frustrated. Like I worked my ass off and people say I had surgery. And so I kind of took a fish to it. But then as I got more mature and I got just more into the journey, man, I kind of realized that like, this is the most beautiful compliment, amazing compliment you can give me. You think I had surgery and I didn't have surgery. And I'm going to be honest, man, I kind of started sharing more of me without shirts on. And just because of me, like I said, taking myself out of my body, it's easy for me to realize how it's done because I'm doing this shit every day. But me taking myself out of my body and I'm like, man, I'm probably discouraging a person that's actually trying to get started because they probably can't even see like, damn, how is this even possible? You know what IMean? And so I started sharing like what I do. And I'm like, I'm not gonna, I'll tell anybody, like I'm pretty dialed at this point. Like I track almost everything. I pretty much eat with intent. Like even when I go out with my little girl, that'd be the only time that I real splurge or like kind of just like eat. But man, every day I pretty much eat with intent. And it's not even about looks. Of course, if it was about looks, I would've stopped maybe two, three years ago, but I just feel the best I ever felt. And like, it's just my lifestyle. You know what I'm saying? And I live that way and I live this way. I like this way a whole lot better. It was tough to get here and reprogram my mind and my behavior. But now it's kind of like, IMean, I was that way for still 80% of my life. So it's still in me. So I still have these temptations and these battles, but for the most part, it's on autopilot now, man, and I wouldn't have it no other way. Well, the temptation will always be there in the battles are always there, man. We all fight them every day. And it's, you know, the surgery thing is a compliment. If you, if you did all that without surgery, it's pretty, pretty, pretty, pretty amazing. And I'll tell you just from being on social media, when you're just authentically, you just be yourself and be honest about everything. People, people love that. Just put it all out there. All your, all your insecurities, anything that, you know, everything you, your successes, your failures, people want to hear all of it. Yeah. IMean, it's your relatable guy. That's what makes, that's why people would be attracted to that. I appreciate it, man. So somebody, you know, some, uh, if you had somebody starting off in, I know you said you're coaching now, starting off on the journey. That's a, that's a beast. IMean, what do you, what is your first thing you tell them to get started? Me personally, man, I try nutrition is the biggest domino in sleep for me that I learned, but it's about learning nutrition, man, and learninGHow to eat and using food as actually nutrition instead of as pleasure and just learning. And what I learned every client, man, that I tren now, once I get them on pretty much eating single ingredient, whole natural foods, they like, holy shit, I can eat a whole lot more. And I'm like, yeah, that's what I'm telling you. It's just a learning curve. If you have to get through and trusting the process of like, man, this is way more food. Yeah. But you, you, you used to eat two times a day, but you eat like shit and you eat a whole lot of processed food. You can eat way more volume if you eat this way. So it's really just reprogramming their mind and getting them to buy into what I'm saying and getting them to buy into the process versus just a lot of people, man, they want to, they, they're a higher coach, but they still want to halfway do what they think works and listen to the coach. And like, I tell it all of them, like you, IMean, I'm getting paid, but at the end of the day, you wasting your money. Clearly what you're doinGHasn't been working. You understand what I'm saying? So, and it's, it's just a process, man. I tell them like the metabolism is like a fire. If you ain't adding fuel or oxygen, it's going to go out. So you can't just suppress it, suppress it, suppress it. And the more you eat right, the, the faster you can roll your metabolism. And once we tren your behavior and your metabolism, then yeah, we can come back and cut down if you want to cut down and then you will see accelerated fat loss or, or whatever, but it's just, man, you got to think how long you've been doing this. It's just reprogramming your metabolism and your mind, honestly. Yeah. Usually when I get people like that, I'll start them off with just small things first. Like you said, just try to clen up the food they're eating. I don't worry about counting calories or anything like that right out of the gate. I'm just getting them into better habits. I bet you notice now that you've been eating clen for years. When you go back and eat trash food, it makes you feel awful. Doesn't it? Makes me feel sluggish, man. Makes me feel super bloated. And, and honestly, I don't really do it too tough anymore because I just live in regret when I do it. Like, yeah, it's just not even working. The wild part is to think about that. You used to feel like that all the time, all the time. You're right, bro. You're right. Yeah. IMean, that's the part. I think that people like, once you start eating clen and you start feeling better, you forgot how awful you felt all the time. Like I, once in a while, you know, I'll have a, usually I'll have a cheat meal once a week and you know, like I'll eat some pizza and then I feel sick the whole day afterwards, man. Yeah. Like my body is just like, or pizza and ice cream or something. It's just my, I'm inflamed. I feel sick. And then I'm like, God damn, I used to feel like this all the time. Tired, sick, bloated. It's wild to think about that and how you just get used to that. You just accept that. Yeah. Feel swollen, man. It's just wild. Even I was, you know, 400 pounds, but you can, I can look at some of the photos, man, back in the day when I was using, abusing alcohol, like on top of being obese, I just look swole. Like my face looks swole. My body looks swole and inflamed. And like I say, I don't, you know, the cheat meals are going off every now and then you just, you work your ass off, man. Okay, do it. But it's just me personally. I not try not to push my lifestyle to nobody else. But I just feel so good to the point where it's like, I don't even want to sacrifice it. And like I told you, you know, when we was off before you started recording, I do have to get better with, you know, being present and enjoying myself. But I'm kind of always thinking like, damn, if I got this for how far can I get? So I'm always kind of pushing the gas, but I'm trying to be smart about it and not hurting myself with, you know, it's going to impair my journey long term. But I'm always thinking like, damn, why would I, when I, when I think back of how I used to feel and how I feel now, it's kind of like, it's not even worth it. And what I have learned is when me and my little girl might go out of town and we eat out for three or four days at a time. I like, it just makes me feel totally different. And I kind of still stick to the same way of eating. Like I still eat lean meats, still eat vegetables and still try to eat naturALCARbs. But versus how I fix my own food, I still feel different. I still wake up craving food versus how I eat when I eat my own food. So I could just tell it's a difference or it might be a mind thing, man. I don't know. No, you're probably right. Because a lot of times the way, a lot of the food that you have in restaurants have been processed and frozen and it's, you know, they're, they cook things in butter or, or, or hydrogenated oils. They, they throw a bunch of salt or MSG all over stuff. It's not like cooking at home where you're cooking in olive oil or whatever you use or olive oil, you know, natural, healthy things. It's not this pro these processed junk oils and they're not, you know, dumping, you're not dumping MSG all over stuff. So it definitely makes a difference, man. It's not in your head. It is 100% not in your head. So what are you doing for workout now? How are you working out? What do your workouts look like? Oh man, I know you, you, you, you're a guru, so you're probably going to critique me, but I've been doing this for a while. I won't critique you, man. You know what I tell people? You know what the best workout is? Which one? The one you can stick to. Same thing with the diet. Man, I'll, I'll, I'll share, I'll share, share my notes with you however I can, but man, I worked my way up to this and I'll say this, like I found that the, the hit style working out when I was, when I lost all the weight and I got back into, you know, trying to lift weights and I still was infatuated with losing weights and like, just, I'm trying to tell a client to trust me. I had to trust the process, but it's a, it's, it's, I have, it was a time for me to trensition over into that for leaving something good for something great. You know what IMean? It's just hard to leave something good for something great. It's easy to leave something bad for something good. So anyway, man, answer your question. I still only do two rounds of that now. So I'll do like two movements that's warming me up for whatever body part I'm trening that day. And I'll usually do two core movements. I'll do two rounds of that. Then I'll go into weightlifting when I used to do four or five rounds of that on top of 30, 40 minutes of cardio. So I do two rounds of that and I just do man, push, pull legs. And since I don't really take too many days off, I allow myself freestyle or full body. And I always just, I just repeat. IMean, I'm not competing or whatever. Of course I got a little small goals. I'm trying to fill out much of my loose skin as I possibly can and just pushing myself. But I, I've now, man, I do a lot of time under tension and I do supersets and stuff like that. And like why I say you probably could critique me because when I show you my workout, I hear a lot of people saying, you know what I'm saying? A lot of times less is more. And I ain't gonna lie. Like I do a lot of high volume, like a lot of high volume. I'm a volume guy. I think your workout has to fit your personality. Um, you can make it work with high volume. You can make it work with low volume, whatever. Um, IMean, really, this is what I tell people. It's like, um, you, you got these different knobs you can turn on the, on the, on the thing. If you're going to do more volume, you need to adjust in other areas. Like maybe you're not, you can't lift quite as heavy as what you could if you were doing lower volume. But I, I like being in the gym and I like a workout routine that fits my personality. I'm guessing you're a guy that likes being in the gym. So you just enjoy being there. Right. I just enjoy being there. And I never heard the person that until you just said that now. And that makes total sense. Total sense. Cause I'm not going to the gym. It was like a character, man. I'm in savage mode. I'll speak to a few people, but I'm pretty much in the grind, man. It's in my time. And like I told you, I'm kind of always in a future perspective, trying to push forward when I'm in the gym on 100% prison, man, I'm listening to stuff like you or a latest podcast. Something that's pushing forward my fitness, my nutrition, or my financial literacy, man. And I'm just right there in that moment. And yes, I, I ain't allowed to do a lot of high, a lot of high volume. Like I said, a lot of supersets I rest in between, but, um, and that's why I don't really work out with a lot of people, man, because I know I've acclimated myself up to do to this level of doing this this way. And it's just, it's taxing. I'm not even a lot because sometimes when I do leave the gym, I feel like, damn, I've been just played a football game or something. You know what IMean? Well, you might not be able to find anybody that can keep up with you. That's the problem I've had with workout partners. I kill workout partners. My, my, my one friend, he stayed with me for the last five years, but usually like I'll occasionally have people that'll dip into workouts and they just, they, they'll do one or two workouts with me and they're out. Yeah. Although I don't work out as hard as I used to, but like, yeah, that's what I tell people. You got to find the program that fits your personality. I, you know, I, I tren for bodybuilding, but that's a different goal, but ultimately it's about what gets you excited. What's what gets you in the gym, you know, whether that's playing, I used to play basketball, you know, basketball, something that you could do. Martial arts is something you can do. You can lift weights, you can do CrossFit, whatever, just whatever gets you active and burning calories, get your body moving. And whatever fits your personality, I think is what really matters the most. trening for bodybuilding is a completely, completely different thing. It's very specific and there's certain things you're trying to do, but for just beinGHealthy and fit and losing weight, really, you can find a million different ways to do it. And that, that works for you. It sounds like you found that, that system that works for you. Yeah. My mind, man, like I say, um, I always go off of it and kind of like my intuition and like my desired lifestyle and my desire, who I'm trying to become and work backwards from that. And so, man, I always kind of wanted to move my body around at 400 pounds. I always had a desire to do pull-ups and be able to do like hanging leg raises and all this wild different shit, man. So I honestly try to tren to just be hybrid, man, you know, push strength. I got muscle. I build muscle. I look nice aesthetically, but most, most importantly, I feel good. I feel like I'm in control of my body. If I want to jump up and do 13 to 14 pull-ups, hanging leg raises, do walking lunges for the entire turf of the gym. And I still can do, you know, 200 pounds seated rows or whatever the case. IMean, I'm not super strong, but IMean, I can push it when I want to. And IManipulate my nutrition about two days a week, I carb cycle and before legs and before back, I usually go higher carb like that day before and then go back down just to, cause IMean, I'm not going to lie. I'm infatuated with it. And I like it, but sometimes it gets, it gets boring, man. And sometimes, you know, like I get them temptations. So I do this different stuff that just give me smaller challenges in my mind and to just constantly play with food and play with nutrition and play with my trening. But IMean, it's still the same for the most part across the board for, for when I look back and zoom out for a week, I'm still in the same caloric range, still eating the same macros and I'm still doing push pull legs, freestyle a full body. Well, yeah, you're at that point now. IMean, you're pretty looking from your pictures, you're pretty lean when you're in good shape. So now you, now you can do the fun stuff like that. You can play around and do, you know, those little things that you're doing can make a difference to keep progressing. It keeps it fun to when you're, you know, 400 pounds, just getting in the gym itself is enough. Probably that's a good place to start. And then you, right. And you just like slowly, slowly get up. So how long told, maybe you've mentioned, I know you said you, it took you a couple of years to get the initial hundred off. How long did it take you total To get every to where you are now? Yeah. Right now, man, I've been, I would say eight years, but I had a car accident. I broke my neck in three places. My face was all, I don't know if you can see it. My face, all this was all fucked up. My skull was fractured. I still have no feeling up here in the top from like bad nerve damage. So that was, I was projected to be off 14 months for recovery. But when the hospital allowed me to start doing physical therapy, hell, I started doing the same thing that they let me do in the gym because I was missing it so much. And I'm going to be honest, just back out of there for a minute. I was like a weekend warrior, man. I was super dialed during the week on weekends. I would kind of like, say, fuck it and go off the rails a little bit. And so when I had that car accident, when I was sitting on bed rest and couldn't do nothing, couldn't even really get up out of the bed on my own, it was a constant fear in my mind. Like, yeah, you've been fucking up on your nutrition. You finna gain this weight back. And so really in that time, when I had that accident, man, that kind of made me master nutrition. And I, and it showed me that like, I can, uh, manipulate nutrition and I could overcome nutrition, man. I pretty much lost weight being on bed rest, but I was on like narcotics and stuff, had me constipated, didn't want to eat. I was waking, sleeping 12 hours, waking up, feeling like I hadn't slept at all, just feeling groggy as well. But it also made me like focus and grab control over nutrition. And so, uh, I had, I would say about 10 months off with that. So to answer your question, man, I probably been at it a solid seven years, man. Like I say, I had a, a while, um, about a year off dealing with that. Yeah. You look, you're pulling it up. Yeah. It was brutal, bro. It was brutal, bro. And, uh, but everything, you know, you overcame that too. That's a, that's a great, that's a crazy thing. Yeah. So yeah. IMean, seven years solid, man. And I would say I've been lifting for a solid three years. Cause that's when I, I was just starting to lift good and had the car accident. And I was so discouraged, man. And then, like I say, I knew I was trying to, I was five days a week, I was dialed, but on the weekends, I, that my old lifestyle was still kind of creeping in, partying, chasing girls, you know, blah, blah, blah. And I knew like, you know, when you fucking know, man, you know, deep down inside when you're not doing what you're supposed to be doing. And I, I kind of had that fear that that weight was going to creep back up on me. Of course, I knew I wasn't going to gain back all the weight that I lost, but I have, I was probably down me and I was marketing myself at 160 pounds and I ended up losing weight on bed rest. And I got back in it and went full blast on lifting weights and just eating single ingredient, whole natural foods. And, but I, IMean, I still got better in October, 2022. Like I tell you, when I went to Vegas to record and stuff, I was just like looking like everybody, everybody looks like you, man. Everybody walking around the gym for real, everybody. And I'm like, what the hell can I do? And so that's when I came back and started prioritizing sleep and really just started structuring my day to day before and get more organized and start moving with more intent and, and, and stop just winking it. You know what IMean? And start calculating everything and start lifting weights with intent, being 100% present, having like a mind muscle, mind reality connection. And from 2022 to right now, IMade more progress than my whole entire journey. But yeah, that's usually how it works, man. It's because you, you started figuring it out. Yeah. Yeah. You start figuring out what works and then, and then you like, it's just so overwhelming to get that, that first chunk of weight off. And then, then once you do, then you can, like I said, you can start dialing things in and you've learned, you know, like you said, you're a student, you're constantly learning. Yeah. So that gets you to the point where you can, you can make these improvements, but yeah, it's inspiring seeing some of these people, how, how far some people can take it. It's, it's a never ending journey, man. It's always, there's always, you know, should I always look in the mirror and think that I can do better. Right. You know, that's just how it goes. Yeah. That's just how it goes. But that's, that's the fun part of it. It's, it's, it's a fun hobby, I think. Yeah, it is. So what are your plans now? What do you, what do you, what are your goals? What are you trying to do now? With this whole fitness thing? Yeah. Personally, man, just keep going for longevity, constantly trying to optimize my overall vitality and just being, I'm not trying to flatter you, but at your age, man, still being in the gym, still being fit, still feeling my best. And I'm old as fuck. IMean, you're not, man, but you look great. And, and, and, and, and I seen some of your workouts, bro, is how you move weights around and just, that's, that's a goal of mine long-term. I'm sorry. I just turned 35 March 15th. And are you still young? Yeah, I guess. And trying to help as many people as I can. I'm not really, I've been pretty much doing word of mouth. I really hadn't ran no ads about trening or anything like that. And just, IMight start doing a little bit more of that, but personal goals, just trying to take it as far as I possibly can in a safe way. You know what I'm saying? bridging that, being a savage, you know, being Goggins a little bit, but still being smart about it as well. And not going to do anything that's going to take me out of this journey long-term and just filling out much of my loose skins I possibly can. And just constantly trying to fulfill what's on my mind screen and follow my intuition and constantly learning, man. Yeah. It's funny that you talk about your mind screen. It's that inner image, that voice that, that can get you in trouble. It can either be negative or it can be positive. And that's, it's funny. It's funny you talk about it because I talk, I tell people about that all the time, what your, the image that you see inside the voice in your head, how much that plays into your six success, you know, not letting it show you something negative, talking yourself out of that negative stuff and changing what's in there. IMean, that's, that's, I like that. I like that metaphor. I never heard it put that way before, but that's a, that's a good metaphor for it. Yeah. Well, if you, if you keep posting stuff up on social media and you keep inspiring people, people are going to reach out to you at coaching. I promise you that. And folks, if you want to get with Jerry about losing weight, I'll put his contact information in the, in the video description below. Anyway, man, I appreciate you coming on, man. Your story is really cool. I, I, I, I really enjoyed talking to you. If people want to get ahold of you, how can they do that? Just P-U-E-N-2-8-S, man. And that's on pretty much everything. I do have a YouTube, but I haven't even really posted on it, man. I'm so much in this journey. And like I said, I got an eight year old. So she's type one diabetic. We got to go to UAB tomorrow, just on a quarterly check in. And I'm trying to be the example for her, man. And trying to, you know, let her enjoy life and not just push my ways on her, but also, so she don't have to get to where I was 25 or 26 and have to unlearn so much shit and have to rewire yourself. That was the hardest part of this whole thing. IMean, at the end of the day, it's really inputs and outputs, but if you can't control yourself, you can't put in the inputs. So all psychological, right? Yeah. But yeah, it's P-U-N-2-8-S, man. PUN-28s. And yeah, that's what I'm trying to do. And I'm going to still stay tapped in with you, man. Still stay learning. That's how we got, that's how we got talking, man. I was in your comments asking about magnesium and you never replied. I was like, I know he get a lot of traffic in the comments. That's what I'm doing. You have no idea how many DMs I get, man. It's a lot. Yeah, I already know. I already know. And I appreciate you, you know, just reaching back out, man, and asking me, inviting me on. And it's super dope, man. It's super dope. Well, I'm sorry I ignored you at first. I do that to a lot of people. I've been following you for a while. You can reply to a couple of my comments. You know, it's just been me complimenting. IMean, my comments just been me complimenting. I think this is my first time asking a question about, you know, what do you think? How many grams? Which one? Blah, blah, blah. You know what I'm saying? And so I appreciate it. I can only imagine the traffic you get. It's nothing. Well, you know where to get a hold of me now. Anytime you need help, just let me know. Okay. I will do. Well, I appreciate you coming on, man. Thank you. Thank you for being on here, folks. Thank you for watching.