warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up folks. Big Paul here today. I have a segment for you from thEQ and A that Curt and I did last night from the anabolics e-course. This is for members of the anabolics e-course. You can pick it up right now if you want to for 20% off. I have a link in the video description below. The code is holiday 20 if you want to grab it for 20% off. But anyway, during this segment, Curt and I talk about HGH dosing during cruises and how we run our HGH dosing to preserve muscle mass and what we're, our aim is when we're on cruise recoverinGHealth, trying to maintain muscle and also giving our body a break from trening and all the food too. There's a, it's more, there's more than one purpose to a cruise, but I try to dig into it. My thought process is if I'm going to pull back the gear, I a lot of times will scale back the trening just a bit, scale back the food just a bit and let my body have a break from the high doses of androgens and PEDs and try to hang on to what I have. Let my joints connective tissue, heal up all the little niggling injuries that you had, all the little nagging injuries that you had while you were on your blast, let those kind of calm down and get ready for the next phase, whatever that might be, whether you're going into another cut, whether you're going into another massing phase or shifting into a contest prep or cut, whatever that may be. You can't push 365 days a year, but I do think GH can be beneficial to maintaining some size. And we talked about that in the last segment. And we're going to dig into all that in just one second. What's up, Kurt? What's up? How many people we got? Anyone? 20 or so watching live. Um, it may pick up as we go. Um, I've got somEQuestions from the e-course that people put in the comment section for guys that are subscribers. Um, I usually put up a question section in the e-course where you can, if you can't make the live stream, you can watch it later. And I usually post these up a couple of days after the, after we record them, I need to go through and edit it and make sure the sound's okay and do all that jazz before I can put it up, um, on there that Kurt and I, you, you, we were talking about, we're both kind of cruising right now and how you can make, we were talking about it earlier, how like, if you run GH, real GH at how you can maintain size, like it's just doesn't seem to be that hard to maintain size once you have a certain amount accumulated. Like I, I, and I've lost some weight over the last few weeks, but that was mainly because I was out of the gym, but it's pretty wild now. How like, you know, like 300 milligrams of tests and nine units of GH you can hold on to pretty much everything. Yeah. I came off right. I was on 3,500 milligrams for eight weeks and that was 12 weeks ago. Now I went to 600 tests, which was my previous, what I've used for a cruise and nineties. I saw as I need a 3,500 milligrams and 18 units of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, a bottle of serostim a day. And I went to 600 tests and half a bottle of serostim a day. And I did that for the first, I don't remember eight or nine weeks. And then I was like, I literally lost nothing from the cycle. So I was like, I wonder if I could do less tests. So I went to 300, I haven't used 300 tests honestly in a decade and I still haven't lost anything. So I think the key there is the GH. So doing anything. Yeah, it's gotta be the GH. I've not injected 150 milligrams of tests twice a week in literally a decade. I don't know if you experienced this man, but I noticed like when I pull my doses down and I know there's some lag from the, how the esters and the, how the drugs go down. But I noticed like when I pull out the drugs, like a lot of times my strength will go up when I'm on cruise. It's really weird, man. Body composition won't stay as great. That's for sure. Like I kind of, IMean, you saw my pictures. I like a little bit. Yeah. IMean I'm losing a little bit of fullness, not quite as hard. Um, but you know, it's a few pounds. It's nothing crazy. I just brought my food down. So I'm kind of teetering, you know, maintenance a little bit below most days. That way it's keeping my body composition pretty similar. Yeah. I usually, when I have my clients go to cruise, I'll pull them down to probably maintenance or just a tab below maintenance. Maybe just a slight deficit. There's no need for the excess food if you're not using the amount of food you're using on a cycle, I should say, right? You're just not going to utilize it the same way. No, I just, in my experience, I would have seen as people just get fat and softer. The gym, I just, I'm basically just maintaining what I'm doing. I'm not trying to get any stronger or anything. Yeah. IMean, I haven't really been trying to get stronger period. I'm just saying I'm not pushing myself. I'm just, I haven't lost any strength, but I'm not trying to get stronger now. It doesn't make sense. Yeah. I look at that phase as not just a period for, um, recovery from the PEDs. I also, I think for like, usually like what I like to see with my clients is just pull back on the trening a little bit, give your joints and connective tissue a break, and then get ready for when you push the gear and the food back up to go a little harder with the trening. Exactly. I think it makes sense to do that and break it up in phases. You can't tren. IMean, especially you've been doing as long as us. You can't tren a hundred percent all the time. All year round. Just doesn't work mentally. You can't do it either. Who can focus that long? Yeah, no, true. And I especially like to have people fresh going into contest prep because contest prep is really fatiguing. Yeah. So, but I think for people wondering, you can definitely maintain, if you're using good GH, you can definitely maintain your size for, for a long period of time without abuse. Although we have a small group here, I feel like every time I talk brand, it makes it harder to get the one we like. Um, I, but I, I'll tell you this, like I, there's just, I keep trying to justify, I say this every time and then people get all their panties on a lot, but it, there's just something different about running the former grade GH. The, uh, really random question. I don't know if you've used genotropin in any amount. I've only used it a couple of times randomly. You don't notice it smells like plastic, like band-aids. Yeah. It's got a, it's a weird smell. Whatever they're using in it. It's the same shit they put in insulin because insulin smells like that too. Yeah. It must be some sort of, um, preservative or, or solvent. There's a weird smell that serostim doesn't have. Yeah, it has no smell. Um, but yeah, it does smell like band-aids. It's like some sort of antiseptic or something. I don't know. Definitely has a unique smell to it. I am a diabetic, so I usEQuite a bit of insulin, but insulin has a very strong, weird smell to it like that too. I've noticed. Um, although, um, genotropin, is it made by Lily? Genotropin is Pfizer. Pfizer. Okay. Um, yeah. I don't think Lily makes a, I don't believe Lily makes a GH. Yeah. I think my humalog is Lily, right? Yeah. I think it's Lily. Yeah. They make insulin for sure. I think every company makes insulin. Yep. Yeah. So I run, I use, well, here lately I haven't been using, I want to play around with the Retta Trutide and see if that helps with my pancreatic function. I've heard some people say that it does. Sure. It's a pretty, it's a much better drug than the previous GLPs.