 WARNING, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright, Jim bros, it's Big Paul here today. We are going to talk about setting up a carb cycling diet for fat loss. So you want to get shredded, you want to look great for summer, maybe get ready for a bodybuilding contest. I'm going to show you how I set up my carb cycling diets for my clients, for fat loss, and I'm going to dig through all that and show you how it's done in just one second. begins begins begins begins begins begins begins begins begins begins begins! We are going to use a hypothetical 200-pound bodybuilder as our candidate for the diet here. I typically run protein around 1.2 grams per pound of body weight on the medium in low days and around 1 gram per pound on the high days. The reason I run things lower on the high days, first and foremost, carbs are protein sparing so we don't need all the protein on those days. And it helps when you get the food down because a lot of times the food that we have on the high days is a lot of food. With the diet, so usually you'll see people run protein higher. I've heard of people running upwards of 2 grams of protein per pound of body weight. I think it's likely just a waste to do that. Studies have shown that you don't need that much protein. I've found that you don't need that much protein. Sometimes I will increase protein towards the end of a hard cut, mainly for satiety, to help keep people full, to help with food cravings. But at the beginning of the diet, that's not necessary. So we will start off with 1.2 grams per pound of body weight for our hypothetical 200-pound bodybuilder. So that would put us at 240 grams of protein per day. And that would be 40 grams spread across six meals. You ask Paul, how do you know that off the top of your head? I write up a lot of diets. I do a lot of math. So I have this stuff. I don't need a calculator. I have this stuff ingrained in my brain. Now I can just pretty much spit diets out in my sleep. So 240 grams of protein on the medium day, which is any lifting day that is not a high carb day. We're going to do one high carb day per week on the carb cycling diet for fat loss. So we can fill back out, fill our glycogen back up, help boost our metabolism, yada yada. So on this day, we want to run closer to one gram per pound of body weight. I usually round the macros down to like the nearest five grams. I just don't want to get so into the weeds with people or make things over complicated where they're measuring out 32 grams of protein. Also of note on here, people always ask me, I do not count indirect macros. So if you're getting a couple grams of protein in your rice, I do not count that towards your protein intake. People freak out when they hear that. You do not need to count it because it's inconsequential and it's all relative. And the point being here, I'm not saying that those calories don't count. Those macros certainly do count. But all we're doing is adding extra complication to measuring our food without an additional benefit. And why I say it's relative is because if I'm eating 160 grams of rice and I lower it down to 130 grams of rice and I'm only counting carbs, that is by default going to lower my caloric intake for the day. It is pointless to even measure those secondary macros that are in there because it's all relative. It doesn't really matter. We're just adding additional complication for no additional benefit. All right. So back to the medium or the high day here. Sorry. I am going to go with close to one gram of protein per pound of body weight. So we're going to talk about 35 grams per meal. And that is going to work out to be 210 grams of protein per day on the high day. We're going to run one high day per week. It is a training day. Typically, I like to run my high days. On a leg day, your highest energy demand day. We're going to use that day to fill our glycogen back out, to give our metabolism a boost, give ourselves a psychological break when dieting. That's important too. You know, there's this warrior mentality that you have to suffer, which you do have to suffer to a certain degree to get lean. But minimizing the suffering, you know, you shouldn't suffer for the sake of suffering if you don't have to. I think there is an easier way to diet. On the low day, sometimes I will push the protein higher than the 1.2. And it's not because we have increased protein requirements. It's because you're hungrier on the low day because there's generally no carbohydrates in a dieting phase. All right. So we are going to go with, on this day, we are going to go with 40 grams of protein per meal. So 240 a day. It's 1.2 grams per pound of body weight. And so we have this worked out here. So we're at 240 grams of total protein for the day. On to fats now. So let's talk about fats. I do not count the fats in the protein sources. Once again, pointless to count the secondary macros. Now, this assumes, there's a big assumption here, that we are keeping our protein sources as lean as we possibly can. And I'm talking about usually chicken breast and whitefish is what I usually eat on a diet or on a contest prep. You want to keep your protein sources as lean as humanly possible. We want to keep saturated fats as low as humanly possible. And then we will add in added fats from EFAs. Things like olive oil, macadamia nut oil, avocados, nuts, nut butters, things like that. But somewhere around 0.3 grams of EFAs per pound of body weight is sufficient for the day. So we are going to go here and add our EFAs. We do not add it to our pre and post-workout meals. I want to keep those easy digesting. We want to get our, we want to suck those carbs up and use them for glycogen during the, or use them for fuel during our workout. Some people would argue that the fats slow it down, whatever. I just don't do it this way. So 14 works out to be 56 per day, which is not quite the 0.3 we talked about. It's not 60, but there is a reason why I do 14 because 14 on average is about what a tablespoon of oil would be. Olive oil, macadamia, nut oil. It's usually going to be around 14 grams of fat. So it makes it easier for measurement. If I went to 14 and a half, I'm like, how do you even measure that? All right. So fat on our high days, same deal. Sometimes our low days, sorry. Fat on our low days, same deal. Usually around 0.3. Sometimes I'll push it up a little higher for safety because fat helps keep you full. So at the beginning of this diet, I'll probably push it up a little higher since we're, we're going to run zero carbs on that day. So we're going to do 14 grams, a tablespoon of olive oil or whatever you want to use, nut butter, whatever it works out to be. You can use on that day. So we come out with 84 grams of total fat on the low days. On the high day, I want to keep the fats as close to zero as humanly possible. Sometimes bodybuilders are using insulin on the high day. When we're running higher carbs, usually if you add fats, you just end up storing fat. So we want to keep that as low as possible and we want to force the issue with glycogen replenishment. I run my carbs. Let's talk about carbs now. Usually for a bodybuilder on a diet, I usually start off around somewhere around one gram, roughly one gram or slightly less than one gram per pound of body weight on the medium day. So we're going to go with slightly less, like something like 0.8. We'll do a nice even number. So we'll do 75 pre, 75 post, and we have 10 grams of EAAs in our intro workout shake with 25 grams of high molecular weight carbohydrates that we sip on during our workout. So this works out to 175 grams of total carbs on that medium day. The rest of the meals, we are going to go with veggies only. And I mean non-starchy veggies. Potatoes do not count as non-starchy veggies. You know, you've got to be careful with things like carrots and peas and things like that because they have a fair amount of carbs in them. We want to use veggies that have only fiber and no starchy carbs in them. So things like spinach, salads, broccoli, whatever, stuff like that. So we have a total of 175 grams of carbs on that day packed around our pre and post-workout. Now, the way the meal plan works on that day, the pre and post-workout are static. Those meals never change no matter when you work out. So if you work out first thing in the morning, if you work out at 6 a.m., your first meal is going to be your pre-workout meal, not meal one. You sandwich these other meals in around your workout. If you work out at lunch, you might have meal one and meal two before your pre-workout meal. If you work out at the end of the day like I do, your last two meals are going to be your pre and post. So you just slide these around with your other meals. On the high day, I usually do around, I usually do around somewhere around close to three grams per pound of body weight and carbs. All right, so we're probably going to be a little off on this, but I like nice, even numbers. And I'm going to give you a reason why I like those nice, even numbers. I'll tell you in just one second. So we worked out to 600. Perfect. Three times our body weight. The reason why I do the 75 and the 125, because these are easy measurements when you're measuring rice. So if I do 75, that's generally about a cup and a half of jasmine rice, if you're too lazy to weigh it. Now weighing it is the more accurate way to do it. That's what I would suggest. It's to weigh it. That's usually what I have my clients do. But if you're lazy and you're using a measuring cup, 75 is about a cup and a half, give or take. It's all relative. Remember, we talked about that before. All right, so moving on to the low day. The low day, we are going to go zero carbs. We are going to have veggies only. Once again, the same rule applies with the veggies. Non-starchy veggies on this day. And this is pretty much the structure of the diet. So going back through it again, medium days are any non, or any lifting day that are non-high day. We're going to do one high day per week. One high day per week, which would be usually a leg day is what I would suggest. Back would be probably the second choice. But you want a high energy output day for your high day. And then low day would be any day that we're off from the gym. We don't need carbohydrates on the low day because we're not doing any activity that's going to require glucose for fueling. Like lifting weights. And then usually what I have found, when you diet this way, you'll lose weight, then you spike up on the high day. Then you lose a little more weight, then you spike up on the high day again. And you have this sort of zigzaggy weight loss that you get. And what we can expect for weight loss, we have to do the math here. If you think about fat loss, one pound of fat is 3,500 calories. So if we want to lose one pound of fat per week, we need to burn 500 calories per day. Whether that is through a caloric deficit in your diet or through cardio or through increasing metabolism with tools such as fat burners. I'm not going to get into all that today. I'll do another video on PEDs for fat loss. We'll talk through a fat loss cycle. I'll probably do that later this week. But this is generally how I set it up. And I usually start people off with cardio. I'll start them off with six list sessions per week at 20 minutes each session. And usually I ratchet that up as we go. And so what I do for adjustments on the diet to get additional fat loss, I generally leave this high carbohydrate day in place. I don't change a thing on this high carbohydrate day. If anything, as we get deeper into a diet and metabolic adaptation starts to happen, people start getting flatter and getting leaner, we'll bump up the high day a bit. I will sometimes lower these carbohydrates around the workout window. I don't like to lower them if I don't have to, but sometimes you have to. Sometimes we'll lower these fats. And sometimes I've even taken people down to zero fat. But we don't do that until the end. You can't run the zero fats for more than a couple weeks before you really start to feel like shit. So generally what I'll do is pull these fats down a little bit. Probably like to 10 grams or even 7. And then I'll, sometimes I'll pull, like I might pull, you know, if we have trouble losing fat or if we're the fat loss stalls, we'll move these carbs down a little bit. Usually we just start off with adding more cardio. Layering in the cardio. I like to max out cardio at a top end of 45 minutes per session. I try to get in a way with as little cardio as I possibly can. But some people need more. It just depends on your individual metabolism and how you respond. And then you throw fat burners into the equation later on. People get obsessed with fat burners. But fat burners really do not contribute anything significant to the diet. So let's just assume that your BMR is 2,500 calories. And let's just say that that Clin, ephedrine, yohimbine, caffeine stack that you're running gives you a 10% boost in metabolism. That's 250 calories per day. That's less than a chocolate chip cookie. So it really isn't much. It really isn't much. So increased energy output, diet. Diet is the easiest way to create a deficit. I generally tell people to expect somewhere between, I don't know, usually a half a percent to 1% of their body weight per week in fat loss is about the most you can expect. So if you have a 120-pound bikini girl, a pound a week is about the most that you can realistically lose without sacrificing muscle or just doing some really extreme shit. 200-pound bodybuilder, probably about 2 pounds a week. You know, 300-pound bodybuilder and max out around 3 pounds a week. So it's all relative to your size. Bigger guys, more muscle mass, higher metabolisms. You have more room to play with in the diet. If you think about that 120-pound bikini girl who has a BMR of 1,500 calories, how low can you go with a diet? How much of a deficit? Are you going to go down to 500 calories? So if you wanted to lose 1,000 or you wanted to lose 2 pounds a week, you'd have to have 1,000-calorie deficit. So you would have to go down to 500 calories. That's not realistic. Or you could throw in 500 calories worth of cardio per day, which would probably be an hour plus of cardio. And 500-calorie deficit. That's going to be rough. So the smaller the person, the lower the fat loss is going to be. So women, have a realistic expectation of what your fat loss is going to be. You're not going to lose 10 pounds per week. Now, initially when you get on the diet, I'll sometimes see people have a big weight loss. Sometimes they don't. A lot of times the initial weight loss that I see on the diets, especially when you see people running things like keto and stuff, they're like, my God, I lost 10 pounds in 10 days. It's just water weight. You're glycogen depleted. You have no water. You're just pulling all the water out of you. It's not fat. So there is a difference between weight loss and fat loss, ladies and gentlemen. So keep that in mind. All right, folks. That's all I got for you on this one. Hopefully that was helpful. Thank you for watching the channel. Please give some support to my sponsor, First Detachment Nutrition. They make this channel possible. Quality supplements formulated by the man himself, Justin Harris. Check them out. Rock on, guys. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. All right. Thank you.