WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, Big Paul here today with some thoughts on motivation and success. I know this bodybuilding channel, but it's on my mind now after the show this weekend, I get a lot of people asking me about how to be successful in life and how to achieve their goals and bodybuilding and things like that. And I thought I'd talk about it a little bit. It's not something I talk about frequently on this channel. And honestly, I thought about putting another channel up at some point where I just focus on success, business, things like that, because that is something else that I am passionate about besides bodybuilding. I'm a nerd. I have many different things, but we're going to talk about what it takes to kick ass in bodybuilding and everything that you do in life. And we're going to dig into all that in just one second. So you want to kick ass at bodybuilding and be a success at everything that you do in life, whether it's business, work, whatever your chosen endeavor is. There's some common attributes that are required to be great at something. I'm not going to get all preachy here. I think I've been fairly successful at things that I've set my mind out to achieving in my life. I have run multiple businesses. I've had some failures. I've had some successes. I have done other endeavors in my life. I think I have achieved some decent success in my bodybuilding goals. But all these things share some simplEQualities that are necessary to have success in those areas. And one of the big ones that I see that a lot of people lack and don't have when it comes to being great at something is the ability to grind, to stick with something, be patient and be persistent. They want immediate gratification. They want quick results. And they get frustrated when they don't see those results happen quickly and they give up and move on to something else. Or they constantly flip-flop from thing to thing, trying something new, trying to shortcut that success in some way, and they never find it. They end up floundering and not getting forward momentum in anything that they do in life. Patience, perseverance, the ability to push, those are some of the most important attributes that you can have if you want to be successful in life. What I've found over the years, and I think I've gotten better at it as I've gotten older, and why I've had bodybuilding success when I was in my older age versus when I was younger, why I've had a bit more business success in my older age than I was when I was younger is I was very impatient. And I see that with a lot of young guys. I coach a handful of young guys. I coach a handful of older guys. And I've noticed that the guys that I coach that are younger tend to be impatient, that they get upset when they don't see results quickly. The guys that I coach that are older, I just tell them what to do. They march forward. They execute the plan. They know that things are going to happen. If you are expecting to see results quickly, you're going to be disappointed no matter what it is you're doing. I can't tell you how many times I've had somebody reach out to me after being coached for six, eight weeks, three months, whatever the time is, and they tell me that they're disappointed in the results. They were expecting to see more. Think about this rationally. If you started a business, and three months later, you looked at your bank account and expected to be a millionaire, and you didn't see a million dollars in your bank account after three months doing that business, and you gave up, how ridiculous would that be? If you started playing the guitar and practiced an hour a day for three months, do you think you're going to be Stevie Ray Vaughan, Jimi Hendrix, whoever the greatest guitar player is now after three months of playing the guitar? You're barely going to know how to make the basic chords. In a business, you're just going to be getting started after three months. Same thing with social media. If you start a YouTube channel, you post five videos, and you give up after three months saying that nobody's going to watch your videos. Nobody watched my channel at first. You're not going to have any success. You have to keep grinding at things. You have to work through adversity. You have to be able to get through challenges. IMean, the bodybuilding thing for me, I had an interesting picture popped up the exact day that I did my show. This was hilarious. It was almost divine in some way. The universe works in strenge ways, but it was a picture that popped up from six years ago when I was bragging about my physique. I was very happy to brag about my physique on Facebook because I had lost the fat that I had gained. This was post, well, when I was going through my divorce process. I had gotten fat while I was married. I wouldn't say obese fat, but I was fat, fat. Dad bod. I had gotten the dad bod off and gotten myself to a point where I felt like I was lean, and I was very happy, very satisfied with my body. I look back at it now, and I was thinking to myself, holy crap, I was nowhere near where I'm at now in all of the torture, all of the work, all of the pushing, all of the obstacles that I had to overcome between now and then, that six-year period of time to get to where I'm at now. And not just in bodybuilding. My career has changed. My family has changed. I went through the divorce. IMean, there's all these different things. I've had multiple surgeries. I've had illness. I've had injuries. I've had a divorce get in the way. I've had some financial up and downs. There's been all these different things, and I just kept grinding. I kept moving forward. I kept doing the basics day in, day out. When I had some sort of inconvenience, when I had some sort of obstacle get in my way, I would just pick myself back up, and I'd work through it. Nothing ever goes to plan, and I know guys a lot of times will get upset. Guys and gals will get upset and frustrated when things don't go to plan. That happens. That is normal. That happens. What separates the wheat from the chaff are the people that figure out a way to work around that challenge, adapt to it, and get through it. There's always a way to adapt and get through stuff. Now, there are some things that sometimes happen that you can't help. I believe it was Stephen Covey. I could be wrong about this. He talked about the 90-10 principle, where 90% of what happens in life is under your control. The 10% is not. Spend zero time worrying about the 10% and focus on the 90% that you can control and figure out a way around it. Most people do the opposite. They dwell on, they get focused on, they get obsessed with the things that they can't control. They feel sorry for themselves. They get upset. They use the stuff that they can't control as an excuse. You can't worry about that stuff. You just got to put that stuff aside. The things that you can control that are within your power, you adapt, you figure out a plan, you work around it. I'm telling you, people just see where I started my bodybuilding journey and where I ended. People that know me professionally see where I started my business, and they see where I have ended my financial journey. They don't see all the hard work, all of the overcoming obstacles, everything that came in the middle. They just think this happened like that. It's like watching a virtuoso playing on stage. I'm a musician by trade, by trening. I was a musician when I was younger. My initial degree or major in school was in music. Music is the ultimate test of perseverance and patience. It takes 10 years of hard work to even become proficient enough at an instrument to maybe be a master. Maybe. Most people never achieve that level. There was a saying in jiu-jitsu, when I used to go to jiu-jitsu, I'm a very mediocre jiu-jitsu practitioner, but the black belts at my school would say, all a black belt is, is a white belt that kept coming to class. That is true for everything. If you just keep showing up, if you keep workinGHard, if you keep progressing, you are going to get better. The inevitable outcome is improvement. If you keep sticking to the plan, if you keep workinGHard, if you keep grinding at things. So wrapping this up, if you want to be great at something, if you want to be successful, learn how to grind, learn how to push, learn how to get through problems, learn how to overcome and never give up. Don't let anybody tell you that you can't do something because that's BS. I've had people in my entire life tell me that I can't do things. I proved them wrong every freaking time when they tell me that. Don't let other people place their limitations on you. They're going to be people that are going to try to drag you down. They're going to be people that try to pull you back. Sometimes that voice in your head, that man that talks to you in your head, he's going to try to talk you out of greatness. You have to learn how to control him and silence that voice. Keep at it. Keep grinding. Keep pushing. Be successful. Be great. Thank you, people. Appreciate you watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.