 This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle test it, expert formulated, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright, Jim bros, Big Paul here today, and we are going to talk about how to train like a bodybuilder. I think this is for entertainment. I think this is for entertainment. I think this is something that a lot of people don't take a step back and use logic and reason and consider and consider and think about when it comes to training. So many people get their emotions wrapped up in training and they get locked into one philosophy of training and they get locked into one philosophy of training and treated like a religion and don't think things through thoroughly and how it applies to our sport of bodybuilding. I'm going to dig into all my thoughts on how to train like a bodybuilder and to teach them how to train like a bodybuilder. And do so logically in just one second. Alright, so we're going to dig into this. People are very illogical and emotional when it comes to training, much like they are with diets. And there are certain dogmas with training. Bro, I got to train to failure. Bro, I got to be hardcore. Bro, I got to do low volume. Bro, I got to do high volume. And people don't take the time to step back and actually think through things logically and about what actually works to promote success in bodybuilding. It's a bit of a head scratcher for me. So first things first, we have to think about what our primary ability is. And for me, that's real simple. We want to build a winning physique on the stage. It has to be balanced. It has to look great. We have to have the right amount of size for our class. We have to have the right amount of shape for our class. What works for men's physique, guys, might not work for an open class bodybuilder. So first and foremost, we have to build a winning physique on the stage. And then we peel back the layers of the onion from there. We go down and figure out a training system that's going to work to produce maximum results when we get on the stage. All right, Jim Bros, I'm going to interrupt this regularly scheduled broadcast to tell you about the new Science of HGH e-book by Kurt Havens. It is available on the Anabolic Bodybuilding website for download right now. There is a link in the video description below for the e-book if you want to pick it up. It is probably the most comprehensive e-book about performance enhancement use with HGH, over 100 pages of information with references. And it's awesome. Go check it out. When you're on the stage, a funny thing happens. The judges don't care whether you did HIIT training. The judges don't care whether you did German volume training. The judges don't care whether you did Arthur Jones style training or Dorian Yates training or Arnold Schwarzenegger's training. All they care about is what you look like on stage. So just throw all those philosophies in the trash. Figure out what works for you and start from there. Knowing you're a bodybuilder and training like a bodybuilder is very important. That's the first place to start. So many dudes can't figure out if they're a powerlifter or if they're a crossfitter or they want to do a little bit of both. And what I have found is that you need to train specifically for your support if you want to have maximum results. I don't understand why bodybuilders don't get this. You don't see powerlifters getting confused and thinking that they're a bodybuilder and kind of a powerlifter and kind of a crossfitter. You don't see crossfitters kind of getting confused and thinking that they're a powerlifter or a bodybuilder. They train very specifically for their sport. For me, it would be like training for soccer and then expecting to have success on the field as a football player. It makes zero sense. So doing your kettlebell swings, doing one rep maxes, doing all that stupid shit doesn't matter when you're a bodybuilder. The judges don't care when you get on the stage how much you lift. They don't care about your kettlebell swings. Most of that stuff is unproductive for bodybuilding. So why do it? You need to have training specificity if you want to have success in bodybuilder. So first and foremost, train like a bodybuilder. Now what does training like a bodybuilder mean to me? Training like a bodybuilder, we want to promote hypertrophy in the muscle groups that we're trying to enhance to produce that balanced winning physique on stage. We want our training to be optimized to produce that hypertrophy. If we do anything other than that, it's inefficient. It doesn't matter. Lifting for one rep maxes is not furthering our bodybuilding goals. It doesn't do anything. All we're doing is introducing risk of injury with no appreciable benefit for bodybuilding. I start with considering sarcoplasmic hypertrophy and myofibril hypertrophy and what we need to do to maximize both. And keep in mind that training for strength and training for hypertrophy are two very different things. Now that's not to say as you get bigger, you're not going to be stronger. But our primary goal is not to increase strength. You'll see plenty of powerlifters that are super strong that aren't that big. I see dudes all the time in my gym that are deadlifting six, seven hundred pounds that really aren't that big that would get their ass kicked on a bodybuilding stage. I see dudes all the time that are powerlifting and doing crazy stuff in CrossFit style training or Olympic lifting that I could never do, but I would smoke them on a bodybuilding stage. So that type of stuff is not conducive to bodybuilding success. With bodybuilding, first and foremost, we want to place maximal load and tension on the muscle through full range of motion to promote hypertrophy in a productive rep range. That could be anywhere between 8 to 20 reps. Depends on the exercise. And in bodybuilding, we probably want to be the least efficient with moving the weight from point A to point B. Whereas a powerlifter wants to maximize efficiency and leverage through technique. We don't care about that in bodybuilding. We just want to put the maximum load on the muscle and we don't really care about generating the most leverage to get the weight from point A to point B. We want to place the most load on the muscle. Another thing to consider in bodybuilding that I don't think people ever think about is limiting injury risk. We have to consider the risk versus benefit ratio of exercise choice. Is a set of deadlifts worth the risk? Is a heavy barbell bench press worth the risk? Are there more productive movements that we could use that maybe would produce better results? Fatigue versus the stimulus is also another consideration that we have to think about. Is the fatigue cost of this movement worth the benefit that we're going to get from it? If I blow myself out doing a heavy set of deadlifts at the beginning of my back workout, am I effectively going to be able to do all the other things during my back workout such as rowing and whatnot to produce maximum hypertrophy? Remember, our goal is not strength. Our goal is to place stimulus and load on the muscle to produce hypertrophy. Now with that said, we still want to train progressively in bodybuilding. We do know that progressive overload does work. So you do want to progressively get stronger on a given lift within the constraints of good form for bodybuilding. If you have your form buttoned up, you're working in a proper rep range. You've considered the risk versus benefit ratio of an exercise. You've considered the stimulus versus fatigue of an exercise. You want to advance that lift as you get bigger. If I'm doing five pounds for 12 reps this week, I may want to do seven and a half next week. In 10 following, you are going to progress and get bigger. Now we don't have to advance weights every week. Some people get too obsessed with the logbook. And a lot of times they just end up getting better at cheating and not actually progressing in bodybuilding. I'll see that all the time with guys that just get too obsessed with beating their PRs and their numbers. It doesn't matter. As I've mentioned before, when you get on stage, what your PRs are, the judge doesn't care. It's how you look, how big you are, how balanced you are. That's what matters. Keep that within the context of good form for bodybuilding. We want enough volume. And this is a touchy subject with people. People get very emotional about volume. Some people are low volume advocates. Some people are high volume advocates. The truth is it's probably somewhere in the middle. If we take a look at the bodybuilding people that have success on the elite level, almost all of them do some sort of moderate to higher volume training. You see very, very few people that have success that are on the Olympia stage that are doing one or two sets per body part. There's been some exceptions. Dorian Yates would be one of them. But those are outliers. If we want to maximize our results, we probably should look at the things that work for the most people. There are outliers in everything. So there are exceptions to the rule. We have to keep in mind as we lower volume, intensity has to go up. And as intensity goes up, the risk versus reward ratio goes down. So you're increasing risk of injury as you increase how close to failure you go or beyond failure or how heavy the lift is. The injury risk increases. So that's where sort of a moderate to higher volume style training program is probably going to lower that risk and give you just as much reward, if not more. And that's probably why a lot of guys have settled on that type of training. Another thing that people don't consider, too, is exercise choice. Are you choosing the proper exercises to provide maximum benefits and to keep you from getting beat up in the gym? I hear it all the time. I literally was on the comments section of one of my videos today. It's like, man, Paul, I bet your elbows are killing you at your age. I'm like, no, my elbows feel great, man. When I stopped doing stupid stuff that hurt my elbows, an amazing thing happened. My elbows got better. So don't lift like an asshole. Choose exercises that don't beat you up and produce maximum hypertrophy. If skull crushers make your elbows scream and you can't produce maximum effort on those exercises, why would you do a skull crusher if it's just going to make your elbows hurt and you have to take a break every couple of weeks to let your elbows heal up? That makes zero sense. So we want to train logically. We want to pick exercises that are going to place maximum load on the muscle, reduce risk of chronic injuries such as elbow pain or joint pain. We want to avoid those exercises and use the ones that provide us with maximum benefit. I don't know why, guys, don't consider this. It just drives me absolutely nuts all the time. Another thing, too, is somebody will say to me, well, I'm doing bench presses and my chest isn't growing. I don't know what I'm doing wrong. Well, maybe bench presses aren't great for growing your chest. Maybe you should find another exercise. I hear guys all the time saying, well, I'm doing squats, but I don't have legs like Tom Platt's. Well, maybe you need to do hack squats. Maybe you need to do something else. Find the exercises that work for you and give you maximum result, reduce risk of injury, reduce risk of chronic joint pain, and place maximum load on the muscle to produce hypertrophy. Matching your diet to your training style. This is another thing, or the other way around, matching your training style to your diet. This is another one that drives me nuts, too. I get guys all the time that say, well, I'm eating a high-carb diet. I'm taking insulin, and it doesn't do shit for me. And then I find out they're doing some sort of HIIT training program where they're only doing one or two sets per body part. At a very low rep range, doing like five or six reps, well, that's probably why you're not getting a lot out of the insulin in the high-carb diet. It seems like insulin in high-carb diets would pair up better with more moderate volume, higher rep ranges, getting a good pump, promoting sarcoplasmic hypertrophy. Metabolic-style workouts probably work better. If you look at somebody like Milo Sarchev and his style of workouts, it all considers that type of diet. And protocol in the training, it all needs to match up. A lot of people do not align their diet with their training style, which makes zero sense to me. So you want to make sure that your diet is lined up with your training style. So wrapping this all up in a neat little bow for you, train like a bodybuilder. That means finding exercises that work, that produce results. Consider your diet and how it pairs up with your training. You want to minimize risk of injury. You want to minimize the effect of fatigue from an exercise. You know, choose exercises that probably are not going to blast you and blow you out in the first five minutes of your workout. And you can't have an effective workout afterwards. Choose exercises that are going to allow you to recover and be ready for your next workout. Have a volume that is productive enough to produce hypertrophy. Whatever that is for you, you'll have to find out what a given volume range is for you. Intensity needs to be enough where you're going to promote growth, but not so much that you can't recover for your next workout and cause injuries. It really is that simple. And guys, once again, I'm going to emphasize this. The judges don't care when you get on stage how you train. The judges don't care how much you bench press. The judges don't care what your form looks like when your exercises. They don't care if you deadlift. They don't care if you don't deadlift. They don't care if you squat. They don't care if you don't squat. What matters on stage is what your physique looks like in the package that you present when you get out there. It really is that simple. All right, folks. Thank you for watching. I appreciate each and every one of you. Leave a comment in the comment section below. If you think I'm wrong, please let me know. If you want to support me, please support my sponsor, First Detachment Quality Supplements Made for Bodybuilders by the man himself, Justin Harris. Link to their products is in the video description below. Use the discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Also, please check out Kurt Haven's new e-book on HGH. It's one of the best e-books ever written on HGH. It's 100 pages of awesomeness. Link to that is also in the video description below. Thank you for watching.