 c-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging-car-ging to get big. Everybody thinks that you have to spend a ton of money on food to get huge. You really don't. You can do it on a broke college kid's budget. And I'm going to show you how in just one second. So something I hear frequently that drives me absolutely nuts is from people that say they can't afford to eat healthy. It's too expensive to eat healthy. It's too expensive to eat like a bodybuilder and get big. And that is just not true. I promise you that most people spend more money at Chipotle than what it would cost on a single meal, than what it would cost to do a legit bodybuilding diet every day. I'm going to show you how literally you can do a balking diet for bodybuilding for like 10, 12 bucks a day. That's less than a burrito ball costs. That's what a latte and probably a sandwich at Starbucks costs. That's what maybe what a couple energy drinks and a bag of potato chips costs. It's just that most people are lazy and they want convenience and they don't want to take the time to meal prep. If you take the time to meal prep, do your own work. You can save a ton of money and have plenty of money to balk. So I'm going to give you an example here. This is the cheap balking diet and it doesn't get any cheaper than doing this unless you're eating cans of tuna fish and eating ramen noodles, which is disgusting, but chicken breast is dirt cheap for four grams of protein. It is the cheapest meat that you can get really. That's that's not, you know, trash. So Walmart actually has chicken breast right now for $2.99 a pound. If you keep your eye open and you get the big jumbo packs, you have to get the jumbo packs. You can find it at some grocery stores for as cheap as $1.99 per pound. The Harris Teeter by my house actually has it for $1.99 a pound. Every now and then they'll pop it on sale. I've seen it on sale at Lytle as well before. So I'm just going to split the difference for our math today and just say $2.50 per pound, somewhere between the $1.99 and $2.99 per pound price. So there is roughly nine grams of protein per ounce of chicken breast. Somewhere around there might be a little more, might be a little less. So you need if you want to do 45 grams of protein per meal or, you know, somewhere around 50 grams, whatever you need about five ounces of chicken per meal. I'm going to break a diet out for you here. The diet that I have broken out, it's going to be six meals per day. We're going to use chicken breast as our primary protein source. We'll throw a protein shake in there because Jim bros love protein shakes. Got to have protein shake in there and we'll still keep everything nice and cheap. So we are going to have five meals. We're going to do six total meals, but five meals from chicken and one meal with a protein shake. So we're going to do 275 total grams of protein from meat in the protein shake. And we're going to do it for less than $2 per meal. So we're going to, the way I would break it down, and this is sort of a basic carb cycling diet where we would do meals one through four. We're going to have 45 grams of protein, five ounces of chicken at each meal. We're going to do 50 grams of carbs at each meal, which would be one cup of rice. Roughly one cup for those of you that do not want to waste shit. It's roughly one cup of jasmine rice. It's around 50 grams of carbohydrates. Take or minus. We'll do a half a tablespoon of olive oil for our EFAs at meals one through four. These are our regular meals and then one fish oil pill. Olive oil costs about 60 cents per tablespoon. So if we do a half a tablespoon at each meal of olive oil, that's seven grams of EFAs. And that's the olive oil then would, I'm sorry, olive oil is about 30 cents per tablespoon. So it would be 15 cents per half tablespoon for olive oil. And with the fish oil pills, I mean, you can get a bottle of like something like 200 of them for like 20 bucks. They're essentially nothing, you know, pennies a piece. Rice is dirt ass cheap. I don't know why people buy the pre-cooked rice. You're getting absolutely hosed if you buy the pre-cooked rice. If you keep your eyes open, like at Walmart, I've seen 20 pound bags of rice, of white rice for like 12 bucks. Essentially, rice is free. It's so damn cheap, it's free. You're going to be spending something like five cents per meal on your rice. Dirt ass cheap. I mean, it doesn't cost anything to eat rice. So meals one through four, we're going, like I said, we'll do 50 grams of carbs, 45 to 50 grams of protein. We're going to do a half tablespoon of olive oil for our EFAs and a fish oil pill in there as well. Our pre and post-workout meals, we are going to double up the carbohydrates. We will do 100 grams of carbs, keep the protein the same, drop the fats on our pre and post-workout. And then one of our pre and post-workout meals, whether you want to do a post or pre, I usually do a pre. Some people like a post. You do something simple like a protein shake and some breakfast cereal just to get it down nice and easy. Also, dirt ass cheap, A-50 gram serving of protein from a protein shake is something like $1.50. It's actually more expensive than the chicken. The chicken is cheaper than the protein shake. So those of you that think you're saving money by having protein shakes, you're not. Chicken breast is actually cheaper per serving. And then you'll have some sort of intro workout shake. I use field rations from First Attachment Nutrition. It has highly branched acyclic dextrin in it, plus some essential amino acids. Or you can just get some EAAs and put them in some Gatorade if you want to be lazy. But really the cost of the field rations with my discount is about $2 per serving. So to recap this diet, we're going to do four meals with five ounces of chicken, one cup of rice, half a tablespoon of added fat from olive oil, and one fish oil pill. And for our pre and post-workout, we're going to do 100 grams of carbs, which would be two cups of rice. Or you can do your breakfast cereal if you want, and then we'll repeat the same with the protein. That is a really simple and easy to follow diet. And guess what your total cost for all this is for the day? I'm going to put it up here on the screen. We're going to add it all up for you. It is $10.35 per day to eat that. $1.73 per meal. If we took out the intra-workout shake, that's probably the most expensive thing that we have in this whole thing, it would be even less. Probably like $1.30, $1.40 per meal. I guarantee you, you had no idea that it's that cheap to eat a bodybuilding diet. Most people do not. It makes you realize how ridiculous some of the food prep costs are when people get meals from some of the meal prep services. Look, I buy them sometimes too. It's just that you're paying for convenience and for not having to do the work. If you wanted to throw some vegetables in there too, you certainly could do that as well. You can get giant ass bags of frozen vegetables at Walmart. They have a Normandy mix or peas and carrots. I mean, they're inexpensive. When you get the fresh vegetables, they're definitely more expensive. If you want to throw a fiber supplement in there, you probably could too. I do that. If you wanted to have some creatine in there as well, you could throw that in there. There's some other supplements, a multivitamin you could probably throw in there, some vitamin D. But still, you could probably keep your total daily costs under $20 still. But if you're broke and you want to do it that way, the cheap and easy way, you could literally do it for around $10 per day eating that way. Which is more, which is, sorry, most people are spending more on just dining out per day. Most young guys I talk to have at least one meal. They're just trash meal. They're eating out per day. They're grabbing an energy drink and then they're getting a burrito bowl at Chipotle. Which is not even a full-size portion of protein, honestly. I think they only give you about three ounces of protein in those meals. I don't know what they measure it out at, but I think it's around three ounces. So you have to pay for it double if you actually want to get the same portion size that we're having here. And you end up spending $16, $17 on a burrito bowl at Chipotle, which is more than what you're spending in a total day of eating here. And this food is dirt cheap. So literally, you have no excuse for not eating a bodybuilding diet. It's just purely laziness is why you're not doing it. All right, folks. I hope you found this one helpful. If you want to support me, please support my sponsor, First Detachment Nutrition. Discount code is AB10. I have a link to their stuff in my description below. If you want to get a hold of me, my contact information is also below. Thank you for your support. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you. Thank you.