WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up gym bros? Big Paul here today and I'm going to talk to you about everything you need to know to lose body fat. You fucked up during the holidays? You let yourself get a little too fluffy? I'm going to show you how to go from that dad bod to shred it for summer in just one second. All right, before we get started with this one, a little shameless plug. Yes, I do coaching. I can help you get on fat if you want to lose that belly, get shredded, grow muscle for the summer. If you want to get in contact with me about coaching consultations, links in the video description below. Before we get started, hit that thumbs up if you like the video. If you don't like the video, well, you can go fuck yourself. And also subscribe to my channel if you like what we've got going on. Enough of that bullshit. Let's get into what it takes to lose fat. What you can expect, how to lose fat, how to get yourself shredded for the summer. I've worked with hundreds of people, maybe even over a thousand at this point. I don't know. I started off in college 30 some years ago. I got a nutritional certification and started coaching people on fat loss when I was in college working at a gym as a personal trener. I did that for four years throughout college and have been bodybuilding off and on for, I don't know, recreationally and more than recreationally competing, not competing, doing fat loss phases for bodybuilding competitions for shit, 30 plus years now. Around 30 years, something like that. Long time. I'm old as fuck. I'm just dating myself here, but I've picked up a few things along the way and I've learned quite a bit about what is the most effective way to lose body fat. Not only the most effective way to lose body fat, but how you do that, preserve muscle mass and get yourself looking the best that you possibly can while having a sustainable approach long-term. There's a couple of things that I've kind of picked up along the way I'm going to share with you on this video. At some point, I'm working on a course for fat loss. I'm going to finish building this fucking thing and actually release it. I'm going to go into great detail on how to structure everything, but I just keep putting it off on the back burner because I get so busy with other stuff, but I've gotten it there. I've worked on the formula that I've used with people and really it's no different from contest prep to just a person who wants to lose weight. They're a little more extreme on contest prep because there's some stuff we got to do at the end to get ourselves shredded for stage as bodybuilders, but essentially the process is pretty much the same. We have three levers that we can pull when we're losing body fat. We can do more cardio. We can eat less food. We can use more fat burners. Those are really it. Those are the three main variables that we have to adjust when we're on contest prep or in a fat loss phase. Doesn't matter whether you're a bodybuilder or just a guy who's just trying to drop some body fat. Those are really the three main things that you have that you can use as tools when you're losing fat. And at the end of the day, it's a net energy balance game. We need to be in a net negative energy balance to lose body fat. There's no getting around it. There's no cheating thermodynamics, kind of. Now there's some caveats to that. We can manipulate things a bit with diet based on how the body partitions energy. Yes, it is true that calories in and calories out rule supreme. Yes, it is true that thermodynamics is an irrefutable law of physics. At least right now it is. If anybody disproves it, then they're going to win the Nobel Prize in physics and probably solve limitless energy for humanity. Hasn't happened yet. So as of current physics models, we can't beat the laws of thermodynamics. But the body doesn't store and partition energy as neatly and efficiently. It's not just simple math. Let me put it that way. And if we think about the three macronutrients that we have, and this is where I don't really get focused on calories anymore when it comes to dieting. And this is a big conclusion that I've come to over the years. Where your calories come from matter more than how many calories you have when it comes to the ultimate outcome for body composition. And as we're losing body fat, we need to keep that in mind, right? Ultimately we want to lose fat. We don't want to lose muscle. And if we can actually grow a little bit of muscle while we're losing fat, that would be fucking cool, right? So we want to maximize that. And how we do that is through how we partition macronutrients and leveraging that to our advantage. Yes, we do need days where we're in a caloric deficit. And we certainly do that. And when I look at diets, this is kind of the way the easiest and quickest way to lose body fat is through a calorie deficit. There's just no two ways around it. You can spend an hour on the treadmill and burn 500 calories or whatever it works out to be. That's one big chocolate chip cookie. It's easier to eat one less chocolate chip cookie than it is to do an hour on the treadmill. Now it's not to say the cardio doesn't matter. But we need to look at the diet side of things first when we're manipulating net energy balance for fat loss. And really it's about creating that net negative energy balance. We can use fat burners to increase metabolism. We can use more exercise, more activity to increase that net negative energy balance because we're expending more energy so we keep the food the same. Or we can just lower the food, which can have some negative outcomes as far as slowing metabolism and other ways around. But let's circle back around to the macros, which is what the original thought where I was at here. So why macros matter more than calories and why I've really stopped counting calories and going with macros. How your body partitions the macronutrients matters and it matters a lot. I'll give you the example. Your body, let's talk about carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are a controversial topic for people. People always think carbohydrates make you fat. No, caloric surplus, specifically where those calories come from, makes you fat. Now your body, carbohydrates are kind of a cool macronutrient because really at the end of the day they're just energy and your body uses them for glucose, which is fuel for pretty much everything that we do. The brain operates off on glucose primarily. It can run off partially on ketones. The brain can't burn fat directly because it is made of fat or otherwise it would eat itself. So we can partially run off of ketones, but carbs are just fuel at the end of the day. But what's cool with carbs is how your body stores and uses carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are ultimately all converted to glucose. How you get there can be complicated, but ultimately all carbohydrates end up at glucose at some point. That glucose can be either stored as liver glycogen or muscle glycogen and typically done so before it's actually stored as body fat. For the most part with my clients, when I work with people for fat loss, I have them run a carb cycling diet. The reason why I do this is because we're going to leverage how your body partitions energy, specifically carbohydrates. We put in these high carbohydrate days, which is essentially a refeed day that we do once a week where we can be in a caloric surplus and potentially be in a pretty big caloric surplus and not store fat. So you say, Paul, how the fuck is that possible if you need to calories in, calories out, more calories means you're going to store fat? Are you violating thermodynamics? No, we're not violating thermodynamics. We are not violating the laws of physics. It's just how your body stores energy. Your body has a capacity to store a large amount of carbohydrates as muscle and liver glycogen. And the bigger you are, the more muscle mass that you have, the more capacity that you're going to have to store glycogen. And there's some argument that PEDs have some effect on how the body partitions energy as well. There may be some increased glucose trensport from certain PEDs that you use. And over time, it seems like bodybuilders have an increased capacity to synthesize glycogen. But long story short, we can build in this high carbohydrate day once per week where we put extra carbohydrates in, we keep the fats low on that day. And the reason why we keep the fats low on that day is because of how the body partitions energy once again. If we're in a caloric surplus, your body and insulin, your body's going to be secreting more insulin. And when you're in a caloric surplus, your body's going to be in a state of not burning fat, it's going to be in a state of storage for the most part if you're in a surplus throughout the day. So now, granted, it changes throughout the day. I'm oversimplifyinGHere. There's going to be times where you're storing and removing, but it's how your body manipulates that energy. So if you're in a high carbohydrate state and a high fat state all at the same time, while your body may be synthesizing glycogen and storing those carbohydrates as glycogen without adding fat, what do you think is going to happen to additional dietary fats when you're in a caloric surplus? They're just going to get stored as body fat. So what we do on these high carbohydrate days is we keep the fats as low as we possibly can. We push the carbohydrates up as high as we can get away with. For example, some big dudes can eat well north of a thousand grams of carbohydrates on a high carb day and not store body fat. I've seen it. I'm one such example when I'm on contest prep. I'll often exceed a thousand grams of carbohydrates on my high carbohydrate day and I can get down to, you know, five percent body fat for a stage. We have many benefits of this high carbohydrate day that we build in. It's one day a week where we're in a surplus on a diet and what we do on that high carbohydrate day is we're having the benefit of the increased glycogen synthesis, which is going to help with performance in the gym. It's going to help with fullness. You hear guys talk about fullness all the time in bodybuilding. Even non-bodybuilders can benefit from this. I run these diets with everybody, even non-bodybuilders. And what we're going to have is the downstream effects of increased metabolism. We're going to have that day, a lot of times when you're in deficits, the other day, sleep becomes a problem. You're going to be able to sleep better. You're going to have a day where you can recover and it slows down. It doesn't matter what you do when you're in a diet for long enough. Metabolic adaptation happens. Your metabolism is going to slow down. And this style of dieting where we selectively have days where we have caloric deficit and one day where we're in a surplus, this helps prevent that metabolic down regulation, at least slow it down. And that's one of the big benefits of having the high carbohydrate day. Now the rest of the days of the week, we cycle through the carbohydrates. I'll pick maybe two days a week, one day a week where we'll go maybe even zero carbs, kind of like a keto bro. Keto bros, you could smile. Where we go down to zero carbs and just fats and protein. And then the other days we'll have medium days where we might be in a deep deficit on that day. I'll use those days for really, really to accelerate fat loss. And then on your medium days, which would be trening days that are non-high days, I like to keep some carbohydrates in around the workout window. Now what I found over years of doing this, anything less than 150 grams of carbs, you might as well go zero carbs at that point because you're just in this miserable state where you're not quite in ketosis and you feel like dog shit. It's better off just to go zero carbs at that point. So that's kind of like the minimum cutoff for me, for guys at least, for men. And so we just repeat this process over and over. And my thought process with dieting and realistic rates of weight loss that we can expect, and I think people get anxious and impatient with how weight loss really works. They want to accelerate weight loss faster than what's really possible. I am aiming for one to two pounds a week of fat loss. I know that sounds disappointing to a lot of people, but you didn't get fat overnight either. And if we think about it, we can really just boil this down to math. Let's just assume we're in a calorie deficit seven days a week, which we're not with this carb cycling salad diet, but just for simple math, we're going to say we're in a calorie deficit for those days a week. A one pound a week fat loss would be A-500 calorie per day net negative deficit. Two pounds per week of fat loss would be a 1,000 calorie per day net negative energy balance deficit. You get up to three pounds per week, we're talking about 1,500 calories a day. Now for women, that's damn near impossible. IMean, how much cardio are you going to have to do? How low can you cut your calories? And think about it, like if you're a dude and your BMR is 2,500 calories, IMean, are you going to go down to 1,000 calories a day? Or are you going to do two hours of cardio? IMean, I guess you could. And the problem you run into is the more you push the net negative energy balance, the more you're at risk of cannibalizing muscle tissue. This is the balance that we run into. And what I've just found, this is just the anecdote in years of fucking doing this, one to two pounds a week seems to be the safe spot. Now with cardio, I look at cardio during a fat loss phase as just purely a way to increase energy expenditure. That's just what it is. I don't do super crazy intense cardio. I know some people like doing intense cardio on a fat loss phase. I've just found as far as preserving muscle tissue, when you're doing crazy intense cardio, you just end up blowing through all your glycogen and you end up flattening out and feeling like shit and looking like shit. That's just been my experience. I prefer steady state cardio. I know there's people that are going to disagree with me on that. I found that results in a better look at the end. You preserve more muscle mass. That way you just look better that way. You don't get so beat up. My goal when I'm on a diet and I only, as long as I am tracking those one to two pounds per week of fat loss, I don't change a damn thing. If I can get through the whole fat loss phase without changing anything, adding more cardio or decreasing the food intake, if I can get through the whole fat loss phase and track one to two pounds per week, I don't change a fucking thing. I know guys get impatient. I don't add fat burners if I don't need to. I don't remove any of this other stuff. Why do more if you're tracking? Now, if we aren't tracking, then we have cards we can play. We can add more cardio. We can drop the food. I usually make small changes. I know on paper it doesn't seem like it would do much. IMight take 100 calories out per day and usually I take it out of carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are usually the easiest place to pull calories. I never touch protein. Protein never changes. When we talk about energy partition, it's damn near impossible for your body to turn protein into fat. IMean, there's so many steps metabolically that you would have to take. The protein has to be converted through gluconeogenesis into glucose, and the glucose then needs to be converted by the liver through lipogenesis into lipids, and then those lipids get stored as fat. IMean, it's just there's so many steps in that process. It's damn near impossible. You would have to eat 1,000 grams of protein before you would get fat off. IMean, who the fuck's doing that, right? So protein is really kind of, it's really hard to get enough protein to get fat. A lot of times when guys get fat from eating excess protein, what they think is excess protein, it's really from eating fatty cuts of protein, things like ribeyes and sausages and bacon and shit like that, that has a high fat content. That was going to contribute. Now fat, most fats, especially saturated fats, are already pre-packaged, ready to go to be stored as body fat, and saturated fats are nothing more than energy. All these different fats arecomplicated. IMean, I could have videos up if you want to go back and look. I have an entire video up on the science of fats, but I hate the fats are all lumped into one category, but there are so many different types of fats that do very different things and are metabolized differently by the body. Essential fatty acids are required. So usually what I do with diets is I supplement in some essential fatty acids. Now the other levers that we have to pull for fat loss, we talked about cardio. Cardio is really simple. I start off low, probably 20 minutes of steady state cardio, and if we see people stalling, like I said before, you can drop the food a little bit, you can add a little more cardio. I just increment the cardio by five minutes at a time. So if we stall this week, I'll add five minutes next week. If we stall this week, IMight drop the calories, drop the carbs by 25 grams per day next week. I never touch the high day. The high day never changes. That stays the same. And then the last piece of the puzzle that we have that we can leverage is fat burning agents. We have so many options now. GLP-1s, which are going to mostly suppress appetite and slow gastric emptying and help on that end. Although there is some direct fat burning effect with the GLP-3 that we have now. Mitochondrial enhancers, those are another tool. The traditional stimulant-based fat burners, clenbuterol, yohimbine, ephedrine, caffeine. There's all these options, but the fat burning agents don't make as big of a difference as you would think they would. IMean, maybe a five to 10% increase in net energy expenditure with the traditional stimulant-based fat burners. GLP-1s work very differently. GLP-1s are helping guys with their appetite, helping through other mechanisms that accelerate fat loss. They're probably the most effective fat loss tool that we have now. I pooh-poohed them a year ago. But what you can realistically expect long-term with your fat loss, and people always ask me, how long can you push the fat loss phase? Well, it just depends. It depends on how obese you are. If you're 150 pounds overweight, you might be able to go six months on a fat loss phase and be okay. But generally what I find most people, when I got back into bodybuilding, I was about 100 pounds overweight. I had to knock 100 pounds off, 80 pounds, whatever it was. I don't remember. I was pretty fucking fat. I know that. You got to break it up into different phases. I will run 16 to 20 weeks max as far as a fat loss phase, and then I find over that time, you're going to have to increase cardio. You're going to have to lower calories, and then just eventually you just end up hitting the fucking wall. You get to a point where your body just stops responding. Your metabolism gets so low, you just need a break. Everything stops responding. And usually what I'll do is take a six to eight week break, and I'll start incrementally raising the carbohydrates back up. And what I find is a lot of times, you can get your calories up pretty significantly. IMean, I've seen cases where I've taken guys up 1,000 calories a day during this diet break, 500, 1,000 calories a day, and they don't get any weight. Their metabolism just starts to speed up. But that assumes that we don't go on a fucking food bender. You don't go off and you're eating Taco Bell, smashing cheeseburgers, and eating whole fucking pizzas, and doing stupid shit like that. If you can keep the diet clen and not eat like an asshole, if you can keep the diet clen and just slowly increase the clen carbohydrates, a lot of times you can really speed your metabolism up and then have yourself ready for another fat loss phase. So, IMean, when we talk about the one to two pounds per week of predicted fat loss that we can get that's expected without losing muscle mass, we're talking about 16 to 32 pounds in a 16-week fat loss phase. I find that most people can knock off 20 to 25 pounds, no problem. That's typically where most guys land. If you're fatter than that, then you need to push it longer. Some guys that are going into contest prep let themselves get too fat in their off-season. And for competitors, this is a piece of advice for you. The fatter you get, the worse contest prep is going to be. The longer you have to do it, the more risk you are at losing muscle when you're on contest prep. And the longer you have to diet, the harder that you have to diet, the more at risk you are of losing muscle tissue. I just have found that one to two pounds per week is the safer way to go. And even lower probably is the better option. One pound a week would probably be an ideal for guys that arecompetitors. For those of you that are just trying to get the fat off that are overweight, I would say get it off as quick as possible. But this is just kind of a high-level summary of how I like to do things when I diet people. Once again, I can coach you and help you through this process. I've been doing this for a long time, but that's sort of my thought process on how fat loss works and how I get guys lean. I've been able to get tons of people shredded. I get myself shredded every time. And then once again, we want to do this sustainably. We want to come out of the back end of these things without severe metabolic damage. I've had tons of people that have come to me for coaching or consultations that have had severe metabolic damage where they really have fucked themselves up to where I just have to take months just to get their metabolism built back up so they can actually lose weight again. They're guys down to eating 1,200, 1,300 calories. IMean, what are you going to do at that point where if your metabolism is slowing down so much where your BMR is 1,300 calories? What are you going to eat, 800? So when you're at that point, you have to take some time to build your metabolism back up and get yourself back in a good spot. All right folks, that's all I got for you on this one. Let me know what you think in the comments section below. If you want to get a hold of me, information's in the video description below. Appreciate each and every one of you. Rock on. See you on the next episode, motherfuckers. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.