 naringin,isexual, naringin,isexual, naringin,isexual, naringin,isexual, naringin, naringin,isexual, naringin,isexual, naringin,isexual, naringin,isexual, naringin,! Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, Big Paul here with another freshly minted IFBB Pro, Dr. Mike Kalustyan. What's up Mike? Dude, everything's great. It's been a whopping six days as a pro now and it still doesn't feel real. That feels, that's gotta feel cool to have that pro card in your hand and have them call you out, man. That's gotta be the coolest feeling ever. Yeah, it was something since I started competing in 2004, 2019 was my first show ever. So it's like four years of work and finally getting it. Do you think about that? That's like, you know, 1400 days of work and it finally happened and it was a tough show. Like 700 shows. That's actually pretty quick, dude. I talked to a guy at Masters Nationals that got his pro card and I think he told me it was his 13th show. 13th national show. Not show, 13th national show. Talk about some persistence. I would have given up. Yeah, I was watching, oh man, it was Gary G6 and he did like 14 years of competing to finally go pro and I'm like, that dude is a legend. Oh, did he, did he get his pro card? He did at Masters Universe. He finally did it and then retired the next day. I love it. Oh, awesome. I knew he had been trying for a while. He seems like a cool guy. I'd like to talk to him sometime, but yeah, I didn't, I didn't know that he had gotten it. He's big as big as a house. I know what's funny. I didn't compete in 2020. And then I switched federations in 2022. Oh. I was like, Oh, I was trying to be like the one hit wonder. That just like. I get young guys. That come to me and they have their. That was like. That was like. June Juneets. June Juneets. Juneets. Juneets. their two-show plan to get their pro card. And I'm like, bro, that never happens. Like almost never. Not unless you're like Ronnie Coleman or Phil Heath or something like that. That almost never happens. Most people grind at this for a long time. The guy who beat me, it was his seventh or ninth national show. So I'm like, this was your time. I was like, you've been doing this for a lot longer than I have. You deserve it, honestly. How long have you been lifting? How long have you been a recreational bodybuilder? Okay, so this is what's kind of crazy too. So I transitioned into bodybuilding at 2019. This is after fully tearing my left pec. Holy crap, man. Yeah, I actually don't know another. I mean, unless there's one in the last couple of years. Like not like a hunter-torn pec, like where it's like a muscle belly. Like right now, even for the last four years, my pec is literally not attached. I actually don't know any other classic guy to go pro with a fully detached pec. So that's kind of neat. But I got into bodybuilding because I tore my pec off the bone, benching 505, four weeks before powerlifting meet. And I am not a huge fan of heavy bench anymore. And due to that, and that was a very scary experience. And people say, what was that like? It sounded like someone, if you could imagine ripping a phone book in half, that's what it sounded like. And then I was like, oh, my powerlifting career is over. I worked as a personal trainer in college, and I spotted a dude one time that ruptured his pec tendon. And it sounded like a shotgun going off, man. I could hear it. And he screamed. And you could see his chest just fill up with blood. It's the craziest thing. Is this the, let me see here. I think I have a, I think I can see it a little bit in here. Is it this pec over here? Yes. So I hide it, like, in all my poses. Like, I'll put the torn pec hand behind my head, and then I'll go to the opposite side. So I can basically hide it in every single pose except this front double. But I was going to say, maybe if I make my biceps big enough, you won't even look at it. I see it there. That's, I guess I just liked it. That's slick, man. I don't, most people, once you've torn a pec, yeah, I can see it actually now. But if you look at, like, the side chest and some of the other poses, you will not be able to tell. You do a great job of hiding it, man. Like, if you go to, I'm trying to think. Up there, right? Yeah, like, you can't see it there. A lot of times you're not going to know. So a little bit there. That's kind of just something you had to get used to. And I was like, I know I'm kind of going at an uphill battle. I have a good eye for this stuff, man. And usually I would have spotted it right out of the gate. But I did not see it on you. That's crazy. You've never thought about getting it fixed? Oh, I did. I thought about it. I was, I literally tore it off the bone. And I was in the middle of the divorce. And I was in the, I remember I had my medical practice. And if I were to take the three to six months off from work, I would have lost everything in my divorce and lost my practice. So it was either like, yeah, a lifting career or do that. I looked into it four years later. They said, if you do this now, it may or may not take and you can't lift anything or adjust anyone for six months. I was like, never mind. Yeah. Yeah. That's a never mind. I've had some stuff. I tore my UCL in my elbow. I also tore my labrum. Oh. I tore my labrum this past fall. And I, I just been training around it the best I can. Yeah. And I will say another thing for all like the viewers out here. I had, when I was, when I was training for that powerlifting meet, I was 225. And I had done a set of bench presses and it was a dead stop 405 for five on bench. But I've already completed that set. And I had this coach that was old school and he was like, all right, put a hundred pounds on and do a negative. In my head, I knew that was. That sounds so, such a bad idea. I literally just did 405 for five, paused at 225 pounds. And I was fatigued. And he said, do a negative. What? And then I tore my back. I knew in my head going into it, I should never do that. So now if anyone ever tells me to do something, I'm like, absolutely not. I'm going to go with my gun every time. If it doesn't make sense, I'm not doing it. So don't let someone talk you into doing, if it doesn't sound right, if you hit a red flag, run for the hills. They don't know what the hell we're talking about. I'm telling you, every time I've ever hurt myself, there's been some twinge or some weird premonition beforehand, man. It's always been there. But yeah, it's crazy that you've worked around the pec tear, man. That's insane. Because I was kind of like, if I can go, oh, not only that, but I have an umbilical hernia. And I was like, if I can win with a torn pec, umbilical, yeah, and self-coached, that's crazy. That's like good to me, you know, because there's a lot of guys fully put together and they can't win. So I was like, self-coached, umbilical hernia, torn pec, still got it. So like all the broken ass people out there, don't give up. You might still be able to do it. People ask me, they're all the time asking me, what do you do about injuries? And I'm like, you just train around them. Yeah, just figure it out. Yeah, everything on me is broken. I'm almost 50 years old, man. I got a lot of miles on this motor. Yet you're still progressing too. So what's that say, you know? Well, I had to reinvent my training. You know, you talking about the bench press thing. Like I had completely dropped all, I used to be like a power, but I would say a power, power builder. I, I lifted more like a power lifter than I did a bodybuilder when I was younger. DC Dorian Yates style training. I don't, you know, Dante Trudell used to train me, but I had to kind of rethink things as I got older. Cause I, in my forties, I just couldn't sustain that style of heavy lifting with compound movements. And I really gravitated towards, uh, Mike Izriatel's stuff, the Renaissance periodization stuff. This stuff is so good. Yeah. And that's what I've been using for the last three years. And I've, I've progressed on that. And, and for the most part, I haven't really been hurt other than the, the labrum tear. And that was me being a dumbass. And I decided I was going to do some incline benches and I was showing off for some people and, and I felt it pop. I thought I tore my pack at first, but it was the labrum. So I'm like, well, I can, that's not cosmetic. Yeah. Bumstead shoulder injury. You can't tell, but it's funny that because when I grew up, when I first started training, I was 15 years old. My dad had owned a bunch of Nautilus gyms back in the day and went and gotten to do promotions. He, I mean, I liked the Nautilus stuff, honestly. And he was a huge Dorian Yates fan. So I only trained three days a week, push, pull legs. Every set was maximum failure. So I was used to training really heavy, like six to eight reps, super hard. And I feel like you can get away with it while you're young, but I tried to do that as long as I could. And this was actually the year I switched my entire training program. And I told myself no more train to failure. Yeah. I don't train to failure at all. No. And because what's funny is you mentioned it on your podcast one time. You're like, is it really worth it? And I said, you know, I don't, I always like, cause I did it for 15 years. I'm like, Oh, it worked then. It works now. No, I wish I wouldn't have actually, cause this is the first year I would never go above one rep in reserve. So I did zero failure training all year. Ended up looking my best. I did the entire 18 week prep with zero D loads and zero injuries. Yep. I'm like, why didn't I do this a long time ago? I just focused on technique and volume and I got in the best shape of my life. Like I, and I love Dorian Yates. I still love him. He's a fricking beast. And I learned a lot from it, but I don't think it works as well for at least it didn't for me. Do you know for most people? No. I looked, I mean, like I felt like shit all the time. Your elbows hurt, your shoulders hurt, everything hurts. You can't train hard when you, when, when you beat up all the time, you tear your peck, you get a hernia. Yeah. Yeah. So I actually switched. I will never go back. I will do two reps in reserve. I don't care. But I had a hard time psychologically with it at first. Cause I had been programmed myself to be constantly beating the log book. And in a, and I've had the best progress of my life, not doing that anymore. Now, with that said, I still progress. I'm progressing volume. I progress, you know, things like I'll do a periodized volume style training where I add more volume or I'll add more weight within the constraints of, you know, what the program is. But I'm not training to failure anymore doing forced reps or any of that. I don't do anything like, like intensifiers, no drop sets, no force reps, no, no rest pause. None of that anymore. When you mentioned that I used to do a lot of drop sets. Didn't do any of them. I mean like something like a light bicep curl, like a cable curl. I will like squeeze the shit. Yeah. That's different. Yeah. That's different. There's more risk for injury. So it really wasn't that scary. It's funny too. I was like, okay, what if I was like, when people say like beating the log book, I'm like, okay, let's say I'm doing hack squats and I got four plates on each side and I got 10 reps and I left two in reserve. And then six months later I did 12 reps and I still had two reps in reserve. That's still progress. So it's still progress. Yeah. You're still progressing. Same exact thing. It just doesn't mean I'm shooting my water on every set. So when you think about it too, like I tell people, if you think about it objectively, like with power lifters, power lifters almost never train to failure. It's all it's. They train to failure. The only time they do is meet day. Yeah. Yeah. They never, they almost like even, I'm trying to think, I don't think they ever go above like 90%. No. No. My office manager is actually a professional power lifter. I just hired her this, this, this month. We talk about it all the time. And the worst thing you could do is train to failure consistently as a power lifter. Cause you're seeing this will just get wrecked. And then you're going to horribly. Yeah. Like power lifters have figured this out 30 years ago. And then bodybuilders are still beating themselves up. Like it's like the, the most nonsensical training you see is with power lifters. Like, like bodybuilders haven't figured out football players. You know, they know specifically how to train for their sport, et cetera. It's just like bodybuilders. It's just, it's like, I get guys all the time. They can't figure out if they're a power lifter or a bodybuilder or, or cross fitter or whatever. And I try to get them to rethink about reframe how they think about training. Yeah. And what's funny is too, is also thinking back to cardio too, when everyone would ask me like, what cardio did you do for your prep? You were really conditioned. And you hear so many people saying hit cardio, hit cardio, hit cardio. I always noticed when I did a lot of hit cardio, my legs would not look as good. And it'd be a lot of fatigue. So everyone goes, you must be doing a lot of hit cardio. You must be on the stairs. I did zero high intensity cardio. No one believes me. I was like, I literally only did steps. So I would, because like my legs are my strong point. If I, if I ruin those, I'm, that's like my ace in the hole. There's no way I'm going to perform well without keeping my legs. Yeah. You, you came to the same conclusion I did. Like when I do this, the stair melt, my, my, it melts my legs, my legs shrivel up. Yeah. And that's to me, I'm like, why? And also too, if you're doing high intensity, you are having to focus extremely hard, which takes mental power. I, at the end of prep, you don't have a lot of mental power. So I was trying to save that for training. I was like, if I just walk, I'm chilling, I'm relaxed. I can listen to an anabolic bodybuilding podcast as I do. And I'm like, this takes like no effort. And all I did was when I started my prep, I would get like 8,000 steps. Like I'm going to try to give out like exact numbers too. In the offseason, I was doing like 8,000, maybe 10,000 steps per day in the building season. As soon as I started prep, I went up to 12,000. I ran that for the first month. Then I would go up to 14,000. Then 16,000. And I did get all the way up to 20K steps a day for the last like six weeks of prep, which does sound like a shit ton. But I was trying to just slowly taper my cardio up to just increase the calorie deficit at the end. And I did absolutely zero step mill or anything like that. So it really wasn't that hard, honestly. Yeah. And that's what I do for my coaching clients. I'll just have them walk. And I'll have them taper it up as we go. Last year, I think I capped out at 30 minutes walking. And I was plenty lean on stage. I didn't, you know, I was, I think when I got my DEXA scan done, it was like four, four and a half percent at the ends. So like I. How little cardio you have to do and how much you can still eat and get started. Yeah. It's, it's a. I don't know. It's a blessing and a curse, man. Because it's like, I like this offseason. Like I literally hit my limit of how much food I could eat. I just, I couldn't eat anymore. Like Justin's. It was making me sick. It was causing me stomach problems. But, you know, I have to be careful and prep because I'll, I'll shrivel up too. So I'm naturally a skinny guy. You know, I was like 170 pounds when I graduated college. So. What? Yeah. Yeah. I've always been kind of a skinny guy. So I have a smaller, smaller frame, but it just, just how it goes. But yeah, that's interesting. You know, so you sort of came to the same conclusion that I did, man. And it's something that you have to sort of figure out. I do think like when you're young, you do need to build a base of strength up. And then you sort of transition into this style of training, you know, so going to failure and beyond when you're benching 135 pounds. Yeah. It's not as, not that risky. Right. Yeah. And also when you're younger, you're more pliable than you are as you get older. I mean, like I think about it now, like I would go out and play backyard tackle football games when I was in my twenties. If I did that now, I'd be, I'd be a cripple in the, in the emergency room. Why would I do that now? Why? So why would you train like you did when you're in your twenties? I just, it doesn't make any sense to me. Yeah. Yeah. It, it seems pretty dumb on my end too. And I, what I'll do is I'll listen to multiple. I don't listen to a lot of people when it comes to bodybuilding. I think 99% of coaches are pretty dumb. Just when I hear like certain things and there's like a select like five or six I listened to and they'll say, Hey, do you really need to do hit cardio? And I'm like, really, there's no reason you would have to. And so I was like, well, let me try it. You know, I'll just hear things and apply it. And I do steal a lot of things from your podcast and usually they're all pretty applicable and they all make sense. Like to me, if you can give me the reason why, and it sounds better than my current reason, I will 100% do it. Yeah. It's, it's a simple question. I heard like Dr. Mike Israel tell talking about it. Like he was talking about gas training to failure and he's, he's like, he's like, I asked them why. And I go, well, bro, it's intensity. And, and he's like, but they can't give you a reason. I think it is good to train to failure to know what it is. Yeah. To know where that is. Like why not? And then it may make you, let me just increase your pain threshold a little bit. Right. But once in a while hit it hard. But nowadays I'm like, no, I actually got way better results. Yeah. And what's weird is my body actually looked different. And I think you get fuller. Yeah. And like the cardio part was so simple for me. Like, I don't have a lot of good things to add to that in prep, but the training, when I kind of would switch and I was like, okay, trying to transition from powerlifting. Cause when I did my first show in 2019, I looked like a power lifter that tried to body build. I was like, I feel like I was built like a fricking refrigerator. You know what I mean? It just wasn't pretty. And I had to start pulling really heavy squats and deadlifts out of my program. And when I say like shrink your waist, I don't think it's waist like side to side. I almost think it's like the, the A to P thickness, like front. Yeah. Like my low back was so thick and core. It made me look not very aesthetic on stage. Yeah. So I had to switch that. And then like back training, I'd know to like, I'll do two exercises for like Terry's minor, two for the middle traps, two for the lat. So I'm like trying to be super specific with each muscle group. And then even with shoulders, two for the anterior delt, two for the side delt, two for the rear delt. You see so many guys with no rear delts. I'm like, where's your rear delts at? You can tell all you do is like dumbbell press. Yeah. They don't train them. No, it's like, of course, a muscle, like even with me and my calves, I never trained them as a power lifter. I'm like, why do my calves suck? Well, fuck. I never train them. Like, would you be shocked if you were, you're a person in America and you go, I don't have a job. You go, why am I poor? Cause you don't fucking work. Like, obviously you're going to be poor. You know, it's like, why are you shocked? It's like, I actually started training my calves. I'm like, whoa, they grew like three inches in three years. I was like, wow, they're like normal size now. I was like, no shit. Cause I didn't train them. You know, I just was training like an idiot, like just a power lifter. Yeah. It's funny when you dissect people's training and they have lack of development in an area, you can almost directly correspond it to the amount of volume they attribute to that, that muscle group. Yeah. And like, and I used to do calves after doing like quads. I would do like three sets and be like, I'm tired. See you later. You know, it's like, even with that, I'll do like a, everyone always asks me about my quad training. Cause my legs are huge. My quad training is so simple. I do one squat variation, almost always a hack squat. Now I use a squat. Exactly. So it's funny is, you know, I'm doing a set of hack squats and I'll go pretty hard. They're like burning when I'm done. So I go, Hey, my quads are on fire. They're going to be on fire for the next 10 minutes. Let me go bang out five or six sets of calves. So then I'm doing calves within 10, 15 minutes of doing calves. My calves are on fire, but my quads feel good. So I'm like, all right, time to go to a pressing motion. So I'll do like a leg press or a hip press. So there's some kind of pressing motion. Now, you know, I'm done with that. My quads are burning again, but my calves are fine. So I go do calves and then it makes sense. Yeah. So I'm like, wow, my quads are burning, but now I can do calves for 15 minutes. Oh, my quads are recovered. So now I finished with extensions and I'm done. That's literally all I do. So you gave me a new idea today. That's a good one. My quad training is even more simple than that. I just, usually I do, I start off with a leg extensions. I'll do the hacks and then maybe I'll finish off with like some sissy squats or split squats or something like that. But I don't do any, I don't do any barbell squats anymore at all. No, I did them twice this year. And the second time I did them, I injured my SI joints. I was like, oh, that's great. You know, it really depends on your levers too. It was, for me, squatting, when I was a little fatter, it was a lot easier to squat heavyweight. Because the most I ever squatted, it was like just with knee sleeves and a belt. I did 565 and it was like RPE 9. But I was also like fatter. Like my trunk was very thick and I feel like it gave me the support. Now that my waist isn't big, my squat biomechanics are very off. So I'm like, I might as well just bang out a bunch on hack squats and leave it at that. I feel like they aren't tall guy friendly either. It's always the short dudes that get big quads from doing squats. Every time. Yeah. Yeah. And then I switched up my hamstring training. I used to never train my adductors and abductors. So I'll actually warm up with adductors and abductors. Do those first. Because like I think they're boring. So I was like, let me do those while I'm kind of getting my mind right. And then I'll go do a either a lying or a seated leg curl to kind of like prime the hammies. Go pretty hard. And I go, oh, my hamstrings are burning. Now I'm going to go do calves. And do calves again. Then I'll go do like an RDL. Then calves. Then hamstrings again. So that's actually how I improve my calves. Because if you wait to the end of your session to do calves, I feel like your CNS is shot. And you kind of do a crappy job. So I was like, hey, let me just put these and just give myself a little break. Put it in the meat and potatoes. And my calves got big. So I was like, wow. I thought I was just like genetically. But my thing is too, like I remember my girlfriend saying she has like genetically massive calves. It's like retarded. The whole calf genetic thing. If I have the genetic ability to get 30-inch quads, like obviously I have decent genetics to build muscle or I wouldn't have such big legs. Do those genetics not apply to my calves too? Or am I just not training them? Or behold, I wasn't training them. It's funny how that works, isn't it? Yeah. I wasn't putting in the work. So, of course, they look like crap. Yeah. With the adductor thing, that's another thing. That was an old trick I learned from Dante Trudell back in the day. Like he talked about specifically training adductors. I have a quad-focused day. And then I'll do a B leg workout where it's specifically hamstrings and adductors. That's what hamstring, adductors, and glutes. Yeah. That's the same thing I do. Because if I try to do quads, calves, glutes, and hams on one day, I'll be there for three hours. Yeah. And like two, why if we're talking about like upper halves of a body, you have an upper half and a lower half. Why would I train the upper half four times and the lower half once? Right. It doesn't seem proportional. Like it doesn't make sense. Like you wouldn't do upper body once and then lower body four times. Like why would you do the inverse of that? I'm like, it makes no sense. And always because that has tiny ass legs. I'm like, oh, geez. Yeah. And a lot of this stuff is just dogma that's been established and nobody's ever sat back and thought about, as you said earlier, why? Ask that simple question. Why? If you can give me a good why, I will try it too. But a lot of times if you don't have a why, you're just regurgitating something so else. Yeah. It's just some other. Sodium's bad for you. Like every doctor said that. But 20 years, I'm like, really? You'd be dead without it because it doesn't make sense. Yeah. Yeah. It makes zero sense. Yeah. It's just everybody hears something that some bro regurgitated from, you know, the bro they heard it from before and they never stopped to ask, why do you need to do this? You know, it's. Who told you this? I want to know the source now. You know, who said this? It's just, it's just nobody ever takes the time to sit and think about this stuff. It's just like, you know, like the nutrition stuff too. You know, like, like the whole, I do carbs cycling. I don't know how you do your diets, but like, like the whole like carbs make you fat thing. It drives me nuts. I never understood that too, because if you like break it down to like high school level nutrition, you think of like protein is, I guess the first fundamental is calories are a measure of energy. The more calories you gain, the more weight you gain. If you're breaking it down, I said you got three to choose from, like not counting ethanol, which is seven grams or seven calories per gram. Like get rid of that. You have protein, which is four, four calories per gram. You have carbs, which is four calories per gram. And you had fat, which is nine calories per gram. Like if I grabbed like a 10 year old off the street and said, which one would you worry about the most? They'd probably say fat. Yes. So how are you convinced? Like if you have one that's four and then four and then nine fats have 225% more calories. Why would we not focus on that the most? Like right off the bat. Yeah. That's very, you know, just a very basic level of thinking, which most escapes most people. And then too, like I asked people, I'm like, what are muscles burning when you're lifting? And then not to mention, not only are they burning glucose, they have a gas tank built into them, glycogen stores for storing glucose. Why wouldn't you want to capitalize on maximizing glucose storage and having the fuel that the muscles actually run off of? Yeah. You pull it right out of your storage unit. You know, it's like, I think there's like, so I don't remember who said it, but they're like, yes, my car runs on gasoline. It's the easiest. It's very easy to get. It's built around that. He's like, can I run it on corn? Probably, but it's a lot harder. So it's kind of like, why would I run it on keto? You know, I did keto one time. So I was, I was in medical school. It's probably like 10 years ago. This is when the keto crisis happened. I was like, oh, this is going to be easy. So I would eat like, I was like, I'm going to do it. I'm going to be in the best shape of my life. I would eat like eight eggs with cheese in the morning for breakfast. I remember going to school with a peanut butter thing of Jif. Like the big one at Costco. And I'm like, I eat like half one. I'm going to be in such good shape. I, I remember I lost like nine pounds of body weight, but I gained like five pounds of body fat in like three weeks. I said, I look like the fucking Pillsbury Doughboy now. I was like, that was the last time I was like, I look like my arms shrunk in my stomach. I was like, I look like a pillow with arms. What the fuck happened to my physique? I said, I will never, I was like really thinking about it. I'm like, well, I tried it. I look like absolute garbage. I will never do that again. So I've kind of, I'm not saying like I'm anti because it didn't work for me, but just because I got fat during that time. But I was like, I don't think it really works that well for anybody. Like I would never suggest it. There's a much easier, better way. Yeah. I mean, I look at it as a tool in the toolbox. I mean, there's, there are some situations like maybe if I had somebody that was severely obese and insulin resistant, it might be, it might be a tool you could use to maybe get some weight off and improve insulin sensitivity possibly. But I mean, but the thing like with PED using bodybuilders, I see who are trying to maximize looking full, why wouldn't you want to use carbohydrates to fill your muscles out with glycogen? And also like anybody I see that does a high fat diet with PEDs are already skewing your lipids to begin with. And then they end up, their lipid profile looks like crap when they get blood work done. And we all know the number one risk to PED users is cardiovascular events and protecting your cardiovascular health. But why would you not want to minimize that risk as well? So it's like two things. Yeah. Actually, not only that, but not body risk. I think like performance athletes in general should probably run like the high carb model, even for performance stuff. I think if I did have someone that was more super overweight, diabetic, insulin resistant, I probably wouldn't have them on, I would probably put them on moderate fat and maybe like moderate to low. I wouldn't put them on like high fat, but I would say like maybe moderate fats and moderate to low carbohydrates. And as they start getting more insulin sensitive, they would slowly taper up the carbs and lower the fats. Yeah, that's exactly what I do. When you're at that point, I feel like it's probably like just get in a calorie deficit, you know? But usually with having a little lower carbs in the beginning of that would be beneficial. That's exactly how I structure it. What I'll do is I'll carb back load with them. Like I'll have them eat all their carbs post-workout. And then we'll slowly start introducing carbs and pulling fats out. And the fats that I put in, I try to keep saturated fats low and primarily lean into EFAs for their fat sources. So that's typically how I do it. Yeah. So getting into nutrition, I think with this prep, I did my nutrition pretty different because I did an 18-week diet. And I took a different strategy this time. Usually I would, I don't know why I would do this, but I was always afraid of losing muscle and getting small. So I would diet like super freaking slow. And that'd be behind. Every time for prep. And I'm like, all right, time to step on the gas and do something extreme at the end, which never worked out. So I was like, let me start out the gauge faster. And I actually ran more, like I'm trying to think.  aromasin.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia like I'm not saying that like I was like if I mean I think I posted a before and after of like 246 yeah you see that picture it was in the blue trunks it was like 117 107 days of work or whatever I was definitely like at best case scenario like 1415 yeah like on the left no abs hardly I had like one indentation wasn't pretty so I was like okay let me just start out the gate so the first month I remember there was like a month I had before starting prep I think let me just put like 4,000 calories base and then I would just run TRT and well my TRT I actually have it I guess I'll just segue into this right now I actually was thinking of like when it comes to medicine how do they usually do the dosing it usually goes by well sex for one and body weight for the other I was like huh I was like if I had a client a patient of mine come in it was a 150 pound guy and then I just had a guy come in the other day and he asked me about it he was a he's an ex-mFL football player defensive lineman played for the Patriots Super Bowl champion he's like 300 pounds I was like why would I put him on the same dosage as the other guy does everyone just get 200 yeah why don't I just say like do one milligram per pound of body weight it's what I do okay so okay I actually didn't even know that so okay I was 246 I was like I'll just do one ml of test 250 a week perfect then I went down to 4,000 calories I ended up losing like in a month like five pounds you know some of that was probably water retention glycogen things like that so then I was 246 and I said okay I'm gonna start my calories I was at 4,000 I was getting like 8k steps a day I'm gonna go up to 10k steps a day and I dropped it all the way down to like 3,300 I was losing about two pounds a week so I was like this is great so I actually wanted to start out my diet a little more aggressive and I said well rather than decreasing my food right away why don't I just try to just add a little more cardio so I'd go up to 12k steps and then I did that I would lose a couple more pounds and then I was like okay I'm gonna go straight down to 3,000 calories I'm not gonna be afraid to lower my food this time so about every month I remember every two weeks I would drop one to 200 calories usually just from either 10 grams of fat I would drop like 10 grams of fat and 25 grams of carbs each time if my fats were at 80 I knew they needed to be lower that's like the easiest thing for me to pull so I would start at 3,200 calories and then that would go down to like 3,000 and then 28 I was about I was at 2,800 calories by the time I got to eight weeks out I had this weird idea I was like what if at this point I'm at 2,800 and I did not do any high any low I would do the same exact diet no cheat meals the whole entire time like just a base this is my deficit if I do the same thing every day if I'm in a 500 calorie deficit today I'll be in one tomorrow and so on and so forth I was losing like on average one and a half to two pounds a week so it was a perfect linear I mean it was so linear it was ridiculous so it was nice no ups and downs super linear I when I started the 18 week diet I was like what am I gonna do for my cycle I was like let me keep it super simple I'm gonna do 500 tests split up into two shots I think I did like Wednesday Saturday with my leg day and that would do 400 prima bolon so 1 ml of prima bolon with 200 1 ml of test 250 so I was like starting stack is 500 tests 400 primo they go well why is that all you took well because you're so heavy I wasn't doing a lot of cardio my food was still pretty high I don't think I need a lot I'm not counteracting a lot of atrophy at that point yeah so what do I what am I gonna blast to the roof for off the bat when I don't need it and then growth hormone wise I actually paid for a consult with dr Dean Smith and he convinced me to actually just do a bedtime dosage I was like okay I'll try that so I would just do four I use of generic tested generic before bed and honestly my recovery was phenomenal so I was like I didn't really I didn't feel sore I didn't feel beat up so I was like why do I need any more than that I really didn't feel like I had to because I was like now if I if I if I go full blast out the gate I'm not gonna have a new lever to pull from later so once I got down to below 3,000 calories I said okay let me bump it up a little bit so I would do 750 tests in 600 preamble so I just added one milliliter of each per week so I would do like three shots per week 250 tests 200 preamble and per shot cuz like okay I'm a little deeper into a deficit I've lost like 12 15 pounds my recovery is lagging a little bit then I would do that to prop me up a little bit and then during that same time this was about six weeks in so I did five weeks on five hundred six weeks on 500 tests 400 primo for I use a growth then and after that six weeks was up I did 750 tests 600 primo and then I added to I use of growth hormone in the morning before I did my cardio so like nice I just increased each of it up at 33% yeah I was like perfect and it was was I had a little more fatigue so I was leaner and I just had a little more PDs so it bounced out I felt great and I added 500 milligrams of metformin before bed dinnertime and then breakfast too which I do love because when I was a little heavier I feel like my insulin sensitivity wasn't great but it also really helps with GI tract at least for me I noticed there's some studies like showing a change in your microbiome I never had problems going to the bathroom even on like contest prep day I know it's like TMI but people ask I remember the day I competed I think I used the I think I showed like six seven times that day like no joke like just kept it going I think like metformin really helped with that yeah I ran metformin my entire prep the last time I and I remember you saying it helps with appetite suppression and I noticed the same exact thing yeah yeah this year I haven't run it yet I may save it for later but you talking about tapering up it's funny that's the same way I do stuff although I'm running a little bit more this year I'm bigger but yeah I remember John Meadows talking about it and he talked about it's like playing poker you want to save the cards for save your aces for when you need them yeah and I remember you because I remember you showing your graph I'm like really when your body fat is high your cardio is still is low and your food is pretty high what do you need more for it doesn't make sense like use it when you need it yeah and I remind people on on contest prep your job is to lose fat and not lose muscle that's really it you're not going to be gaining anything tissue I mean very few very few people are actually going to be you know in a state of of hypertrophy and like I Kevin Laverone is the only person I can think of that was ever able to do it I knew you were gonna say that too but also what's funny is my dad actually he had a gym I'm pretty sure that failed in New York and my dad was sent in to try to save it mm-hmm first off Kevin Laverone is kind of funny he was like Kevin Laverone is so lazy yes that's someone trained cook all those meals for he said and I think like he had that response because I think he would go so polar opposite like not lift not follow a food plan he'd like two meals a day just do whatever and and then he would get back on full blast cycle full blast training and someone was like literally he had a chef like making all of his meals for him and just speeding them I think like that's how you get like a crazy rebound like that like I mean he would different you know but I mean he would rebound in the shows I he's a local guy he's from this area the DC Baltimore area but I remember seeing him around sometimes in the offseason and he would be like 200 pounds skinny fat yeah like what like I thought you can definitely set yourself up for a good rebound like it was like on another level but I mean for most people you're not because if you're if your food is super high in your offseason your sleep is high your cardio is low and your PDs are moderate you're probably you're building the maximum muscle you can you're not gonna go into a deficit and do more cardio and be like yeah I'm gonna just gain a bunch of muscle again if you were gonna gain a bunch of muscle you've already done in your building season yeah I would say just maintain as much as you can and just focus on the fat loss like yeah like you said one in a million are gonna be able to make that transfer and that's if they had a terrible offseason yeah and that's what I tell my guys that I work with I mean like guys are all the time thinking like can I grow and going into you know going into a cut or a contest prep I'm like just don't like break it out in phases man it's gonna be the most productive way of getting getting the most out of your year I think of it this way is you know contest prep or your fat loss phase your like I said your job is to lose fat lose muscle and then you know in your offseason then it's not to get super fat and to put on as much muscle as you can while doing that the rebound you know it's that's sort of you know six week piece of magic that you only get once a year so but speaking of which I actually waited till right now to ask you I remember you mentioning for soon as you got done with your show you did not cut everything out I actually was like hmm I'm gonna ask him about this but I was thinking for me personally like because I just finished I was like I think there actually would be a decent benefit just to staying on even instead of just going straight back to my 250 tests like stay on 500 for five weeks and see what happens and maybe don't drop all the metabolic agents to maybe like cut them down in half or a third and that's actually what I did and I was like oh I actually feel like I actually I mean my face is you know I still need to gain some fat back because my face just looks kind of skinny and whatever but I actually feel incredibly good five or six pounds since competing so I didn't eat like an asshole this time for once which is nice and going straight up to the 500 test and keeping it there even if it's man keep it there for five or six weeks I think that's actually the way to go and I think a lot of these pros are like I'm cruising or I'm off and they're these huge guys I think they're full of shit yeah a lot of them will cruise like no joke on like of gear a week they don't ever come off that's what I'm saying like I actually am finding proof as I'm getting like deeper into this I'm finding friends and coaches and getting screenshots I'm like I freaking knew it you know I mean so I'm like maybe if I just stay at like 500 for six weeks that would probably be the better stuff like I should just come off I mean horrible idea yeah I mean you're creating a hormonal crash man I mean you think about it like you're gonna have a nasty estrogen rebound your your hunger your hunger hormones and metabolism I mean everything's just gonna be out of whack at the same time it's just a recipe to get fat and I you know my thought process is and you know talking about it with Justin Harris is because you're you're the most anabolic that you're going to be coming out of a show your insulin sensitivity is going to be at an all-time high your gastric emptying is going to be at all all-time high appetite I mean every everything is going to be just primed for for growth why not take advantage of that you don't have to run your full you know your full off-season stack or your full contest prep you just half or or you know what what you were doing and then eat good clean food I mean like Justin talks about it he would rather have people eating a fair amount of good clean food than binging most people are either going to binge or or they're just not going to follow the diet post show and so let's just keep them following good food and use that as an opportunity to grow for like six or eight weeks and you slowly taper down your your fat burners and your PEDs into you know a cruise in six or eight weeks and then and then prepare yourself for your off-season well this is a great segue then so that being said I was sitting there last night and I was like man I wonder if I should be taking more than because like 500 isn't even close to what you would use in like an off-season you know should it be closer to a thousand and then you slowly taper down from there you don't you don't need a ton I mean I think last year I mean that year that I did the huge rebound where I had like the 50 right yeah testing MPP is what I ran I ran 500 tests and 150 milligrams of MPP that was it yeah so that's what I was like 500 seemed like a good bit like I feel like I could do it maybe more but although I think now I probably would run primo because of the I probably had a pretty nasty estrogen rebound because the primo it's going to mop up some of the estradiol a little bit so we didn't get you off the bat though because your estrogen was probably tanked you it probably because I my head I'm like I would rather just run a good bit of test to get my estradiol back up back up and then I get it's a good bit of a good bit of a test to get my estradiol back up back up and then I guess you could probably run but if you ran like 500 tests for let's say three weeks you know your estradiol is on a good place and say okay now I'm gonna add in 300 milligrams of masteron to you know or something like that but as soon as I did that I remember that shot like my estrogen I could tell was quite a bit low I could tell just getting my estrogen up my mental cognition was much better and getting a lot of calories in it's funny comes back yeah speaking of which to the tapering off the metabolic agents what's kind of neat is this time I did not come off everything and I kept in 50 micrograms of T3 and 40 clean and I would still get up because that would make me like I was kind of in the habit of getting up taking that I would fast for 45 minutes to an hour and I'd walk my dog so I'm like okay well I'm taking this I can't go downstairs and plow a bunch of oatmeal or something let's go take my dog for a walk which makes me comply to my cardio and like well if I'm getting up doing my cardio I feel like I'm on prep I still eat the same breakfast as I did on prep and I think that's why I've only gained like five pounds and like if someone's like you got to get on stage tomorrow like I could do it like it was just because I did not cut everything out and I think that I also did steal from you and I think that was the way to go and then you could slowly taper down the thyroid and clan or whatever but then I was someone mentioned with Chase and they were like I was like what would happen if let's say hypothetically someone goes you know what I'm going to keep my 50 micrograms of T3 in the whole time would it make it so it's almost impossible to get fat in your offseason in a way or just very difficult is it worth it to get it for the like for me if someone were to argue that I would say why and it would go well maybe if I stay leaner in my offseason I'll have better insulin sensitivity and I'll have better hunger I'm like okay that's a good reason I could you know maybe argue but sometimes I'm like I don't know if running 50 micrograms of T3 year round is a great idea although I don't have any side effects my heart rate's 51 right now resting 51 to 54 but I'm like would that is that too much of a dose to be catabolic or is it I mean it wasn't like that on crap but I know there are some guys that run T3 year round because I believe HGH will suppress T3 in some people so it actually you know keeps things working better I have seen that I don't run it year round I never have but my thyroid tends to be on the high side so is mine so I'm like maybe it's not worth it yeah and you know so I think it's a case by case you you let your blood panels dictate that I'll see guys where where TSH and stuff starts to get high which is an indication that you're not converting T4 to T3 so that you know and then you you you at least from what I understand you can correct me if I'm wrong on that but that that that would be a situation where you you would want to probably add some T4 or something in in the offseason yeah and that what's weird too is I thought to myself I'm like am I if I did do that hypothetically am I just because I got a little I got a little fucking fluffy in my offseason am I doing that to try to find the easy way out or should I just tighten up my diet in my building season and be more disciplined and maybe I wouldn't have gone as fat in the first place or do both I don't know because I'm kind of like an 80 20 in my building season which I should probably be more of a 90 10 because I shouldn't complain about body composition if 20 of my food is not right you know I'm like maybe if I were just a little more disciplined which I'm gonna have to be now this year but yeah and that's what I found is treating your offseason like a contest prep that you'll you'll do a lot better oh yeah that year that I had and I had the great progress I I I pretty much was 100 with the diet all offseason I only deviated a couple times I've been playing around too with running higher dose growth hormone recently and I I have noticed that that I started losing weight I did change nothing with my diet and I started losing weight when I cranked up the growth hormone my body started recomping it was really what really wild really really weird man it was that lipolytic I it has to be right because if you're saying you recomp that means you gain muscle and lose fat which means you wouldn't have a net weight loss no no no well I mean my I should say that I lost weight yeah correct you're correct about that that lipolytic which which which that could argue then maybe you would say like hey you could run increase your growth hormone levels monitor your T3 and T4 levels go as high as you can without needing T3 or 4 or I know chase does 25 micrograms T3 under T4 because it will impact thyroid levels yeah yeah what's weird is a lot of people like oh the the hype from growth hormone being lipolytic is overrated but it's about 50 50 for when I hear anecdotal evidence wise because then I hear this and I'm like well I guess it depends what's high we're talking 10 I use 5 I use I ran 10 this this year I pushed up to I've tried 15 for a while and I I couldn't stay awake at my desk at 115 but 15 was too much and chase was trying to convince me to do the 15 but that didn't work yeah I'll show you like so this was this was this was end of last offseason and then end of all this offseason I weighed exactly the same in these two pictures it's almost funny too because like look at the size of your lats and like the leg definition yeah what's funny is uh you and chase are the ones I've never used gh in my offseason I always shied away from it because I was like oh I don't want to be insulin resistant and I would only use it for I've only used it twice in my life uh for prep because I was like I'm in a calorie deficit it's not going to matter but now I'm like well maybe it is worth even even if it was five I use a night to try because I have to gain so much weight for this offseason to compete yeah well it might be the the lever I need to pull well I know a lot of the pros are running way more than that yeah and I'm like I've on prep I guess I'll segue back into my my prep story but about it's about 10 weeks out of prep I was running my 750 test 600 primo six I use a growth hormone and I I don't use oral my orals in my offseason my biggest offseason I don't either all I did was 500 tests 400 primo 300 MPP and I was like I wasn't trying to push my weight super high because I had that weight cap so I was like man I can't go like crazy so I was like let me just do that because if I go too high then I won't be able to make my weight cap for classic now it's not really much of an issue but at this point I'm 10 weeks out and I go I'm going to add some I'm going to add some metabolic agents so I added 25 micrograms of T3 and then 40 micrograms of clan and then I started losing decently fast and I was like huh I was like if I'm my my my fat loss like I never plateaued I remained at like one and a half to two pounds a week when I saw it yeah it was perfect when I saw it slowing down I go what if I had this weird idea I've never heard anyone ever say this before either I kind of came up with on my own maybe someone has said it I just don't know but I was like what if I never changed I never lowered my food all I did was increase cardio and increase metabolic engine so I was like let's try it and then I started to notice my weight would hit a plateau it was like two to three weeks in I said okay I'm gonna go up to thirty seven and a half T3 and 80 climb and then oh it would start moving the needle again didn't change food at all and I'd go okay two weeks later let me increase my cardio I'm going from 12,000 to 16,000 steps start moving the needle next thing you know is like okay hit another plateau I'm six weeks out from my first show I was like I'm gonna go to 50 T3 and 120 climb and then the needle started moving again and then I wait three or four more weeks and then I went up to uh I know a lot of people won't even say real dosages but I went up to 160 clan and 75 T3 but I didn't change my food so I what's crazy is I never went to bed a single night hungry on prep because I never went low food and I ended up tapering my protein up at the end because like every two to three weeks like once I got down to my like my my base calories at about eight weeks out I stopped changing my food I had tapered my protein up to 400 grams a day from 300 I am a huge believer now in a higher protein diet I don't like the one gram per pound of body weight fuck that shit I don't think it's worth it so I ended up my my macros from like weeks 10 to when I got on stage never changed 400 protein 225 grams of carbs and 40 grams of fat that's wild all I did was just increase metabolic I was like let me just see if it works it worked like a charm honestly I'd probably do it again yeah I've heard of other people doing that before you know I'll taper up like like my my contest cycles I'll do the same thing I taper up as I go I actually you know usually I'll be ready Justin will Justin's a wizard with the diet but like he'll pull you down and have you ready early and then he starts pushing food back up going into the show but you're changing food at some point I literally didn't change food for 10 weeks straight that's wild man I was like this is so neat I mean it makes sense when you think about it well it's like if you have a bank account you know it's like make the same exact ten thousand dollars per month and just say you always spend eight thousand per month you're always going to have a net positive cash flow of two grand it's like okay we'll spend a thousand less dollars per month well you have a net cash flow of three thousand I was like the numbers make sense will my body do it and it did it was funny as everyone freaks out about the clan the people I think there's like a new thing like gear shaming or something because I remember getting a screenshot one of Matt Jensen's people I don't know if I should say that but it was a girl and she was taking 125 micrograms of T3 a day I'm like if she can take that much she was like small she was like 140 pounds max and I was like you can take 125 why can't I take 75 there's some there's some studies out there on T3 where people have taken like crazy doses like 200 micrograms I've seen I can't remember the study I'll see if I can find it and send it to you but it was in and they fully recovered their thyroid afterwards there's like 10 year study on those that it's because my thyroid always comes back perfect like a week after stopping and the clan thing everyone goes oh my god were you freaking out on all that clan it was just funny it was like when I just went from zero to 40 micrograms a day I was like for like three days I was pretty wired up and what's weird is when you think about clonbuterol that's an everyday medication for people that have yeah asthma you don't see them running around like crackheads every single day of their life so they get they build an immunity to it almost like a tolerance so I would run the 40 micrograms a day for three weeks straight and I'm like I don't even feel it now at this point that's up to 80 so I'm like I'm doubling the dose kind of cracky for two days then back to normal I was like okay so then three weeks later you know it's like this this whole 10 week thing was happening granted I did three shows in three I did three shows in 12 days too so when I say 10 weeks that's like 10 weeks from the first show and then there's two more after that so then I would go from I would wait I would go from 40 micrograms to 80 and wait three weeks I'm like I don't even feel anything now I feel great so I go from 80 to 120 well that's only a 33 percent increase but I only felt it for like one day because it wasn't that much of a jump and then I went from 120 to 160 didn't even feel it because like I think like like testosterone for instance if you had someone taking 100 milligrams of testosterone a day and you took them up 100 milligrams to 200 you would double their dosage you would feel it if you have someone taking 2,000 milligrams of testosterone a day and you raised it to 2100 let's say you didn't even tell them they would have no idea it happened because it's such a minute yeah it's a percentage yep so that's how I figured out how to use clen properly I'm like this is the easiest best way for sure at least for me because a lot of people were like oh they taper it up and they stop for a few days and they get back on they get the side effects again I'm like getting side effects doesn't working that's that never made sense to be is that coming off the clenbuterol thing like what what what drug do you do that with ever I don't even know like that it's not like clenbuterol isn't just used for like acute purposes and I said that doesn't it makes zero sense to me no it's it's therapeutic it's a therapeutic treatment for asthma right I'm like and I think in the therapeutic setting it's up to 100 micrograms a day that they they use I believe if I recall right I could be wrong about that but that's what I'm recalling so like I'll slowly taper it up I do the same thing I've run up to 200 before I don't need that usually usually now I cap out around 80 or 100 and there's plenty to get get the weight off of me I've run up to 100 micrograms of T3 before that is like yeah I remember you mentioning you're like oh god that was way too much it was too much for me yeah um it's weird I've seen some people that don't need more than like 30 I think like if you're someone that can diet on really low calories really good then you probably don't need that much but me I was like I'm gonna try and get four percent body fat and eat you know my 2800 calories a day I can afford to take a little more like I'm eating more food so I would use more thermogenics or I have some of my friends that can eat like like guy friends like I can eat 1600 calories a day no problem I'm like how do you do that and they don't need any fat burners I eat 1600 for breakfast yeah I think you probably don't need a lot of fat burners because you're not eating very much so I was like I think it kind of just depends on your plan do you want to go in do you want to eat more and use more fat burners or do you want to starve and use less fat burners it's totally up to you take whatever approach works for you because I'll get me remember last year I think I kept I didn't use any T3 last year and I think I capped out at 80 micrograms of clin and I also use some ephedrine 50 milligrams of ephedrine a day definitely a great appetizer present yeah and I and that was plenty and I was still eating plenty of food at the end I didn't need anything else other than that did you run trend at all or no okay so I was just about to bring that up and I I remember last year I think I dm'd you and you were like okay I'm going to try the thing where I do 50 milligrams like three times a week or every other day I was like hey if it worked for Paul it's going to work for me it did not work for me first week I ran 150 a week felt great strong I remember I remember being on like the back machine I'm like man I just hit a PR that's weird like four weeks out by one by week two of just running 150 I was like man I'm kind of irritated I'm sleeping it's getting worse by the time I got to week three felt like dog shit week four felt even worse competed never used it since I was like this did not work so I was like this prep zero trend I hate it I mean I do I absolutely hate it sorry my dog just came in but I absolutely like I will never use it again that's like well then I was like what if I used it in a different context like could I use an offseason a little bit when I'm not as tired and hungry and I never used a halo which everyone loves what's weird is six weeks out of this prep all I used was uh pre-workout I would do 25 milligrams of anovar pre-workout and it was actually prescription so it was pretty pretty stout and then four weeks out I added 50 milligrams of oral windstraw in the morning and that's the only orals I used and I was like will this work will this not I was like it's not that much and it's not but it's enough to get the job done I feel like yeah and the trend if it was ruining my sleep if I'm not sleeping am I going to recover am I going to have it viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia at the end even at 20 milligrams a day people laugh like people think i'm lying when i only ran 20 milligrams a day i'm like i hate trend i don't know why people like it so much yeah but you always feel like there's someone that's going to take trend and beat you and you're like you don't want to do your prep and be like oh man if i would have taken trend i will say this my body just responds to it dude i'm telling you like within two weeks of taking it i look i look like AI look like a texas road map man i just like my veins everywhere i just like it just like does it transforms my my body composition i i don't know why speaking of which do you ever think like everyone goes like oh trends the magic drug and stuff at the end i was like don't you ever think like when i'm doing my contest preps i start to look really good around like four weeks out which is four to six weeks out which is ironically the same time everyone adds in trend sounds like yeah i'm just gonna try it let me see if i can ironically this is the time i go pro is when i don't use trend and i was like let me see if it really makes that much of a difference and what's funny is like because i gotta work i gotta see patients all day i can't be like an asshole to them and you know like girlfriend and dog and all that stuff i was like let me see if i just i was like maybe i'll just use more masteron and i may look the same in the end honestly i look better so i was like if is it really is the 150 or 140 milligrams of trend a week worth it like to me it definitely wasn't because like i i didn't look better when i took it in the past but i felt like absolute horseshit yeah so i was like i'd rather just take more masteron or test osteron or something yeah i know like the old school like the late 90s early 2000s prep cycles was was test test masteron and winstraw and that that's that's all dudes did yeah but you feel like you're missing out if you don't take trend and i was like the same way and i'm like well i guess if i lose this at least i'm going to lose it with my my own opinion you know because everyone's like oh man i feel great when i take three or 500 milligrams of trend i'm like are you even if you feel great with that what are you taking really like you can't i don't i don't know i don't know how anybody can feel great on it i one i respond great i'm like and they're like half time not even good bodybuilders i'm like do you though like i don't understand i remember the first time i took it man this is a long time ago 2004 we made our own out of the out of the phenoplix tablets i don't know how much i took it was it was it had it had to been like seven eight hundred milligrams i have no idea but it was it was it was a crazy dose i remember i got a insane fever like i had the flu like 102 102 i guess the i had some sort of immune response i guess to the prostaglandins and and it was like i i thought i was going to die it was awful at this point i'm like jealous of the people that can tolerate it so well i'm like good for you use it you're lucky but then i was thinking myself i'm like okay how about maybe if i'm not using trend maybe i'll just do a little extra cardio or i'll be extra on my food to make up the difference because i'm like i really yes trend works but i'm also like i'd rather you be 100 on your diet and not take trend than be 90 on and don't like sometimes if you take that you feel like you can get away with a little more so i was like i would this time i was like i just want to be 100 on my food not miss any workouts try to give a good technique i was like i don't think the trend is even going to make a one percent difference for me so i was like i'm going to use it and when you look great so the results speak for themselves best i ever looked in my life and this was the first time i think my heart rate never got above like 67 never had blood pressure issues i would get at the end of prep i was still getting like five and a half six hours of sleep which for me is pretty good if i was like working full-time yeah i don't know i'd do trend it would be like four hours so so basically like once i got to the eight week mark i would slowly taper up my metabolic agents my T3 and clen and what i did was eight i want to say it was like eight weeks out i switched i didn't really know my like my thought process behind this but i was like i'm going to switch my premium for masteron i'll just going to switch it i remember my the primo i was like man that stuff the 200 milligrams per milliliter was giving me a little bit of PIP so i was like let me just switch it for the sake of switching i don't know the science behind because i remember a lot of people like oh you got to switch your compounds every once in a while i'm like do you though i'm like you don't do that i run the same year-round yeah so i'm like i don't really do that but i'm going to switch to masteron just to see if the PIP would be a little bit less and it worked and i still had the same visual effects so i was like why not yeah i just switched it for basically i would do uh instead of doing three pins for a week at 250 tests 200 primo i would just do every other day 250 tests 200 mast so i came out to 875 tests 700 masteron so i was like i'm going a little heavier on the oils but i'm not having to leverage a ton of morals because sometimes like winstrel would give you like heartburn and stuff yeah so i was like i'll just use that for the very end i did that for a total of four weeks and the anivar was six weeks total but i really just ran the long ester test and masteron from a week out from the first show and then i competed in summer shredding which was an awesome show christian guzman hunt that week i kept everything the same the following week i did the dexter jackson classic in florida that was my qualifier for the usa championships and then all i did was switch my test to 250 milligrams per 250 milligrams per week and then i upped the masteron to a thousand because i was like i feel like i was a tad i'm not gonna say it was all estrogen but i feel like i was a little too full for the the summer shredding show and then i added in two aromasin per week and then i was you know i feel like i looked a little bit better for the dexter jackson one and i dieted a little harder lost three more pounds some of that was obviously water from the estrogen i was like oh this looks a lot better so then for usa championships i just stayed on 250 tests and a thousand masteron and that's all i did and the growth hormone about six weeks out from the first show i upped it to four years in the morning four years at night because i was more insulin sensitive and i dropped that a week out from the first show and that was actually it so like full blast it was like my highest highest was 875 tests 700 mast 25 anivar pre-workout 50 winstraw 75 T3 160 climb that's perfect that's that's pretty similar to how i do contest prep cycles it's pretty much pretty much the same except minus the trend i always sprinkle a little sprinkle a little trend in there roman fritz uh you know him i i have bb pros talking to him he said he doesn't take orals on prep at all no kidding yeah he said he doesn't use any he has a stomach ulcers and stuff so he said he's had to stop stop using them so he doesn't use them at all did he get the stomach ulcers from orals most likely i actually i was wondering because when i i'm trying to think with the orals like i think worst case scenario you could always use maybe a little bit of anivar if you want to play super safe but yeah i was even debating using the winstraw because i was like man are my hd i don't use winstraw and i was like in the heartburn i'm like i bet you what's funny is the overseas guys that i talk to coaches and athletes there they don't really use winstraw that much they're all they're big anivar pants like it does the same thing don't worry about it yeah i run anivar i don't use winstraw right but then you know how i was mentioning the trend thing where it's like oh man i'm gonna miss out i was like i can't miss out on both so i got scared at the last minute and i used the winstraw did it make a difference probably not when i do it again i don't think it made that much of a difference i could do the whole prep with test masteron and or primo and anivar and i guarantee you i could do just as well as i did before probably because i don't think i don't think there's any magic in all the other stuff the EQ thing i got off that train a long time ago with blood pressure problems and hematocrit i was like no thanks not doing it yeah EQ scares me at the end of prep too because with the with the issues with erythocytosis it's the worst for for you know increasing red blood cell count and if guys are like throwing diuretics in and and already dehydrated and stuff and then it just seems like a recipe for throwing a clot and having a cardiovascular event i feel horrible but i can't remember the guy's name he was a 212 competitor died like three years ago black yeah yeah black guy i i can't i can't remember plastic yeah um amazing and he died two days before olympia ironically the only thing he tested positive for was both was e was EQ i'm like man i wonder how much that had to play and i remember what scary was i remember showing i was like turning my phone to my girlfriend i'm like dude i remember saying like there's a picture of him like a couple days out and his eyes were so stuck and i was like dude i feel like he's gonna die and he died the next day later i'm like i felt guilty i was like did i call this i was like because he looked so sunken in and depleted i was like oh i like felt terrible you know i remember reading his autopsy report and he basically his his autopsy was clean they said that he died from an acute hypertensive event yeah and i feel like a lot of people what's funny is the old school coaches are like nope test EQ mpp is the best i'm like i feel like there's a million other things you could use to to do the job of what you want EQ to do i never loved it um not a huge fan i was never i feel like nandrolone i haven't used a lot of it in the past i feel like i always i was i would think i was when i was younger and more immature i was i didn't like losing the visual part yeah and i felt like those 19 norris always made they do make you pop yeah and i remember because when i was younger i was like on the trend train and i'm like i'm gonna do this i don't care about the side effects sounds like i'm gonna run 500 tests and 500 trend and i would feel like crap i was like in college and i was like everyone else is doing it i'm gonna do it and then once i got older i was like no i am i went from being like the guy that would use like 500 milligrams a week and just power through and like sweat my ass off all night and feel like because i thought it would make me a better bodybuilder and it in fact made me worse so i went from like using what i would say is a lot of it to medium to nothing so i i tell you what i i just run test and primo year-round in gh that's it man yeah i think like the i think good primo is probably better than mastron in most cases if you don't have access to it just use mastron close enough yeah i mean mastron is poor man's primo that's what i call it but it's a bit more androgenic less anabolic but it's they're very similar to be honest with you i could literally make an entire offseason with just testing primo i don't even need any high when i use that like it's so phenomenal no i don't i i ran i just played around with pushing up just just for the fuck of it this year i usually usually 1.3 grams the max i go up to in an offseason but i pushed my test up the 1500 and my primo up to a thousand just to see and my estradiol was in the 50s but did you have any other negative side effects because i think i'm not seeing a lot of people get major side effects running even a lot of testing primo i'm just not no i felt okay other than being i got a little bit of like a sort of i think i get a little bit of the test flu food you're cramming all the time too what if you could just maintenance calories and do it you know yeah yeah i mean that that may have been why i lost weight too it might not have been the HGH you know so that that may have been it i just turned into a furnace at that point but yeah i backed it back down so like i i finished up my offseason that so i always taper up i start off low like i've just basically come out of TRT and just saw i had like 100 milligrams of this every week and then just keep tapering up yeah but i i i think i finished up at a thousand tests and 800 primos where i finished up the offseason yeah what's kind of neat too is the the tapering up method this offseason i was kind of thinking what i'm going to do because they're like oh you're going to compete well i got to gain all this weight because now i'm in a new weight cap i actually thought about just doing a super simple offseason even like per month i was going to say hey well i'm on my i guess my rebound is 500 tests per week what if i did that for august in september went up to 750 and then went up to a thousand the following month in 1250 the following month and just try to focus on like you still have the anabolics in there but really just try to nail the food and training and just slowly grow yep is it worth like could i say like oh yeah i'll just use aromasin if needed or should i add a masteron or primo i i for some reason i just wanted to try test only just to see how it worked then maybe in summertime i would do something different but i love the idea of just trying to nail food and training and just slowly taper up the gear so you're not like totally relying on it yep um and just try to stay as healthy as possible keep some cardio in and just slowly taper up the anabolics over a longer period of time i was like maybe i should use because now you guys have me motivated to try some gh in the offseason which i've never done but yeah i was thinking about this winter time just doing test only and then giving that a full like a like a real shot and then trying test in primobolin and comparing the two obviously estrogen will be a little harder to modulate without the primobolin yeah that's the issue i've run into i feel like the primobolin makes the test work better yeah um it's sort of testosterone's best friend yeah i've i've tried tests by itself before and i just get i i like what i've hit about 500 milligrams and then my 507 50 somewhere around there and then my estrogen just starts getting really out of whack man and i need an AI and my blood pressure starts getting high i didn't have all those issues when i was running primo with it right so let me ask you this when people say oh man ais are so bad for you is it that ais are bad for you or is it that having low estrogen low estrogen is bad for you well like if you're taking 1500 milligrams of testosterone say and you have to use two aromazine to keep your estradiol at say 50 is the AI a problem no i don't think so right so i'm kind of thinking like if your reason for using primobolin is to manage your estrogen and that's why you had bad problems with tests i'm like well why didn't you just use say two aromacin or something like that like would it be the same or is it that primobolin not only manages the estrogen but the anabolic effect is so much more yeah it's the anabolic effect and it also is going to lower SHBG not just going to cause you to have more free testosterone double whammy yeah so you get the double whammy there so you're modulating estrogen uh freeing up more testosterone and you get the anabolic effect from the from the primo and there's not much of an androgenic effect as well so that's sort of my logic yeah so speaking of the numbers what's your favorite ratio would you say hey i'm going to run a two to one ratio between test to primobolin does need to be a one to one ratio somewhere in between it's like about 80 i would say it's where where i found works well for me well one one ratio basically yeah yeah so i mean but you know so it's you do the you do the math on it unless your gl test is 250 and then it's either primo is going to be 100 or or 200 so it's for me it's just one one cc of both right that's all because you'd run 250 tests 200 primo yep you'd say i'll do three cc's of each week or something like that 750 600 perfect ratio or 1800 something like that yep that's exactly what i do that makes yeah that makes sense i just don't know the ratio like can you get away with a little bit of primo how much do you need you probably could get away with less but i mean then you might have to bring in any high and then you kind of like you want to yeah i mean i i found when i run it at that ratio when i get my blood work done that my estradiol stays in the high 50s low 60s which is perfect for the ops offseason i think oh funny speaking of which i thought that i'll tell you one thing that did not work that i experimented with last year it's kind of funny i said oh you know i'm kind of i'm kind of lean after a contest i'm gonna do test and meant but it was test prima ballin and a little bit of meant i said the prima ballin will stop the conversion well let me tell you when you put the romenta in the mix it was not enough and i got i gained like six pounds in two weeks and then i got gyno so i was like that was great so i had to come off everything and i did two weeks of 1000 milligrams of masteron a week i just stopped the test stopped everything i switched to masteron for the like the serum effect and then i used novadex every day within 10 days actually the lump was totally gone thank god it just swelled up i was like i don't think i like ment anymore i mean i obviously didn't use it right at that time but i just couldn't believe how quickly that gyno blew up like if you're gonna use and you better get you better have an AI on the fucking hand yeah it's going to upregulate the aromatase expression and cause way more than the testosterone to convert to estrogen that's why i tell people don't fuck with it some people you know i guess if you've had gyno surgery and you're you're clean i mean you want to blow up and put on a bunch of weight quickly it could be used but i i don't know anymore i just kind of any synthetic progestin you know any of the 19-nors i don't know i feel like a lot of the nastier side effects that we get from from from those i've just anymore it's for me it's just testing a DHT derivative i think for primarily for my base my base compounds yeah that's for that's where i'm at now too because i said okay if you're going to run met maybe you should run like an HRT test run a little bit of ment and then you're going to have to run like four or five hundred primo with it too like like whatever but at that point isn't even worth it right so then i go well why not like that seems like a lot of work for for that yeah so i was kind of like if i can get a pro card running no trend dhts halo stuff like that but you know torn pack all these things i really do think just pairing it with tests and one DHT is the way to go if you're doing prep you can pair it with two or three you could use anivar with it or you could use test masteron and primo if you want like go ahead but offseason it just seems i mean i'm going to find out soon with the with the whole test deal if it is it hard to manage my estradiol if so i'm just going to add premium well if you're going to push your estradiol through the roof you might as well throw some HGH and insulin in there so you get the IGF-1 production from it so i'm going to have to go do my labs quite consistently to see like i might even have a rule of thumb saying like for every 500 milligrams of test i'll use i'm going to add in 25 milligrams of aromasin just as a rule of thumb just to kind of be proactive with it and see like i'm trying to figure out the ratio with that too is it for every you know 500 milligrams do you add one aromasin will it be 375 250 nobody knows you know you have to go check for yourself it just depends man aromatization really varies wildly from person to person your body fat percentage plays a role into it there's there's so many variables yeah speaking of which too if i'm super lean now i might be able to get away with a little more yeah you might not need one in four months this might be a different story 250 pounds you know might not need one all right mike i gotta wrap this up sir i appreciate you coming on folks like if people want to get a hold of you how can they get a hold of you you just look me up on instagram at mike blackbeard i know i'm like black stash right now but uh normally just mike blackbeard feel free to dm or ask questions and stuff and i'm pretty active on my stories and uh unfortunately i don't have a youtube channel so i rely on people with one we'll have you back on again man and i'll put your contact information in the video description below and thank you for watching folks for coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today i can help you with optimizing hormones fat loss muscle gain physique athletic performance nutrition and health for more information shoot me an email at big p3rd at gmail.com