 Warning! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, Battle Tested, Expert Formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, Big Paul here today with Scuba, Steve, Gartner, freshly-minut IFBBPro, what's going on dude? Not too much Big Paul, how are you? I am good man. Everybody coming out of Masters Nationals man, I'm getting all these people wanting to come on and talk now, it's fun. I was shocked at the level of competition at Masters Nationals. Usually you go to a local show and you'll see a few Masters competitors and some of them are just, you know, okay. But I was shocked at the level of competition there when I was there. Yeah, I mean it was eye-opening for me, I really didn't know what to expect. I knew it was going to be pretty competitive, but like you said, you never know with Masters, especially 50, 60 and so. And when I was backstage pumping up, I was like, wow, okay, I've got quite a battle. I think they said when I was, or maybe I heard this incorrectly, but I thought I heard one of the dudes say they had over a thousand people registered for the show. Was that right? Yeah, across all the days, you know, across all the classes and stuff, you know, including the women. But I think they said there were over 300 bodybuilders total. Yeah, I mean I believe it. It was pretty crazy backstage. Yeah, I was there man, I was just shocked at the level of stuff because you know, I'm sitting there feeling pretty good about myself. I'm like, I think I'm going to do okay when I get up there and I got back and I was like, oh fuck. These guys are for real. These dudes are for real. It's not going to be easy at all. Yeah, I mean I was backstage and I saw a couple guys that just were enormous and I thought there may be the 40s or 45s. They ended up being the super heavies in the 50 class and I didn't know. Yeah, I know. And the guy that won it, forgot his name, but he was 265 I believe. Yeah, I talked to him. Oh, okay. Oh, he's like a monster. Super nice guy. I can't remember his name. I'd love to talk to him too. Big dude though. Yeah. Yeah, he was bigger than me. And he's tall too. Yeah, he had legs. He was a little bit taller than me, but definitely bigger than me. I don't run into many dudes my age that are bigger than me, so a little weird, a little uncommon. So you got your pro card your first time out. Yeah, I was, my coach was actually expecting me to get it in physique. And I figured if I'm going to go all in for this show, I'm going to do all three divisions and see how I do. And I ended up getting my pro card in classic, which I was actually happy about. I enjoy more classic and bodybuilding in physique. And then when I did bodybuilding, you didn't get your pro card winning. You have to win the overall. But I still took first. So I was happy. Yeah, I didn't know. Yeah, so yeah, you have to win the overall. It's not the class, yeah, in the bodybuilding. Yeah. Yeah, it's masters, because I'm going to do masters, USA's, they actually have, because I'm at the top end of the over 40s. So I would have been like, like, I'm almost 50. I'll be 50 in a couple months. But like, I was thinking masters, nationals, there's a big difference between being 40 and being almost 50 years old. Big difference. Yeah. Huge difference, but, but it's 45 to 50 at Masters USA. So I figure if I go out here and get my ass smoked this year, I'll come back and do the over 50 masters nationals. So like you said, the over 50 guys were no joke that do that. Well, in the Super Havies, he looked great. Yeah. I mean, there was a couple, even, you know, in the division or classes below me, I mean, the overall, excuse me, overall winner, I believe was a middleweight. And he looked phenomenal. So yeah, I mean, all across the board, those guys would top notch. Yeah, it was wild. But so you did all three. I mean, I don't know how you do all three. I would, I would be a nervous wreck if I did all three. It was more hurtful for the pocketbook than anything or $500 a class, something like that. No, it was 275. I was fortunate enough. Yeah. And I was fortunate enough to have my gym sponsor me for one class. But, you know, the biggest expense for me that I didn't realize at first was the hotel and I asked my coach, why is it so expensive? He said, well, they specifically hike up the price because of this event. Yeah. And they pull all the microwaves out of the rooms because they want you to buy their food and so yeah, it became expensive. I mean, I brought my own food, but. That's lame. They take the microwaves out of the room. That is so freaking lame. I think they also took out the fridge, the mini fridges. Yeah, I've heard that. I've heard that with some of the other shows that they do that that is that is on lame. So yeah, I think those shows are like the top income producing events for that hotel. So that is that they're not so busy during the rest of the year. Yeah, that's beyond lame. I've heard one of my friends said he just goes out and buys like a $50 microwave and brings it into the room. Yeah. That's the option, right? Get out of me. I will say it was extremely convenient to have everything right there in the hotel, the tanning, the event, you know, you're lodging. This way, you know, I'm off to get an Uber or rent a car or something like that. Yeah, it was a really well run event. I was honestly, I've been to some events this year that were not as run as well. Gary, that does the that event, I've been to several of his events and they're always very smooth, always very well run. Right. Yeah, it was a great show. So here you are on stage. This was classic. Right. You look great. So I've had some challenges coming back. I competed when I was in my 20s. From 18 to 23, I competed and then I just was to just burnt out. And then 25 years later, I decided to come back. I was 48. But I incurred three quad tendon tears during my time. Holy shit. So that's been you can kind of see the the symmetry soft, especially on my right leg. That one I ruptured twice over a six year period. Yeah, it's tough when you get older, man. I have I've had four or five knee operations. I've had both of my ACLs done. I had some dude on Instagram the other day pointing out to me that my he's like, what's going on with your your left your left quad. It looks smaller and I'm like, yeah, I just had fucking ACL surgery. Yeah, I mean, it's no joke. And then, you know, as you age, it's it's tougher to get the legs back. Yeah, legs are you always hear guys talk about legs fading when you get older and there is some truth to it. I think also some sometimes guys try to train older guys still try to train legs like they're 25. Don't have the squats and stuff. Right. And I've just found that that doesn't work. I've really had to just it's tough mentally. But yeah, I've had to leave some of that stuff behind and go to things like lunges and sissy squats and like, so just and hat squats. My legs have actually grown. But now I mean overcoming a quad tear. That's pretty great. You're selling me, man. I took like didn't even live for like 12 years. I just got back. Fortunately, I kept working out. Yeah, just was done competing. But it was right around. I was in a very toxic relationship. I know that 2014 to 2016. There was a period where actually I wasn't even working out and that really affected me and that sparked when I saw myself in the mirror, you know, to get my ass back in shape and get back to what I used to look like. Yeah, I had the same situation. I went through a pretty rough divorce and I hadn't worked out in like 10 years. I'm like, well, I'm back on the market now. I need to get back in shape. I didn't have any desire to compete again, but I just like kind of got bit by the bug. Once I got back in the gym and started seeing some progress, I'm like, ah, fuck it. You know, I'll do a show. See how it goes and just stumbling down hills since there. But I did the the the nice thing where I didn't live for 10 years and I lost weight and got fatter at the same time. Right. Yeah. That's easy to do. From bodybuilder to dad bod. No, but you look you look great, man. You look fantastic. Are you going to compete in? He has a pro. Are you going to do the Masters World Championships? So the plan is to do a local pro show just to kind of get my feet wet. So there's a show here locally near Seattle. This will actually be the first time they'll have a pro division. Are they going to master pro pro division? As far as I know, she's doing a Masters, yeah, pro classic physique. So that's just right up my alley. And here you are. I saw you out there when we were there. I saw you on stage. So this is the overall at the Washington state. This was Washington state. Yeah. Yeah. Just a local show in Washington and the guy to the right, he won the overall and I believe he did the USA. Open. So this is the open. Yeah. So like you were saying a lot of times, Masters classes in the local shows are not that competitive. So I just figured you guys. So I started thinking, well, why don't I jump in the open class, you know, see how I fare. And, you know, I fared okay, but obviously I haven't been able to get an overall in the open. But, you know, just for shits and giggles, you know, jump in to the open. Yeah. My last show I did, there was nobody in the over 40. So I just got the trophy by default. And they said, what do you want to do the over 35? And I'm like, sure, might as well. And I won that as well. I figure more stage time helps, you know, with presentation and confidence and all that. So I'm just doing bodybuilding when I go out. I don't think I could squeeze down to classic. Classic. Yeah. So for me, the cutoff would be 224 and I'm like walking around at 265 during the day. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's a tough cutoff even for me because I'm just under six foot. So I think the cutoffs 220 and then just below that's 212, I believe. Yeah, I'm 6'1 and like three quarters. So I'm just like, if I were a little bit taller, it would be up. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe I need to hang upside down or stretch myself out or something. Yeah, I heard some people actually kind of try not to be the baby. I can speak or can speak us and can speak us and just kind of get on their heels a little bit or on their tippy toes. Just to get that extra half inch. I heard a buddy of mine tried that and work for him. But yeah, I've heard of people doing that. You don't want to be cheating. Well, that and I don't want to get in there and not make weight. That would suck. Yeah. I don't know. I'll just do bodybuilding. Honestly, I feel like I'm probably upset some people saying this, but I feel like the bodybuilding is actually less competitive than the classic is. Yeah, it is now. Pzik, the classic definitely is any more popularity. Yeah, it seems like Vince Pzik is where all the competition's at. Yeah. I mean, you got a show now. I mean, the old gas still like bodybuilding, but you go to any local show now. There's like twice as many Vince Pzik guys as there are classic and there's twice as many classic as there are bodybuilders. There's like barely any bodybuilders anymore. I hope it'll make a correction. Although I have some of my clients are young guys that want to be bodybuilders. So it's fun. I do like though that now they have multiple. I'm not one of these grumpy old guys that it's like bodybuilding or bust. I think it's cool that they have classes that different body types can compete in because if you're kind of a skinny ectomorph guy, you have really zero chance of being an open competitive, open bodybuilder where there's different body types can have an opportunity to compete. Or if you're a big blocky guy, like really it's kind of bodybuilding or bust. There's not a lot of other choice. So there's really a classic. Well, that was my initial decision of going physique because I thought, well, I injured my legs so much that my legs aren't going to be competitive. I think physique would be a good class for me or division for me. So, but in all honesty, I still favor classic. Yeah. I like classic. That's bodybuilding, right? Yeah, that was bodybuilding. Yeah, right. So changing the trunks out backstage, that's got to be a pain in the ass. Well, with physique, it's easy. You just throw your board shorts on over. Yeah. Yeah. I've seen dudes at local shows scrambling around trying to, you know, get their balls hanging out backstage trying to get into everything. To go back to that picture in 2020, I had a rotator cuff surgery on three tendons and they cut the biceps tendon and reattached it lower. I think it's a common procedure. I think Larry Wills had that done. And when they did that, I just got this amazing peak, which, you know, I don't mind, but it's kind of thrown off the balance of my biceps. As you can see, the right one is a lot higher and more peaked. Maybe I need to have that procedure done. I have no bicep peak at all. So, I had some guy tell me I need to work on my bicep peak and I'm like, dude, I've been working on it for 30 years. It ain't happening. They are what they are. A lot of it's genetics. Yeah. I mean, like your evidence there, it's just the, it's where the tendon, where the tendon attaches. It's what really, you know, quarter inch difference in a tendon attachment is what makes the bicep peak up like that versus what it looks like normally. But that's a cool problem to have. If you look at the old pictures of Arnold, he actually, and he did a good job of hiding it, but he had one bicep that peaked and the other one didn't. And he would always do these one arm bicep poses or he would twist. Like if you notice in his old pictures. Well, the cover on his first book, it's very pronounced. I think this is right one too. Yeah. He always had one that was way bigger than the other, but he did a really good job of hiding it through posing. You can hide a lot through posing. Yeah. If you can hide my leg shortcomings somehow on stage. I mean, pretty much everybody over 50 has leg issues, man. We've all got something beat up. I mean, I'm rocking to busted up shoulders and knees that have been operated on. I'm always getting critiqued by the young guys. I'm like, you wait until you're my agency if you're still going. I know. That's the thing. Longevity, that's the key. So we talked a little bit about cycles earlier, like when our eyes open from, this is something that a lot of young guys don't know. But everybody baches about the bodybuilder's line about what they take now. And it's hilarious to me because at least they own up that they do take stuff when you come from the days that I did where I just used to read the muscle magazines all the time and everybody was natural. Yeah. Everybody. It was cell tech or metrics is what made them big. Nobody admitted taking anything back in the 1980s. Cybergenics. Yeah. I remember those old, you remember those old cybergenics before and after ads. Wasn't it Franco? Frank sent to Rallo or something like that. Was he the poster child of that? I don't remember. But it was the, it was hilarious. But what they literally what they would do is take guys and put them on cycle and take them off cycle. Yeah. Yeah. But I think we talked about sort of the same, you know, revelation that we came to. I remember doing Arnold's program when I was a teenager and I'm like, man, it's not working. I'm not growing. I'm following his diet. I'm following this training program and he left out the part with D-Ball and Deca. Yeah. I mean, it's, I was, and it's following his progress from age 15 to 19. And when I was 15 and 16, you know, I looked somewhat comparable. He's not obviously like him, but size wise, but then he made a huge jump from I think age 17 and 19. He's got a picture of him in the mountains in Austria. And I looked at myself at 19. I'm like, wow, there's a huge difference here. I'm like, there's something that he's not disclosing. Yeah. We figured that out later. Yeah. It was D-Ball. Here's these stupid cybergenic ads. I found one of these. This is, these were ridiculous. People think people lie about stuff now. Oh, Mike Monorucho. It was all cybergenics. Yeah. Oh man. I remember him. Good old Mike. He passed away, right? Yeah. He had a heart attack. Yeah. It's a sad deal. But yeah, I mean, for me, there was, I just, I couldn't figure it out. We were talking about it before and there was this guy, Carl, was his name that worked out at my gym. And I don't know, he seemed like the old grizzled guy when I was there, but he was the first real bodybuilder ever met. I grew up in a small town. I don't know, Carl was in his, I don't know, probably in his mid 30s. I thought he was old at the time, but he was like the first real bodybuilder ever met. And that's all that you know, like, holy shit, he doesn't look like everybody else. I just nagged and nagged and asked him questions, asked him questions and he finally pulled back the curtain and told me what everybody was doing. I'm like, are you serious? I was very anti-steroid. I didn't think that anybody took steroids and I thought they were bad and you were going to turn into, you know, you were going to lose one eye and turn into a monster if you took steroids and then he was like, he's like, it's like kid, no. And I think he gave me, what was it? He gave me a bag of D-ball. I think it was. Oh, wow. I was, I don't know. What was that? 19, 20 years old? And it was just like five, five milligram D-ball pills and I took them. I remember I blew up like a tick and then lost everything. Oh, God. That's where, where I started off at. But, you know, we all go through those phases and then, you know, now I try to be more responsible with it where I can. Obviously for shows, you're going to push things a little bit, but in order to be smarter, you've got to be with things. I've always been very transparent. It's like people ask me, you know, and it's just the usual stuff, test and then some cutting agents. So, yeah, for me, for the offseason, I just pretty much run test and pre-moboling anymore. It's pretty much what I run year round, to be honest with you. What about diet? I mean, what kind of diet protocol were you running for your, for your show? So, my coach put me on a macro-based diet this time, counting macros, which I've never done in the past. That's what I do with my clients. Yeah, I was basically eating one gram protein per body part, or per body weight. And this prep, I was actually able to eat six meals a day a lot easier. I don't know if it was the second round of cardio that I was doing because when I came back in 2019, I had a hard time eating, you know, five days or five times a day for whatever reason. So, this time around, I had no issues whatsoever. And we started out, the same as last time, as a 14, no, a 16-week prep. And nothing too drastic, you know, until like the very last couple of weeks, the carbs were dropped, you know, pretty significantly, and then up the cardio. I do macro-based diets for my clients. I think mainly for me, I just want to teach people how to eat, how to pick their own foods, how to be intelligent with picking their own foods, give them a little bit of flexibility. Although sometimes I question myself because then I find out people are eating quest bars all day long. Yeah. I usually give them a list of approved foods, and you follow the macros, and then I'll adjust the macros. But I like giving them flexibility and teaching people how to do things on their own if possible. I know a lot of, probably from the coaches, then it's easier just to give you a prescribed diet and make sure that they're eating the same thing every day. There's less variable and less margin for error. Yeah, he gave me quite a few choices in terms of proteins and carbs. Yeah, that's what I do. But it came to, you know, I was eating pretty much the same thing day in, day out, and then I would just switch the proteins around. Yeah, I eat pretty much the same thing every day. Yeah. Who did you, who coached you? His name is Tramel. He's out of Spokane with Toppin Fitness. Okay. And I was actually competing at the Emerald Cup. He was coaching another client and he looked at me. You know, he said with a few tweaks, you know, you could look so much better. And so I ended up going with him for this year's prep. And that's the best I've ever looked. So doing weekly check-ins. He got you in shape. Yeah. I mean, they know what they're doing. So, but I also was very consistent, you know, and on point with, with the eating, the cardio and the training. Here's another of the one of these stupid cybergenics ads. Oh, yeah. Cybergenics. That's all cybergenics. The cybergenics challenge. I remember I was a dumbass and bought that stuff. It was crazy expensive. It was just nothing. I know it was like over a hundred dollars for, I mean, at that time it was a rages. Yeah. I'm sure they made a ton of money off it. There was absolutely nothing in it. Yeah. What did you peak out with cardio? How, how, how, how did you get with your cardio? So towards the end, I was doing 40 minutes fasted in the morning. And then I would do between 15 to 20, 25 in the evening. That sucks. It took a lot of my day. And then, you know, I tried to throw in the posing when I could. I hate cardio. And that's, uh, I don't like cardio so much. Um, but yeah, it gets a monotonous focus for in the posing, you know, because that really shows once, especially in a deep lineup, you know, definitely posing. I constantly remind my clients, the people that I prep, if you get in shape and you compose, you got a good chance of winning. There's so many people, especially at local shows. I'm sure you've seen it. There's so many guys that get up on stage that clearly have not practiced posing at all. Yeah. The deep, you know, the being exhausted to the sweating. Oh, see dudes cramping up and bend it over because they, they haven't practiced or they just don't even know how to hit the poses. Yeah. And I'm by no means the best poser, but I, I would almost rather people do a little less cardio and carve out some time to do posing. Yeah. Because you're burning calories when you're doing posing anyway. I get a good swag going, but I try to pose every day on prep every day, at least 15, 20 minutes. Well, it's just the conditioning too that it helps you with, you know, I should have my twenties, I was able to pose almost like an hour a day or a night. And then this time around, it's been a lot more challenging. Well, it looked like they were, when you guys were up there on the stage, they were grinding you guys. They had you running through stuff. Yeah. The overall was pretty, pretty taxing. So, and my coach said, you know, give it your all for that overall. And yeah, I mean, I was pretty beat afterwards. Yeah. I mean, it looked like they were really working guys when they were up there. They were, they were doing thorough comparisons. I felt like the, a lot of shows I go to the judging, like I'm always like, I don't know if I agree with this placing or that placing. I thought overall the judging there was very, very good, very accurate. I didn't see anybody that I thought, you know, scratching my head like my, my guy that competed, like I had his placing pegged as soon as he went up on stage and, and we were, I was right on the money with where he was at. What was he in again? Uh, the master's over a sixties, sixty. Yeah. Light heavy weights. He looked great. He got, I think fourth place is where we ended up. Okay. And there were 12, 13 in his glass and he looked really good, but it's the same deal with him. He hadn't competed in 20 years or so. Yeah. And, um, he did a local show. They really well. And I was like, man, you should, you should, uh, you should get up there and see what happens. I encourage him to do a national show. And he, um, I think, you know, we get him back next year. I think he might have a good chance. Good. Good. Yeah. That's a great show. The USA you said. Masters USA. Yep. Is that the one in, uh, Anaheim or Anaheim? Yeah. Okay. Cause I was saying about doing that too, cause it's, I believe close to, it's like December, right? Um, it is November 18th, right before. Okay. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Originally I was saying about doing that show, but then my coach advised me, he said, just do Pittsburgh. We got, I think he had seven other people doing it. So it was a good time. It's easier if your coach is there. Yeah. That was tremendous. I don't, I don't get to go to that many shows with guys. I feel bad, but a lot of times they're, they're hanging out there on their own. Yeah. But yeah, I mean, that's, that's tough, tough spot to, tough spot to be in when you're out there on your own. But yeah, this was a hang on. Oh, this was, this was my guy, David that was out there. I mean over 60. Oh, that's right. I remember him. Yeah. It looks good. Yeah. You look great. You look really good. He was, uh, I mean, you don't see many over 60 year old guys that look like that. No. Are you doing any coaching? I'm, uh, trying to get into it. So I'm putting up my website. I'm also starting a YouTube channel just focusing on masters and, uh, yeah. I mean, the ball's rolling. Well, there are a lot of old guys in bodybuilding. Quite a few of them. I'd say that's the, that's my sweet spot. Are the, the old dudes. Yeah. I think sticking to masters is kind of what I want to focus on. What's fun working with the, I mean, I have a handful of young guys. I mean, it's cool seeing, seeing, um, young guys, you know, kind of get it, but it's, I really enjoy taking older competitors that are older guys. Like maybe not even our competitors that don't think they can do it anymore and get them back in shape. So I think a lot of times people just give up and just assume that, you know, let, let only consume them and feel like they can't make any progress. But then I've seen some guys make some transformations and they end up showing up at these shows and they tell me their stories. It's just so inspiring. You know, I mean, you saw mine. I was a, I was a fat ass a few years ago. Those mashed potatoes. Yeah. Those toxic relationships. Yeah. You know, it was weird. He talking trash about my ex-wife. We actually get along all right now, but she just hated, hated me going to the gym. You know, thought it was silly and wasted time and all this stuff. And I'm like, oh, maybe she's right. And I just came to the realization that it's just such an important part of my life that I gave up. I kind of just like lost myself. Yeah. You lose your identity. I just, yeah, I just wasn't the same person. Yeah. You're right. I lost my mojo, man.  there anymore. And I was with a narcissist so I mean she wanted to control me and she's like, well you don't need the gym you have a girlfriend now and that's like, wait a minute, you should be supporting me. Yeah, I mean that's the thing that I try to encourage with my friends, if your partner is telling you what you should and shouldn't do with your life you're with the wrong person, somebody should support you. I would never tell my girlfriend what she can and can't do. I mean, so that's not... I mean, what's the point of having a relationship if you know you want to control that person just for your own needs and... It's insecurity. Yeah. That's what it boils down to. Exactly. But ultimately, I am the one that allowed it to happen. So... Yeah, me too. I saw the red flags, but I didn't listen. I take ownership of it. I made many poor decisions with women when I was younger. I'd see a beautiful girl and it would ignore all the red flags. Of course. You're thinking with the wrong head. Hopefully, I've got that straightened out now. But I think we need to go through these lessons that make us stronger, you know, mentally, emotionally, and so forth. Just like, like, severe injuries we've had, you know. A lot of people fold when they... Especially because I started a Facebook group specifically for people who tear their quads, you know, and it's such a traumatic injury that in the beginning, they're like, oh my God, will I ever do what I've, you know, loved doing again? And it's like, well, yes, it's just going to take a long time, you know, especially with a tendon tear, you know, it takes a long time. Yeah. I mean, the ACL, it was a year before I could really train legs again. And then it was two years before, like, I really felt comfortable on it. And the surgery was brutal. The recovery from the surgery and all of it, yeah. I'm sure I've heard quatera serendis. Yeah. It's just a lengthy recovery, usually about a year. Well, it was a year and a half for me on both occasions, just to get back. How did you tear it? So I tore my right quad... What was it? 2007 jet skiing. It's never in the gym. Well, you would hope it would be, you know, because that's at least a good manly story or a shark attack or something cool, you know. And then six years later, I did both legs snow skiing, you know. And both times it was just me being reckless, thinking I'm, you know, indestructible, 20 years old. And, you know, but people do it all the time. I mean, what's his name? Muscular development. Ron Harris, just tore his quad, walking his dog. Yeah. And what the pavement branch warned did the same thing. I mean, 80% of the guys that are in my group rupture their quads, either just walking down the stairs, missing a step, wet pavement or ice. Those are the use of the big three. Yeah. When I tore my ACL, playing basketball, of course, I was too old to be playing basketball, but my doctor told me, and I never really considered this. He's like, you didn't tear it then. He said it was probably already torn and it just gave. The rest of it just gave. So that's what it seems to be with a lot of injuries. There's already partial. Yeah. And it's just kind of hanging on. And then you snap it doing something silly. But I've never, I'm trying to think, I've never really had a catastrophic injury in the gym. It's always been something else. Knock on wood. Hopefully that doesn't happen today. But I tried it. Yeah. I try to lift more intelligently now. I get people give me a hard time because I don't do any compound movements. I don't do any barbell movements at all. And just to me, when I evaluate the risk versus reward ratio, especially at my age, if I have to be out for a year to recover from an injury, I mean, that's devastating as you know. So I want to, for me, it's lived to lift another day. Right. Sort of the philosophy. And like, when you really think about it, like, you really need to bench press or squat for bodybuilding? No, I don't think so. I mean, there's, I've seen more people tear packs on bench presses than any other injury. I worked as a personal trainer for four or five years when I was younger. And I saw, I, I, I shit you not, I probably saw a dozen pectares in that time when I worked in the gym, just all the, all the damn time people were tearing packs. So I'm like, why risk it for me? Yeah. I just, you know, maybe when you're young, it's a little different, but I think a lot of people can't figure out if they're a bodybuilder, if they're powerlifter. Yeah. A power builder. Power builder. They try to be both. And then you end up doing neither one of them very well. Well, I mean, I quickly learned that you gotta leave the ego lifting, you know, good check at home because, I mean, even now, doing legs, I have to be very careful and warm up extremely, you know, efficiently because I just have that inner fear of, you know, re-rupturing them. So I just, Oh, it's always in the back of your mind what you've done it. Yeah, it is. So, you know, and it's like, it can certainly happen again, but I, you know, I do all the things to prevent that, you know, I don't go super heavy. I stick to mainly leg press and movements like that for legs. So people who give Nick Walker a hard time, he, he doesn't like to lift super heavy anymore. And he was doing hack squats, I think it was, and he was using four plates on hack squats and people were like, well, I'd do more than that. And he's like, are your legs as big as mine? Yeah, you know, he's like, I've grown and gotten bigger doing less weight, getting good range of motion. It's really a different way of lifting when you're a bodybuilder. And this is a point I try to ram home to younger guys, like with power lifting or, say crossfit or something like that, that your objective is to get the weight from point A to point B in the most efficient way possible. And it's the exact opposite of bodybuilding. We're trying to place as much load on the muscle with the least amount of weight as possible. Yeah. Get the most out of the lift. And it's really an art form. It takes, at least for me, like there's some body parts, it's taken me years to figure out how to train them. Like, I could not get my arms to grow for the life of me for years. And the last couple of years, my arms have taken off. And the big thing that I can attribute it to that I've changed is I've lightened up my arm training, I focused more on feeling the muscle and actually making sure I'm getting a proper contraction. And I lift like half the weights that I used to on both, you know, tricep and bicep exercises. And it took me 25 fucking years to figure that out. And then my arms grow. I mean, you just have to put in the work and the years to really figure out your body because everyone's different. How do you lift? I mean, what are you backing up a little bit? What is your training style like? Some very intuitive. I just really listen to my body. But for the most part, I do one major body part a day. I tried the push and pull method, but I don't know if it really worked well for me. So I have arms on a separate day and leg on a separate day. So for the prep, I was basically just training one body part a week. And I was thinking about trying to do a two day a week for legs just to maybe get my legs up and my hamstrings and see how that works. I do more of a volume style training, but I do push pull legs and train everything twice a week. But you like that? I've done baro splits too. Trust me, I've done every style of training you can possibly. That's why I get the guys that do hit training that get angry at me because I talk about volume. And I'm like, dude, I train fucking hit training for 10 years. Right. You know, I've done it. It's not like I don't know anything about it. But yeah, I think you got to figure out what works for your body, what you can recover from. And this is not going to be a popular opinion. But as I've gotten older, I found out that training is probably less important than diet diet. It's the most important part. Yeah. I mean, I'm taking for this off scene. I kind of want to mix things around just to see if some different training style will work better for me. I do. I don't know if you're familiar with Mike Israel tell Dr. Mike Israel tell no Renaissance periodization. I do a program like he does it. Nothing's to failure. Okay. It's more of a volume style of training and it's push pull. Not always programs of push pull legs, but it's push pull legs. Train everything twice a week. But if you it's really hard for me not to train a failure because I spent so much of my life feeling like I need to go on the gym and basically rip my muscles off the bone and be to be a cripple when I get home. Right. And I backed off my intensity a bit up my volume and frequency. And sometimes I go into the gym and I don't feel like I'm working hard enough, but I've made more progress training this way than I ever have. Yeah. Well, and that's what matters, right? Yeah. Every late night. Yeah, the old Lee Haney approach. But I've sort of put the bro and me aside that you know where I have to go in and be puking in a trash can. I think it'll work out and fry my central nervous system and really think about you know maybe it's more productive to hold a little bit back and be able to train with more frequency and get a little more volume in. You can overdo the volume. I mean, it's this if you there's AI've seen people that just get too carried away with the volume in the in the hyper focusing on squeezing things like you know the dudes that are doing 20 pounds on the cables for rows and you know or 165 pounds of like I mean come on man you got to do a little more than that. But there's a line you have to walk you know like if you push the volume too high then it's just junk volume. So there's a sweet spot. So you still need to train with some intensity. I think but really focusing on actually feeling the muscle. That's always the first thing I ask people you know like they're they're saying well this body part doesn't grow. I said well let's talk about the exercise you're doing and you know they tell me they list of exercises well on bicep curls do you actually feel in your biceps? Well no I don't really feel it. I'm like okay then something's wrong we need to we need to fix that right right there. Either the exercise you're choosing is wrong or your form sucks. Let's start there first or maybe you're lifting too heavy. Or intensity you know. Yep so yeah I mean there's there's all these variables that are to it but you can get too carried away with the volume. You can do not enough volume. Like some of the seems like a lot of the Mike Mencer stuff has been coming back lately but like I don't think you can properly train a body part with one set and be a body builder. I just don't see how that's possible. The old Dorian method? Yeah I mean but Dorian Dorian would do multiple exercises. He would do one set and if you look at him like what Dorian called a warm-up set he was screaming and yelling and doing force reps and shit on a warm-up set. So I don't know that his volume was as low as he says he is. I challenge people to go back and look at the old Blood and Guts videos and maybe he was just showing off of those videos but I went through and counted it up. There was more volume in there than what he said so I mean clearly he got it done but he also had to retire at 34-33 for injuries. Yeah. There's that too. You know when you're ripping biceps off the bone and triceps off the bone but you've taken it too far. I do think when you're younger you probably do need to build some sort of base of strength up but as you progress and get older then you need to be more nuanced with your training. Definitely I mean careful and like I mentioned before the eagle lifting is going to be in check. Yeah it's like I told guys when you're 25 you can go out and play a backyard tackle football game and get up the next day and be fine. If you went out at 45 and played a tackle football game you're probably going to be in the hospital so why would you train like you did when you were 25? Why do you think that you can get away with that same type? Like I get guys tell me how beat up and how they hurt and like then don't train like you're 25, train like you're 45 or 50 or 55. Well eventually you'll learn your lesson if you know you keep doing what you've done and you know. I think that's why you'll see a lot of guys retire young because they get their identity wrapped up in how they train and I think they get to a point where they can't train that way anymore and they just sort of lose their motivation to be a bodybuilder. I have to wonder if that wasn't the case with Ian Valieri. He's 33 and he just retired but I know he was like playing. Clearly he injured something his pack didn't look right recently and I noticed he was changing up the way he was training and I'm sure that's hard for a guy that's always looked at heavy. Yeah and he was putting up some poundages if I remember. Yeah yeah I mean it got him to where he was so I mean I can't argue with this that he's had more successful bodybuilding than I have but yeah but you know I have to wonder if that doesn't factor in with some of these guys retiring young they'd rather retire than change the way they train. Definitely agree with that. All right Steve I got to wrap this up I appreciate you coming on man is there anything you want to promote people where people can get a hold of you for coaching? Yeah people want to give me some love I'm at Hereditary on Instagram and I just started my YouTube channel it's going to focus on master's bodybuilding and it's master's bodybuilding on YouTube so hopefully down the road I'll be able to interview you. Yeah anytime man you let me know when you want me to come on. Yeah I just got to get the YouTube setup that's been kind of a challenge frigging all this out so I'll get there. My most trash when I first set out I look at my old videos I'm like oh my god these were terrible. Well the important thing they say is just getting started. Just getting started. Well I appreciate your time bud. All right folks thank you for watching. Appreciate each and every one of you. Take care guys.