WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today with freshly minted IFBB pro Tom DePont. What's up man? Hey, used to be used to be T unit NPC. I guess it's going to be IFBB now, right? Yeah, I gave it a few days and then I was talking to my girlfriend. I was like, you know what? I think it's time. I put the IFBB down below. I didn't put it in my name. I don't know. I probably should, but hey, you earned that pro card. You might as well brag about it. The thing is, I don't want to, you know, have a stigma we get, right? Like everybody just thinks we're douchebags, but you know what? Like this is the greatest achievement in my life so far and I'm really proud of it. So I'll do whatever the fuck I want. That's how I feel. Well, this, like, I don't think people understand how fuckinGHard this is, man. Like, like the grind that goes in it, all the years and the hard work. IMean, it, like, they have no idea. Like, I always love when I talk to the young guys at the gym and they've got their two-show plan to get their pro card and I'm like, all right, bro. I've been lifting for 30 years, man. Dude, yeah. I love, like, the compliments that mean the most to me are the people that actually understand the work and the sacrifice it takes and the ones that recognize that. Because, you know, at this level, we're all in good shape, you know, that's what we do. We're all jacked. But, like, the people that actually understand, like, wow, like, I know you put in the work. That's what matters that I like. Well, the food, I think that's the part that people, breaks people, at least what I've seen. The food is the hardest part. Yeah, for sure. The dudes that say they want to be a pro and I'm like, all right, like, the gym for me is easy. I love going to the gym. Yeah, that's the best part. That's the best part. That's the part I love. It's weighing and measuring and prepping and taking your food with you every fucking where you go, man. It's a pain in the ass, man. That's the part that sucks. You know, all these young guys think they're one cycle away from being a pro. Like, bro, if I took that, I'd... And I'm like, yeah, okay. Let's see what happens. Yeah. There's some cool, cooler young kids around my area, actually. I'm pretty impressed by it because most of the ones I've seen are not, but there's one IMet at the Vermont show is a really good kid, just super humble, but he's doing physique. He looks good. And there was another guy who won in classic. He was younger and same thing, just super humble guy. And it's just, it's not the stereotypical gym bro that I've been seeing. So it's nice. What's fun when it clicks, I do like working with young guys and when you see it click, like I'll have guys that'll, like if I can get them through a prep, like I think that's when you find out if they're real or not. No, for sure. Yeah. If I can get them through a prep, get them through a show and you know, a lot of times they get humbled the first show, they get up there, you know, it's, it's overwhelming and you don't know how to pose and like guys come in, like I'm going to win my first show. I'm like, don't worry about that, man. Just get up there, get on stage, get in shape, learn how to pose. That's our goals for a first show. My first show, we all have it. Those first show pictures that are just like, I don't want anyone to see these ever. Yeah. And then fucking Barry post one, or post a check-in, like of my early days and my first show picture on his Instagram. Like, great. Awesome. Yeah. Yeah. I think I have it. I think I have it right here, man. I was not expecting that at all. Yeah, there it is. Thanks for that. It looks like a guy that enjoys a few brews and some McDonald's. Dude, I was drinking a lot at that time. Yeah, I can tell. I can always tell, man, that's the swollen face. Yep. That was back in my police days, man. It was like my only hobby. I'd do like 20 minutes a week off. Yeah. Well, you've come a long way since then, man. Yeah. I wasn't happy, so I just decided I was going to fix my life. How old were you in that pic? What's that? How old were you in that pic? It was 2018. So, how many years ago was that? Six. Six years ago, I was 33. Wow, you've made some crazy progress since then. Yeah. Yeah. How much weight did you put on? That was a bad 260 in that picture. I started at a bad 270. Well, you got a big frame then. IMean, you weren't like, dude, I wouldn't say you were like obese. You just looked like a man over there. I've been drinking since I was 12. Yeah. I've been working out my entire life for the most part. I just got lazy when I was a cop and started drinking a lot. Yeah, you just looked bloated. Yeah, I felt it. Yeah, but you can see that you get the frame there, man. You get a big frame. How tall are you? You're not super tall. I'm 5'8". 5'8", yeah. All right. So, that's perfect bodybuildinGHeight. Yeah, and it's like a real 5'8". I don't like lie about that shit. What did you weigh in at the show? 239. I think it was 239. Oh, wow, man. Yeah, that's a lot of mass on that frame. It does not seem like it. Do you deal with being big but not really understanding that you're big? Oh, yeah. IMean, we all have body dysmorphia. We wouldn't be bodybuilders if we didn't. People say you're big and I'm like, I don't think I'm big enough, man. Yeah, yeah. I felt big when I was 280. This 240 thing is not big. That's always the mind fuck at the end of contest prep. I think that this is where you can get in your own head. It's like you get smaller, you get weaker, and I'll see it with a lot of guys. They're like, man, I'm losing all my fullness. I'm losing all my strength. I think I need a refeed. I'm like, no. No, bro, you don't need a refeed. Dude, so this is what really helped me in this prep. I really wanted to tren. I feel like I learned a lot about my body this year as far as trening. I wanted to tren with as much intensity as I could in a safe way. My entire prep, I was still working as hard as I could. I was just doing it safely. Obviously, it wasn't the same weight or same reps or intensifiers, but I was still just working. That was all that mental thing where you just got to be like, yeah, you're tired, you're hungry, but you better don't be a bitch. Do the work. I think it really changed how I looked on stage this year way morecompared to other years. I was fuller. I was still big. I wasn't deflated. I think it made a huge difference. Well, you look great up there, man. When I saw you up there, man, it was clear to me that you were winning. Well, thanks, man. IMean, it's wild when you're up there with everybody. It's hard, like you can't see it. Yeah, I didn't even look next to you, you know? No, sitting in the audience, it's obvious when you look. IMean, you're width and conditioning. IMean, Andrew gets people in shape. Man, he is so... Dude, he's so good. IMean, he would have me do something. Two hours later, I check in with him, and then he would make an adjustment off that change, and you're going to see changes. It was insane how, I guess, meticulous he was able to get me. Well, you had multiple people with pro cards at that show. Yeah, yeah. It was great. It was really cool. Yeah, he's one of the guys I look up to. IMean, that guy has his shit together. Yeah. I've known him for a long time now, and so he was my first coach back in that 2018 time, and then we just went different ways. I ended up getting back with him because I had Patrick Tour. I had Justin, and that Patrick Tour thing was a fucking... That was not a good choice. But anyway, I started talking to Andrew again, and I'm really happy. Like, I even saw the difference from when he was coaching in 2018 to now. Just how smart that guy is, and how much information he can learn and retain, and then use. I love it. Like, I'm just like, just tell me what to do. I'll do whatever you say. Yeah, part of it with coach, too, is how you click with them, too. I work with Justin, and I have for years, and Justin's kind of hands-off, and that's what I like. I'm like, just give me the diet. I'll take care of everything else myself. Yeah, I remember he was the first coach I had that did the macro thing, and I had to make my own diet. Yeah, yeah. That's all I need. I just need to know how much of this I need to eat, and that's it. I'm okay with a long season, but when it comes to prep, like, I want you to micromanage the shit out of me. Yeah, I go back and forth a lot, man, with my own clients, because I give people macros, but then I don't think, one, I think most people can't do fucking math, and it's like, I can't tell you how many times I've told people, you know, eat chicken, and they're, I find out, you know, I'm like, bro, you're not losing weight. What kind of chicken are you eating, and they're like, a chicken thigh, so I'm like, no, motherfucker. Hey, come on, man. Chicken breast tastes, it's dry. It doesn't taste very good. I'm like, yeah, that's bodybuilding, man. Yeah. I'm a great fucking prep cook now, dude. I don't know. I can make prep food taste so good with seasonings and zero calorie shit that doesn't mess up your stomach. I'm the worst. I'm the worst, dude. People make fun of me. I just, like, bake my chicken. I don't season anything. I just eat plain rice. It's because I'm lazy. Up until, like, a week out, I use the sugar-free Sweet Baby Ray's. Yeah, that stuff's awesome, man. And this year, I use zucchini and mushrooms in pretty much every meal, because you know how your carbs get lower and lower. I still want that volume. It helps me, you know, not want to eat. So, I use mushrooms and zucchini. No bloat. It added a ton of flavor, dude. And I use it up until, what, three days out? I like that. So, I'm going to stick with that for a while. You look like you have the kind of physique, man, like you're one of those guys that just stays full no matter what. Yeah, yeah, unless I take too much T3. Well, yeah. Oh, man. I fucked up bad on T3 on a prep one time. I told myself I was going to be the leanest guy on stage. I worked up to 100 micrograms of T3. I also didn't realize I was going to look like I just rolled out of a forced labor. You do. You do. You look so, like, beat up and tired. Not you, but, like, in general. Oh, my God. It was bad. I look like a skeleton, man. I lost, like, every bit of muscle I had. I, like, for me, T3 is just to break less in case of emergency or if you're going to run it, just run a replacement dose just for energy. I think I was running, it was 50 micrograms a day. Yeah, that's weak. That's not bad. Yeah. I did a video earlier this week on one of the Brazilian pros that was running 200 and I'm like, holy shit, man. I feel like at that point you just didn't, like, you're not ready, right? Yeah, that's a guy that's not following a diet. That's what I see there. Although he said it wasn't true, but I don't know. The email address was on there. So I don't know. Anyway, yeah, IMade that mistake one time and never again. I'm weird, though, man. I have a super, I'm naturally a skinny guy. Like, you look like you're stocky. Yeah, for sure. They used to call me Drew Carey in middle school, dude. It was a fucking nightmare. I can see that now. You shut your mouth. We both got that biGHead, man. Oh, God, dude, tell me about it. People are like, man, did that head come from GH? I'm like, no, that came from my dad. Yeah. I was born with this thing. I do not wear fitted hats. Let's put it that way. Oh, no, man. They don't work for me either. I'm like, look at the pictures of me when I was a kid and look at my kids. Look at my dad, man. We all have giant fuckinGHeads. I had to be a bodybuilder to grow into my head. IMean, that's why. It sucks, man, because if you have a little head, it makes you look bigger. That's the optical illusion, man. You look at Arnold, like he had a tiny head, man, and it made his arms look bigger. Yeah, his chest. That's the sucky thing about being tall, man. Like, I have to put on twice as much weight to look as big as everybody else. It's funny, yeah, because, you know, 5'8", it's either considered short or average, right? So, you know, most of my life, I'm like, fuck, man, I kind of wish I was taller. Now that I'm a bodybuilder, I'm like, this is perfect. Like, 5'7", they say that's a short guy. 5'8", they're like, oh, that's a good height. 5'8"-5'10 is like perfect bodybuildinGHeight. Yeah. IMean, you look at all the guys that are at the top of the Olympia stage, they're all in the, except maybe Hottie. Yeah, there's a lot, but yeah, yeah, you're right. They're all in that range. They're all in that range, man. Hottie, man, that dude, I saw him at the Arnold, I went to the Arnold this year. Yeah. I've never seen that much size and condition on a dude that small, man. Really? It's crazy. Yeah, I haven't met Hottie. IMet Sean Carita, and that's how I felt about him. Oh, Sean's like, Sean doesn't look real. He looks like a cartoon character. It's amazing. Like, excuse me, he was a guest poser at the Vermont show a few years ago. It was like the year before he won the Olympia, and like, I got to meet him at the gym, and just super, like, super cool guy. He helped me pose and everything, but I just saw, like, how fucking thick he was. It was insane. Like, I felt so small next to this guy, and I, wait a minute, it didn't even matter. Like, it's really cool. I think pound per inch, he's got to be one of the biggest guys on the planet. Yeah, IMean, yeah, it's amazing. Like, I don't think you could fit more muscle. You know, like, I look at your frame, and I'm like, yeah, you could carry some more. Oh, yeah. You can squeeze some more on there, but like, that dude, I'm like, where the fuck's it gonna go? Yeah. He's so full and round. Hard. Yeah. Yeah, IMet him at the Arnold this year, and he just, like, he looked like a cartoon character. Yeah. I think, so, I know Carlos Thomas. I hung out with him backstage at North, or was it Nationals two years ago in Orlando? The one that he won. Yeah. And then IMet Penn. I forget what show that was a couple years ago as well, but like, those guys, same thing. Like, they have so much muscle. They're so thick. Like, how do you put more on? It's amazing. Like, I'm so jealous that Carlos's, like, side shots with his hamstrings and his arms are stupid. Like, it's bananas how big that dude's arms are. Yeah, I hung, well, I think the biggest, the biggest dude I've seen in person is Samson. Oh, yeah. I got big. That dude, that dude is ginormous. I think he was at the New York Pro. He was hanging out, man, and he was, like, 330 and lean. Yeah. He's, like, my, he's, like, my height, and I'm, like, oh, man. Yeah. Yeah, there are levels to this. I'm gonna try to hit 300 this year for my offseason. Yeah, that's awesome, man. IMean, I got up to 284 last year. So, if I hit, like, the 290s, 300 is a goal, but I'd be, like, satisfied with 290s in this offseason. I've been up to 300 before. It wasn't, wasn't pretty. I was gonna say, your height, like, was it still, like, pretty hard? Uncomfortable? Yeah, I have a small frame. Like, like, you look like you have a big frame, man. Like, your guy can carry, carry size. Like, I'm scrawny naturally. So, I, like, I have small bone structure, and it's just, like, you know, it's, like, I couldn't believe, like, you, you know Wesley Vissers, right? Like, I was, like, I interviewed him back earlier this year after he won the Arnold. Yeah, I like his look a lot. He was telling me he was, like, seven or eight pounds under the weight cap. I'm, like, what? Wow. Yeah, I'm, like, so, like, but that just goes to show you the illusion of bone structure. That's true, yeah. You know, like, like, some guys, like, I think if you're, like, stocky or built, you got to get bigger. Yeah. To create that illusion on stage. So, yeah, 300 for me is tough. I've been up there before. It was, like, power lift, power lifter big. Yeah. I never get, like, I don't let myself get tubby like that. Like, I get big, borderline. I'll get up to, like, 18 percent, I think was my highest this past year, at least on the in-body. But, you know, they're somewhat accurate. I just like to use it to kind of keep track of if I'm going up or down, you know. I just, like, at my age, I like to be within striking distance. I just find it, like, prep. Yeah. Prep. I don't want to have to work hard on prep. Yeah. You know, like, this year, my food stayed high through the whole prep. It was so, it was so nice, man. Like, I never got down to any zero carb days. It was, like, I think the lowest I ever got was 200 grams of carbs. Yeah, yeah. My lowest was 150. But he, after the Vermont show, I ate, like, an asshole for a good day. And he punished me. And he gave me, like, two zero carb days in a row. And then, from then on, this entire prep, from, it was, like, two and a half, three weeks, he had me at, he put me at 150 carbs a day, and I was doing 45 a.m., 45 p.m. per cardio. Oh, wow. Holy shit, man. I did that every day for, it was, babe, it was, what, two and a half weeks, right? I think it was, like, two and a half, three weeks. Every day. Yeah. That was hard. I never got over 30 minutes. You know, I don't mind it, though. I feel like I need to know I'm suffering a little bit. Like, I need to know it's really hard. Because that tells me that, you know, I'm going beyond what other people may do. Like, I need to know it's hard. Yeah, it was a mindfuck. Like, I was, like, telling Justin, like, man, am I workinGHard enough, man? Am I going to be ready? Yeah, doing a carb day, 30 minutes of cardio. IMean, we were doing, on my high days, I was going up to, like, 1,500, 2,000 grams of carbs. Damn, dude. Yeah, IMean, that's how crazy my metabolism is, man. I flatten out real easy. We didn't go above six. Oh, wow. Yeah. So, you're one of those guys, like, I love coaching guys like you that just, like, you can just bury them and they don't flatten out or get small, man. Yeah. Like, I seem to respond really quick now, like, to changes like that. And I think because I just get fat and soft too easy, in my opinion. So, like, we have to do everything real slow to kind of see how it's going to work. Well, the great thing with that type of metabolism that makes the off-season easy, like, I literally, man, I have to eat fucking candy and shit in the off-season to be able to gain weight because I just can't eat any more food. Yeah. Yeah, it was hard. This last off-season was definitely hard, man, when you're trying to force that last, you know, at least for me anyway, that 10 p.m. meal because you already have delayed it enough, you want to go to bed, and you're just so full. It's just how much rice and chicken do you want to eat? It tastes good, but you're just full. Yeah, it seems like Andrew's probably pretty strict with the food, is he? Yeah, we don't do, like, yeah, we don't do that whole eight burger and fry thing before a show. Like, we keep it tight. Yeah, I don't feel like that. I'm sure he's going to be mad at me when I check in on Monday for the way I've treated myself. Like, I'm already expecting it, but it's also, it's kind of, at this point, it's kind of my routine. After I compete, I need to just kind of do my thing for a few days, and then I'm back to it. Yeah, you gotta unplug and give yourself a break, man. Be ready for the next phase. Yeah, exactly. Just, it helps me to, I get that break, and then I'm like, all right, it's time to work. Let's fucking do it. Have you picked out a pro show yet? I haven't. I just started thinking about it because I want to do it probably around this time of year. So, I don't know which ones are there, but I also, Andrew and I haven't talked about it. So, I don't want to just do a show because I can't. Like, I want to make sure I'm fucking good. You know what IMean? Like, I want to have a good offseason. I think I'm going to do the Tampa. Yeah? See, I was thinking about that because I've never been there. I want to go there. And everybody that I talked to that's done that show said it's really well done, and they treat the athletes really well. Yeah. IMean, they have a master's division. I have no illusions about competing in the open, but I'll do the master's division and go down and just, I have some friends down there for you to, and it's late July, so that's perfect. That's awesome. Yeah, I thought about doing that show, but yeah, IMean, that's wild to think about though. I'm sure you're still like, I don't know, like the first month afterwards, it was just weird for me. You won the overall too, right? Yeah. I'd never won an overall at a show until this. This was the first time I ever won an overall. Yeah. Actually, it's kind of cool. The times I've been with Andrew, I've won overalls every time. That's awesome, man. Yeah. I feel like that's a good record. Everybody else I would take like first, but never overalls or like second. I did that show after I did really well at Vermont. I did, it's like the Eastern Championships or whatever. And I sucked ass, dude. I think, I don't know what happened, but I just, I don't know. I went to like ninth or 10th place or something. It was awful. Is Vermont where you're from? I grew up right outside of Philadelphia. IMoved here after my military career and this is where my kids are. So that's why I'm here now. Okay. That's awesome, man. Yeah. New England's awesome. Although cold. I do love it. Like I realized drivinGHome that I did feel like home when I was starting to hit the mountains and be out away from everybody again. But I hate the winners, dude. They are so goddamn long up here. Are you out in the mountains? IMean, yeah, we're up by Canada. I'm in Northern Vermont. That's awesome, man. Yeah, no, it's beautiful, but it's not beautiful when it's June and it's still 40 degrees outside. That is not beautiful. What do you do for the gym? Do you work out at home or do you have a gym you go to? So Synergy in Williston, Vermont sponsors me and I go there. Oh, awesome. I have a party with the house, but yeah, they sponsor me and I go to their gym. We also have another gym called Lift. That used to be like the bigger bodybuilding gym. It's a lot of fun. It's just the vibe kind of changed a little bit and it just wasn't my crowd anymore. I became friends with Pat, the gym owner of Synergy, and he's a really good dude. He's a former competitor. He just understands everything instead of talking about stuff. He runs a really good gym. Yeah, I live in Washington, D.C. I'm lucky I got a really good bodybuilding gym right by me. Nice. So I hit that and there's a couple good bodybuilding gyms in the area. We have several pros that work out at my gym, so it's pretty cool. That's what I love about traveling is going to see those other gyms and meeting new people because up here we really are isolated. There's not much. Yeah, it's cool being in a big bodybuilding gym, but I would like to get out in the woods at some point, man. I grew up in the country. I fuckinGHate the city. Yeah, and now you're in D.C. I feel like that's the complete opposite of where you want to be. Yeah, I've been here my entire adult life. My kids are in school and stuff, so you know how that goes, man. I can't eject right now. I got to wait until they're done, but I'll probably go down south somewhere. That's what my girlfriend Brooke and I were thinking. We definitely want to do, like not summer all year. We want seasons, but just more reasonable. Yeah, I was thinking like the Carolinas or the southern part. I live in Virginia outside of Washington, D.C. The southern part of Virginia or something. Yeah. Open up a little bodybuilding gym someplace. That'd be cool. That's always legit, dude. If I could make a living doing that, that's exactly what I would want to do, but up here you can't. Gyms are a pain in the ass. I don't know how people do. Everybody that runs a gym says they're a pain in the ass. Yeah. IMean, you got to work seven days a week. Absolutely, and then the equipment that you and I, I'm sure, would want for our gyms, where do you get that startup from? You know what IMean? You need two million bucks to open up the gym that you want to start. I don't know. Yeah, IMean like the places I work out at, we have a lot of Prime and Panada and Atlanta stuff, and those things are like 10 grand a piece. Yeah, dude, that's awesome equipment. Yeah, they are not cheap, and then you got people not paying their memberships, all kinds of crazy shit you got to deal with. Pat up here is real cool. You don't see a lot of Arsenal or anything like that up here, and Pat, the owner of Synergy, he's cool. He usually buys one or two pieces of equipment a year. He got the Arsenal pendulum squat last year. Yeah, we have that. That thing's badass. I love it, man. He just got in this week the Cybex low press machine, which is awesome. He's really cool. You go to this gym, and you don't expect to see a piece of equipment like that, and then you have these little bright lights just popping up on you and say, oh, check that out. Yeah, we have all the new Atlanta stuff, which is really cool. I used to be, and I think Andrew came from that same chain. Dante Trudeau trened me when I was younger, and it's funny how many people came from Dante and his trening. I wish I could get him on for an interview. He won't do social media, but Dante's the man. Anyway, I used to do that heavy, hardcore, DC-style trening. I can't really do it anymore. I'm old, so having all these machines, these nice machines now, has really extended my ability to tren. Yeah, because that's what we do. We work around our injuries, right? I've noticed the same thing. I had a bicep issue that I had to work around a wrist issue, and when you have those machines, you're able to manipulate your positioning to still tren without hurting it. Yeah, I'll get clients that ask me, well, how do you deal with injuries? I'm like, you just fucking work around it, man. Exactly. If it hurts, don't do it. I've gotten into trening some NFL guys. I have several NFL guys, and one of my NFL guys I was talking to, and he says, the only time I'm not hurt is in the offseason. It's true. There's always something. That's sort of the way you got to be with bodybuilding. You just got to work around it. There's stupid and there's smart ways to do it. I used to be the stupid guy where I would just, if it hurt, I'd just keep doing it. But there's a difference between being injured and beinGHurt, and I don't think people understand that either. They don't feel pain and they just get scared, where it's like you can control that and you can keep going. That's not an injury. What I figured out is if I have something that's causing me chronic pain, a lot of times it's something shitty in my form, or I just need to pick a different exercise and just rotate that one back in later, it's probably just repetitive motion and then just tendinitis and inflammation from doing that. But that's the great thing with a lot of these machines. It used to be back in the day like free weights were so far superior to any machines you have, but now like with some of the awesome plate load stuff that we have. You're not ergonomic at all and now you really go with the body. Yeah, yeah. Like the Atlanta stuff, I'm just like, man, I haven't done a barbell bench in years and it's like I don't know why I would even go back at this point with some of the stuff I have. I love trening. It's so much fun. Do you still do a lot of barbell work? Yeah, I try to. I switch it up, right? So like if we're doing chest, I definitely favor incline for most movements during chest. But I like to call it like we'll do our heavy movement, which is one of our presses. So I'll do like an incline barbell or like flat we'll do once a month or we'll do heavy dumbbells. And then I like to do some type of intensifier at the end of that exercise, like the fourth, probably sixth set. Yeah, IMiss doing that stuff, man. I thought about going back to doing some incline presses, but I like my shoulders. I need to get my shoulder fixed, man. I got a fucked up shoulder. So I just like my shoulders not stable enough really to do it anymore. Yeah, I see it all the time. It's because when we were young, we were stupid. Like that's what it is. When we were young, we were trying to push too much weight to look cool and we fucked up our shoulders. I see it. I tore my labrum, dude. And I did it in jujitsu. It wasn't even... Oh, really? Jesus. And then IMade it worse doing weighted pull-ups at the bottom, letting it hang too much. And then I felt it pop even more. And so like now my shoulder doesn't stay in socket, but I've been trying to put off that surgery because... Yeah, there's a lot of downtime. Yeah, I don't want to miss the off-season. That's how stupid I am. Like, oh, you could get this fixed and you'll feel a lot better and you have to take six months off from the gym. I'm like, yeah, no, fuck that. So long. I'm not taking six months from it. Some of the best, like your most common advice I give for chest stuff and shoulder stuff to my clients or even just people at the gym is it's all ego, even with women. You got to take that out of it. You got to drop the weight and just pop that chest out like you're a cartoon superhero. You know what IMean? And then just really focus on that chest. You got to have that mind muscle. You can't just move the weight. You have to control it and you have to control it using the muscles you're trening. And I don't think people know that. They just want to move the weight. That's a thing that I think a lot of young bodybuilders miss out on. And something I think I've gotten better at as I've gotten older is learninGHow to tren like a bodybuilder instead of a powerlifter. I think a lot of young guys get hyper-focused on strength. And I'm not saying that strength is not important. A bigger muscle is going to be a stronger muscle. There's no denying that. But you can make shit harder by – at the end of the day, what grows a muscle is mechanical tension. And you can – like if you think about it, like if you pull it back and think about it, like with powerlifting, you're trying to get the weight from point A to point B and in the most efficient way possible. Like you're literally trying to take leverage off or tension off of the muscle and use form to get the weight up. Whereas the exact opposite in bodybuilding, you want to place as much tension as you possibly can on the target muscle for hypertrophy. Yeah, that's absolutely right. And they get confused because younger people or even older people, they want to be strong and look good. But you're not going to be able to do both that way. If you want to be strong, you can do it. It's just going to take time. It's weird to me. It's perplexing with the bodybuilders because like powerlifters have very specific ways of trening. Like they understand like I need to periodize, I need to do this lift and they program all their trening out. It's very – even like with CrossFit or Olympic lifting, it's all very specific. Like young bodybuilders, they just are all over the place. They try to be a powerlifter, a CrossFitter and they're swinging kettlebells and like they're trened specifically for your sport if you want to be good at your sport. I think people too, they just get stuck in these like – they buy a trening program or they make one up and they just stick directly to that program. I will do four sets of 12 to 15 at this weight at this percentage. Like just fucking tren. People are like, oh, well, how much in between sets? I'm like, as long as you want. I won't go take a 20-minute break, but if you need three minutes, take three minutes and hit it again. Or if you want to do a fourth set because third set didn't feel that good, you should probably do a fourth set. You know what IMean? It's not like you have to stick to this box because you're not going to – you may get to a certain point, but I think you're going to plateau really quick if you just keep yourself in the box. You have to. There's nowhere else to go. You have to keep that intensity going or you're not going to keep changing. Yep. I remember Dante telling me – I remember askinGHim, I'm like, dude, how long should I take between sets? And he goes, long enough to be ready to do the next one. Yeah. That's the perfect answer. Yeah. I'm like, well, all right. That answers it for me, man. That makes it simple. Yeah. IMean, as soon as I caught my breath and my brain is ready to go, that's when I'm doing my second set, you know what IMean, and subsequent sets. Yeah. And sometimes if you go too soon, like if you think about it, you're going to have an oxygen debt and you're not going to be able to push effectively enough to get proper stimulus. Now, you don't want to be doing power lifting rest like those guys. They're over there having a conversation and dinner and ordering Uber Eats, eating a burger, doing their taxes, and then they do their next sets. You know how there's that rivalry between the branches of the military, right? Yeah. I kind of feel that way with bodybuilding and CrossFit and power lifting. We just all buzz each other's balls. I think it's funny how power lifters do all this shit with blocks on their chest and five spotters and bands. It's like they do all this stuff to be strong, but they're not really working as hard as they should be to get strong. I don't understand why what you're getting out of moving 500 pounds, two inches, with people helping you. I don't get that. It doesn't make sense to me. Well, it's the difference between being focused on numbers and focused on physique. IMean, they laugh at us too, man. It's that fun. It's what makes it fun. I love that kind of that rivalry. Yeah. I know. It's cool. I just don't understand it. What's the old joke? Power lifters are bodybuilders that couldn't follow a diet. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know. One of my buddies who's a pro, he goes, I'd rather look like I lift weights. Yeah. That's what I tell people. If you're going to come and work hard every day, don't you want to look like it? Have a little bit of discipline. My gym is pretty wild. We have a bunch of pro power lifters too. We have power lifting and bodybuilding. I get to see some guys in there that are insanely strong. It's funny because outside of the gym, I get more attention than they do. People aren't walking up. Up here, that gym I was talking about, that's the power lifter gym as well. It's the strongman stuff. I see a lot of people that give themselves this label that they haven't earned and they definitely don't tren like it. There's this dude, Aaron Foundry. He's a strongman down in Hampshire, I believe. He's one of the strongest fucking guys I know. He weighs, I don't know, 200 pounds, but he looks great and he's fucking strong. That's the type of power lifter or strong man that I can look up to and respect. When these guys around here are just going through the motions, not dieting, taking their breaks, and just calling themselves power lifters who've never even competed, come on, man. Yeah, there's a hundred of us. I used to love power lifting. I did some when I was in my 20s. I'm not made for it. My genetics, you have to have that. You probably could be pretty good at it because you have that dense structure. I got a big bench and I think if I worked at my ... Well, my squat, I'm not flexible enough to hold a bar, so I can't even do it. I definitely have a big bench. I got a pretty good deadlift and squat, but I just use a safety bar. I think I could. I just don't want to. That's funny you're talking about squatting, man. I don't see many bodybuilders that do back barbell squats, just regular barbell squats. It's definitely part of my rotation still. Is it? Yeah, wow. You know Big John? Ravis? No, no, Big J. He's Ronnie Coleman's trening partner. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I had a conversation with him and he's the one who kept me squatting, basically, before when I was in this off-season. IMet him previously and I sent him a message. He called me and he was like, you got to squat. He was like, squat. I listened to him. I'm like, all right, I'm going to keep squatting. Now, I just use a safety bar. I would say every other week is a barbell squat day. We'll rotate between barbell, hack, and pendulum, so I guess every three weeks. Okay, okay. That makes sense. Yeah, but IMean, I'm not going crazy. I'm still trening like a bodybuilder doing it smart, but IMean, I love it. It made my legs. My legs had to come up this year and they did, and I think that's a big reason. Your legs were sick and they looked ridiculous. Yeah, I think squatting too, some of it's your frame. This is another thing, finding exercises that fit you. It seems like short guys do better with squats. Yeah, yeah, for sure. With me, I'm so fucking long. I did squats all the way up until a couple of years ago, but I'm so damn long, it's all back for me. It doesn't matter. There's so much leverage on your back from that. Yeah, so that's another thing. When I swapped out for hacks and pendulum, I think I got better results out of it. It was more like doing a big good morning for me. Yeah, yeah, exactly. When you were explaining it, that's what I was thinking about with you because you have that long spine, the weight's all up here. Yeah, short guys, people like to talk about Tom Platz. I'm like, that guy was made to squat, man. That dude's the way his body is, but IMean, if you can do the fundamental stuff and you progress it, IMean, you are going to get bigger. IMean, there's just no denying that. I'm just trying to tren really intuitively. If it feels good and I'm getting progress from it, I'm going to do it. I'm trying not to stick to this rules thing like, oh, I don't do barbell squats anymore. I don't do barbell bench press anymore. I want to do it as long as it feels good and it's helping me. When it stops benefiting me, then I'll stop. I think that's the smart approach. I've been running, Dr. Mike, as you tell, I've been runninGHis style of trening for the lasT3 or four years. One of the things he talks about is the best exercise is the one that fits you. Yeah, exactly. There's no right or wrong answer. Then another thing too, I had never really considered, he talks about the cost versus benefit of an exercise. Injury risk is something you got to consider, especially as you get older. The fatigue costs, for example, if you do, for me, I think about it with deadlifts. The injury risk for me at my age and then the fatigue costs, would I've been better off doing five sets of rows versus one set of all out deadlifts? I don't know. Probably the rows would benefit me more. That's one of those things where you just have to evaluate it personally and figure out what works for you. There's no one tried or true answer. Everybody wants the best. In the same way of thinking with that too, that's what pisses me off when people make comments about somebody's form. I know the way I do some shit probably looks really weird. Anything bicep, my wrists are way out. It looks weird, but that works for me because it's not hitting anything that hurts and I'm hitting my biceps. Everybody's body is so different. They have different tweaks. They have different ways they have to hit their muscle. You have all these people like, oh, you should really be doing this. Fuck off, dude. Well, IMean, you look at Branch Warren and Ronnie Coleman. They both had shitty form and they were at the top of the sport. Clearly, whatever they were doing was working for them. How about Branch? That dude just threw around crazy heavy weight. He would just grow. Nobody else can do that. Yeah, no. No, I would break. Yeah, I would too. I'd rip a bicep off my arm if I tried to do that shit. But yeah, I think the main thing and even when you watch those guys lift, you could see if you sit there and watch, you could see that they were actually providing stimulus to the muscle. I think that's the main thing is making sure that your form is such that you're actually stimulating mechanical tension on the target muscle to elicit some hypertrophy. So that's really the most important part. And as far as like, I see people all the time debating the high intensity versus high volume. You can do both. Yeah, you should do both. You just got to pick one. You got to pick your poison, man. If you're doinGHigher intensity, you need to back off the volume a little bit. If you're doing more volume, you got to back off the intensity. It's a sliding scale, by the way. They both work clearly. But there's been plenty of people that have done both and had success. Yeah, dude, like my workouts, I'm telling you, I go by feel. If I feel like going like a crazy superset, I'll do it. And then the next day, if I'm just feeling strong that day, maybe I will try to build up to like a set of four or six on bench and then do a back offset. But then I have those other days where I feel weak, you know, and you don't hit the intensity as much. Like I try to do whatever my body feels that day. It's just as hard as I can. It's working pretty well. It's fun. I've gotten to the point, and I don't know, maybe it's just I'm getting old. I've gotten to the point where I think like trening really the job of the trening is to provide enough stimulus to elicit growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And then really the food is the hard part, man. The food's the part that makes it work. Yeah. It's hard, man. I love it. I love it all. I really do. Like even shit that sucks, I love it. I don't know. I'm used to prepping the food. I'm used to eating the food. I'm used to having to stuff myself. I'm used to having to starve myself. Like I just love being different, I guess, and that we work so hard for this. It's so different than everybody else's life. It's just a lot of fun for me. Yeah. I talk about that all the time, too, man. I like doing the stuff that other people are unwilling to do. Exactly. Just the fact that we have the discipline and the drive to do this, like I respect people like that so much just because I know what it takes. But it's also bad because it's hard for me to look up to people that aren't in our sport because I'm like, dude, that's really weak. Like just do it. Do the work. I heard a guy, and this always stuck with me, a guy, I forget who it was, but the guy was a climber. And he talked about climbing Mount Everest and he's like, I don't climb Mount Everest for the view. I climb it for the process of getting up there. Yeah. That's incredible. Yeah. That's the same thing. The view is a result of the hard work. It's the same thing like the pro card is the result of following the process and doing the work day in and day out. I think that's where a lot of people miss the boat. When you achieve certain things, you're not the same person afterwards. You're better. You've worked really hard and you've sacrificed and you've learned. That's the thing. To me, I think learning is part of being better. And every time we do this stuff, we learn. Like every time you suffer, I know I learn. Well, the cool thing about this too, dude, I've seen so many bodybuilders take this skill set, this ability to learn how to suffer, learn how to push, learn how to set goals, trenslates well into other things in life. So like business, I see so many bodybuilders that do well in business. Yeah. Because I think if you have this sort of discipline, you can apply the same sort of the willingness to grind, the willingness to suffer, the willingness to do things that other people won't do. It trenslates really well to business. Yeah. To not quit, it's huge. Yeah. So much of it is not quitting. Yeah. It's weird. I kind of joke around like we don't really have talent. We just live weights, right? But discipline, you're not born with it. You either have it or you don't. I think you can kind of develop it, but it's really a mindset and not everybody has that, especially to this level. So maybe that is the talent that bodybuilders have, is our discipline. If you had to say like, what's your talent? You know what IMean? I've always liked grinding at things, whether it was business. I played sports when I was younger. I think I find that a lot of bodybuilders were athletes when they were younger. Did you play any sports? I did. I played baseball. I wrestled and I did football, but then I got more into girls and partying. So that ended that career and then I went away to the military. Yeah. I probably should have my junior year in high school and then my senior year I didn't. I probably should have had my pro card in my twenties, but girls and partying got in the way of that. Yeah. Believe me, I would have been farther ahead of my career too if IMade some different choices. But it was fun. I had my fun in Germany, man. It was too much fun. I've heard Germany's awesome. Yeah. I was there for three years, three and a half years. You were in the air force? Yeah. That's pretty cool. How long were you in? I just did my four, just my student reform. Yeah. Came out and I went to the academy in Vermont. That's awesome, man. Yeah. I'm glad I did it. It was not something easy and I was young. It was definitely hard to be away from home and young for sure. I was not ready for that, but I'm glad I did it. Well, I think that probably helped set some of the discipline and the ability to do things. Yeah. I was telling my girlfriend this story, but basically I landed in Germany and I had no one come pick me up. I had to figure out my way to get to the base. I had to figure out where I was going to live. You're supposed to have a sponsor that helps you do these things and mine wasn't competent. So I basically landed in Frankfurt and I was completely alone and had to figure this stuff out and that's when everything changed for me. I was like, fuck. Okay. Things are different now. This is the real world. 18, 19 years old, I guess. Yeah. I was 18. That's crazy to think about because my kids are, my son wants to be in the military and he's a teenager now. He's not that far away from it. He can barely get himself dressed in the morning. He might have some trouble. That first couple of weeks of basic trening might be an issue. It's probably good though. Be a good thing for it. So no show planned yet. You're kind of thinking through that. Yeah. I think we're going to figure it out probably. We're going to talk about it Monday when I check in. I think we're gonna come up with some type of plan and then go from there. What weight were you targeting for the stage? I, ideally I want to be two sixties. Yeah. I don't think I can do that this year. I think that would probably take two years, but I think I could definitely be two fifties by like a pro debut. Are you going to take a year off before you do a pro debut? I don't know. I want to take eight to eight months of a year. Yeah. Like I said before, like I don't, I don't want to just show up and say like, I'm a pro and do a pro show. Like I want to be a fucking good pro. So I want to do whatever I can to do that first. And then I'll get on the stage when I earn it. You know what IMean? I feel like I haven't earned it yet. I need to get better first and then I'll get it up there. Man. I felt like you, you could have done really well at the open there too. At the, at the show, there was that one freakazoid that was there. Yeah. IMean, dude, I was happy with top five there. Honestly, I really was. There was a lot of good bodybuilders there this year. So yeah, I'm not going to complain. I, I set some good goals and I think I achieved them and I'm happy about it. Yeah. That's awesome. Well, dude, I appreciate you coming on, man. Uh, I got to wrap up, but, um, is there anything you want to promote? Any, uh, anything, you know, coaching, anything people get in contact with you? Um, I want to make it very clear though. I don't do prep coaching. I'm a lifestyle coach. I can definitely help you. Smart man. Yeah. I can help you meet your goals in the offseason. I can get you in shape, just, you know, better, healthier life for sure. Um, I'll refer to you a prep coach. If you want to go down that contest route, I have a couple of sponsors that I want to shout out, um, you know, asylum prosay and savages fuck supplements. All those codes are on all my social media. So, and I don't, I don't promote anything I don't take. So these arecompanies that I trust that I use that have got me, you know, to where I am right now. And other than that, I just want to thank Andrew. He's fucking a great coach. I'm really happy that I'm with him. And I want to thank Pat, the gym owner for supporting me and, you know, have my back for like five years now, Tom, I appreciate you coming on, man. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.