! Congrats, dude. That's big time, man. Thank you. I really appreciate it, man. What were you telling me before? You had 17 pro qualifiers? 16 pro qualifiers. Holy shit, man. Talk about persistence, man. Most dudes would have given up, man. It's been a long road. Yeah, there's been so many checkpoints along the way where it would have been so easy to just quit, just give up. So you're telling the guys that are, you know, all the dudes that are just getting started, that their three-show plan to get their pro cards is not going to work out? You've got to be realistic. I mean, you really have to set realistic expectations. I have a lot of respect for the clients I get. You know, I do this partly, not full-time, but I've been coaching for 20 years, crushing limits. That's my business, online coaching. And when I do get clients with realistic goals of like a five-year plan, I can really respect that because, you know, obviously, you know, being a coach yourself, you get those people that are like, I want to do it in one shot. Next year, I want to be a pro, Paul. Make me a pro. And it's like, you haven't even been to a show. You don't know the criteria and you want to be a pro. Yeah, I mean, we all know at first show, it's like being in a deer and the headlights being out there. You're lucky if you just get your trunks put on right. Right. And in the learning, I mean, I just tell guys, I'm like, God, you just go out there, make sure you compose, get in half decent shape, just get your feet wet and understand what the process feels like. And just get, you know, get rid of all those nerves because you're going to be nervous as fuck on your first show. It's, you know, being out there on the stage and you're under where it's like, let's not worry about winning or where you place. It doesn't matter. This is just, this is just experience. Yeah, the other thing too is you got to have fun, right? Yeah. I mean, it's like, yeah, you want all those things. You want to look great. Of course, everyone wants to win, but it's like, at the end of the day, you got to have fun. You got to feel good about it. You have to have fun. You want to get off stage and, you know, we all hate seeing people that, you know, throw the trophies or, you know, poor sportsmanship, but it's like, you really have to have fun in this sport if you want to make it, even pass your first show. Yeah, right. I also get dudes, you know, you, you know, this many good dudes that go out and they'll do a first show and they're like, yeah, fuck this. I'm going to do it again. It's the worst, worst experience in my life. I don't think people have no heart. It is. Yeah. I mean, they just see the, like they just see the post. They see the outside, but they don't see what actually, what it really entails. Right. Yeah. I mean, it's, it's like climbing a mountain. I don't think you can really understand what the experience is like until you've had it yourself. That is an epic shoe collection back there, man. Thank you. Let's talk about the shoes. Yeah. So as you can see that there's the odd black and orange one, but that one I just acquired a couple months ago, but yeah, they're essentially it's all black and gold. Like it's everything here is basically black and gold. And it's, it's basically from, we've created a brand, me and my wife, Stephanie. She's a pro too. She's pro figure and basically. Oh, awesome. Yeah. So created the business 20 years ago, been coaching for 20 years. I finally started to put like a brand on it, like when I met her. So like seven years ago, I'm like, okay, that's it. This, these are the colors black and gold, like my favorite colors. And then yeah, it's just hashtag black and gold got, you know, got the first black and gold shoe. And I'm like, let me see what else is out there. And then it just, it just started. Well, I'm jealous, man. I got the giant GH feet, man. I got 15 and a half. Like there's like three shoes I can buy. I've heard that on your podcast. Yeah. I was like, man, that's that would be difficult. Yeah. It's Nike and Nike or bust. That's about the only thing I can wear. Yep. I wish I could buy shoes. Yeah. So that's awesome, man. That you finally got it after Oh, and you went through a lot. We were talking about you've had all sorts of stomach issues. Yeah. So when I started, I started training at 14 and basically within that year, 14 to 15, I started bodybuilding, but I was in track and field at the time. So that was like my first love, my first like sport that I really clinging onto. And then that Chris was my dad. He bought me, of course, the classic Arnold encyclopedia. I started off with that too, man. I think a lot of people did. Oh yeah. Yeah. And you know, of course, everyone knew Arnold, but it's like, I started flipping through the pages and I'm like, how is this possible that someone can look like this? Like other guys too. And I just started flipping through. And I wanted to see what I could really do at track and field first and kind of check some of the boxes there. But I knew secondarily, like I was going to be a bodybuilder. Like that's when it started. And I didn't really devote myself to bodybuilding until I was 18. So 22 years ago, track and field stopped and I'm like 100% is now going to bodybuilding. And shortly after, I would say six months into it, I started to just get all these digestive issues. Like I was in the bathroom all the time, you know, just bloated gas, all this stuff. And I'm like, I had a buddy, his name was Jeff Coonson. We were training partners, really good friend. And I would always wonder kind of as I finished the night, like, man, I'm just in a lot of pain right now. And I'm like, I wonder if he's going through this. Like I wonder if this is just, this is just normal, being a bodybuilder, like we're eating so much. Once I had gotten to college, I had put on a substantial amount of weight and I was natural and everything. We were eating around the clock. I was doing the, of course, the Arnold gallon of whole milk a day. I'm sure that was great for the stomach. Oh, and I mean, just looking back now, I'm like, that's, I mean, it was just destroying my stomach. And so I put on quite a bit that summer, I put on, it was probably something like close to 30 pounds. And then it got much worse when I went to college. And long story short, when I was on break, I had to see my first gastroenterologist. And the first one wasn't very receptive. They're like, Chris, you're normal. And I'm like, I'm not normal. Like, why would I waste my time and come to a doctor's office if I was feeling great? So no one's going to do that. So I switched gastroenterologist. And then I was basically diagnosed with IBS, which of course nowadays we know that can really mean anything, right? Anything, right. So yeah, I basically navigated through IBS for about 10 years. And then it started to get really bad. And I did the Atlantic States where I won, this was 10 years ago, a decade ago, 2013. And two weeks out, I was going to the bathroom and I saw some blood. And it was like more than what you'd guess. And I'm like, huh, kind of ignored it. I'm just like, maybe I'm seeing things, whatever, I'm tired, whatever. Well, it happened again a couple of times that week. And then I recognized it, I accepted it. And I was like, okay, all right, this is just part of the prep. I don't know. Maybe it's the chemicals, maybe not, maybe it's something. But either way, I'm two weeks out, I'm going to take care of this. I got the show coming up. That's number one. And I'll handle this after, right? Folks, if you're pooping, blog, go to a doctor. Don't wait. Yeah, 100%. And then right after I got home, I remember flying back. And of course, I was already dehydrated from the show. I went to work on Monday. Well, I was super sick on Sunday. And I was like, well, it's just, you know, some of the foods. And I didn't go crazy. I just had like some fruit. I had basically clean meals that day. I couldn't stay out of the bathroom. And now there was more blood. Like now it started to get a little scary. I went to work that day. And I basically, I had to leave. I had to leave like three hours in, because an hour of that, I was in the bathroom. And I'm like, okay, this is, I just got to tell my boss like it's not going to work today. So I went home. And then of course, I was so hungry. So I ate chicken and rice back in the bathroom. And now it just started to get like severe. Like now I actually, I mean, it was just like turning on a faucet. And there was a tremendous amount of blood. So now like this is scary. Now I'm like, I don't know what's wrong. Like I really don't know what's wrong. So it got really, really bad. I started to lose weight. I basically stopped eating that day. And then it got so bad to where, you know, obviously I miss work the next day. I was able to go in the third day. And what I did, Paul, is like, I'm like, okay, here's how I can do it. Here's how I can make a week through work. I'll just fast all day, right? No problem. So I worked in a call center. I do phone sales and I've done it for a decade now. So I go to the call center. Obviously you got to be sharp on the phone. So I'm trying to like be sharp on the phone, sell precious metals and rare coins with no energy and no food. And I'm completely stripped of all like minerals. I'm dehydrated. I'm down, I don't know, I'm down several pounds already. And then I was like, this is just isn't going to work. But I made it one day. Went home. Yeah, I went home. I ate again. I'm like, what's clean? I'll just do chicken and rice, nothing on it. And then of course, right after I ate, that sends you into a flare. So I was in the bathroom basically like the whole night. How you know you're a bodybuilder is when you're pooping blood and you're like, I'll just fast and it'll be okay. You'd think of a way around it. And then yeah, like that's fine. I'm not worried about that. My shoulders hanging off, my arms broken, I can work out and just work around it. Right. Yeah, that's crazy, man. And you said you had to have your colon removed. So that was the start of it. So basically what happened after that, the next day I couldn't get out of bed. I mean, literally I physically could not get out of bed. I had to call mom and dad, which I live in Minneapolis at the time. And they're in Rochester, which is like about an hour south. So they drove up and they physically had to like both carry me out of bed to the vehicle. And then they drove me down to the Mayo Clinic, which is in Rochester, Minnesota. That's where they told me like, so I go in, they do a million tests, Paul. And they tell me I have severe ulcerative colitis. Holy crap. Yeah, they showed me a picture that there was a team of doctors, of course, Mayo, you know, be in the best in the world. Yeah, they showed me a picture of my colon. And the doctor at the time, she says, I've never seen a colon like this, Chris. And she's like, I literally look like Swiss cheese, like gaping holes in your colon. That's insane, man. It was crazy to hear. And then, and I didn't know much about it, like I had heard about colitis, but I really didn't know much about it. And at the time, I had no health stuff, no health scares, no injuries, no surgeries, like no health history of anything. So I had pretty much had a clean bill of health before. In the two weeks, I lost 50 pounds in two weeks. Oh, I'm sure. Yeah. It was unbelievable. So I was like, I went from like a shredded almost 200 to when they brought me home, I stepped on the scale with clothes on, I was 150 pounds. That's crazy, man. Crazy. So that was like the first, the first time I hit rock bottom. And then if you fast forward through some medication that worked, that eventually didn't work, then that's where I basically had ulcerative colitis to like severe to where there's no medication left on the market to try. So and me and my doctor, we had discussed this before and like he had always said, you know, Chris, like, you know, down the road, if these don't work, you know, we may have to talk about removing your colon. And of course, like we all do, we always think, oh, that's, that's not going to be me, right? So as we started to work down the medications and check the ones, of course, that didn't work, which none of them did, we got to a point where it was just like, okay, there's none left. There's only one that's in trial. And I had a buddy out on the east coast. His doctor's really like lenient. So he's like, Chris, see if you can like put some pressure on your doc. It's going to be approved because he works in like he's like a medical salesman. So he knew this medication was going to get approved. It just hadn't gotten approved, like in the Midwest or the West coast. So push my doc a little bit and he's super cool and everything. He knows about the bodybuilding and all that stuff. And he's like, okay, we're going to push it through. We're going to try it. So I tried it and like it was within like seven to 10 days. I'm like, this is, this is just not going to work. It's just not working. So at that point, I basically just had to accept the fact that I'm going to have to get this surgery done. So I got it done on New Year's actually. Oh man. Yeah. 2019 is when I had it done. And I didn't research a ton about it. Like, of course, you know, like they give you a pamphlet and everything, but nothing prepares you for this. You know. Yeah, I had a friend that had it done. It's pretty fucking brutal, man. Did you have a colostomy bag and all that? Yeah. Yeah. So ileostomy bag is what they call it right on my right side. Yeah. And they told me too. The surgeon told me, he says, this is one of the most major surgeries a person can physically go through. And I was like, holy shit, like this is crazy. So I had the bag for three and a half months. And then they do what's called the takedown surgery. So they take the bag off and then they basically connect what's left, what's left of your small intestine to your anus so you can like go to the bathroom normal, which it's anything but normal. And I did the reversal surgery. I recovered from that. And then after that, that's when I won in 2021. So what happened was life continued. I was still prepping and I'm like, okay, well, I'm going to win this thing in 2022. Like I'm going to get my pro card. I'm going to win because I was like literally that close to getting it. And in January, me and my wife, we went to a work party at her work, her boss's house, just another regular day. We trained everything just a normal day. And we came home and I started having like severe pain, like just cramps. And I'm like, okay, this isn't like food cramps. This is something different. And I told her, I said, I think I have like a blockage. Like I think there's a blockage there. And I had gotten a couple blockages like minor that just kind of sort themselves out where you just, you feel and then, you know, everything passes through. And I, I'm on a few forums where with people that have had the surgery as well. So like I had heard of people getting these, but again, you kind of think like, oh, I'm not going to get that. Like that's never going to happen to me. So I actually had to do an enema downstairs. And then nothing came out. I'm talking nothing. Oh no, that's not good news. Yeah. So I knew right then I was like, okay, I'm in trouble. So we went to the hospital and of course the emergency room's full. When they finally pull me back, it's not my regular doctor. So they said, Chris, we're going to do two things are going to happen. We're going to put you under, when you wake up, you're either the blockage is going to be clear, which means we cleared it, or you're going to wake up with a bag again a second time. So I woke. Yeah, it's, this is where I, you know, I post about it lightning strikes twice. You know, the chances of this are almost impossible. So I woke up from anesthesia and I'm like, oh my gosh, I have the bag again after like all that after losing, because I lost 40 pounds in that process. I lost 50 the first time. I lost 40 the second time. I gained it all back in one, being this close to a pro card. And now I'm back in the hospital with a bag again. I mean, it's like the worst possible joke you can think of. That's crazy, man. Yeah, I feel a little bit better about, I complained about my IBS and I had some all sort of colitis, but nothing like that. Yeah, it's crazy, man. And like, you know, I have a few friends that have it and like, theirs are just like no problem, like no complications at all. Do you know, do they know what caused it? They said it's basically like, if you had to like pinpoint it, it's like more so genetic, but nothing really runs in my family other than lactose intolerance on my mom's side. It was that gallon of milk. Right. Too many. Yeah. So yeah, long story short, after this second round, I had the bag for it was a little over five months this second time. I couldn't train no cardio, no activity, like five months off the gym. So I started training 17 months ago after getting the second bag removed a second time. That's crazy. Yeah. And I always post about it too. You know, I say, I represent the underdogs, you know, because it's like, if I can do this twice, I mean, I know people that struggle and it's like, they're not the like true struggles, you know, most people want to give it up, man. Yeah. Most people want it. Most people would have just given up after that. That is some crazy, crazy tenacity. Thank you. Thank you, man. Yeah, that's really cool. Yeah. So many bodybuilders struggle with gut issues. People make fun of me and my my playing chicken, man. You get it. When I started listening to you, I was a lot of so many things really resonated me. And that was one of them because I'm like, I the only season that I can use a salt. So yeah, me too, man. That's it. I got stupid the other day because I'm more prep man and you you do stupid things and I just put a tiny little bit of hot sauce on some chicken. Yeah, I paid the price, man. It was it was blowing my ass out for half the day afterwards. It wasn't worth it. So yeah, it's a it's a blessing and a curse at the same time because it keeps you honest with your food. You can't go a shit with your food. So right, you know, so there is that part of it too. So you have to be very careful with your food. And I'm sure you probably follow a low FODMAP diet and all that good stuff. 100%. Yeah, it's yeah. When I started listening, like I said, like that just resonated. Another thing this is kind of cool too, like when you always say, you know, you want to be a real bodybuilder, you want to get big meat and rice, you know? Yeah. And that cracks me up every time because like I worked in a different call center a few years ago and my boss at the time, his name was Luke, he had always kind of joked around and he'd be like, what are you eating today, Chris? Eating rice? Like all the time. So like when I heard that, I was like, Hey, Paul says that I have. There we go. There we go. Yeah, I mean, it really is that simple, man. It's the simple foods. I know a lot of bodybuilders end up fucking their guts up from blasting orals too much too. Yeah. That's why I just stay away from it pretty much except for like the last little bit of contest prep. It's just not worth it. And sometimes I've even debated even using them at all. I was talking to Roman Fritz recently and he doesn't use orals at all because he's had stomach issues and all sorts of things. So yeah, I listened to that one. I thought that was pretty interesting. That was very cool. Yeah. Roman isn't human though. So like the rules that apply to him don't apply to everybody else on the planet. So right. I don't know. Talking about his carb up, I've just laughed at that. 4,500 grams of carbs and then yeah, two double or two quarter pounders at McDonald's, three large fries, was it five McFlurries or some McFlurries? Yeah. Yeah. Three apple pies. Crazy. Yeah. I would look like a water bag if I did that. And I would shit my pants. Not a lot of people could do that, man. There's no way. No, no. Not a lot of people could do that, man. That's crazy. Well, congrats on getting the pro-carb in. That is a crazy journey to get there. So you're going to be doing 212 or you moving over to Classic? So I did post this. I posted this about a couple of times. I actually have surgery on. Is this from the show you won? No, that's from 2016. Oh, wow. That's a whole look. Yeah. So I won the Mr. Minnesota. That was, of course, before all the surgeries. That was before North Americans. Before North Americans. Do you have anything up here from North Americans? Yeah. Yeah, I do. If you scroll down. Right here. There's one. Yep. There's a few slides in there. Yeah, you look great, man. Thank you. Thank you, man. I appreciate it. Yeah, the scar's not too... It looks like they did a nice job of hiding it. It's not too bad. It's not too bad. The right side, like it's... My abdominal wall is destroyed now. And of course, it did get worse through the prep. So there's like a... It's a pretty big bulge that has to be corrected when I saw the surgeon. He's like, yeah, we got to fix this ASAP. And he knows I compete in everything. And he's like, all right, after your show, come in, we'll get it fixed. So I had to have one cosmetic surgery after the first couple surgeries. I'm hoping that I won't have to have one. But I mean, there is a possibility I might have to have two more. Yeah, I mean, if it's gonna make it better, I mean, how you look when... If you're playing on a competing as a pro, you may have to. Yeah. And it's... A lot of it's too... We all know it's just a self-conscious thing. Of course, I look back to when I was in my prime and I'm like... Same in this hospital. Yep. Yep. That's crazy, man. Man, you've got some... You've got a brass set of balls. Holy shit, man. Yeah. Maybe not like that. Yeah. So that was the bag. That was the second round. That's crazy, man. Yeah, it's definitely been a long road. That's for sure. So with your food, what do you have to do with your food now? That's a great question. So, you know, Paul, it's crazy because in bodybuilding, obviously, food is your number one key, right? Right. For me and anyone with this, it's also my number one enemy. So, so many foods are inflammatory, like we talked about the seasonings, the sauces, the FODMAP stuff. Yeah. So it's like... I found along the way the last several years after some of the surgeries and even before, there's a limit. Like there's a shelf life, there's a limit to how big I can get because when I start to push the food, the body gets inflamed, it fights back. Yep. And I've realized that since day one. So it's not like this, you know, like, whoa is me, like I've never played the victim. Like I've always known this is the cards that I have and I'm going to play them this way. This is... I have to do things different. I mean, the whole carving up is completely different than what I would do with the client and what I see in my clients. It's just such a very meticulous process. I mean, it's an extreme disadvantage, but it's like to me, I didn't look at it as a disadvantage. I just... I love this stuff so much that it hasn't really slowed me down a whole lot. For me, what I found like carbs, I can handle pretty well. It's fats that's grew me up. I got to be really careful with fats. It's like... there's definitely a limit on how much fat I can have and especially like if I start eating a bunch of greasy, saturated fat and things like that, I'm just asking for it. Sure. Yeah, so I would say I'm definitely the opposite. Oh, okay. Yeah, that's interesting because it's not the same with everybody. Yeah, and like really the only carbs I can have that are like good for me and like mostly absorbable are rice products. So obviously, jasmine rice, meat and rice and cream... cream of rice. Once in a while, I'll do like rice noodles, but those kind of kit, they're just kind of bland, you know? Yeah, and they're ultra processed a lot of times and we've got other shit in them. So that's an issue too. Yeah, like I can't... people are asking me why I don't do bread and pasta and stuff. It's no go for me. Once in a blue moon, I mean, that's like something I can have like on a cheat meal. Right. Yeah, and like if we go out, I mean, it's anytime we go out, which like if we'll go out Saturdays, unless we go to like, you know, a decent steakhouse, I know I'm going to be destroyed because of the oils or the butter or, you know, they forget and they put butter anyway. Yeah, it's the same way with me. Like people make fun of my cheat meals when I go get a steak and a plain potato. Like that's what I can handle, man. Yeah. I mean, there's, you know, for whatever reason, my body likes McDonald's though. I can't get McDonald's down and not have an issue. Do you have to be careful with, you know, with the PED choices with the stomach too? Yeah, I would imagine that probably affects some stuff too. Oh yeah. Yeah, no orals. No orals at all. Yeah, I would imagine orals are completely out. Yep. Yeah, they're definitely out. And like you said, I never really, I've never, I mean, I look, I have a logbook with everything like Melos and, you know, I look back all the time and it's like I've never really utilized them in the offseason. I've never gotten anything that I felt really, really stuck or was like advantageous. Right. So they've been out for almost a decade probably. Well, when you think about it, I mean, if you just, I don't know why people don't look at it this way. If you take a logical step back, they litter all orals, even anivar, literally have more side effects than pretty much every injectable except for maybe Tren or MENT or something like that. And they're also ripping up your stomach. They're going to crush your HDL. It's like  why would you take something that's not going to give you any sort of advantage in the offseason? For contest prep, yeah, I can see it because there are certain cosmetic effects you can get out of some of the orals that you can't otherwise, but there's literally nothing in the offseason that you can't do with a cleaner injectable that you can do with an oral. And I would just rather run higher doses of whatever injectable I'm running, a primable or whatever, than take an oral in the offseason. I don't know. That's just kind of the way I look at it. It's each their own, but I just don't see a compelling reason to put my stomach under that kind of stress, put the stress on my liver. If your liver is stressed, if your stomach's messed up, you're not going to have an appetite, you're not going to feel like eating, and eating is how you grow, I don't know. It seems sort of counterproductive in the offseason. Oh, contest prep, whatever. As long as you're digesting your food, okay. Yeah, I agree 100%. I never liked the feeling of when you notice your appetite goes down, like it's noticeable to where you notice like, hey, I'm actually struggling to get this meal down. That's where it just, it doesn't make sense to me, where it's like, well, you know, you're going to have to increase the food as you go, just as you increase, just as you would increase a cycle, you're going to have to increase the food if you want to get bigger. If you're 250 and you want to get to 260 on stage, guess what? You're going to need more food. And if you can't get the food down, or even if it's not enjoyable and you're like having, you know, it's taking 45 minutes to finish a meal, like now you're just wasting time. So what do you do with the food in the offseason? I'm sure you're limited to how high you can push. Do you just kind of accept that? That's just like you were saying, that's just what it is, what it is. Yeah, I mean, luckily, Paul, I will say like, genetically, I've been able to grow on low PDs and, you know, relatively low food. When I was really like in my prime, like before the surgeries, with the medication, I had infusions every month. So like there's a drug called Remacate and I go every month. Yeah. So you know about it. Yeah. So I go every month, get my infusion, and it would make me, I mean, almost, almost bulletproof. Like I still had to watch like the dairy mostly, but for, I mean, for that time period, I could really push food. You know, I was doing 6,000 cows a day and I was like barely maintaining, barely maintaining weight in the offseason. So I was pushing a lot of food and I didn't really have a whole lot of issues. And now it's like, there's no way I could possibly get near that, you know, and not have more problems than I already do. So I have to keep carbs relatively moderate. Fats are always high for me, and that's never been an issue. It's just like, I have the exact opposite. That's wild. Yeah. And I mean, it's so noticeable. I have a, you know, something with, you know, 20 grams of fat, 25, and automatically like my physique just comes alive, like pains, hardness, it just comes alive. And if I have, you know, a big carb meal, it just, it doesn't really do that. It doesn't have the same effect. I am totally the opposite. Yeah. So yeah, basically just have to watch. I mean, it's like, I can push the protein high, which is good. I kind of just have to watch the carbs because those, they've always been, other than like, you know, the rice products, they've been more inflammatory than say, like the fats. Right. I do have to be careful with protein. There's only so high I can go with the protein because it's sort of hard for me to digest it sometimes. And definitely protein shakes. Like I know guys get obsessed with protein shakes. Those are just a recipe for disaster. Yeah. Yeah. I'm like, even, even like, as with normal digestion, I didn't know why people, they're, you know, once in a while, it's fine. You know, if you want it to have a quick one post-workout or something, I think that's okay. You just need to make sure you're getting a really high quality whey isolate, not the trash that you get at Walmart or whatever that states of whey isolate concentrate blend. But like dudes will tell me, I'm like, you know, I digested just fine. And I'm like, do you get the protein for it? When you're eating it? And they're like, yeah, I get all gassy when I eat. Then I'm like, then you're not digesting it, man. No. Yeah. Not at all. No. No. So that's, no, that's not normal. Right. Right. So that's a red flag, man. But so like, they get all hung up on the absorption rates and everything of protein powder. And I'm like, well, if you're farting at all, and you're shitting it all out, you're not absorbing it. It doesn't matter what the, with the lab, lab reports say on it. So I don't, I think a lot of it's just crappy quality. There are, there is a higher quality way proteins out there you can, you can get. So you just have to be picky if you are going to use it. But I primarily stick with Whole Foods where I can. Yeah. Absolutely. If you can, that's, that's always the best. Do vegetables mess you up? I like, I have to be really careful with vegetables. Yeah. I mean, technically too, like, you know, my doctor and like, they give you a sheet and everything. So technically, I'm not supposed to have any vegetables like, you know, like period. Yeah. And like, I think when I was like, at one point in this phase, in this eight month prep, you know, you know, when you get to the point where you're just like, I'm so ravenous that I got to add something. So I had like a few green beans with like a couple meals, like a day or two, and then it just wrecked me. So I'm like, I got to pull them out. So that's it. Yeah. I mean, for meal prep, it's pickles. I start pounding pickles. Yep. Yep. And then these, these guys, I don't know why. Oh, yeah, yeah. Those aren't the greatest for you either. Fuck it, whatever. All the sugar alcohols in them, or whatever they say. I don't know if they such sugar alcohol, I don't know, but I literally don't drink soda any other time of the year, except on contest prep. For whatever reason, I want zero calorie sodas when I'm on contest prep. It's just helps me. What about training? Did you have to modify your training after the surgery and everything? Not really. It was only like right after when you get cleared to train, you know, it took me a few, you know, six, eight weeks before I could really push the legs because it's so sensitive there, you know, like where the incisions were. But I didn't know if you have to be careful about abdominal pressure with things like squats and deadlifts. I know some people do. You know, I've experienced a lot of the repercussions from the surgery, but thankfully it's never affected my training. Like I've never had any accidents during training or like had to like, yeah, it's, it hasn't affected the training, thankfully. And what is your training like? What kind of training are you doing? So my training, it's evolved over the years and I've tried everything. I've listened to a lot of this stuff. Yeah, I've listened to your stuff and like all the stuff you've tried. And what I personally believe, and I have a lot of clients on this, I feel like muscle groups, certain muscle groups will respond better to certain types of training. So like for me, I am sort of on a bro split. For me, my recovery, it just works best if I just do things once a week. Yep. You know, so I'll do back once a week. We did back yesterday. And right now, especially coming off of a prep, still being low body fat and everything, DC principles like rest pause, they seem to work very, very well when I don't have extra body fat, extra weight. You know, and if I feel good, I'll do an extra. So like I might do, you know, two top sets till failure. And then I might do a high rep set, you know, 15 to 20, crank out as many as I can. And then we typically move on. So like the most I'll do per exercise will typically be like three, three working sets. So you just sort of go on by feel. Yeah, I strictly go by feel, you know, like if I'm feeling great, I'm going to crank out a few more, you know, if I think when you get to that advanced stage, like I used to track and be meticulous about all that stuff, I just, you know, map out my volume over a 12 week period of time and my reps and all that shit. And anymore, I just go into the gym and like, if I feel good today, I'm going to do more. If I don't, I'm going to back off a little bit. I've gotten better at auto regulating my clients might not like hearing that. But I think as you get more advanced in your training, you sort of had a better understanding of your body, where to push and where to pull back. But yeah, I mean, I used to do more high intensity training when I was younger. I don't think treat L train me directly for like three years. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. So Dante, Dante's a wizard. I worked with him, but I just can't do that type of shit now that I'm old. So it definitely changes as you get old. I don't really do any heavy compound movements anymore. Squats, deadlifts, or bench presses. I know that that blows people's minds open. Then I don't do any of those. But I did when I was younger. So, you know, there is that too. There's certainly some stuff, if I had it to do over again, if I went back to being young, I probably would do a little bit differently. But I don't know. I didn't maybe I wouldn't have ended up where where I'm at if I hadn't. But I think like the big mistake that I see a lot of bodybuilders make is they, they, they're not really sure what they are. They're not sure if they're a powerlifter or if they're a crossfitter or whatever. And they try to do a little bit of everything in their training. And then they just end up doing not all of it, not very well, at least like powerlifters, they lift like damn powerlifters. They have a focused type of training they do. And they're very, you know, they're not, you know, they're not over there doing bodybuilding exercises. And the powerlifters aren't strong men either. It's just really weird with bodybuilders how they're all over the place with training to me. Yeah, I agree. I have a saying, Paul, that I, you know, I tell my clients, I'm more of like a tough love type of coach. And I think it's, that's just who I am, you know, as a person. And I've been saying this for so many years. I have a saying, I say overthinkers always lose. Yeah. And, you know, I know they don't like to hear it at the time, but it's like, if you just go in there, as long as you're eating your meals, you go in there and you train with intensity, that's what I tell people, you're going to get great results. I mean, that's what I'm talking about. Yeah, honestly, I've gotten to the point. And I know this is a controversial take, but out of the triad of PEDs, nutrition and training, I've gotten to the point where I think training is probably the least important out of the three. Yeah. Like the nutrition is the most important to me. I've seen it all over and over again. Like people come to me for coaching. I don't, like they ask me what they should do for training. I'm like, just whatever gets you motivated, man. Just get in the gym. If you want to do head training, do head training. If you want to do high volume, do high volume. I have my preferences and my opinions on how to do things, but I focus in on getting people's diets locked in. And that's where I see the biggest result changes is getting people's diets locked in. If they're doing stupid shit with their cycles, I'll fix that too. But like you said, with the cycles, like everybody fucking overthink shit, man. Like they're, and I'm like worried about like DHB and men and all these weird off the wall, you know, rad 141. I'm like, dude, just lift some fucking weights, eat meat and rice, take simple shit, get up and do it day in and day out. And, you know, they're asking me what pre-workout they, they, they, they should take them like, I don't even fucking take a pre-workout. Yeah. And it's don't like, don't worry about the 5% when you don't have the 95% button up. It doesn't fucking matter. Exactly. You know, the osmolarity of your intro workout shake doesn't mean shit if you're, if you're eating McDonald's all day long. Yeah. Or if you're not training hard, training like a pussy. Yeah. Right. So, doesn't mean shit. So, yeah. So you're right. Just train hard, eat right, take simple shit, just be consistent with it. It's really that simple. Yeah. Take your pictures and then you, you compare in a year. And if you're doing those, you're going to see a drastic difference. Right. And like everybody's trying to reinvent the formula, man. You literally look at every goddamn pro bodybuilder. There's really two types of training that pro bodybuilders do. They're either doing a bro split or they're doing a push pull legs routine, probably moderate to higher volume training progressively. They all take the same damn PEDs. It's, you know, test, you know, test base with, you know, some GH, whatever anabolic they like, it's usually either equipoise, prima bole, or whatever. And, and then, you know, maybe some insulin, and then they're all eating meat and rice five, six times a day. That's it. That's the formula. That's it. Yeah. That's it. It's like, we always, you know, we're all, we're all guilty of it. We, we've always wanted like, maybe there's a better rate, maybe there's that shortcut, or maybe there's just a better formula that I'm not doing. And I always just look back to when I started, when I was 14. And, you know, of course, there's the classic, oh, you know, today versus the 90s. It's not really, it doesn't have to be versus this. Look, look, look what those guys were doing with, you know, much less information with much less stuff, with much less exotic stuff. And it's like, that's what worked. Like, that's what worked. That's where we had some of the best era of, you know, this pool of an insane bodybuilders competing against each other. And it's like, we're trying to reinvent the wheel. Like you said, when it's like, why don't we just go back to what worked? I mean, all the guys in the 70s, if you look like from Arnold's era, they weren't even counting macros back then. They were just cleaning. And then they would like, well, you know, we're getting ready for a show. We'll just eat a little less. And then with training, they were all training, all over, training like five days a week, two hours a day. Yeah. And it was just, you know, and then they took debal and deca or whatever. I mean, it was just really basic shit. It wasn't any, in fact, their cycles were pretty stupid back then. And they still made progress. Yeah, that's proof right there. My latest obsession is in the thing that pisses me off. In your example, the hard worker, these people that think they're working too hard, they need to back off and do a little bit less to make progress. I'm like, dude, literally body, bodybuilders are the only people they think they're working too hard. I'm like, don't worry about overtraining until you fucking overtrained. I don't, I don't know about you, man. I go into the gym. I don't see anybody. It's overtraining. Yeah, you'll know. Very few overtraining. You'll know. You'll know. I've done it before. Yeah. I've done it before. I literally dug myself into a hole in contest prep one time, where I remember it distinctly, man, I went in and I was warming up on the Lake Press. I put three plates, or I think it was two plates actually on both sides of the Lake Press, and I couldn't even move that. I'm like, oh fuck. Like my legs just would not fire. Yeah. They just would not fire. And I'm like, yeah, that's when you're overtrained. Yeah, 100%. 100% like you're gonna go right away. Yeah, you'll know. You'll know. So I don't know. I don't see many people that are at risk of doing too much in life in anything. Yeah. Yeah, 100%. I think most of us are, hold ourselves to such a high standard that we're pissed off if we left a rep in the tank, or you look back at the workout, and you're like, why didn't I do this? Why, I could have done more. Well, I mean, have you heard Ronnie Coleman talk? They asked him what his biggest regret is. He's like, I should have lifted more. He should have done more. Should have done more. I'm like, dude, I'm sick of wheelchair, and he's saying I should have done more. Yeah. So that's the type of attitude that wins. I don't know. That's mentality is a big part of it too. I just don't understand people that have ass shit. Yeah, it doesn't make sense. I've been all in, in everything that I've wanted to be successful at, I've always been all in 100%. Well, you know, from being successful in bodybuilding and crafting that work ethic and that drive, that translates well to business too. 100%. Like I said, I have this business. This is my main income, and I do phone sales during the day. I don't have to. I do it because I love it. I just love it. It's funny because I can tell you, Paul, all my best months business-wise, they've all been, when I've been in contest prep, like deep into prep. I tell people this all the time, like my productivity goes through the roof when I'm on contest prep. Yeah. You're just like in the zone. You like, you don't let anything slide. It's just, I love being in prep. I do too. It's my, I know a lot of people dread it, but it's my favorite part. Actually, it's the offseason I dread when I'm pushing food and feeling tired and fat. But yeah, I have the same effect too, man. I get the most done when I'm on prep. I'm more productive with work. I just, everything clicks better when I'm, maybe it's all the stimulants. Yeah. I mean, part of it, but I don't know. But really, I don't run much of anything. I get lean pretty easy. I just a little bit of, just a tiny little, like right now, I mean, I'm running 20 micrograms of Clem View to all. I mean, that's just like, that's like a bikini girls run more than that. Yeah. And a little bit of over the counter fat burners. Nothing, nothing crazy. I just lose fat easily. I don't know why, but that's good though. I feel bad for some of my clients of making do an hour cardio and almost zero carbs. And here I am over here still eating a shit ton and barely doing it. That's a good prep, man. Definitely. Yeah. I have the opposite problem. I have a hard time hanging on the muscle. It's my issue. Yep. It's the stomach issues. All right, man. I got to wrap this up speaking of eating. It's time for me to eat. And then I got to get going to the gym here soon and get my contest prep workout in. They haven't gotten shitty yet. So I'm still having good workouts. I know the shitty workouts are coming. Yeah, man. You got to make it, you know, make the bulls out of all these sessions before it gets challenging. You know that last month sucks. Yeah, I hear that. Is there anything you want to promote Chris? Where can people get a hold of you for coaching? Yeah. So my Instagram Chris Santamaria 198 and then my website team crushing limits.com. It's got a bunch of, you know, client before and after it has pretty much my whole story about IBS overcoming colitis, the whole battle and everything. That's awesome, dude. And I'll put all the contact information in the video description people. So if you want to get a hold of Chris, you can do it there. If you have a stomach issue, Chris might be the man to help you out. Yes, sir. Thank you for watching and thank you for being on with Chris. Yeah, appreciate you having me, man. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.