 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. People don't believe, I posted a video about Dorian Cycle, people don't believe. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, he was using like, like, like, like less than a gram and a half, I think total, like something like 750 tests. I think he was taking three, three CCs of sustenant a week. I think what I read, it was like test primo and dbol. I think that's what he ran. Yeah, it's, it's funny because until Fulad came out with RBP in 2018 or 2019, whenever it was, and his goal with RBP was let's have real pros on here, talking about their cycles, so people don't listen to Tony huge. Yeah. That Fulad's whole business model was based on, we have to do something to prevent people from following Tony huge because Tony huge is the only one actually telling people anything. And people believe Tony huge. So they're going to kill themselves. Yeah. So like Fulad's whole media empire was built on a way the idea of altruistically protecting mankind from Tony huge. Yeah, that's awesome. I read his stuff was, was, was really good. I mean, that's, I mean, it's the, it's was the best out there at the time. And now it's never now, no matter who he has on, they never actually go through the X's and O's as he calls it. What is your training? How many of this, how many of this, how many of this, what's your diet? What's your cycle? That was the whole premise of RBP is getting different pros on and having them go through. What are you doing training nutrition and that end cycle. And now no one does it. They talk about, and it's kind of like a fluid interview about the person. They never get to the nuts and bolts that lets you actually matrix it out and say, out of these top 10 bodybuilders at the Olympia, eight out of 10 of them are using 80% identical cycles. Eight out of 10 of them are using 80% identical diets. Eight out of 10 of them are using 80% identical training. So that if you were to amalgam these training, nutrition and diet out of all of these people and average it all out, you would have a 60% accurate Olympia prep. You know, I mean, people always get disappointed to hear what, what the top guys are taking. It's, you know, you know, as well as I do, it's not what they think. It's usually just basic shit. It's no different that everyone's seen Dave Palumbo's offseason program. And everyone's seen the basic cut program. So for those of you watching, this is not an endorsement. This is for educational purposes only, but the typical pro bodybuilder uses less than the typical amateur. Yep. Because they have smarter coaches and they're genetically gifted. They don't need it. And they have the blood work to know that they're in danger if they overdo this. Luckily, since Fouad's podcast and the British coaches have bastardized the black model and then mass produced it. Everyone's on a safer path than ever before. But for the most part, the old way was 750 test 600 EQ. And that's pretty much it with some GH usually between four and eight units of GH. Now modern is to use Primo is use maybe 400 tests and anywhere from 1000 to 1500 a Primo or a blend of Primo and master up and a four to six units of GH. It's more moderate than before. The cut cycles used to be 350 a week test, 350 a week trend, 350 a week masteron 350 a week, wind straw, and a month out, you drop the test. That's it. And that's pretty much it. And when I say 350 a week, they say 100 every other day. I always think it's smarter to go 50 a day. That's it. That's it. Yeah. So a very simple way of doing this would be 75 tests or 60 tests every day. And basically 100 to 200 of DHT every day in the offseason, using four to six units of GH a day. And then before prep, you're using basically 50 a day of anandrolone, basically trend, which I think is too much, but I'm saying that's the old way of doing it. I think a safer way of doing it would be 10 milligrams a day of trend, 10 milligrams a day of trend, probably 20 to 50 milligrams a day of anandvar, depending on how close you are to the show. And probably about 50 to 100 a day worth of a DHT. And that's pretty much it. It doesn't need to be more complicated than that. And then the idea would be you started almost nothing and you ramp up throughout the offseason until you start to fry something. Or if you happen to know your ceiling doses, you get up close to your ceiling dose without exceeding your ceiling dose. And then you cool off, go through recovery phase. And then when the recovery phase is done and you've washed off the fatigue and inflammation, you start your contest prep and you start ramping up again on short esters until the show. And then after the show, you go through the recovery phase until your blood markers are good. And then you start your next offseason. So it might be six months of build a month of cool off, four months of cut a month of cool off, and then you're out of the next year. That's exactly how I do it. It's a very simple periodization, six of grow a month, cool off, four months of cut a month, cool off. Exactly what I do, man. And pretty similar stuff. So you figure out what your maintenance volume is, the minimum amount of volume you need to hang onto tissue. You run maintenance volume in your cool off phases. Yep. You run double maintenance volume in your growth phase, ramping up to triple maintenance volume with frequent deloads. And then for your cutting phase, you run one and a half times your maintenance volume. So the tier is you use the least amount of gear and the least amount of volume when you're maintaining. Then the next phase is more gear and one and a half times the volume while you're cutting. And then the most is the most amount of gear that you can use without hurting yourself in any way, plus double your volume or triple your volume of your maintenance in your grow phase. I mean, that's almost to a T what I do, Todd. And you use intensity modifiers on the third or fourth week or fifth week of the mesocycle in your growth phase. And then you deal up. So you'll do like, let's say you're doing two sets for this body part twice a week. Then week two is three sets for the body part twice a week. Then week three is four sets for that body work, body part twice a week. Then you go up to four sets with an intensity modifier, like a forced rep or a drop set or a rest pause and the final set twice a week. And then by that point, you should deload. And the deload is one set. So you really when you look at the deload is the first week, the zero week, you go one set, two set, three set, four set, intensity modifier on the fourth set, deload. And that's exactly what I do. That's the RP model. Right. Exactly. That is the RP model. Dr. Mike Isretel is the one who started this. And he, I don't, it seems so clear cut. It's very hard to do, but it's very easy to program. Once you're actually in it, you're going to want to auto regulate. And the difference between this, the DC training that people like Dante had grew DC training out of Dorian. And what I've noticed is I gained strength with DC training and I was also frequently injured and I was spending $600 a month on massages with RP training. I'm never, I'm not as strong, but I'm never hurt. And I don't have to spend any money on massages. Yeah. That's a hundred percent, man. I was always fucking beat up when I was doing a hit style training, constantly hurt my elbows, my arm and my shoulders, everything. I don't, this RP style. I've grown like crazy on it. And I, and I'm using less intensity. Um, and it just, it just works so much better. Right. Um, quality of life is higher too. I don't see any difference in the growth rate. I grow in so incredibly slow, low. I can't actually track changes in my growth rate. I noticed strength progress is lower, but my quality of life is better. I'm not in pain going up and down the stairs for 10 months straight. I'm in no pain going up and down the stairs or maybe one day after hatch squats, my knee would hurt. Yeah. Yeah. That's the best my joints have ever felt. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, maybe this is because I'm old, like that. I basically did the D Y style training for 10 years. And then when I'm in my, when I was 42, I started getting hurt. So I'm frequently enough to where I spent more time of a year in injury and the last time productive. So it no longer was worth the squeeze. And I had to switch to RP style volume training, but doing RP volume training, I'm almost never hurt. I'm just trying to prepare for this stuff. I'm just trying to prepare for this stuff. I'm just trying to prepare for this stuff. I'm just trying to prepare for this stuff. I'm just trying to prepare for this stuff. I'm just trying to prepare for this stuff. I'm just trying to prepare for this stuff. I'm just trying to prepare for this stuff. I'm just trying to prepare for this stuff. I'm just trying to prepare for this stuff. I'm just trying to prepare for this stuff.