 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here. Today I've got a good one for you. This is a IFBB Pros female physique competitor, her off-season cycle, what she takes. This was told to me first-hand, so this is not hearsay, it's from the horse's mouth. Um, exactly what she's taking, um, I promise to keep her anonymous, so I'm not gonna reveal who she is, but this will give you some insight on what a female competitor takes in the off-season atop Olympian, uh, that is. And I am going to apologize, I'm probably sweaty, nasty looking, my air conditioner is broken, it is 100 degrees in my house right now, but I'm recording videos anyway. Fuck it. Alright guys, we're gonna get into it in just one second. Alright, so this female women's physique competitor, obviously female, she's a women's physique competitor. Um, uh, she is a top competitor. She is fairly large. Um, I think she goes like 180, 190 in the off-season. She's a big gal, strong. Um, I, I, I learned first-hand what her off-season cycle looks like. Um, she, she's one of the top competitors there in the IFBB. Um, and she, um, evidently takes 700 milligrams of primabolin, 50 milligrams of anivar every day, and, um, and four units, four to six units of GH in the off-season. So, her off-season cycle, 700 milligrams of primabolin per week, 100 milligrams a day, according, according to her. 50 milligrams of anivar every day. every day and then four to six units of gh that is her offseason um cycle for size that's what that's what she's doing in the offseason um she said occasionally you know she said she had messed around with putting a little bit of testosterone in there with it before uh but has not done that recently um so i mean that's a pretty healthy cycle that's that's a gram of gear per week uh it's more than a lot of dudes take uh but primobolin you know women are hypersensitive to aases and so um you know while primobolin is considered to be one of the mild or even the mildest uh anabolic you can use it that is still a lot of gear for a woman um i i'm i'm not you know intimately familiar with what female pros are taking i know more about amateurs recreational uh lifters gym gym lifters but i you know this was the first i've ever really discussed with someone close um you know you know someone tied into the ifbb with a female competitor takes now i don't know if that's typical i don't know you know somebody who knows more about the stuff than me i'm i'm not tuned in to the female competitors like i am with the guys um i need to get someone on here who's an expert on female competitors to talk it's it's been hard i've been trying to find somebody um the coaches there's only a handful of coaches that work with the top female competitors and they are very guarded and keep things close to the close to the vest uh about what female competitors take which i get i mean they've got a corner on a unique training market and they probably are making a ton of money so they don't want to give away give away the gold um but i don't know that seemed like a lot to me uh you know that that sounds like a dude taking you know three grams of gear but you know maybe that's what with the top top female competitors are taking in offseason and she's taking that much in the offseason it's probably way more for contest prep we didn't talk about contest prep um you know i from what i understand a lot of i well i talked to another female competitor um who told me that she uses train on contest prep which kind of blew me away i i didn't i never thought that females used train on contest prep that one kind of blew me away but uh this was not the same competitor but i did talk to another one who didn't use quite as much as this lady did but uh she said that she was running um 30 milligrams of trend every i think it was 30 yeah 33 milligrams of trend every other day um for contest prep which is i was running 50. um so yeah i would think trend would probably be too androgenic for a woman to run without any sort of masculinization issues but i guess you know if you don't care fuck it right go for it to each his own um primobolin should be fairly mild on the masculinization issues but at 700 milligrams i mean it's still it still has some um androgenic properties to it so i would i would imagine at 700 milligrams you're still going to see some masculinization and with with the um nanobar stacked on top of it so i i would imagine that that would still have some masculinization effects on a woman but anyway guys that's all i got on this one i thought i'd share this one with you um this is the first i've actually talked to someone firsthand actually to someone's firsthand about um ifbb pro female competitors cycles but this is people have been asking me to talk about this and i've been trying to try and for months to get somebody to talk to me and i finally did uh but anyway the the i found this to be interesting uh if you have questions or comments or you know of any female competitors what they're taking uh or you are a female competitor i actually would like to hear from you if you're a female competitor i i'll keep you anonymous um if you want to talk to me i'd be interested to hear what you're taking uh but anyway if you have questions or comments put them in the comments section below i appreciate each and every one of you thank you for coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today i can help you with optimizing hormones fat loss muscle gain physique athletic performance nutrition and health for more information shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com