 warning, aromasin,omedical, naringin,omedical, naringin,omedical, naringin,omedical, naringin, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition, battle-tested, expert-formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, folks, Big Paul here with IFBB Pro Bodybuilder, Andrea Sauer. What's up, Andrea? Hello! Thanks for having me on, finally! I know. It's been a while in the making. I haven't been able to fit you in, or just, I just haven't gotten to it. Uh-oh. Better late than never. Yeah, I know, I know. We finally got you on. So we just finished up competition season. We had two shows. We did the Vancouver and the New York Pro. It was fun getting up there to the New York Pro with you. That was my first time at a show, pro show as a coach. So that was a really cool experience. Yes, it was the first time I got to meet you in person. So that was awesome having you there. Thank you so much for the support. Well, you did fantastic. I can't believe how long the day is for the pro shows. Oh, my God. That is a long day. I'm used to the local shows that are over quick. Oh, because the NPC shows are even longer out here. The NPC shows are like 12 hours long. Oh, my God. See, they've started this new format here on the East Coast where the show's now like they have all the men in the morning. And they're done by like, you know, one, two in the afternoon. So they do pre-judging and finals all together. And then they do the women in the afternoon. Oh, wow. Yeah, they split it up that way. I think it's a lot better of a way of doing it. Yeah, there's so many people in Southern California that these shows literally go. One of my clients just went to a big show. And, I mean, it starts at like 9. And he didn't even leave and get out of finals until quarter to 10 at night. So they're wicked long. Yeah, and the hard part with all that is maintaining your conditioning through the day. Like, I just don't know how. I don't know. It's almost like they've got to rethink things a little bit because it's like, you know how it goes as the day goes. You start to fade a little bit. Like, I feel sorry for the competitor. Wouldn't these shows go super late? Yeah, with the pro shows, at least we have a better idea of what time we're going on pre-judging the finals. So that's one courtesy that the pros get is at least we know when we're going on so we can be prepared. Yeah, on the amateur shows, it's never like I've had some guys on national shows and like, shit, they don't know what time they're going to go on. It's just like, I've just gotten to the point where I tell people just to pack their food with them and just eat their regular meals. And then we'll just roll with what happens. Yeah. That's kind of what's going on now. But anyway, you know, we definitely learned some stuff. I thought you did fantastic. I looked my best ever, thanks to your help. That's definitely the best I ever looked in New York, but I'm still frustrated because I'm not getting the fullness that I need to be competitive on stage. So I have a smaller – What's up to you in New York? I have a much smaller frame. I'm only 5'3", so my structure is one of the smaller body types on the pro stage. So I always try to do my best with conditioning because I know I don't have the structure to out-muscle a lot of my competitors. So conditioning has always been my thing, but it hasn't rewarded me lately, especially the last two seasons. I have not done well. I keep placing in that 6th to 8th range. I mean, my pro debut, I placed in the top five, but that was my best placing ever, and I'm just really struggling to get back into that top five spot. Well, the thing is, even at that, you're one of the best in the world at what you do. So it's hard to lose perspective. Thank you. For sure. It's easy to lose perspective of that sometimes. Yeah, I agree. In bodybuilding, we're so self-critical about each other. But on that day, you're one of the best in the world. Yeah, and women from all over the world came to that New York pro. I competed against a woman from China. She flew all the way in from China and from the Czech Republic. So, I mean, they really are big shows, and I'm proud to be there. I really wanted the opportunity to step on the New York pro stage because I knew it was one of the bigger main season shows, and it was a great lineup. And I'm not unhappy with my placing at all. I'm just frustrated with the fact that I can't master this peak week protocol. I can't seem to get that fullness that I got, like, the next week when you had me on that rebound. I looked phenomenal in the rebound, and I still look my best ever. Everybody looks better the week after the show. That's the curse. If I could tap into that rebound and still get the dryness and the conditioning on stage, man, I would be unstoppable. The rebound cracks me up. I get a lot of people. There's some coaches and just other people out there that say that the whole rebound thing is not real. I have no idea what you're talking about. I looked my best ever that week. It was just so much fun to eat and train and really enjoy the reward of competing. And that's why I personally enjoy competing is because, like, in order to make those gains, you have to deplete yourself down to such a low state in order to really soak up all those nutrients and gain that quality muscle and fill out. And, man, we made it happen because I'm still reaping the benefits of being depleted and then the rebound. It's just – I've had amazing results on your diet. Yeah, and post-show, that's the thing. And I think that this is the era that a lot of – you know, I see a lot of coaches make and a lot of competitors make. Like, post-show, they pull all their gear out. They think they need to clean out after the show. And then you have a hormonal crash. And then they reverse diet. They slowly increase the food. And those are, like, sort of, in my opinion, the two absolute worst things you can do because you're – if you pull all the gear out, then you're going to have a hormonal crash. You're just going to gain a bunch of fat. And you're also – you're going to have this giant estrogen rebound where you're just going to be hungry and bloated. And then you end up cheating anyway because you're not pushing your calories high enough. In my opinion, why not take advantage of it when you're at your – your appetite's going to be the best. It's going to be all year because, you know, as you get in the off-season, it gets really fucking hard to eat sometimes. Yes, we pushed the food this off-season. Oh, yeah. And then after a while, you just don't want to eat. And that's where I'm at right now. And then your insulin sensitivity is high. And then your motivation to train is super high after a show because you feel so good. I had the time in my life. It was the first time I've ever had, like, a set plan post-competition. So that was very pleasurable to just know that I have a program to stick to. So I never really went crazy that following week because I stuck to your rebound plan. And I enjoyed the carbs. I mean, it was – every day was a high-carb day. And then I really only did, like, two cheat meals during that week. I had – Monday I did a cheat meal that night. And I had one other cheat meal, like, Thursday night just because I was so full from all the carbs that, you know, I didn't even really want a cheat meal. But I got two of them in that were delicious. And I just – I really enjoyed the carbs, just eating the clean carbs and just filling out and training hard. I had so much motivation and dedication to continue with cardio. I'm still doing a minimum of 45 minutes of cardio daily just to stay lean and reap these benefits because it's been a joy. Training again, five weeks post-show now. And it's just – this is the first time where it doesn't feel like a job. I'm just really enjoying bodybuilding again. And that passion has, like, come to the surface where it's just – I have more motivation and dedication than ever now. It's ironic. I just – I don't know. I just don't like preps because I get so depleted. I mean, nobody likes preps because you're starving and cranky and tired. And I don't know. I just had a really tough prep this season with injuries and illness where it was just miserable. It was just really, really hard. This was definitely the most challenging prep I've ever had. And it showed in the Vancouver, you know, because I just wasn't able to do the cardio that I wanted or needed to bring in that kind of conditioning. But I still would have done it all over again just to get these rewards from the rebound because, man, I look my best ever now. And it shows. Yeah, I tell you, people don't understand the benefit of the rebound and how good you look post-show and just, you know, how crazy full you get after the show. Man, you battled through some stuff. I tell you what. You are one of the toughest people I work with. You are no complaints. Thank you. And you just keep battling through stuff. Like, there were several times I felt bad for you. I'm like, oh, maybe we should. There was no giving up. You were not pulling out. You were not giving up. But, I mean, you're. When I say I'm going to do something, I'm going to do it, especially when it comes to shows. I don't care. I went and learned how to swim because I couldn't do my dang cardio from my foot injury. I mean, so I was swimming. Which was the hardest thing I've ever done in my life to try to learn how to, like, professionally swim in these lap pools. I hated it. It was awful. Well, that's something I tell people. Like, they get, you know, and that's a lesson you can learn from for anything, for bodybuilding business or whatever. But shit doesn't always go according to plan. And you just got to adapt and figure out a way through and just get yourself to the finish line. You definitely did that. And no complaints, no deviations on the diet. You were a warrior and battled through some stuff. For sure. Thank you. I had an amazing coach. And I've just always been super dedicated, consistent, and persistent when it comes to competing. You know, if I'm going to say I'm doing a show, I'm going to do it. Even though I didn't show up as conditioned as I would have liked to be in Vancouver. I mean, I barely even made it there. The travel conditionings were so chaotic. I barely even made it to the island. And so there were so many complications going into the Vancouver. By the time I got back into the States and I knew I had like three or four weeks before the New York, we just went balls to the wall. And I was grinding harder than ever. And in three weeks, I think I gained, I lost 10 or 12 pounds in those three weeks between the two shows. Yeah, you really pushed it hard. Yeah. Before we came on, we were talking about your DEXA scan. You're one of the rare exceptions of people that actually gain muscle on prep. You came out with seven pounds more tissue than you started. That was pretty insane. On a diet. On a diet. This is before Vancouver. I got a DEXA scan before I left. And my body fat was around 8%. But I had gained seven pounds of lean tissue. So I was thrilled about that. I wonder where you were probably, I would guess you had to been close to 5% on the New York Pro. That's where I usually land anywhere between five or six when I've gotten DEXs in the previous seasons. My last show in 21, the DEXA read 5%. So I usually get much, much leaner than my competitors. But it's not rewarding me anymore for some reason. I'm just not able to stack up against these bigger, fuller women. And that's okay. You know, it's just, that's the way, that's the way it goes sometimes. You show up, you don't know who's going to be there. And, you know, it wasn't in my favor this time at the New York. And that's okay. I'm still very pleased with my look. I'm extremely happy with my performance. It was a great experience. I loved having you there. My family showed up from Massachusetts. So the whole day was just amazing. And I had an awesome time. It's funny that, you know, how, you know, it's crazy how big some of those girls are. Because you are not small. You're short. But you said the first time we met, you're like, you're a lot bigger than I. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I get the same thing too. People are like, holy crap, you're bigger than I thought you were. But, yeah, the pictures don't translate it well. You carry a lot of muscle in that small frame. For my height, I do. You know, especially in the offseason, we got up to like 183. Yeah, what are you, 5'2"? Last year, 5'3". 5'3". I was still pretty lean in the offseason. But, you know, I usually get up to about 183 in the offseason. Yeah. And you were at what stage? What were we at? 150 something? So New York, I was 148. 148. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I mean, that's a lot on your frame. I mean, pounds per inch. And it was a lot to lose. That's why I'm trying not to go through all that again. Because it's just, it's not as easy to get those glutes and hamstrings to come in when you're battling, you know, a 30-pound weight loss. Well, the bigger you get in the offseason, or the fatter you get in the offseason, the more you got to work on prep to get it off. So there is that. But, I mean, sometimes you have to trade a little bit of fat to gain some muscle. I mean, it's just how it is. But you can keep it tighter. I mean, that's kind of the premise with the whole carb cycling thing is, you know, we do mix in the low days. We do keep some cardio going in the offseason to try to keep you tighter. And we keep the fats relatively low. I love the carb cycling. So if there's one plug that I can give you, Paul, is hire him because the carb cycling is magical. I've never done carb cycling on a prep or, like, ever. Not as structured as this was. And it works miracles, I'm telling you. It makes your prep more pleasurable. And you just make way better gains. I honestly think that's why I was able to gain seven pounds on a diet. Because, one, you know, I do train very hard. My training is very intense. I learned from Dorian Yates, who is very known for his intensity. But it's a combination of everything, as you know. Training, diet, you know, cardio plays a minimal part. That's more when it comes to body fat. But the training and the diet is honestly what I think led me to be able to gain seven pounds on a diet with no trend. So you can say all you want about, oh, it's PEDs. It's because she's on drugs. But it's way more than that. I'm telling you. The carb cycling is magical. And you need to hire this guy just so that he can put you on this magical diet. Because my training never really changed. I'm still doing the same routine that he provided for me back in September, last September, when we started the offseason. My training is still the same. You know, the sets and the reps may be different. But for the most part, you know, the exercises and the days are pretty much the same. I haven't really changed anything there. I love the routine. It works very well, especially as I continue to age. You know, it's a lot easier on the injuries. So you just can't do that super heavy lifting anymore. No, I can't do it anymore either. The carb cycling, though, is magic. I see it all the time with people. Like, I'll get people that come to me. And literally, we change nothing with the PEDs and whatnot. And we start carb cycling and their bodies just transform. It works fantastic. I wish I could take credit for it. But it's, you know, a lot of it. I don't know that Justin invented it. But he's definitely the guy that perfected it, Justin Harris. And it just makes it so much more enjoyable. One, usually every day was the same on my diet. It's usually going into a show. It's like every day is the same. No carbs, no carbs, no carbs. And I mean, at least like with this, even now, I still have, you know, something to look forward to. I have one high carb day a week. And it's just something to look forward to. So the fact that it's like constantly evolving and changing and you have your low days and your medium days and that one high day, it just, the variety of it really keeps you motivated and changing. And just, you got to have something to look forward to in the sport. You need some kind of reward. And that's why everybody has a cheat meal or does a cheat meal because it's just, you need to have some kind of reward in the system for it to work consistently over decades. Like I've been doing it. I've been competing for 15 years now. And I would like to say that I think I'm done, but you just never know. I don't know. I got to see how I feel next year. Every bodybuilder I've seen, every show is their last show. Not me. This prep was so hard and miserable, Paul, that I'm honest, I was telling Rob this morning, I was just like, I'm enjoying this way too much right now. Like I am in the prime of my bodybuilding career now, in the present. And like I'm enjoying this so much that I said to him, why do I want to put myself back in that miserable state? You know, I'm just having too much fun with this now where I don't want to lose this feeling because it feels so good. Yeah. And that's the thing. Like with bodybuilding, it's a sport. You know, this is something that's really cool with bodybuilding. You don't peak until later. It's not like football or any other sport where you're done in your mid-30s. We don't peak in bodybuilding until our 40s. I agree. You're getting into your prime years right now. I'm definitely peaking now because I've never looked this good. It's amazing. I can't believe I've been able to maintain this kind of conditioning and stay this lean five weeks post-show. Usually my hormones just, the estrogen just spikes and I'm just fat like most female competitors are after a show. They just binge eat. They don't do cardio. They, you know, I used to always fall into a depression post-show. And I don't think it was because I was like lost. I just think it was the hormones that once that estrogen comes back, you're like so overwhelmed with depression that it's hard to train. And, you know, I've been there where it's like I don't even want to work out. But not this time. I've been like, like I said, more motivated and dedicated than ever to my training, my diet, and the cardio now. I don't know if it was the eighth place I got in New York or just the fact that the rebound was so awesome. I'm just keeping that ball rolling. Yeah. Yeah. And I think that's a huge mistake that people make. Like I said, post-show is pulling, pulling the hormones, you know, the reverse diet thing. I mean, you can, you can, you don't have to take as much. You just get rid of the toxic shit. Like, you know, you don't need to take trend. You don't need to pound the orals and stuff. You can just run something clean like Prima Bolan after a show just to keep your hormones in check. And you'll make the, you'll make the best progress of your life. I've seen it over and over and over and over again. I believe you because this truly is the best I've ever looked. And I feel amazing, which is more important. I feel so good that I'm, I'm getting up like all hours of the night to eat. And like, I would have never, never done that before now. Like all my high days, I look forward to them so much that I'm getting up at like three in the morning to start eating. And then I get up again at six to eat. And it's like, you know, you got to start early to get all those carbs in. So the earlier I start, it's like the better the day ends. And then I can go to bed at a decent hour. And it's just, it's fun. It's, it's pleasurable. I wish I was that motivated to eat right now. I'm dreading every meal. I'm having to eat. I never was before, but now. You know, and especially after starving for nine months, you're just like, man, feed me all the carbs. The whole, the whole carb, higher carb approach is interesting too. And this is another thing that, that always baffles me with people. Like they don't eat. A lot of people truly don't eat enough carbs to fill out. And it's, it's just like, it's mind numbing. I see a lot of people with the diets. This is a pet peeve of mine. And they have too much fat in the diet and not enough carbs. And really when you logically just take a step back and think about how muscles work, they run off of glycogen glucose, which is carbohydrates. Right. And glucose is what makes you look full. If you want to look full, you want to have the big round full look with muscles. You know, this is another thing too. Like I hear people talk about all the time, you know, more protein, more protein. When you actually take a step back and see what a muscle is actually made of, it's only, only about 25% of the muscle is actual protein structures. The rest of it's, rest of it's water. You know, and all the other stuff, the, the sarcoplasmic tissue that's, that's there. And, and with, with, you know, eating more carbohydrates, you're going to pull more water into the muscle. So if, if I recall correctly, it's one part carbohydrates, three parts water. So it's, it's, if you want that big full look, you want to perform well in the gym, you have to eat carbs. It just blows my mind that people do not, have not figured that out. A lot of, a lot of people haven't figured that out by now. Yeah. I mean, you definitely taught me the art of bodybuilding is keeping the muscles full because I never experienced that until I started this carb cycling diet. And it's, it's true. It's like the muscles have to stay full in order to achieve that roundness. So you've got to have that high, at least one high day to fill up your tanks. Because I noticed like after my high days, yeah, my weight skyrockets. But then two days later, I'm back down to, um, my goal is to stay within 15 pounds of my stage weight. And I'm right back in that range this morning, you know, and it just takes a couple of days to lose the water. And I'm like right back to my peak and looking my best, but the muscles are always full and round because of that one high day. And so it's that three, 3d look that they talk about. You can people talk about chasing all the time. Now there are some people that are just freaks of nature that stay full looking all the time. Um, it just baffles me how they can do it, but they're, they're, I've seen them there, but they're, they're anomalies. They're rare for most people. They need to pound the carbohydrates to keep that full look. Yeah. I think there's just a lot of bodybuilders that are afraid of carbs, even, you know, men, I'm sure you've really pushed the carbs up there and way more than what they've ever consumed. And they look their best from it. Yep. Yeah, they do. And the other, the other benefit of it too, is you actually get your metabolism ramped up too. It's almost like shoveling coal on a fire. Yeah. Um, I'm sure you've seen it post show. Your metabolism is probably running the hottest it's ever run. It just the, I was just sweating, eating my post-workout meal. It's just the, the post-workout meal. I start sweating. Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty wild. Because it's higher carb than the rest of the day on my medium days. So yeah, I, I'm a sweater. I, when I, once I eat those higher carb meals, I just start sweating instantly. Yep. Yeah. And that's your metabolism spinning up. It's, it's really interesting how, how it works. Um, I wish they would do, you know, there was some more scientific. There's some scientific studies and data on it, but there really isn't. It's just, you know, sort of bro science. And yeah, we have learned from experimenting with things, but, uh, it's, it, it, it works. It just, it just does. And yeah, everybody wants it to be the PEDs. I mean, I'm not saying the PEDs don't work, but you're not even leveraging the PEDs properly if you're not eating the food to go with it. So, you know, so it, I mean, you've experienced it before. On my high carb days, you know, that's one of the reasons why I'm waking up is because I'm freaking starving. Once I get that first high carb meal in, even when I do go back to sleep, I wake up starving. So like, especially that week post show, I was like ravenous. Just the more carbs I ate, the hungrier I got in the leaner I was in more vascular. I am now, even still today because of it. I think this picture, this is recent, right? Um, I wish I had a good one of you, but this is, this was just a couple of days ago, right? That was when I was back home. That was, um, that was the, the, uh, the week of my, um, rebound. Oh, I can't see. It was like three. See, I'm trying to. That was actually my second cheat meal of that week. I went to drostanolone back home that I have been dying to try and I had a phenomenal meal. This was yesterday. Yeah. Yeah. The legs are still, like how vascular legs are still hard. That was yesterday. Yep. Yeah. They're still, still really vascular, but yeah, it's, it's wild. How am I going to. Ab veins, my ab veins are still visible. It's crazy. I've never been able to hold on to this, this long, you know, five weeks post show. It's just been like a huge reward because like I said, usually I'm fat and I look bloated and I'm depressed and this has been the opposite. And that's why I'm just grateful to have done a prep with you, but also to have competed, even though I didn't place where I would have liked to, but just doing all that hard work for the shows enabled me to have this look now and which is priceless. And so I would go through all that all over again just to get this present look now. Well, that'll catapult you. If you want to do more shows, that'll catapult you into other shows that this is the thing. Like I think young competitors, I think this is a mistake that young competitors make. You get these people that are, that never want to compete because they're worried about not being ready for it. I think this process of going through, it's like competing, depleting yourself and then doing a rebound after shows, you come back better each time. And you have that window of progress after post show where you can just make a shit ton of progress. And like people that never compete don't ever experience that or never get truly shredded. They never experienced that. They just kind of get stuck in mediocrity. I see it all the time with people that come to me or I see it in the gym. Like these people that just, they take, they'll take a shit ton of gear and they never progress. And it's because they never, never have set the stage for progress. Well, you have way more clients than I do, but I have one bodybuilding client that I just threw up on. I mean, we did a full like nine month prep for his first bodybuilding show. And it was just a local show on muscle beach. And it was awesome. It was fun. And he, he won, he won the novice and he, he took second in the open for his first time ever competing. The, the, the progress we've made just post show. It's like, he's, he looks amazing. He was like, I always wanted to look like a bodybuilder. And now I actually do, even before we did the show, like he was just really fat. He was just a, he had a dad bod and he was just super fat. And, you know, we worked on just building muscle in the offseason and then we dieted him down and depleted him for the show. And now he just looks amazing. He looks his best ever. He's probably never going to compete again. He doesn't care because he just looks like he's always wanting to look and he's super happy with the results. Yeah. And I'll do this with people that are not competitors. I, you know, something, you know, for show, yeah, just do a mock prep. I mean, you don't have to get, you know, 5% shredded, but if you get down below, you know, 10, um, that's good enough to, to catch a small rebound. Of course, the leaner you get, the better the rebound is going to be. That's just what I've seen. But I mean, if you think about it, it's, uh, you have a runway of, of, of gaining my, I mean, you're always going to gain a little bit of body fat when you put on muscle. It's just how it goes. But if you keep your saturated fats low and your carbs high, um, you can minimize that. And then on top of it, uh, if you toss in being super lean. So for example, if you're 5% body fat and you gain 5%, you're still 10% body fat. You know, so, you know, if you over, over a 10 or a 12 week period of time, you've got a lot of runway. Whereas like, if you're already, I'll get people come to me, they're already 20%. Yeah. I mean, we don't, we don't want to push you up to 25 or 30. That's going to be damn near impossible to get lean from. That's not within striking distance. Right. So, um, and there's also this thing too, you may or may not know about, uh, called the P ratio. They've done studies and whatnot. I, you know, some people buy into it. Others don't, but the, the leaner that you are, the more, the higher percentage of tissue that you gain when you start gaining is actually lean tissue versus body fat. So essentially the higher your body fat gets, the more body fat that you gain. The higher the lean tissue it gets. I mean like, so, so like if you start bulking at 25%, you know, it might be something like 70% of the weight that you gain is actually fat, not muscle. Whereas it's, it's flipped written in reverse, where if you're at 5%, it's probably 70, 30, the other direction. Okay. I'm throwing out arbitrary numbers here. I don't know the exact numbers. No, it makes sense now. Yeah, I get it. But that's what I've seen. They, there, you hit a certain body fat percentage for men. It's somewhere around 12 to 15% that you start, you get to a point where you just can't, you just start gaining more fat. Women, it's probably over 20%. Yeah. Not every woman's ripped like you. You're uncommon. It's not easy. Let me tell you. But I will say this with women, I don't think we need to add fat. Like I, that's the only thing I don't follow on your diet. I don't add the fats into there because with women, I feel like it's just, we hold onto the fat and I feel like the fat that's in the meats are enough. Like I used to only do 99% lean ground turkey on a prep, but now I'm doing like 93, seven. I'm like, wow, this is freaking good. But you know, because that fat content is already so high in six ounces of protein, that's good enough for me. Like that's all I'm going to do for fats because as a woman, we just hold onto those fats and we just store them more than men do. So that's one thing I've noticed throughout my whole career is like women, we need to stay away from fats period. Whether you're on a prep or bulging or whatever, the more fat you can stay away from, the leaner you're going to stay. If you do add the fats, which you can, I just feel like it causes your body fat to significantly increase. Whereas if you try to stay away from the fats, even though they're healthy fats or good fats, women just store it differently than men. Men, it's like, poof, it just goes into muscle and fullness. But it's like with women, we carry it from, you know, belly button to knees. That's where we carry our fat and it just, yeah, it's, it's hormonal. Women are at a hormonal disadvantage when it comes to fat loss. It's really tough. Yeah. It's really hard to lose. You need a little bit of fat for vitamin, um, up, you know, you need some EFAs for vitamin up and nutrient transport, but you don't need a ton. Not as much as what people think. Honestly, it's just a few grams a day. Probably. I pound really good quality fish oils. I take my evening trim rose oils. You know, I, I love all the, all that stuff, but, uh, I just think. Yeah. You don't. I've actually been pushing my fats even lower lately. I, I, I've, I've been, I feel better. I feel like I digest my food better. Um, I don't digest them well. I never have been able to, I can't digest peanut butter. I can't digest like egg yolks. I can't digest fat. I've never been able to break them down. Yeah. They upset my stomach. I'll have, I'll keep some in just a little bit for, like I said, for health. I, the people, what people get freaked out though is for, because they say, you know, there, there is a certain amount of fat needed for hormone production, but in our community, we were getting our hormones from a needle. So, you know, it's not like, it's not like we need fats. I just feel like there's so many hidden, hidden fats in our foods that people don't realize, like cooking oils, even, you know, even the spray, if you're just using a spray to coat the pan, like those are fats, you know, you're, you're, you're consuming a lot more. Foods have fats in them, you know? So even when you're doing oatmeal, like you're getting fats in there, there's just so many hidden fats in our food already that if women try to just really dial the fat down and keep it at a minimum, you're going to get leaner by not even trying. What's also too, like with the meats, like this is another thing that people don't know when they see 99% fat free, it's not like they're making the chicken or turkey in a lab. So it's, you know, uh, and Justin talks about this all the time. I'll paraphrase what he, he's told me, but, um, you know, uh, the, the turkey that you, that 99% grown turkey that you eat turkey, all turkeys have different body fat percentages, just like people. So it's, it's, it's an average. Down to the nitty gritty details. Now you're really. Well, I mean, when you think about it, I mean, it's like, I, I had, you know, my, my training partner, he used to work in a butcher shop and he's like, you know how it told me, he's like, Paul, you know how we tell if the beef is 93, seven or 80, 20. And I'm like, I'm like, how? And he goes, we hold it in hand and look at it. And like, that looks like 93, seven. That looks like 80, 20. So it's not like, it's not like there's some science to it. So, but usually what I tell people is just try to get the leanest cut of meat that they can get and limit, limit, limit their fats. I agree. Because when you're doing six ounces of it, you know, sometimes you're doing the ground. I know at least I do ground turkey at least like three or four times a day. You know, it all adds up at the end of the day. Man, I don't know how you do the ground turkey. I, I, I, I can't stand it. The 93, seven is really good compared to the 99 that I've. Yeah, the 93, seven is not bad. The 93, seven is delicious. I primarily do, um, uh, chicken, cod and, and I'll do a little bit of ground beef here and there. Uh, but that's pretty much all I eat as far as protein goes anymore. Really? Yeah. I'm, I'm Mr. Boring with my food. People make fun of my food. I don't even season my shit. I just put salt on it and that's it. Yeah, I do too. But I just, I stopped eating the ground beef. I was doing the ground beef like during the rebound and. When I was at home, I was getting the grass fed beef. And I, when I came back to LA, I was eating it too, but it's just, I don't know. After a few weeks of it, I'm just like, I'm, I'm over the, the ground beef. I don't know. I just don't, again, I just don't digest it. Well, I prefer. Yeah. I do way better. I'm just chicken and turkey. So that's. Pretty much. Yeah. All I consume. Ground beef is harder to digest. So like what I'll do, my trick with the ground beef is I'll make it my last meal. Okay. Um, it is slower digesting. So like if you want to sustain, um, um, amino acids throughout the night, it'll, it's something you can eat before bed. That's going to digest slowly through the night. Got it. I mean, like when I need to pound my food down during the day, I'll, I'll stick with, uh, chicken and cod and things like that to go down easy. Yeah. But digest fast. I definitely don't want to eat a steak before I go lift. For sure. So I don't want to be burping that up while I'm doing, you know, leg presses and shit. So. Yeah. I just, I have really bad acid reflux. I had. Yeah. You had me both. Major problems with GERD. And so the, the beef just seems to irritate it more. So it's just too acidic for me. I got to stay away from it. Everybody that's done bodybuilding ends up with GERD or acid reflux. It's from pounding all the food for years and years. It just, it ends up screwing you up. And another price that we pay. Part of the silly lifestyle. I saw Jay Cutler. I, I, he was last week. He had a thing up, but he was talking about eating for bodybuilding. And he was, he was like, you spend half the year hating food and then spend the other half of the year starving. It's true. So that's the bodybuilding lifestyle with, with diet. Totally. It's not easy. I thought that was pretty funny. And that made me laugh, but. All right, Andrew. Let's wrap this up. I appreciate you coming on. Anything you want to promote while you're on here? Thank you for having me. You can always go to ripvixen.com. If you want to check out all my sites, my links are there. I appreciate your support. You can follow me on my YouTube here, but I don't really post much. You're going to get a lot more on my Instagram. Like Paul showed you. And I'll post links to everything in the video description below guys. If you want to check it out. I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for watching. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.