warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, big Paul here today. I have a really cool clip from this past weekend's anabolic bodybuilding live where Justin Harris, Kurt Havens, coach Colton and bodybuilding with Aaron discuss what it takes to grow muscle as far as nutrition and trening goes. There's been a lot of recent debate on social media is a calorie surplus, a large calorie surplus actually required for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and how much volume is really needed to, to grow. And if studies really are relevant to our community, most of the studies on muscle hypertrophy aren't on advanced PED users, bodybuilders, they, it's mostly just newbie people. And now I know there are some studies that have come in and taken in other people into the account. I wish I'd had somebody on this debate on the volume end of the equation, but most of the guys seem to agree that lower volume, um, higher intensity per progressive overload is probably the most optimal way to tren. I tend to be a higher volume trener these days. I would say moderate to higher volume. I wouldn't say I'm super high volume. I'm not like German high volume. Um, but I have gotten more out of that. Now I do progress where I can, but there gets us to be a certain point when you get to a certain age. We're continuing to progress weights upward becomes pretty difficult, uh, as injuries mount up. And as you get just big and super strong, you're really, really, really risking injury. If you try to continue traditional progressive overload, uh, you have to find other ways. Part of it, it's just the jujitsu of getting the most out of the least weight, learninGHow to make the weight harder and actually placing mechanical, more mechanical tension on the muscle with using less weight through technique. That is something that I have worked hard on. And I think my results show that maybe it's the PEDs who knows, but this is an interesting debate. I think you guys are going to like this video clip. We're going to check it out in just one second. Yeah. Justin, I need you to listen to a girl called, uh, her, her name's scientific stitch on Instagram. Have you guys seen this girl? Started followinGHer. Yeah. She did a live with her based on her, her claim. And she's fucking brilliant. The smartest person I have ever talked to about exercise science. I talked to her for an hour and 30 minutes and I could have kept going for three more hours. Like it is crazy. Uh, she's all about mechanism. She doesn't like outcomes. She likes mechanisms. So she understands basically all the mechanism, but her claim to fame right now is that she claims bulking essentially is not efficacious for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And that essentially, I agree with her. It's only the second stage of protein trenslation that's needed. There's no, there's no between food input and muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, right? I've been working on how, uh, how to word this. Cause I want to do a, like a video on that because, cause I'm, I believe in high food volume. I think one of the easiest ways to guarantee someone's going to add a lot of muscular body mass is you get, you basically growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone for me. I never tried to add weight on people ever. That's just always as body fat, muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is just slow. So my, what I try to do is two things. I try to increase their food intake from good sources provided that they don't get fat. That's it. If they get fat, we don't add food. If they, if they're not getting fat and we can add food and keep, and then their job is just make progress in the gym. You do those, you know, cause at the long, at the end of the day, if you're eating 3000 calories today and 18 months from now, you're eating 5,000 calories, not fat. And, and you got twice as strong. You have to be bigger. There's, you know, like you can want to be smaller, but there's no other option. But I don't believe in bulking at all. I think the scale and body fat is the, I think almost all of us would be better bodybuilders of weight scale was never invented. No, basically like the mediation of, of progress for you is, is whether their body fat percentages are changing negatively or positively. Pretty much. Yeah. IMean, it just, IMean, I just stepped back at one point and thought, okay, if I take a person and they're eating 3000 calories today and they're, you know, whatever met, whatever trackable metric they use in the gym, whether it's progressive overload, some type of intensity, a pace, you set volume, whatever. If they're at some set workload in the gym and they're eating 3000 calories. And at some point in the future, we have them eating 5,000 calories at the same body fat. And they've improved as far as where their metrics are in the gym. I don't see how they don't make progress in muscle mass. So it just cuts out any guesswork. It's like, we know this, we can focus on this. This is something we can make clear, obvious progress on. We've added calories. You haven't had a body fat, you know, and we know you're going to get, you're going to have more muscle, bigger muscles. And if, but we just try to add weight, IMean, cause you, even like a Nick Paul, what did he, he's gained a hundred pounds, 120 pounds since 2012. That's 12 years ago. You know, that's 10 pounds a year. It's less than a pound a month, you know, and you, you know, you can, your weight can change three to five pounds a day. Easy. Just if you have extra sodium or extra water. So, so on any given day, your weight fluctuates more than six months of muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So using the scale to track progress for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is completely useless because six months are wiped out in an instant, whether or not you drink a lot of water or had a lot of sodium or whatever. Yeah. And cool. And if you think about it, so from trening alone, it only calls muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is mechanical trensduction. There's no calorie requirement there. That's only in the trenslation of DNA. Nowhere in the human body does it require energy for mechanical trensduction to occur, right? The three pathways from steroids are slightly different, but that's a whole different conversation. But rate limit. So there's several rate limits in muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in human. The ultimate rate limit is how many stem cells you have. Can you take a nuclei from a stem cell and apply it to muscle fiber? So that's why things like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone work is we age because you run out of stem cells. It's not, but again, that doesn't require, there's nowhere that that stem cell proliferation requires calories, right? Unfortunately, that's your pounds. I never went over single digit body fat. It's you don't need it. It's like what Justin's saying, where people go wrong is they look at the total calories. Like he's eating 6,000 calories. You know, if your maintenance is 5,800 calories, you're only slightly above it. You're not, that's like for me, we made it just super high. The amount of food I eat is not me in an excess. It's me in a slight excess, right? 3,000 calories would be 140 pounds, right? It's, it's like, just who cares what the scale is going to look getting fat is honestly gonna make muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone worse. Yeah. You become insulin resistant and your body's just going to become very efficient at storing fat. The human body is aromatized estrogen, more estrogen with a higher body fat. IMean like every, every marker. Yeah, yeah. Go on. Sorry. No, no. Oh, that, but that's, that's why I always believe your gear doses should be highest when, when, when trying to get leaner, you know, because it's especially my blood androgens are higher, especially while they're climbing your, your rates of muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, muscle protein synthesis is going to be really high, even in a deficit. If your blood energy levels are sky high, especially climbing, you're going to be building muscle, even in a deficit. So you get a double impact where those, those, those calories that are going to muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone with, which is a small amount of calories. IMean, if we're really talking about it, yeah, but, but it's, it's calories that it's, it's actually increasing fat loss because those calories have to be made up somewhere else and they're going to be made up from, from lost fat. Yeah. And like Justin said before, cause people argue this all the time, but it's not correct. As a muscle fiber gets bigger, a muscle fiber has to get stronger. A muscle fiber only produced in force. That's what a muscle fiber does in its most simple way. If you're bigger, you're stronger. And that doesn't mean you have, that doesn't mean through your trening that you're constantly hitting PRS because a lot of people tren that way, but you're definitely stronger. You're stronger now than you were with 50 pounds ago, whether you tren it or not, you have to be, you can't get bigger without getting stronger. It's not, it's not on like an equal, it's not on like this, like scale, like every pound increases your bench press by 10 pounds or something, but you have to. Yeah. Otherwise powerlifting when our weight classes, you know, IMean, you know, and that's, that's, that's the extreme, but you know, the there's, I think the only weight class that is, has a higher all time totals than the weight class above them might be maybe two 20 or two 42 at the all time world record might be higher at two 20 and two four, but every across the board, other than that, you go up a weight class, let's go up. Okay. That's really interesting. And another thing that she's gotten a lot of flack for is talking about that. The mechanisms to hypertrophy are very simple. And in fact, it's just the, the fact of tension as opposed to, yeah. You have three other mechanisms through steroids or hormones we can say. So you have mechanical trensduction that is only from exercise. Then through steroids you have P 13 K you have M which is like M tour. You have the androgen receptor and you have IGF one receptor. So where you see more bodybuilders go wrong, this is going to aggravate a lot of people, but it's the truth. If you have plateaued in your muscular size and you're trening, you're doing pump trening, you're doinGHigh volume, you're just, you're going, you're doing 12 sets of lateral raises. You're doing all this still mass and you're never using progressive overload. You're just leveraging the steroids. You're limiting factors now because you're never experiencing mechanical tension so that the only way you're going to get past that plateau is either increase the drug load or actually start trening correctly and get bigger. That's why Dorian Yates was the broad, one of the biggest guys ever because he did both. He leveraged the drugs correctly and he leverages trening correctly, right? So it's, I would say guys like flex wheeler probably would have been bigger if he actually trened correctly. I hate to say that, but you watch these guys crawl in the 30 pound dumbbells on a ton of gear. That's genetic. His genetics allow him to get bigger and that's the steroids growing it. That's not the weights. I think that's the big, that's the big problem though, is because there are certain people with such amazing genetics like a flex wheeler who gets so much adaptation from the, from the non tensile strength aspect, from the, from the two other aspects that people get. And then also the people who don't get much from that and are really interested in bodybuilding are going to have to focus on, on the strength aspect, the trening aspect. And so you get the case where you can be like, well, you know, all these top bodybuilders don't lift heavy and all these guys that are, that lift really, really heavy aren't the best bodybuilders, but it's really a secondary mechanism where the guys who don't get the other two other responses very, very highly, like a flex wheeler have to try to make up for it by, by through trening and getting very strong. But if you take someone who's got the great genetics and they tren and they get brutally strong, you get a Ronnie Coleman. So the part that confuses me though, and which is hard because she's also claiming that muscle damage is counterintuitive to muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone because of the inflammatory response, which I agree with. But then how do you, how do you equate adequate tension without a surplus of damage? So damage tends to occur in the negative. So when you stretch a muscle, basically you open the ion channels up and calcium floods in and that can cause damage. That also causes fatigue. That's what people want to force. That's correct. IMean, I hate to say this. It's, this is a case with steroids, case of food, case of trening. We understand these mechanisms. These are known. This is, we're not living in the 1970s. We didn't know the androgen receptor existed. These are known just because people don't understand them doesn't mean they don't exist, right? I'm not a physicist. There's lots of stuff that Justin knows and understands. I don't understand. It doesn't mean gravity is not real, right? Unfortunately, you don't have to believe in mechanical tension, but you're wrong. It is what caused muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. The pump is counterintuitive as well because you're now flooding the muscle with all sorts of metabolites that irritate the muscle. You don't want to pump. I think you can apply, it's the genetics and you can look at all those sports. Like we were talking about Lawrence Taylor, you know, you can think, you know, a guy like that can get away with so much more, you know, that you can start to think that maybe practicing doesn't matter that much or that, you know, but when you get someone who's got elite genetics for their position in a sport and they put in the work, you get like a Tom Brady, you know, it's just that the elite level genetics are so high. You know, you look like basketball, like someone like a LeBron James, you know, even though obviously practicing and, you know, these secondary things are going to improve basketball, my genetic, natural genetic gifts for basketball are so much lower than his. There's no way I can make up for it. You know, it's kinda like, it's like that. Some people's just their genetic gifts for response to, for to gear and things like that are just so incredibly high that they can get away with getting minimal, uh, you know, stimulus from the heavy lifting. But if you take someone who's got that and they, they tren hard, you get it like a Ronnie Comer. Kai Green was very strong. Jay color was even really strong, you know? Yeah. It's not that it's not that you can't grow with the right to just drugs. Clearly that big Bayes improved. You've got 600 milligrams testosterone. They sit on the couch. You're just leveraging those three anabolic pathways. You're not using mechanical tension, but they're going to be super limited. They didn't continue to grow as they stayed on 600 milligrams test. And you see that with bodybuilders, if they don't tren properly, they'll reach the maximum size. And that's as big as they'll get if they just keep doing bullshit in the gym, right? Gyms are loaded with guys that don't know how to tren that you've anabolics. Actually, Brandon Curry is a perfect case study for that. Cause Brandon Curry was known as not a heavy lifter, not a hard trener. You know? Uh, IMean, I remember hearing stories that he would do like one arm rows with the 40 pound dumbbells, but then, then, then oxygen, Jim gets them. And what, what happened that he's over there and he's forced to tren hard. And he, if anyone remembers that photo, it's like a rear ladder rear double binder green. He went from that to hit at his best. And that was the difference when he added that third component, but it didn't mean he wasn't a really good bodybuilder without it because his genetics were just so above most people. Yeah. So, so this is where, interestingly, you have to ask, like where did all of these people proclaiming stretch media, the hypertrophy is the thing, right? Like the team full ROM, like RP or any muscle, certain muscles benefit from full stretch and others don't write like your chest, your hamstrings, I'm sorry, your quads, triceps don't like, it just depends on the structure of the muscle has inserted. It doesn't mean full range of motion is needed for all things. Triceps actually benefit more from a partial right. Lats, the same with the lats you do pull up the very top of it's actually your chest. Yeah. You're not back. So it's like your lats in this motion don't, but in this motion they do. I see. And again, I don't think people should focus on that minutiae, right? Most guys that are focusing on silly stuff like that probably just need to reevaluate their diet, their gear, their overall trening. Not so much like the ones that become coaches. Those who can do do those who can't have to learn everything and teach it. Yeah. Mechanical tensions. It's not a thermo that it's on, it's an experience or it hasn't been experienced. It's not like every set you do, you get more mechanical tension. Once it's, once that, that electrical signals are, it's there. You can't get more. In fact, every set you do that goes down, not more. Like if you look at chart, you know, by the time you get to five sets, you're the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone you're getting is less and less and less. You're almost at nothing at that point. Right. Five sets. I was just the argument for, for why more trening isn't, isn't better. And I say, if you, if you take someone who does, who's never trened a day in their life and you have them start doing one exercise for one set for chest, they're going to grow obviously more than not doing anything. If you get, you can, you can be pretty confident saying that if I do have them do two sets, they're going to get more, more accelerated growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone than one. And if you get to three, four, and I say, by the time you get to five sets, can you on your mother's life, can you guarantee that if you have them do a sixth set for each body part, they will absolutely 100% of the time grow faster than doing five sets. And if you're wrong, your mother dies. And I think people, you look at it that way. People are like, Holy shit. I don't know that I can guarantee that. Why am I doing 20 sets? Remember they did that German volume trening thing where they, they were showing it didn't do anything. And they had the one group to the five sets and they had the one group to the standard 10 and the five set group grew twice as much as the 10 set group. You know, after a certain point, you're just, you're really just increasing the recovery workload that you have to. I think almost all of us, anyone who trens hard. And that's the, that's the hard one because I've trened with a lot of people who say they tren hard or who don't tren hard. And so hard is obviously subjective. But if you tren hard, I think all of us are doing more workload than we, than our nutrition can fully cover and grow from. You know, I think all of us are already trening to a level where the trening is not our limiting factor. It's the peripheral stuff. It's are we supplying them enough nutrients to recover and grow from it properly, you know, rest, whatever. I think that's where one of the things like people, I think, I do think young guys get confused about, they do think that, and this is like one of my pet peeves is like guys get obsessed with the weight on the end of the bar. And it's like, I don't think they understand how leverage and momentum and things like that play into it as well. So like I can take a 150 pound dumbbell and heave it around on rows. And I'm not actually getting more mechanical tension than I would if I use the hundred. That's the difference. Have you lifting more weight because the muscle got stronger or are you moving more weight through space because you've improved your mechanical leverage? Right. You know, and, and it's, it's even, it's tricky because some movements you, you, you can't, you, you can't bypass the fact that if you, if you got stronger, the muscle got stronger, like a deadlift. I'm not saying deadlift is a great bodybuilding movement, but it's an easy, for this case, it's easy. It's easy to look at because the only way you're going to get maximally strong in a deadlift is if you make basically your lumbar and your, and you bend back in your glutes, the prime mover. If you make your hamstrings the prime mover, you're not going to be maximally strong. So to get strong in a deadlift, you're kind of forced to use the correct muscles, you know, and then also you can increase in small increments. If you're doing 500 pound deadlifts and you had a two and a half pound plate on each side, you've added 1% to the bar. That's a reasonable expectation of it. You know, progressive overload. If I'm doing 50 pound dumbbell curls, the next step up is 55. That's a 10% increase. So if I do try to progressive overload and I go to the 55, the only way I'm going to get them is by using my biceps less because I'm using more momentum. So by progressive overloading in that way, you know, I'm actually working my biceps less. Now, if you could add like paperclips or, you know, if you could find a way to add 1% to A-50 pound dumbbell, then you could keep the same form and you could make like a more linear progression with progressive overload. But in so many cases, squats, another example, it's almost guaranteed that if you get stronger quickly in the squat, it's because you're working your quads less. Widen your stance, more flatter soles, put your glutes back, put the bar lower, rested longer between sets, put your belt tighter, put your knee wraps tighter. There's so many things that are, you know, it's almost to where it's far harder to get stronger in the squat by making your quads stronger than it is just become better mechanically leveraged. And so like especially young kids, it's so hard for them to differentiate between getting stronger in a movement or making a muscle stronger, getting stronger movement means you were just able to move a weight through space better regardless of what muscles are working. Making a muscle stronger is totally different. And the movement is just a tool to activate that. That's the jiu jitsu of lifting weights that drives me with, uh, with, with young guys. I remember Dante Trudeau telling me this a long time ago when he worked with me, he's like, did you get better at cheating? It's good. That was always his thing. He was a stickler for like having the exact same parameters for how you, you move the weight. Like the, the, the form, the time, the, the time, you know, that you spend on the positive and the negative, all of it had to be exactly the same. You had to control all of that and then progress the weight from there. Now, this is who I learned from to like actually when I'm tracking the weight I'm lifting to like track how I set up the movement to like if it's a bench or a mechanical movement where I can change the machine, like note where I put the machine at what points and where I placed my feet and like take those notes cause you can replicate them the next time. That's like actually a really effective trick. I'm pretty sure he's an engineer. Yeah. Dante. Well, I don't know if he got his degree, but he was definitely an engineer. It's like failure too, Justin. It's like, you can't go, you can't work past failure. There's no such thing. What most guys do is they change their leverage, right? Like where you get a spotter. You're not now, you can't go over a hundred percent. Once you failed, it's failure by changing the leverage. Like he's saying now you're just using other muscles to move it. You know, once you're, that's why I generally judge failures. Once you start shifting your position, like on a preacher, once you start leaning more forward, that's, you've already failed. Now you're just making it easier. And there also seems to be some pretty compelling evidence now that you might be better off leaving a rep in the tank because of the recovery demands in the, in the muscle injury that it causes. You can see the current, like on the studies, you can see the curve where it flattens out about one rep and reserve one to two. I don't remember exactly, only reason why I don't recommend that. Cause most guys don't know what failure. Yeah. They don't know what failure is like trened hard before. How do you tell someone to leave two reps in reserve? What does that even mean? You know, you see it. You're like two 15 to do 15 and they stop like, well, you all know if you get on, get the leg press loaded up. If you get somebody there screaming at you, you can do like five, six more reps than you think you can. That's, that's the, that's the Dante trick, right? So he says, you want to know what failure is. He says, get into a leg press, pick a weight that you think you can do 12 reps with and then do 30 without stopping. Yeah. Yeah. Then you'll figure out less what failure really feels like when you have to drag yourself there. Oh yeah. You learn through like a widow maker on squats. You pick a way, you can do 12 reps. It's a five, it's a five minute set. You know, you get to 12 reps and that's a struggle. Then you stand there for 10 seconds, you get one more rep, you stand there sucking air for forever, you know, and you just keep going and going and you'll get the 20. And, but IMean, that's true failure, but there's no way you can build a workout after, around that because that one set you're done. That's just purely a test today. Just test yourself that one time. I've had a fair few conversations with a lot of the, uh, the guys over at the Olympia. And, um, do you know what, the one common conversation talking about trening and what's been the biggest deciding factor in people's progress over the last couple of years and everyone had exactly the same story. I'm lifting way less weight. I'm just lifting it better. So everyone's just moving way, way more towards accuracy. They're leaving the big weights behind. Yeah. I wish that was worded better though, because like young guys will hear that and they just hear less weight. They're not, they're moving less weight through space, but they're working, they're putting more load on the correct muscle. Yeah. Yeah. You've got to make, if you go from five plates to two plates, that two plates better still feel like five plates. Yeah. But directed in the proper way. But the mechanical tension that you're actually experiencing is probably more because you've improved your form and your technique. I would have guessed, I would have guessed the upper it's interlocks, but I guess opinion on frequency leveraging as much. That's what I was going to ask as well, because it's like, okay, so if the goal is absolute tension, then how many times can we apply attention within a given unit of time without causing damage, right? As much as you can recover from, I guess. But that would, I was damaged. I had my best progress. That's where the programming comes in. Be very careful programming, but that's worked for me massively this year. It's probably the volume. How many sets are doing right? I had my best progress of my life over the last few years trening everything twice a week. But you brought the volume down each session though. I do this though. I do more of an RP style trening where I progress the volume over. Well, I haven't been lately. I've been doing flat volume where I would progress the volume over the blocks and then I would push the weights up on the next block and then progress the volume again. So it's still progressive overload. You know, so like I'd start off with it, you know, maybe two sets and exercise that, you know you know, let's say at a hundred pounds and then the next, you know, I'd progress that up to five over a five week block and then the next block we'd reset, go up to 110 pounds, progress that up. And I really like one of the things I did too, because I just kept gettinGHurt. That's another problem. Sometimes you just get so damn strong that the, like I was inclining for like in my thirties, early thirties, I was inclining four or five. Like how, how much more are you going to go past for past that? Right. Without gettinGHurt. I think the rest of those progressive overload adding a set is not so you can check, you know what IMean? You don't have to go up and wait necessarily. Sure. I do a little more volume than most people do. And I, I've, it's really, really, really, really, really, uh, has, has helped me. I don't know. Well, the other thing you have is, and, and, and I'm not, I'm not an expert in this. It's not my area of interest. IMight say some things incorrectly, but sarcoplasmic growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, the majority of your muscle is non contractile tissue. The problem is, that's probably also the, the air, the part of the muscle that you can affect the least as far as overall growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, but there is going to be some adaptation, you know, capillary density, your blood, you know, more blood volume area, you know, your blood vessels increase in diameter. And so if the majority of your muscle is non contractile tissue, there is some adaptation there, but it's also probably even more genetically, uh, linked to what kind of progress you can make there. And then clearly I don't, I, I don't, I would have to assume that the sarcoplasmic aspect is much more able to be, uh, adapted or affected than, than the myofibrillary. Well, it's not my area of interest. The new research shows that they occur at the same time. So even if sarcoplasm, like under microscope, even the sarcoplasm is growing faster, myofibrillary is right after it. So it's always the tandem. What you probably see when guys are like power lifters versus bodybuilders. Again, when there's steroids at play, you might be seeing type one growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that you just wouldn't get naturally, right? Or bodybuilder also does not work in that place. So there's probably different fibers that might be experiencinGHypertrophy, but it's not necessarily just sarcoplasm on its own. That can occur on its own without my following it. So the culmination of all this is also that things like cluster sets or widow makers or myo rep sets, these are all kind of, in a sense, junk volume. Junk. They don't, there's no extra growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that comes from any modifier that you wouldn't get from a straight set to failure. Now, I think even that, I think you're not talking about drugs. Like that's where it gets confusing, right? Cause right. Drugs are, you're talking abouT3 separate pathways. You're not talking about from a pure exercise point of view, drop sets, rest, pause, my reps, none of them will produce more growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone than, than a straight set. Sorry, go on Justin. No, you can go ahead. I was just going to say they're great tools to be able to use in certain situations. Like for instance, we're talking earlier about people not being able to trade to failure. They don't know what that feels like. Asking someone to do that in a straight set is very difficult. You ask someone to do that in a rest pause or a myoset, they will get way closer to failure because they have those little breaks along the way. It's a great way to achieve things like that, or efficiency within trening, getting your trening morecompressed. So you still end up with that same amount of sort of stimulus across the session, but within way less time. So they have that place. But yeah, essentially if you've got the time, a good old straight set is going to win most of the time. And I also think that it might be junk volume and that it's not directly contributing to muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, but I think there's some indirect aspect where even though even hard gainers, people who are trying to gain weight, if you actually view their body fat, their offseason body fat is going to be higher than like a Nick Walker or those professional bodybuilders that walk around in very good condition year round. And that junk volume does burn calories, which gives you a little bit more buffer. Because I think for the vast majority of bodybuilders, the issue is, and you can go to any contest where no one's in actual contest shape, the biggest issue for competitive physique competitors is body fat. Really? You know, everyone worries about muscle mass, but there's, there's like 20 mass monsters on earth, you know, that's it. You know? And so we were all like focused on that. And that is obviously what the elite part of bodybuilding is. But you go to any state level show and it's, it's conditioning that wins the show. Always. No one, no one's winning on mass at the state level. And so anything that can help keep you leaner throughout the year, even if it's junk volume, as long as it's not directly inhibiting growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, I think has some net positive. Yeah. I would agree with you from a pure, like, yeah, yeah, yeah. IMean, it's not doing anything, but I heard Arnold, I'm going for six reps and I don't hit, let's say I hiT4. IMight reduce the load and get reps out. There are places where you can utilize it. But I think what you see like the young broccoli head kids do, it's like super sudden stuff and constant drops. That's like, that's just garbage. All they're doing is creating fatigue, right? What's that thing? All the college kids always would do or a preacher curl and the other guy in the bar and the other guy. And it's like 30 sets of complete, you know, positive, like failure on negative. And you've never seen someone with bigger than 15 inch arms doing that. But every, every kid in college can't wait to get off, get off bench press and then go, God, they got some name for it. Some it's like I've made every sports team or university or something. I was here. I know what you're talking about. I remember Arnold, it was recently he said it was funny cause he talked about the seventies, how they didn't do cardio back then. He said, if we want it to get in shape, we just lifted weights more, but that's what they did back then. They would live for like two, three hours instead of seems to be coming back now. I think mine's started off a new tren again of no cardio, right? Yeah. Martin doesn't do cardio, right? That's goes through that. That's so cyclical. Cause Meadows, if you guys remember around 2015, 2014, it was the no cardio phase two, every client I want to, so here's the show I want to do, but I, you know, I want to try that no cardio thing. I'm like, yeah, me too. You've never been in shape before. So let's worry about that first. Maybe that's how I get by with such little cardio because like during prep, I'm, I'm, I'm in, you know, if I do my posing and everything, I'm in the gym for two hours, sometimes two and a half. So we can kind of therefore induce two things that intensity techniques aren't directly going to benefit muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, but that also excess volume isn't necessarily benefiting muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. It's just more so mediating metabolic rate. Yeah, sure. That sounds like a fair assessment. I just think when guys are new, they focus too much on that kind of stuff. Like they should just learn how to lift. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Everyone focuses on more trening. It's like, you know, I try to tell the young guys, it's like, look, we love, none of us hate going to the gym. If doing a hundred sets or trening chesT3, three times a week is what worked. That's what we'd be doing. None of us are staying out of the, none of us are only lifting five days a week or four days a week because we can't wait for those two or three off days. We, you know, we would love to be in there every day. It's the one thing we get, you know, like you ask, you ask a bodybuilder, what day is it? They don't say Tuesday. They say chest day, you know? So the reason people aren't doing insanely high volume is because it doesn't work. But every kid, you know, comes around thinking that that's what's going to get them there faster. As if every guy who has devoted their life to the sport just doesn't want to tren more, you know? It's what was it? A Paul Carter. I think he was saying like for strength, you'd want more volume because you're trening the CNS and you're learning movement patterns and all that stuff. But for bodybuilding actually, probably you're impairing your progress with more, more volume. Yeah. I think that's really nuanced too. Cause if you do like Olympic lifting where it's incredibly technical, it's real. It's not even so much. The strength doesn't even necessarily come from technique. Yeah. It's just so yeah. Even in bodybuilding for beginners, if I want them to learn and practice a lift, I'll make them do it more times. You know, the intensity and stuff like that can come later on. Let's just first get them to actually learn how to do the lift. That might take an extra few reps and a few sets, you know? It's also frustrating because a lot of research that does support like higher vault, like there was that study that came out with 50, 52 sets of legs is optimal per week. Right. You only tren legs once a week or something like that. And it, but it's also in like people who are untrened. So of course they're going to respond. Yeah. The trening group is not bodybuilders. They have eight people who have never trened before and just. They haven't done 52 sets of Widowmakers. Right. Is that what it was? It was total newbies in that study. I think it was eight. The city population was eight individuals and it was untrened individuals. Pure newbie gains then. Yeah. But that's a lot of the data out there. The inclusionary criteria is even if they're experienced, they consider experience they've been trening for a year, which is like, I would still consider that a far. Well, are you, how are you going to get experience? You're going to find a bodybuilder and say, Hey, for six weeks, you can't do any of your normal trening. You have to only do what we do. I want to improve the body of science. Is there a Sarah stem at the end of this? How do you get them off drugs? You all can have to use the same thing now.