 I wanted to back up a second to talk about it. You mentioned D-ball and testing D-ball, why people, people always do these stupid beginner cycles of testing D-ball. It is probably the dumbest thing you could do. You could do. You could do. You could do. You could do. You could do. I just don't know why you would overload your estrogen like that, right? So you already have the estrogen production from testosterone. You're clearly covered with the 17-methyl-esterdiol that's produced from D-ball is not bio-identical and it's pretty liver toxic. D-ball is liver toxic. D-ball is liver toxic on its own, right? And from my experience, anything you gain on D-ball goes right away as soon as you stop the D-ball. Yeah, it just goes away. I, running. You can walk things really fast, right? Yeah, it's people, they just, they just want to see the scale, they just want to see the scale, they get hyper-focused on the scale. And what I've seen is when you are a beginner and you run tests and D-ball side by side, that you're just going to be an estrogen bomb and it's a recipe for growing titties, making your blood pressure go through the roof, being bloated mess and having a bunch of acne from your hormones being all out of whack. It doesn't make any sense. So the whole frontloading your first cycle or even running, I just even think running D-ball with testosterone is probably dumb. No, you're literally, it's, those are the only two that actually really aromatize two estrogen. Yeah. Why would you double up on those? There's a million other vectors you can pick from. Why wouldn't you, if you really insisted on two compounds, why wouldn't you run a DHT or 19 or? Yeah, it makes zero sense to stay. Cause it's the old test D-ball combo that people get obsessed with. Yeah. But again, that's not even the original combo, right? It was D-ball. D-ball. Right. And then they, because people didn't thought Primo was weak. So they dropped that, had a test to it and then blew up with estrogen for no reason. Yeah. And you can spot those guys a mile away. I'll see them at the gym. They just look horrible. They have that stay puff marshmallow man. Look. So I would, it's just really, really, really, really dumb to stack tests with D-ball. If you wanted to, we talked about it earlier, the Nandrolone only cycles, that's when they would run D-ball. Then it makes sense. Yeah. But even back then they weren't using 50 milligrams, right? Most of them, they're probably using 20 milligrams. Right. Yeah. I mean, that was the rumor with the old Arnold Schwarzenegger cycles. I think we talked about it on another video. 20 milligrams of D-ball with a hundred milligrams of Primo. Yeah. That was the rumor of what he, I guess the advantage of the D-ball is if you have issues with estrogen, you can titrate up and down quickly. You could, I just still, I think it's a silly method to use, right? Nowadays, it'd be better, safer. Yeah. The safer approach. D-ball is pretty much an obsolete drug as far as I'm concerned. Yeah. I would agree. I don't see any value in using it. The only exception that we talked about it before is I do, and maybe I'm wrong about this, but I have seen some guys that just do not convert testosterone to estrogen. It's really weird, but it seems like D-ball is helpful in that situation. Yeah. Because the 17-methylethyrol is much stronger. Right. But they're very extreme outliers. Like I, out of, you know, I coach hundreds of people. What are you, of your guys? Less than 1%. Like I, you know, I go through hundreds of people, probably coach a couple hundred people a year. And I look at blood work two, three times a year for those people. And I've seen maybe one person, two people like that a year. It's just natural. You'll see a guy that's just naturally, they're like, they'll have like an 8-estradiol, but that's an extreme outlier. And I told them. You tend to be leaner, right? Small, like thinner. Yeah. It's usually the super skinny, super lean guy. Yep. I have a client like that. He, he's, he's, he competes and he's just, he's always got both weight and we looked at his labs. Yeah. That's what I was like. Yep. It's always those guys. But if you have any body fat on you at all, and you're pushing testosterone doses up with D-ball, you're just asking to grow titties. Yeah. Really fast too. Like overnight, they come on fast. Well, that's what happened to me. My very first cycle, I've always been sort of a high estrogen converter. Not so much now, but my very first cycle was a D-ball only cycle when I was in college. And I almost instantly, within weeks, I had gyno. Yeah. And you probably woke up with it, right? You went to sleep fine and. Yeah. Yeah. It was within a couple of weeks. I had a lump under both of my nipples and they got, eventually got, you know, my gyno surgery. I have pictures of it, but it was the size of a fried egg. By the time I got it taken out, it was, it was gigantic. Yeah. But I can always spot the guys that have, have those issues. So if you are carrying any body fat, you have any propensity to have high estradiol, it is really dumb to run D-ball with your testosterone. Just, I, it's such an outlier. I don't even think you should even consider it. Yeah. I was going to say, you mentioned front-loading before too, right? Cause that's kind of what these guys are trying to do. Yeah. So stupid. I wouldn't personally, on a side note, I wouldn't personally front-load any drug. I don't know where that EQ came from. That's a great way to crash your estrogen too. Right. You know, why don't you start with 1200 milligrams of EQ in the first two days and then see what happens to yourself. Right. And then these guys, you'll get an email that you're, that they're paranoid, right? They feel like horrible. Yeah. From doing stuff like that. Yeah. That's where the people talk about the anxiety from EQ. That's probably where it comes from. Yeah. Yep. It's from crushing their estrogen.