WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. What's up folks? Big Paul here today and I've got a muscle rant for you. This one has been stuck in my crawl for a few weeks and I want to address it. I've debated making this video a few times, but I'm just going to throw it out there. I am definitely going to chafe some butts, but we're going to talk about is a pro card easy to get? I'm going to give you my thoughts on this in just one second. So I saw some people after my show, some other coaches, I don't know if they were talking about me directly, talking about how pro cards are cheap these days. They're easy to get. They're not like they used to be. Anybody and his little brother can get a pro card now. And I expect that from the internet trolls. It's fine. It's just part of the shit you go through when you're on social media. Don't really care. I know the work I put in. I know how hard it was. I know how much I put into this over the last, I don't know, seven, eight years and 25, 30 years total of being in the gym. I know how hard it was. I know what I put into it. I know all the people that are still trying to get their pro card, how much they put into it. And they'll tell you that it's pretty fuckinGHard, but there are some people out there that should know better. Some dudes that are other coaches that are basically being petty little shit bags. I don't know of a better way to put it. Talking about how pro cards are easy. They're a dime a dozen. They hand them out to everyone. And these are dudes that don't have pro cards. That's the crazy part of this. I can't imagine running my mouth about somebody who achieves a pro status in anything, getting it on the cheap when you have never been a pro yourself. That's sort of like sitting there saying that the guy that's the end of the roster on the practice squad in the NFL is a bum when you're sitting on your couch and you're a fat piece of shit. Not cool, man. Not cool. And this one has really irritated me because these guys should know better. They tried and tried for years to get their own pro cards. They never got it. And granted, they may have given out less of them when they werecompeting. But these days, there are a lot more people competing than there were back then. Hell, here in D.C., I remember there being basically one amateur show per year. Now there's like seven, eight, nine, ten. I don't know. There's all the different divisions. And even still, across the men's bodybuilding qualifying shows, there's something like 300 pro cards given out each year. And there are potentially tens of thousands of people that compete in bodybuilding every year. I think I heard the number from the IFBB was something like 330 bodybuilders in the bodybuilding men's division get pro cards each year. You look at the NFL, that's about the same amount of people that get drafted into the NFL each year. There are 8 billion people on the planet and 300 men turn into pro bodybuilders every year, roughly. I don't know what the exact number is. It's something like that. You running your mouth saying that it's easy. And granted, there are more pro cards than there were in 1998. But the sport is way different than there was in 1998. There were only a couple pro shows. There weren't as many people competing. There weren't so many amateur shows. It's all relative. There were half as many people on the damn planet. Of course there are less pro cards given. It is relative to the amount of people that arecompeting. And just because I get a pro card in the master's division doesn't mean it's of less value. I beat the guys that were in my class. I beat the guys that were in my age group and earned my pro card. And it's disrespectful to all the other dudes that have put their asses on the line, worked their butts off, and have attempted to get a pro card. Go and ask any of the 300 and some odd guys at master's nationals that didn't get their pro card if they think that it's easy. Go and ask anybody that shows up at a national show and doesn't get a pro card and ask them if they think it's easy. I guarantee you they're going to tell you it's hard. You sitting on your couch running your big mouth saying that getting a pro card is easy these days when you don't have a pro card makes you look like a stupid buffoon. So I would suggest if getting a pro card is that damn easy then shut your fucking mouth and get on the stage and get one. Prove that it is easy instead of running your mouth. I'm a competitive guy and there is nothing worse than a trash talker that doesn't back it up. Dudes that run their mouths and do nothing. No respect. You get no respect for that. I'm sorry I don't care if you've been a coach forever. I don't care if you know everything. You get no respect when you say crap like that. You're disrespecting your clients. You're disrespecting all the people that have worked their butts off and gotten a pro card. You're disrespecting me when you say crap like that. I've got thick skin. I can take it. But you know I know these guys like to claim well I'm just spitting truth. Well I'm just spitting truth back at you buddy. You're a loud mouth who doesn't back up anything you say. I you know this to me I just can't understand how you could be so disrespectful to people that have worked their ass off and done something great with their life. Look I have no illusions. I'm not going to go out there on stage and compete with the top guys. I'm not going to beat Nick Walker. I'm not going to go out there and beat Samson Douda. I'm not even going to be on the Olympia stage. But I did the best for my group that I possibly could do. That doesn't take anything away from the work that I have done. Anybody who achieves that level any dude that achieves that level or female or whoever that gets a damn pro card has worked their ass off and done something that 99.9999 percent of people that go to the gym will never do and can never do. Even the loud mouth coach that thinks he knows everything. Take this for what it's worth. This is my advice to the dudes that should know better. Either get your pro card or shut the fuck up. All right folks let me know what you think in the comments section below. Am I completely wrong about this? Am I completely off base? Should guys that don't have pro cards shut their mouths about getting pro cards being easy or am I just being too sensitive about this? Let me know what you think in the comments section below. I appreciate each and every one of you. Take care. For coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition and health. For more information shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com