arkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkanarkan I'm hoping that's not the case. I'm really hoping I can somehow carry this on and keep fighting because that's all I've ever done all my life, is keep fighting against all odds. But when my health is starting to fail, I have to take myself to the hospital. I have to really stop and question why I'm doing this. All right, folks, Big Paul here today. What the heck is going on with Samson Dada? People keep asking me what's going on. We're going to dive into this. I am going to give you my thoughts. There's a lot that goes through your mind after a show. I was there at the Arnold Classic this weekend. Samson looked fantastic. Hottie looked fantastic. He was just a little bit better. Samson's still one of the best bodybuilders in the world. There's a lot of emotions going on. A lot of things to think about right now. Having been on stage and having worked with competitors, I am going to give you my thoughts and read between the lines on what's going on with Samson Dada in just one second. If anybody's done a bodybuilding show before, you know what I'm talking about. When you get to the end and you get off that stage, maybe the result is not what you thought it would be. You're depleted. You're dehydrated. You feel like crap. You're on all sorts of chemicals and hormones that make your brain out of whack. And you're not thinking like your normal self. Emotions are high. Things go crazy. I remember crying over somebody bringing me chocolate chip cookies after a show. I was telling my girlfriend at that time how proud I was of her for supporting me. I'm not a guy that cries. I was mental after the show. And there's a lot going through your head. And we're going to parse some of this stuff. And I'll give you my opinions of what's going on here with Samson. But this is typical post-show stuff. He just spilled his emotions over on social media. And I understand why. There's a lot to process. There's a lot going through your head. But you can see a guy here that's very passionate. Probably disappointed with the result from the show. Maybe upset with his coach. He fired, from what I can tell, Milo Sarchev. Milo put a post up yesterday that said, and I'm going to read it for you. It says, After two and a half years and 13 shows together, this was our last dance. Needless to say, I'm beyond proud of Samson and what he's accomplished in a very short time that we worked together. He's completely trensformed his physique and morphed into one of the very best bodybuilders in the world and a greatest threat for the Mr. Olympia title. As the whole world knows, with improved conditioning that we failed to bring, he would have been extremely hard to beat. Wishing Samson and Marlena all the best in the world and most importantly for Samson, fulfillment of his destiny. That was a very tactful approach for Milo's. I saw Milo's after the Arnold Classic outside, having a very passionate discussion with some IFBB officials. Clearly there were a lot of emotions. I have been there on the coach's end of it too. When you do everything perfectly for a client and the client doesn't get the results that they want and somehow it's your fault. That's very upsetting when you've spent two and a half years guiding somebody to improving themselves and then they fire you. I've been on the other end of it too. I understand the competitor's side of it. I understand the coach's side of it because I've been both ends of it. Both ends of it. So let's hear what Samson had to say here. I gave my absolute best for this one and I've given my heart out and I gave my absolute best for this one. I don't know if I have anything left to give. I've given everything else if I push any more. I think I'm going to wind up in hospital. We really dug deep for that and we brought our best to the stage. It was one of the most epic moments I've ever had on stage and I felt nothing but pride and joy. At the end there, the better man won. After pre-judging, you know, we were told how close it was. So I even dug deeper than I've ever dug before for the finals. Made a sacrifice that, you know what, I could say that right now IMight just regret a little bit. Yeah, so you said he made a sacrifice between pre-judging and finals that he might regret a bit. Samson was watery, a little bit watery on the pre-judging when I saw him when we were there. He definitely had a film of water on him that Hottie didn't have. Hottie was very crisp looking on stage. My guess was that there was probably some sort of water depletion slash diuretic use that happened. And diuretics can put your health in danger. That is probably the single most dangerous thing that guys do on contest prep is diuretic use when you're already dehydrated and you're a big dude. You might have some cardiomyopathy on top of it and you're really putting yourself at risk at the end, creating electrolyte imbalances, having all sorts of problems. I know tons of guys that have ended up in the hospital from electrolyte imbalances. I've been there myself before. GoinGHyping the treatment after a show and I felt like I was going to die. It is a horrible, horrible feeling when you have an electrolyte imbalance and it doesn't seem like any amount of water you drink can correct that. So you have to get an IV, you have to go to the hospital, and you have to have them intervene to fix that. I came back on a Saturday and you know what, we gave everything for it. To come off stage and then have nothing but disrespect, you know, given to you and your family for what? For sport? For this? To have my family disrespected, to have me disrespected so badly for not winning when I gave everything. We sacrificed a lot of our health and our body and our family's privacy and peace to do this. But to not, to come out and be disrespected so badly by people that have no right to do so and to humiliate us and my family because of your joys of what you felt is just and you felt it's your opinion. It's nothing but utter disrespect and you should be ashamed of yourself for doing that. Less than three years ago, half of you didn't even know who I was. I worked my way every ounce to get here. And to be humiliated because I'm doing my best is an insult to me and my family. And it hits hard when you're trying your all and you're being insulted like that. All Saturday I was happy. All Sunday I was happy. I was like, man, what a battle. What a weekend. And then I'm cominGHome to all this negativity and all this because what reason? You're destroying our reputation and ourselves just to make yourself feel better. For what? This isn't bodybuilding anymore. This isn't cool. And if you all don't, if you literally, people can't see that, then why would I want to push to get on stage again? IMean, do you ever stop to ask yourself that? If we, I am third in the world and I'm second at the Arnold Classic. I'm an Arnold Classic champion. I'm getting disrespected for what? Bringing my best to the stage and not winning? And I'm being disrespected for it? Is that cool? Is that on? Is that right? Family and I are being dragged through the mud. I have to really stop and question why I'm doing this and why I'm putting them through this to get checked out. All right. So, I am going to read between the lines for you because I have experienced this myself. I am by no means on Samson's level. I don't have the level of attention that Samson has but when I did my national show this fall the amount of trolls, idiots, and ass wipes on the on social media on Instagram elsewhere that reached out to me to tell me how awful I looked how what a poor example I was for everybody else can really get to you. I have pretty thick skin. I just block people and move on but I can't imagine the volume of bullshit that this guy probably had to deal with. I'm sure there were all sorts of nasty comments coming at him. I'm sure there were all sorts of assholes reaching out to him tellinGHim how awful he was. I'm sure there was all sorts of jerks reaching out to him tellinGHim what he could have done better and I would imagine that you have to think to yourself when you when you just put yourself on stage and it sounded like he had some sort of health crisis after the show when you just put yourself on stage put your health at risk put your family on the line because when you're receiving exposure on social media it puts your family at risk too because there is just some whack jobs out there. people that will message your family and tell them how awful you are. I am sure he's got to be sitting there thinking to himself why am I doing this? Is this worth it? Emotions are high. You know he's already depleted not feeling well probably not in the best frame of mind because of the drugs and other things and then having all of this stuff travel the letdown of getting second place when he thought that he would be better sounds like he caught some sort of flu or something at the show I can't you know I can't imagine working 16 weeks on contest prep and thinking you're going to be the best you've ever been on stage and then you get the flu a few days before the show and then you're sick and then you try to push things even more while having the flu taking risk with your health to put the best you on stage and then you get a bunch of dinguses on social media telling you how awful you are I'm sure that sucks I feel for the guy I can't imagine what it feels like to hear that crap from people actually I can't imagine because I've experienced it just not on the level that he has when you've worked your hardest when you put your all on it you're trying to set a good example for people and then you deal with this BS alright folks I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together the scientific principles of anabolics and PEDs this is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules including intros to PEDs major steroid profiles competitor off-season cycles non-competitor cycles contest prep cycles HGH fundamentals insulin fundamentals side effect management safer use concepts fat loss agents estrogen management and advanced PED and hypertrophy science it is the best course out there of its kind go check it out link is in the video description below I don't know my buddy is just I'm trying to push through I'm trying to tren I'm trying to get through it but my buddy is just failing at this point and honestly I just don't know what else I could do so given what happens to me in the next few days after we get checked out in the hospital and what happens and the results of that it will determine if I will be doing Arnold Classic UK next week and I have to wait and see how that result comes back alright so so there's a lot of raw emotion going on here clearly guy guy was sick guy didn't feel good all these people talking shit about him I would imagine probably would happen and we're going to get into it this is the second video that he put up today he seems to be much better he looks better I'm sure he feels better today than he did yesterday you know so I would imagine what happened this is just my guess probably what happened is that he had some sort of electrolyte imbalance and when you've had that before you feel like absolute crap and then top that off with having the flu what it seems like that at least that's what I'd heard that he had the flu got sick from probably shaking too many hands at the Arnold Classic and he's was just a mess emotions everything I can totally get where the guy is coming from so here's what he put up today after he got some rest after he got an IV probably at the hospital got on some antibiotics flu infection cold whatever the hell it was he had so been to see my doctor yesterday and as I said yesterday man I wasn't feeling too well but I don't know man why people blow the shit out to be crazier than what they think it is man I've heard all speculations and everything well I'll tell you why they blew the shit out because you got on social media and bared your emotions and I admire the guy for being raw and for sharinGHow he feels people need to hear I think how much it affects people even if you're on the top having all these jerks and assholes and negative trolls that are on social media come after you affects you emotionally and I can get where the guy was coming from so I totally understand where he's coming from I'm sure he had a night to rest and sleep on it but he by puttinGHimself out there he invited the speculation on what's going on because people are just going to latch onto that crap and I said yesterday when you're that low body fan you're that low! you spend! Yeah he's right you're in a very compromised state at the end of contest prep your liver is stressed your kidneys are stressed your immune system is probably way out of whack I've seen immune markers be way out of whack at the end of contest prep you're stressed out you aren't sleeping it's just a perfect environment for getting sick and then like I said top that with being dehydrated and having nerves and pressure social pressure on top of it I saw the dude standing at the hostile booth through all this I like IMean he was working on top of it which is just crazy to me there's nothing shock about it he comes with it so even if my voice is still groggy as hell because I'm coughing and I'm still feeling rough as hell this morning but we're feeling a lot better and I feel like I'm on the other side of it but the idea is that people think that is something worse I suppose people gotta have something to talk about but in terms of anything else yesterday I got some antibiotics! I got this groggy cough that is obviously just coming out of my chest and it's feeling a bit shitty but we're now on the other side of it got some nice so if he got antibiotics for a cough it was likely not the flu then they don't give you antibiotics for a virus or it's possible that it was the flu that it turned into a respiratory infection which I had it happen a our bodies are so I don't know IMean I think the dude he goes on and says that he's going to do the Arnold Classic UK he might be better off just resting in my opinion but he's puttinGHimself at risk but we do stupid stuff for bodybuilding because we love it but he does look a lot better today you can see it in his friends I haven't seen me compete since 2021 when we did Arnold UK so you think I'm going to disappoint come on dude you don't know me better than that so with that said where we at with everything IMean one of the advice doctor gave me yesterday is look you got to get rehydrated fast because you're definitely dehydrated from obviously which is obvious on the weekend so I've been drinking a shitload of water and side on nine just to get my rehydration back like we always do from the show on pilot as much as I and the more I'm drinking from yesterday the better I'm feeling for it and the better I'm feeling the most back to strength I'm feeling for it as well all right so summing this all up clearly a lot of emotions going through this guy right now fired his coach he had a meltdown on social media about people being jerks he's not feeling well had to go to the hospital this is the stuff that happens post show it just happens I've had it happen to me I feel for the guy probably would have been better off just keeping those thoughts to himself for his you know so he didn't have to deal with all the fallout from this but he pulled the curtain back and you saw they were all emotions that happened post show when you're not feeling right when you're disappointed with the results and you have the added pressure of social media folks I can't tell you how much negative comments and being a dick on social media affect some people I'm pretty tough emotionally and there's sometimes where it gets under my skin it's just the constant barrage of negativity in things people saying to you when you're at your best it's funny now that I'm not competing or in a competition mode or posting pictures up of and giving updates on my contest prep nobody reaches out to me and says negative shit it's only when I start looking better and only when I'm pushing to get on stage and when I get on stage that's when all the negative insecure and I wish there was a better way to handle it Samson I don't know if you'll ever hear this but just ignore those people they don't matter and folks if you're one of those people that's constantly barraging these guys with negative comments don't do it it's I know it makes you feel better doing it but you have no idea the impact that this can have on somebody IMean really you can see here the raw emotions that this guy has and I feel terrible for him just went out on the stage put his best out there sacrifice his health to do so and then he's got a bunch of people reaching out to him beatinGHim up I would be upset too all right folks let me know what your thoughts are in the comment section below if you've competed before I especially want to hear from you you know what I'm