WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today and I have a serious question for you. Is safer PED use really just a bunch of BS? Are we lying to ourselves about safer PED use or is it possible to use PEDs in a safer manner to prevent harm long term? And we're going to dig into all this in just one second. All right, before we get started with this one, I want to remind everybody about the Team Antibiotic Bodybuilding website community that I have up and running now. We have candid discussions about the stuff we're talking about right now and also weekly live unfiltered Q&A. There's a link in the video description below if you want to sign up and join the community. I have the next Q&A this week at Wednesday. We're going to do a live coaching session with some of our members to help them fix their programs. Join today, I think you'll like it. And now enough of that BS, let's get on to talking about our topic. All right, so this is one that I have been thinking about for a while and something that's been on my mind, especially now that I've gotten my pro card kind of back down a little bit for the time being. I'm about ready to spin my cycle back up. But is the whole safer use thing just a lie that we tell ourselves so we can stay on steroids and look a certain way? Or can you really use PEDs in a safer and more sane manner? I know there's a lot of guys out there, gurus, whatnot. I've been a person who's talked about it in the past, that there are safer ways to use PEDs. But are we really just deluding ourselves and lying to ourselves to allow us to continue our silly little hobby called bodybuilding or just to look good for the beach? Here's the thing. I have thought long and hard about this. This is a very nuanced question. It's like asking if alcohol is bad for you. Yes, drinking is bad for you. Any and all forms of drinking is bad for you. But there is certainly degrees of bad when it comes to drinking. Having a glass of wine here and there or once a day is certainly not the same level of damage, harm, or risk that you would have from hammering a bottle of tequila or gin or whatever your chosen drink is every day. Bench drinking, drinking all day long, being a completely dysfunctional, non-productive human being, those types of addictions and level of drinking is not productive and not healthy, obviously. And it's not even comparable to just having a glass of wine on the weekend with your friends or a couple craft brews here and there. And there's a bunch of stuff that lies somewhere in between. There's the guy that drinks a couple beers every day when he gets home from work. Is that guy a full-blown alcoholic? Probably not. But he is doing some damage to himself and has an activity that probably isn't healthy. Is it the same as bench drinking and being a complete POS? Probably not. And I look at PEDs in the same way. There are varying degrees of use and abuse. And there's also educated and calculated abuse. Now with PEDs, you're not gettinGHigh or drunk like you are with a drug or alcohol. So there's not that immediate release. But they certainly can be psychologically addictive. You get addicted to a certain way of looking, to a certain way of being able to tren, to being strong, things like that. You certainly can become addicted to that and go to great lengths to justify your way of living and your way of doing things. I'm probably guilty of it. So let's think about this. Let's unpack this for a second. The guy that's on TRT, the guy that's taking TRT plus some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and just the basics is not the same degree as a bodybuilder pounding grams of gear per week. It's just not. I don't care if you're taking safer compounds. It's not even on the same level. That guy is just treating a deficiency and puttinGHimself in a better position, health-wise likely, and that can be better for you. Now, with that said, there's everything that lies in the middle that we talk about frequently. Is running a gram of tests the same as running a gram of TRN? Probably not. Is the person who takes a calculated risk and runs high doses for a cycle going into a contest prep trying to get their pro card the same as the dunderhead bro at the gym that just runs everything just to run it that's at the gym? I don't know. You tell me. There's calculated risk there for a specific outcome and you're taking a chance versus the guy who just wants to run everything recklessly for no reason at all. Is that the same? I don't know. You tell me. They could have the same health outcomes. One might be calculated. One might be thought out. One might be reckless and have no thought behind it. I will say this. You can mitigate a lot of the risk by being more intelligent with your cycles, by taking breaks, by having better compound selection, by managing and monitoring your health, by keeping your diet clen, by keeping cardio in place, by using better compounds. There's a huge difference between TRN and test. There's a huge difference between running anadrol year-round and not. There's a huge difference between a test and primo cycle and blasting a gram of TRN with d-ball and all these other things. So there are degrees here. There's degrees here. Bodybuilding is an insane sport. We do crazy things. And the thing is, what I've seen, the guys that do the most reckless stuff often aren't bodybuilders. They're just regular gym bros. For the bodybuilder, I can understand maybe taking a risk because there's a financial outcome that comes with it. There's potentiALCAReer advancement that comes with it. There's accolades that come with it. But for the guy that's just at the gym, I have a hard time understanding. Once again, maybe I'm just justifying things here. But yes, the answer is complicated. You can be safer. You can be more intelligent. But it's still a risk. I look at it like riding a motorcycle. Riding a motorcycle is a very dangerous activity inherently. And there are varying degrees of risk riding motorcycles. There's a big difference between riding in rush hour traffic or going for a slow ride on a back country road. There's a big difference between wearing a helmet and not wearing a helmet. There's a big difference between riding a sport bike versus riding a Harley. There's a big difference between how you ride, how fast you ride, where you ride, your experience, your trening, all of these things you can do to lower your risk, but you're still engaging in an inherently risky activity. We're also looking at playing football. Football is dangerous, man. How many people get hurt, killed, maimed, crippled playing football? I think I saw somewhere the average lifespan for an NFL player is something like 58 years, 59 years. Playing football is a dangerous activity. Think about mountain climbing. I don't know what the numbers are, but it's one in several hundred people die climbing Mount Everest. I don't remember the exact numbers, but there's people that die frequently climbing Mount Everest. It is certainly a very dangerous activity. Life is dangerous, living is dangerous, and some of us choose to have dangerous hobbies. Ultimately, we all die at some point. And look, I'm not encouraging people to be reckless with what they do. I do think we need to have candid and open discussions about this stuff. We need to talk about the dangers of this stuff. We need to be fully aware of the risk that we take when we engage in these things. And we probably should take safety precautions to prevent or lower that risk when we're doing these things. Just like riding a motorcycle, wearing a helmet, wearing safety gear, having proper trening, choosing the right place to ride, riding responsibly is going to significantly lower that risk while still engaging in a risky activity. Bodybuilding, PED use is no different. Alright folks, let me know what you think about this topic in the video description below. What do you think about the risk associated with using PEDs? Are we just lying to ourselves, telling ourselves that we can do it safer, or are we just justifying our PED use? Thank you for watching folks. I appreciate each and every one of you. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.