 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up Jim bros, Big Paul here with another anabolic Q and A. This is where I break down your questions on trening, nutrition and responsible performance enhancement while reducinGHarm and getting you the maximum results. I have some great questions lined up today from the school anabolic bodybuilding members community. You can join over here with anabolic bodybuilding members community. I have one over there for 30 bucks a month. If you have any reference studies you can talk about one part of those. If you have any reference studies you can talk about one part of those. If you have any reference studies you can talk about one part of those. If you have any reference studies you can talk about one part of those. If you have any reference studies you can talk about one part of those. If you have any reference studies you can talk about one part of those. If you have any reference studies you can talk about one part of those. If you have any reference studies you can talk about one part of those. If you have any reference studies you can talk about one part of those. If you have any reference studies you can talk about one part of those. If you have any part of those. If you have any part of those. If you have any part of those. If you have any part of those those those are those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those those your HGH doses during a cruise. I have a bunch of other great questions and we're going to dig into all of these in just one second. All right, before we get started on thesEQuestions, I would appreciate it if you would like this video and subscribe to my channel. Also check out all my other resources I have on Instagram, X, and Facebook. You can follow me there as well. Before we get started, I just wanted to let you guys know that Chase Irons channel got taken down. I had a similar experience happen with my channel. It's kind of frustrating. Hopefully Chase can get his channel back. Chase has provided a lot of great information to people over the years and Chase was very helpful and beneficial to me in getting my channel up and running. I really appreciate all his help long term, but guys, go support Chase. I know he moved some of his stuff over to other places you can find out on Instagram. You can go over there and check Chase out. I know he has things up on his forum and over on Rumble as well and Instagram. You can give him a follow over there, but unfortunately Chase's channel has been taken down. I know he's trying to get it back, but it's not looking great. This is the world we live in now. Hopefully I can keep my channel up for the long term. I am trying to abide by the rules here on YouTube and keep things tactful so they will keep me around. But yeah, really sad for Chase for losinGHis channel. All right, enough of that. Let's dig into the first question I've got up here. This one is from Jody. Jody asked, why do we cycle carbs during a building phase instead of keeping them evenly spread out through the week? What's the reasoning behind having a high and low carb days while in a muscle growth hormone hormone hormone phase when in a surplus anyway? Um, there's a couple different reasons on it. You could in theory do a flat macro diet and it probably wouldn't be that big of a difference. Uh, but when we get to the higher level of body building, where we're trying to be competitive and maximize body composition, we want to take every advantage that we possibly can. And what we do with the carb cycling is we manipulate how the body partitions energy, mainly carbohydrates. So we cycle carbohydrates up and down based on energy demand. And with the carb cycling in the offseason, really what we are trying to accomplish is maintain a lean body composition while maximizing glycogen synthesis and minimizing fat gain. And the way that we manipulate that through the contest prep and the offseason is we cycle through different caloric intakes on those days. And with the offseason, what I like to do is have three types of days. We have high, medium and low days. And the high days are where we run a steep caloric surplus, mostly from carbohydrates. The idea is there, we are going to keep the carbohydrates high. And the added fats, dietary fats in the, in the diet that we put together lower. So we minimize fat gain while being in a surplus and maximizing glycogen synthesis. Now we know if you are in too much of a surplus over a period of time, you're just going to gain fat, not muscle. We really don't synthesize that much muscle tissue over a given period of time. If you really think about it, some of the best examples of muscle gain, I've talked about this a million times, would be somebody like Nick Walker who put on a hundred pounds of muscle over say an eight or nine year period of time. That's roughly 12 pounds a year. We're talking about a pound of new tissue synthesized every month. Now it's not linear like that. We, we know that, that it comes in spurts. So on a offseason bulking phase, what we want to do is minimize fat gain. So we limit our time in a surplus. And really when we are in a surplus, we want to keep the excess dietary fats low while the carbohydrates are high. So we minimize fat gain and maximize glycogen synthesis. The medium days, typically in an offseason, I like to keep them isocaloric. They're somewhere close to just being net, net neutral as far as calories go enough to sustain workouts. We're going to have more workouts, more, sorry, more carbohydrates than we do on a low day because we're going to have increased energy expenditure because of the work workouts, but we want enough carbohydrates in place where we can maximize our performance in the gym during those days. And the low carbohydrate days, which are going to be our off days are likely going to be any slight caloric deficits. Sometimes I'll even go down to zero carbohydrates, depending on the person's body composition on the low carbohydrate day in the offseason to reset insulin sensitivity, allow ourselves a break from eating all the food and to keep fat gain at a minimum on that day. We'll push the fats up a little bit higher, keep the carbohydrates lower, but essentially the net outcome over say a 16 to 20 week period of time, in theory, if we cycle through the carbohydrates this way and the calories this way, we should reduce the amount of fat that we gain and optimize the amount of muscle that we gain. You may actually end up with a net same, you know, the difference between if you did a flat macro diet, the muscle gain may be, the net may be the same, but in theory, if we cycle through the carbohydrates, we actually have some days where we're in a deficit and some days where we push a surplus, but it's primarily for carbohydrates. We should be able to maximize glycogen synthesis and minimize fat gain. And that's really the whole idea. And if we get into this cycle of doing this and repeating it over and over again, where during contest prep, we're going to maximize fat loss, minimize muscle loss, and keep glycogen as topped off as we possibly can through cycling through the carbohydrates. We set ourselves up in a situation where eventually in theory, we should be leaner in our offseason. And that in turn will make the dieting phase. If you're just a regular guy, not competing or the contest prep phase for a competitor that should make it so that the net difference should be less fat gain, less fat to lose on a diet phase. And over a period of time, you maintain a leaner, fuller body composition. That's sort of the whole idea behind this. And, and I've done flat macro diets in the past, and I have had some clients where I do flat macro diets just because of simplicity sake, when I'm not really following a bodybuilding diet, or I'm not trying to accomplish anything in the gym, I'm not trying to gain anything. I will sort of intuitively cycle through my, my calories, but a lot of times I'll just eat similar amounts of food every day. And a lot of times I'll even do a 24 hour fast once a week when I am not really following a bodybuilding diet, just to kind of allow myself to break from food and create a caloric deficit on that day. Not the most optimal thing for muscle gain, but probably beneficial for health overall. But you kind of get the idea here. The core concept is carbs are just energy. At the end of the day, we're going to cycle through those things, how our body partitions and stores that energy is primarily glycogen. And if we want to synthesize glycogen, it makes sense to do it a couple of times a week in a caloric surplus where we keep the fats low. So we're reducing the amount of fat gain that we have. And that's really kind of the core concept of all of it in the offseason and why we do it year round. All right, next question here. It's another carb cycling question. So we're going to continue down this path. This one is from Colton R. Can you explain the science behind carb cycling? Not just anecdotal perspective, but what research actually says about performance recovery and nutrition partitioning? Colton, I dug and dug and dug and I have in the past and looked for, looked for studies on the stuff. There are a few things out there where guys have done some carb loading. Most of the studies I saw were on cyclists. The problem we run into most nutrition-based studies when it comes to dietary stuff, it's adherence. How do the, unless they lock the participants in a room, how do they know that people are actually adhering to the diet? And a lot of the stuff doesn't apply to our cohort. I've seen things where they say that there's not really that big of a difference between carb loading and not carb loading as far as performance goes, but the people that they're doing studies on are not using insulin and PEDs. They're also not running the high amounts of carbohydrates that we are running. They are also not heavily muscled like we are. A lot of the studies I've seen are on regular athletes, mostly cyclists, and I do know cyclists do some carb loading. Now we do have to keep in mind, there's a few fundamental things that we do know and understand that science will back us up on is how the body synthesizes glycogen. Liver glycogen tends to be synthesized quickly. Muscle glycogen tends to be synthesized more slowly over a 24 to 48 hour period of time. So if we're trying to maximize performance for an event, say like in the cyclist situation, it would make more sense to probably carbohydrate load one to two days before an event. It's the same reason why we do the carbohydrate loading one to two days before a bodybuilding show. So we have glycogen synthesis completed and maximized for the show. So we have fuller, rounder muscles on stage. As far as performance goes in the gym, a lot of the studies you see say that it doesn't really make that much of a difference, but anecdote disagrees. All you have to do is try not eating carbs for a couple of days and see what happens to your performance in the gym. You'll see an immediate drop in rep strength, immediate. And guys on contest prep can attest to this. Anybody who's done a contest prep with me knows that when we are in a caloric deficit, typically we're going to cut carbohydrates going into a show. There is a loss of rep strength going into the last few weeks of the show because you'recompletely depleted at that point. And as soon as you go back into a caloric surplus post-show, immediately and rapidly there is a regain in strength, almost always within a week or two, you're back up to pre-show strength on exercise. Now you didn't gain a bunch of muscle back in a week and a half. So really the only other logical conclusion would be the glycogen synthesis and maybe some additional benefit from the leverage from the water weight and whatnot that you hold. But we do know that our body partitions carbohydrates as liver glycogen, muscle glycogen primarily first. Once those are topped off, assuming that you're metabolically healthy, then we get into a lipogenesis where the body will convert, the liver will convert, uh, converts carbohydrates into lipids and they get stored as fat. We do know that when we're in a high carbohydrate state, the body is going to prioritize carbohydrates as fuel. So it's more than likely that any excess dietary fats that you, you eat in a caloric surplus while on a high carbohydrate state are likely just going to be stored as body fat. We know that typically in research studies where they try to make fat rats that are insulin resistant, they feed them a diet that's high in saturated fat and carbohydrates, simple carbohydrates. And we know that from our own experience with humans, that that is thEQuickest and easiest way to get fat is to eat shit like pizza and donuts and potato chips. High saturated fat, high simple carbohydrate foods will usually lead to rapid fat gain and decline in insulin sensitivity. We, we, we know that those are, those are pretty well established facts. So we really don't have studies that we can draw from. We have a lot of anecdote. I've worked with hundreds of guys at this point. I've been doing nutrition for people for close to 30 years, off and on at periods of time. I worked as a nutritionist and personal trener when I was in college, got away from it for a while. I've tried every diet known to man. I've done keto. I've done carnivore. I've done the South beach diet. I've done flat macro diets. I've done carb cycling, carb backloading, you name it. There isn't one size fits all approach for everybody, but I do think for a strength athlete or bodybuilder that cycling carbohydrates probably makes the most sense because of how the body partitions energy. But there are certain situations where other diets might be better options. I just look at them as a tool in the toolbox. And if you have a smart coach or nutritionist that you're working with, they will understand that, that there are different tools for different jobs. Sometimes you need the screwdriver. Sometimes you need the hammer. So we know that if you're somebody who's extremely obese, maybe it makes sense to do a very low carbohydrate, flat macro style diet, maybe even a keto diet, something, something along that line. But we have some scientific data that we can draw from some scientific knowns that we can draw from. We know how the body, uh, for the most part partitions, macronutrients, specifically carbohydrates in dietary fats. We, we, we know what happens. We know what happens when we eat protein for the most part. And all we're really doing is taking advantage of that. And as far as studies go, it would be cool if somebody did a study on carb cycling on a, uh, enhanced bodybuilder, but there's just really nothing out there right now. So all we have to draw on is the information that we know to be true and anecdote. That's really all we have. And that's true with a lot of what we do in bodybuilding. Uh, and this is where I kind of get frustrated with the science absolutist. There are some things that are just unknown, but we know that work. There's a lot of shit in bodybuilding that we don't have scientific studies to back up, but we know for a fact in practice, when we'recompeting, that these things work and they work very well. And I would put carb cycling in that column, but we do have some science behind it. All right. Next question here is from Alan E. Alan asked, when it comes to insulin timing on a high carbohydrate day, what is the most effective taking the shot before, during the meal or right after? How does the timing affect blood sugar and nutrient uptake? Um, yeah, look, man, um, I'll tell you this, if you're not a competitive bodybuilder, I probably wouldn't mess with insulin. insulin is pretty dangerous. You know, I don't want to be all preachy to people, but if you are going to use it, there are safer ways to use it. And there are more common sense ways to use it in a bodybuilding application. I see a lot of people using insulin and using it incorrectly. There arEQuite a few coaches and people out there that are using basal insulin. I think they are using basal insulin incorrectly. I'm a diabetic. I'm getting my diabetic plug in. So everybody comment in the comment section now where you heard me say diabetes. Uh, so I've been using insulin for a long time and I'm very familiar. IMonitor my blood sugar. I have a continuous glucose monitor. I am prescribed insulin. And what I can tell you is basal insulin is a, is to replace the background insulin that's present in your body at all times. It doesn't have a peak. It stays level for the whole day. For example, if you use Lantus, it has something like a 20 hour, um, active life. It's, it's in your system. It comes up and then it's there. It's just flat. There's a background insulin that's always present in your body to keep your blood sugar level between meals and overnight. And the basal insulins are designed to replace that. They are not meant to replace mealtime bolus of insulin, which is where rapid insulin comes into play. Now I see a lot of bodybuilders and coaches using insulin like Lantus as a way to bring fasting glucose levels down. I will tell you, if you need Lantus to lower your fasting glucose levels, you've got a problem. You're either already diabetic, pre-diabetic, or have some early signs of insulin resistance. And I think guys are just throwing it at it and saying, Hey, look, my, you know, this insulin has brought down my fasting glucose levels. Well, here's the problem. When you throw more insulin at high fasting glucose levels, more insulin creates more insulin resistance. And then we run into a problem. So really, I think Lantus for most applications is probably a poor choice unless you have some sort of pancreatic insufficiency, which would likely need to be diagnosed by a doctor. Now I do think there are a lot of guys that have older bodybuilders that have been pounding insulin and carbohydrates for their entire career that probably have made themselves diabetic. Um, I am genetically diabetic. My dad, my uncle, you know, everybody in my family, my grandmother, everybody's fucking diabetic. And my family have a really weird type of type one and a half diabetes where I have a genetic predisposition to, uh, not making enough insulin, but I'm sure all the high carb foods and stuff that I ate when I was younger, and just probably just eating like shit when I wasn't bodybuilding made it worse. Didn't help things. But I would say, look, if your fasting glucose levels are ridinGHigh, then it's probably a poor choice to use Lantus and Lantus is being used improperly. You need to address the underlying cause of the high glucose levels, which is likely either some sort of pancreatic, um, insufficiency or, or you have insulin resistance. And now we have GLP ones, things like retitrutide that can address those things. We can fix some of those things now more effectively than we could in the past. Now, when it comes to mealtime insulin, I, you know, I have run, and I'm not recommending that you do this as just me, the dummy bodybuilder. I have information on this. If you want to check it out in my anabolics e-course or my, uh, PED cheat sheet, where I have how I run insulin on those things, if you want to check those out over at anabolic bodybuilding, I do have, have more information over there. But what I typically do is I run a rapid acting insulin every other meal. Now the thing with the rapid acting insulins, they're meant to deal with mealtime, uh, spikes in glucose. And on a high carbohydrate day, when we're eating a shit ton of carbohydrates, we are using those to sort of take some pressure off of our pancreas. You know, if you're eating a thousand grams of carbs, it's a lot of demand on your body to push out enough insulin to deal with that. And we do get a performance enhancing effect from it. Now with rapid acting insulin, typically, if you look at the pharmacokinetics of say something like a Humalog or a Novolog, I don't recall off the top of my head, but they have an onset of something like 15 to 20 minutes. So I usually just take it before I eat my meal. I eat my meal and they can last up to five hours. So I will usually use it every other meal. I see a lot of dummies that will run at every meal. And then they're like, Holy shit, I ran five units at meal one and meal two. And then I ended up goinGHypo. I don't understand why I use the same amount. Well, that's because there's still likely a couple units of the insulin still present and active in your system. So you don't need as much. So the safer bet would be to use it every other meal. And I see also dummy bodybuilders all the time running the one unit to 10 grams of carbohydrate ratio, which is what type two diabetics are using. I would say that you, if you're having to use that much, then you probably are insulin resistant and need to address that first. I would say, you know, in most situations, guys just need to address their insulin resistance first, get that fixed, and then consider using insulin. But that, that's sort of how I do it. When I've competed and I've used it on my high day, I run it every other meal. I run somewhere around one unit per 20 grams of carbs that I take. And this is not what I'm telling you to do. This is what me as a diabetic, that's what I do. Now I don't have insulin resistance, so I don't need as much as say a type two diabetic, so I can get away with that. But I will tell you, as you get deeper into contest prep, as you get leaner, that that insulin sensitivity increases, and then you do end up goinGHypo much easier. And you have to carefully monitor your blood glucose. This is another mistake that guys make. They think that more is better with insulin, and that is not the case with insulin. The appropriate amount is what you need. More is not better. More just makes you hypo and potentially kills you. So proceed with caution. I would steer away from it if you're not a competitor, but I know dummy bros are going to do what they're going to do. If you're, if you are going to use it, you need to carefully monitor your glucose. I'd probably get a CGM and a blood glucose monitor. Make sure you have all the safety precautions on hand, such as glucose tabs and things like that in case you go hypo. So, um, but that's typically how I run insulin myself personally. Don't do it because I'm a dummy and a diabetic. If you do it, you might kill yourself. Don't do that. All right. Next question here is from Joshua H. Joshua asks, could a TRT style set up something like 200 milligrams of testosterone, a few units of GH, and maybe some Prima or Mast actually be run long-term in a way that supports health or even improves health? Or is this just one of those things that looks good on paper, but doesn't always work in practice? Um, yeah, IMean, look, there's a smarter way to do things and reduce harm when we're using PEDs. Um, if you're a guy that's just kind of doing TRT plus and just wants to be more vital, sometimes I think I think something like adding a little bit of Primo into the mix could be useful and potentially reduce some of the side effects that we get from the testosterone and make your testosterone work better because of the anti-estrogen effects that it has. I will say this, it doesn't matter what you take as far as testosterone, Primo, I always see some common factors that happen every with everybody, whether they're using the lowest dose TRT or they're blasting, you know, grams of gears, almost everybody that runs any kind of PEDs is going to end up with some sort of lipid skewing, usually suppressed HDL and increased LDL. They're usually going to have increased red blood cell count, hemoglobin and hematocrit. It just happens. It's part of the, part of the deal that you sign up for. But I would say, look, here's the thing. If you are making yourself leaner, if you're improving insulin sensitivity, if you are being more active and working out versus being sedentary, there's all the downstream effects of using TRT plus that are likely going to make you healthier. And I would argue, and we can look at case examples, you know, these are just anecdotes once again, of men that have clearly been on these TRT plus protocols for years and look fucking fantastic. IMean, think about a guy like Tom Cruise. Clearly he's doing something. Clearly Sylvester Stallone is. The guy's almost 80 years old. Who wouldn't want to look like Sylvester Stallone when they're 80 years old? Now, with that said, you don't want to be blasting copious amounts of stuff, but you want to be paying attention to health markers. You want to be moderate with your approach, probably limit other lifestyle factors that could contribute to poor health outcomes, such as smoking and drinking while taking PEDs. I find a lot of times the side effects that guys get on PEDs are exacerbated by poor lifestyle choices, such as bad diet, drinking alcohol, recreational drugs, smoking, vaping, other things that can contribute negatively to a situation where you're already putting a little additional stress on your body. So if you are going to run TRT plus, I probably would limit those other risk factors. But once again, it's all about risk mitigation and you have to weigh in the pros versus the cons when it comes to the stuff. Robert P.S. During an offseason, should you adjust your AAS dosages based on trening performance and progression or based on food intake or overall caloric load? And in your experience, what's a smart weekly weight gain rate to maximize muscle while keeping the fat gain in check? I have kind of gotten to the point where I'm like my coach, Justin Harris, where I just want to throw the scale in the trash. Guys get too obsessed with the scale. To me, the check-in picks are the most important thing. And IMentioned the Nick Walker example of having some of the biggest muscle mass gain out of a human I've ever seen. He averaged something like 10 pounds a year, 12 pounds a year, something like that, a pound a month. IMean, how do you quantify that? Really, it comes down to what your picks look like, how your picks are progressing. When it comes to escalating doses in food, typically what I do in an offseason scenario when I am coaching people, I will try to push food first. We'll try to, and I'll use trening as a litmus test of progress. I will also keep an eye on body composition from the pictures. If we're going week from week to week, I'll look at the pictures from this week to last week, in this week to the beginning. And if I see a decline in body composition, I know we got a problem. We probably need to pull food back or change PED protocols to adjust for that. If we see progress slow down in the gym or reverse in the gym, then we also have a problem. That is a litmus test as well. So what I like to see in an offseason, I like to see weights and rep strength progressing in the gym. I like to see the scale moving up slowly with no significant decline in body composition or even an improvement in body composition. If I see somebody stuck, they aren't progressing in the gym. Usually I'll try to bump up the food a little bit first and then see what happens. If the body composition holds, then the performance starts to go up in the gym again, then we'll just leave things alone. If we get to a point where they've kind of reached their limit of what food they can use or eat, or if body composition is starting to take a negative hit from increased food, then maybe we look at turning the knob on the performance enhancing substances at that point. So it's really kind of a subjective thing. We keep an eye on how the person's progressing and then just go from there. All right, next question here. We got a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone dusting question. This one's from Adam T. He asked, how do you decide when to push your GH higher and when to back off, especially when comparing off-season versus prep or on cruise phase? And once again, we want to minimize risk while getting maximizing benefit when we're doing this stuff. We want to reduce harm. Now, what we know about growth hormone hormone hormone hormone, there have been lots of long-term studies and information on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. You can take a look at it. The FDA collects the stuff. Cerastem is prescribed to HIV patients and there is a lot of long-term data on Cerastem. Most HIV patients are prescribed six milligrams per day, all taken in a bowl before bed. That's six milligrams a day in bro terms is 18 units. We have decades worth of data on long-term 18 unit GH use in the HIV population. And there's probably a high, high, high probability that they're also on hormone replacement therapy too, probably TRT and some other things as well. I would, I would assume I'm not that familiar with the community, but what we have seen, the number one reported side effect in that group want the long-term 18 unit per day use is insulin resistance and increasing glucose levels. So that is probably the big thing that we need to pay attention to is your insulin sensitivity declining, is your fasting glucose levels going up if we want to maintain our safety and, you know, prevent ourselves from becoming diabetic. I see a lot of retired bodybuilders that have made themselves diabetic from overusing growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. They become insulin resistant as we talked about in the previous situation. And then they'll use something like Lantus to mask the insulin resistance and temporarily pull down their glucose levels. And then they're just creating even more insulin resistance as a result. And they just have the spiral that gets out of control and you just make yourself diabetic. Now that's what I see happening a lot of times with these guys. Now, when it comes to dosing, we have data on the 18 units. You know, it's relatively been safe in the HIV crowd. There's been no significant increase in cancer or organ growth hormone hormone hormone or any of the other things. The number one reported side effect is insulin resistance. Number two, I believe, if I recall off the top of my head, when I looked at the FDA data, was carpal tunnel. So those are our two biggest risk factors when we look at using GH at higher doses long term. Now, I'm not suggesting you run out and use 18 units. That's just what the HIV patient population has used if you look at the studies. So when we're looking at an off-season setting, I would say, you know, most bodybuilders at the professional level that I talk to end up somewhere in the 9 to 10 unit range. It's what most of them run. They run it in their off-season. I would, I have kind of changed my approach up to it. I would think that at some point, you know, if you get into a cruise phase that you want to back off to just hormone replacement doses, which would probably be somewhere in the two to four unit range. You know, we don't have exact data on that, but that, that would be probably where we would be at. And I would not run those higher doses for probably more than 16 to 20 weeks, just like we would run an off-season blast. If you want to see how I put off-season blast together, I have them in my science or sorry, my PED cheat sheet that you can get on the anabolic bodybuilding website for 30 bucks. I detail all of it over there, but what I would say is 16 to 20 weeks with the GH at whatever you can tolerate. If you get the four units and your hands start going numb and you see your fasting glucose levels rising, then you got a problem. You need to back off. But I would say the number one thing that you need to monitor is your insulin sensitivity. Make sure that your fasting glucose levels aren't rising. If they are, they get an A1c test done and make sure that that's okay. Potentially check fasting insulin levels to make sure that insulin is not through the roof and because your body's overproducing insulin to deal with the insulin resistance. A lot of times you'll see clues that there's insulin resistance before blood sugar and A1c go up. You'll see high triglycerides on blood work. That's often a sign that the liver is spewing out lipids to deal with high glucose levels. That's another clue that we're dealing with. But I would say, look, listen to your body, see what your body can handle, use the minimum effective dose to get the results that you're trying to achieve, and then do take program breaks from it at lower doses or just come off completely. All right. Next question here is from Dave L. Dave asks, what's the main difference between colomiphene and clomiphene and HCG? And how would you use them differently based on what's the goal, whether it's fertility, post-cycle recovery, or maintaining on TRT? Well, IMean, they're two different compounds. HCG is a peptide. It's a biologic, which the FDA is really clamped down on access to HCG now. It's really difficult to get at this point. I don't know. The doctors still prescribe it. You might be able to get it prescribed through a TRT clinic. But think of it this way. HCG mimics LH and stimulates the testes to produce testosterone directly. And clomiphene or clomid is another option. And clomiphene is probably a better option. Works indirectly. It is a CIRM. What it does is blocks estrogen at the receptors and tricks your body into thinking that estrogen is low and your body is going to increase LH and FSH as a result, stimulating the testes. Whereas, you know, HCG is just going to bypass all that and just do it directly. Now, key differences between the two, and clomiphene is probably not going to be much of a benefit when you're on cycle and you're blasting all the time. Sort of like pissing on a forest fire. Now, I do know some guys use it in fertility protocols. It is commonly used in fertility protocols. But HCG is the more common thing that's prescribed during TRT for guys to maintain some testicular function since it directly stimulates the testes to produce testosterone. It mimics LH and FSH. So that, you know, really those are the key differences between the two. But HCG, you know, long story short, would be used while you're on cycle or on TRT if you care about keeping your balls going. And clomiphene would be a post-cycle therapy option if you're trying to get your own testosterone going long term. All right, next question here is from Corey G. Corey asks, around what GH dose or carb intake do you usually start seeing the need for insulin to manage blood sugar? Is there a general range where most people begin to experience these issues? We kind of talked about this ad nauseum earlier in the episode. Once again, it depends on insulin resistance. And we have to consider this. Are we using insulin to mask the symptoms of insulin resistance? Are we actually using it for a performance enhancing effect? And as IMentioned earlier, most of the time when guys are using Lantus, it's more than likely that they're using it to hide or mask the symptoms of insulin resistance or some sort of pancreatic insufficiency, which basically means you're either pre-diabetic or diabetic at that point if you're having to use Lantus to keep everything in check. You're at that point. Now, when it comes to using rapid acting insulin, I would say if you're a non-bodybuilder or non-competitor, a guy that's 300 pounds, you probably don't need it. But I would say that most people, when they're approaching eating a thousand grams of carbs a day, when you hear bodybuilders talking about eating a thousand grams of carbs a day, that ain't happening without some insulin on deck, more than likely. Now, long term, short term, sorry, you could probably get away with it for a period of time with taking GH, et cetera. But long term, you're going to end up creating a bunch of insulin resistance and have problems and et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. And so higher insulin or higher glucose levels. But I would say for the most part, if you hear a guy's running, you know, 900, 1,200 grams of carbohydrates, they're using insulin with it, especially if they're running GH. Now, I'm not saying there is a prescribed time to use it. I would stay away from it. If you're a non-competitive bodybuilder, it is dangerous and risky, but that's typically what I see. All right, more GH questions. This one's from Chase C. What is the real story with eating around your nightly GH shot? Should you avoid food for a while before or after penning or does it meal timinGHave little impact on how GH works? Now, if we think critically about how GH works, it's going to shift your body to lipolysis. Your body's going to be burning fat primarily as fuel. And that indirectly is going to increase glucose levels. And if you're, if you have carbohydrates present at that time, it's even going to further exacerbate your glucose levels. And as IMentioned earlier, bodybuilders will use insulin to deal with that and to counteract some of that. What makes sense to me is if you are using GH and you're eating a bunch of carbohydrates, you probably want to keep it away from your carbohydrate meals to maximize or minimize the effects of insulin resistance and potential, um, high glucose levels over a period of time. There's a lot of guys that will split their GH doses up through the day in the offseason. And invariably, almost all these guys end up having insulin resistance problems. You can probably find 20 of them on social media. They either talk about it or they don't, but when they split up their doses of GH during the day, they end up having a high glucose levels and then they end up taking insulin to deal with it. They're not actually using it for a performance enhancing effect. They're just using it to compensate for the high glucose levels and further creating more insulin resistance and making themselves diabetic. So what ends up happening? So I think in the offseason setting, it probably makes sense. And this is the way it's used therapeutically when prescribed to just take the entire bolus at night when you're in a fasted state, probably a couple hours after you eat, make sure that your glucose levels are down, back down to baseline before you take your GH. And the GH is present for something like six to eight hours with a, with a subqtaneous shot. And then it tapers off after that, tails off after that. And during a contest prep phase, if you want to leverage the lipotic effect of the GH to increase fat burning, then if you're in a low carbohydrate state throughout the day, then potentially you could run the GH in split doses throughout the day. So I think it probably makes more sense on contest prep around meals that are low carbohydrate. If you're trying to burn fat to maybe use a little bit of GH, sprinkle a little bit in during the day. But in an offseason setting where you're eating carbohydrates all day, you're in a high carbohydrate state, probably is not smart to be splitting your GH doses up throughout the day. I would assume that you're going to be creating more demand on your body and increasing glucose levels and increasing insulin secretion and probably having to use insulin to combat some of that. You know, you see it all the time in bodybuilding. Like I said, you can probably find 30 examples of dudes that have done this to themselves online. I think it makes more sense to just take it all at night in an offseason setting and be done with it. Keep it away from your meals where possible. I know we're eating all the time and that's difficult to do, but just do your best to do that. All right. Next question here from the school anabolic bodybuilding members community. William P. asked, during a bulk, are certain types of cardio better for keeping fat off without interfering with muscle growth hormone hormone hormone? For example, if you're rucking a couple times a week, mowing the lawn and getting about 10 to 12,000 steps a day, is that helping or possibly doing too much? I think people get overly scared of the cardio. I get quite a few dudes that are working with me that are huge that are working construction jobs that are just, you know, I've got one dude that's out running a fucking jackhammer all day long and got as big as fuck, you know. So is it ideal? Probably not. Probably the ideal setting for growth hormone hormone hormone would be to be like a baby and sleep all day and minimize activity to allow your body to grow. But, you know, I've seen plenty of dudes that work hard manual labor jobs that are moving quite a bit that grow quite well. Now, keep in mind, if you have higher energy output, like my guys that are working construction jobs, we have to keep the food really high during the offseason. We have to compensate for that. They have bigger energy output, so that means more calories to keep up with that energy output. And that is something that we have to keep in mind. And sometimes with these guys, like I have dudes that work construction, whereas I pull a sedentary guy down really low on a low carbohydrate day. IMight not do that for a guy that's working construction, banging nails all day long. It might not make sense to pull him down super low. Now, as far as fat burning in the offseason, really our goal is not to burn fat in the offseason. That's the diet phase. That's the contest prep phase. What we want to do is minimize fat gain. And if we have our diet buttoned up, we should be able to do that. I look at cardio in an offseason setting more as a way to manage and keep cardiovascular health in check, keep blood pressure down, things like that. Walks are great. They're probably not enough intensity to actually stimulate any sort of improvement in cardiovascular health to a great degree. So I like to sprinkle in a little bit of HIIT cardio in the offseason, maybe like three or four times a week where we push our VO2 max. I like getting on the cycle and doing a 40 second low intensity and then doing 20 to 25 seconds of an all out sprint for 12 to 15 minutes. It is an efficient way to do your cardio. It keeps your VO2 max, gets your VO2 max up high enough to get a benefit for cardiovascular health. It also, you know, helps a little bit with fat burning. It also helps with reducing blood pressure. It also helps with glucose control. And I like to take short walks throughout the day. I'm pretty sedentary. I don't move a lot with my job. I'm sitting at my desk all day long. So I try to sprinkle in a couple short walks if I can. But really in the offseason, I think probably some short walks and doinGHIIT sessions a few times a week probably makes the most sense. And remember, we're not trying to burn fat in the offseason. We're just trying to minimize fat gain. It's really a different objective. And the cardio is just in there to maintain some semblance of cardiovascular health and keep blood pressure lower and insulin sensitivity in check. Our next question here is from Josh P. Once you've maxed out the adductor machine around 200 to 240 pounds, how do you keep progressing? Is there a better way to add more sets to failure, change the movement, or adjust your squat variations to hit the inner thighs more effectively? Damn, bro. If you're hitting the whole stack on the adductor machine, you can probably crack a cantaloupe between those thighs. Yeah, IMean, I've gotten to the point where I've maxed out the adductor machine before and then I end up tearing my adductor and realized that was probably not a smart way to do things. I like to have a couple variations of exercises for adductors. I generally use the adductor machine as sort of a warm-up. I don't go to failure on them. I don't try to progressively overload the adductor machine. It doesn't lend itself to that style of trening, I don't think. I get a few sets in, 15 to 20 reps, something a little bit higher. And then I progress on to a goblet-style squat or a sumo-style squat to really hit the adductors. There's a couple different ways you can do that. I use that for my heavy loading for the adductor. So you can do feet wide, toes pointed out, you can do goblet squats with a dumbbell or you can use a belt squat to do that. Or if you have a leg press with a big platform, you can do high and wide leg presses with your toes turned way out. Those are going to be more adductor focused. I really find goblet squats with a dumbbell holding the dumbbell in front of me. Getting my stance really wide and having my toes turned out as far as I can turn them out. And pushing my knees out when I go down really hits the adductors hard. Those are great adductor exercises. And I think those are probably more effective at growing your adductors than the adductor machine is. I would use the adductor machine to warm up, stretch it out a little bit, and then throw in some sort of wide stance sumo-style squat or leg press. Or even a goblet squat, belt squat, whatever your choice is that you want to do. You could even use a barbell in theory. I've seen guys do sumo squats with a barbell. It's really kind of difficult to get balance correct when you're doing it that way. But it is an option. All right, last question here is from Simon E. He asks, after dealing with a bicep tendon tear yourself, what did you learn about prevention? And are there exercises or grips or movements that patterns that lifters should avoid to reduce risk of that kind of injury? Talking to my surgeon, the guy that did my surgery, he said that the three most common injuries he sees from guys lifting weights are pec tears. He said pec tears are number one. Rotator cuff tears are number two. And then bicep tendon tears are his number three injury that he sees, which was kind of surprising to me. IMean, I know a few people that have had bicep tendon injuries at my gym. But I think a lot of the problem when we think about it, there's the proximal and then the distal end of the tendon. The part that inserts up into the shoulder, that part of the tendon wraps around the shoulder and sits in a groove up there. And I think what happens over time, and this is just speculation, I, in overhead pulling movements and overhead rowing movements, I used to do a lot of heavy weight, things like pullovers and stuff like that. I used to do a lot of heavy weight on movements like that. And I thought that I needed to really stretch, let my shoulder stretch forward, even on upward movements. You hear my shoulder popping on that. That's my good side. But I used to let my shoulder stretch a lot. And now that I think back on it, I can feel that tendon popping out of the groove in my shoulder. There's a groove that that tendon sits in and it slides out of that groove all the time. Probably what you heard right now over on that side. And then over time, it wears down. It wasn't any single catastrophic thing that happened. And it's just that tendon gets worn down over time from rubbing across that, rubbing across the joint and sliding out of that groove. And then you end up with a frayed tendon, tendinosis. And then mine got to the point where there was only about 20% of the tendon left. Thank God I caught it before it ruptured. If it had ruptured, it would have been much worse. Now, there's the other end of it where it ruptures up near the elbow, up here. And what I speculate happens there, and from talking to my surgeon, what he says, probably the worst, absolute worst thing for that is preacher curls. Where you let your arm extend, and you almost are hyper-extending at the end and putting a lot of tension on that tendon down at the, I believe that's the distal end, right? I could be wrong about that for my exercise physiologist in the audience. But the one closer to the elbow, you're putting a lot of stress on that tendon with stretching it there. And when you see the bicep, which is probably the more common injury that you see pop near the elbow, it's almost always from dudes doing preacher curls. And preacher curls, I've come to the conclusion, are pretty fucking dangerous and really unnecessary for bicep growth hormone hormone hormone. I would probably, and if you're going to do them, IMean, I still like doing some preacher curls. I would not load it up heavy. I would probably not fully extend. And I would be really cautious with preacher curls. And really, like, when I think about it, like, I probably, now that I'm getting older and I think about the safety profile of exercises, the risk versus reward when we're evaluating exercises, I probably would just stay away from preacher curls altogether. I probably would just stay away from flat barbell bench presses altogether. Now, if you want to do them, by all means, go for them. And shit you can get away with when you're 24 or 25 is way different than you can when you're 35, 45, 50. You know, your body gets basically more brittle as you get older. It's like playing tackle football. You can go out and play tackle football when you're 25 and survive and get up the next day. If I went out and tried to play tackle football right now at 51 years old, I would end up in the emergency room. There's no way my body could handle that sort of stress and trauma that comes along with playing that sport. And, you know, we did that shit all the time. We were young. Same thing with benches, squats, deadlifts, shit like that. But I would say really be careful with anything that hyperextends either direction. You know, if you're overhead movements, I would only go about 90% of the range of motion. I wouldn't fully extend. Same thing with rowing movements. I wouldn't let my shoulders drop forward anymore, which I used to tell people to do. And I did myself. Looking back on it, probably caused additional problems. I would probably stay away from full extension on preacher curls and maybe even completely eliminate preacher curls altogether. And a lot of these injuries are just wear and tear. And over time, the tendon just gets worn down. You have tendinosis and then eventually it just pops. A lot of times when you have, you'll see it in football all the time. You'll see guys that pop their ACLs doing nothing. They just are moving and the ACL gives out. In that situation, it's likely that the ACL already has some damage to it and just gave out. I had the same thinGHappen to my ACL. And some people just have weaker tendons than others. I think I probably do because I've had multiple tendon tears. I've had both of my ligament tears. I've had both of my ACLs, my UCL, and now my shoulder. IMean, it's just probably genetic. I probably was never made to be a power lifter. Bodybuilding is probably more my sport. It probably was never made to be a dude that can lift and move heavy weights. I just don't have the genetic structure, the heavy duty structure for it. But it's also when you have a more slight structure, it seems to be better for bodybuilding. All right, bros. That's all I got for you on this one. Hopefully you enjoyed this episode. I appreciate each and every one of you. All of you rock. Even the haters. I love you too. Everybody, you all need a hug. All this hate that's going on on social media right now is driving me fucking nuts. The science bros eating each other alive. And then the, you know, at least they're attacking each other now. Not the gym bros like us. But be kind to each other. Be helpful. Try to do something positive. Give somebody a compliment. Be helpful. Stay strong, guys. I'll see you on the next episode. Bye. Thank you.