 All right, all right folks, big Paul here today with a segment from an interview that I did with a segment from an interview that I did with Rick Collins about freedom of speech on social media and what your rights are or aren't are and how the First Amendment applies. I think you're going to enjoy this. This is a very important segment. Check it out in one second. What is what's the whole thing? What happens when the government works with the government works with social media platforms together to censor, to censor, limit or suppress? I've been party to it. I've been party to it myself. Okay. IMean, a lot of guys have, a lot of podcasters have, you know, a lot of social media influencers have, you know, a lot of social media influencers have. And so, brief, brief background. So, the, the, of all the amendments, you know, the first one, the first amendment deals with freedom of speech, even before any of the others, right? And so, you know, we have a, a, an amendment in our Constitution which says that the government can't, suppress, suppress, suppress free speech, suppress free speech. You should be with, with very limited exceptions, right? You can't yell fire in a crowded theater and there are various, you know, realistic restrictions. But by and large, you can't suppress ideas. And the idea that the first amendment was meant to protect safe, agreeable speech is, is a fallacy. The concept behind the first amendment is, is to protect speech that is, that is not, you know, not favorable, that is not necessarily in the wheelhouse of everybody's agreement. It's, it's to protect speech that is challenging. It's, it's to respect, to protect speech that is unpopular. And so, the government can't crack down on, on those sorts of narratives. But what, what's happened is that, in some ways, it appears that the government has used social media as its proxy to do with influencers and podcasters and those who have a, an audience on social media, what it, the government, can't itself do directly. And so, you know, the, you know, the, you know, the, the, the big recent health issues that, you know, were part of national policy. And so, um, there was a case that was brought by a few state attorneys general, which was, which became collectively known as Missouri versus Biden. And I say this not, you know, in a partisan way. And, and what I'm going to describe is not, is not meant to, um, say anything about partisan politics. It's just to, to talk about this case, because the administration was sued by these state, you know, parties, and it went to court. And in court, it was decided by a judge who issued a very long, like 90 page decision. And the decision. And the decision is worth reading. And the fact that most Americans never heard of that don't, don't even aren't even aware of this case, Missouri versus Biden, um, is, is problematic because I think the, the news may, you know, the legacy news and the mainstream news really didn't make any effort whatsoever to advise about it. But if you read the decision, the decision is absolutely harrowing. And what it says is that the judge found evidence that the White House, that the FBI, that the FDA, that the CDC, that various government regulatory bodies were pressuring social media platforms at that time. And, um, to, um, to, um, either, um, down, downgrade, a shadow ban, a sensor, de-platform, or otherwise restrict the presentations of narratives that didn't comport with what the government's narrative on health issues at the time was. And obviously the government couldn't have cracked down directly. That would have been a violation of free speech in the first amendment. But the first amendment only applies to government action. It doesn't apply to private action. So the, the, the various platforms began doing that so that podcasters, influencers, others, you know, who had audiences in social media, suddenly they found themselves blacklisted. Suddenly they found themselves de-platformed. Suddenly they thought that they're, they were wondering why they only had a handful of views, uh, of a particular, you know, post that they made. And what the judge found was that there were actually meetings beinGHeld between government actors and the, uh, social media platforms where the government actors would actually point out things that they would suggest were problematic. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, the, the, when you read the decision, it almost sounds like Tony Soprano showing up at your office and saying, look, I'm not saying what's going to happen. I'm just saying it would be better, be better for you if you made some of these changes, you know, not telling you what to do, but you know, you, you probably should think about doing this. And of course the platforms began to act in accordance with what the government regulators were telling them. And so the judge issued a decision, which, you know, really is scary. Um, and so the case then went to the court of appeals in the circuit and the circuit court is the highest level courts. Those are the highest level below the Supreme court, one step below. And the circuit court could have reversed the decision and said, well, that's just one judge. And, and that judge isn't reading the information. That's, that's not really what the data says, but that's not what happened. The circuit court actually found that virtually all of it was true. All of it was going on and all of it was extremely disturbing to anybody who is a believer in the first amendment. And what they found was that, you know, they also issued a, a long and scathing account of what was going on. They did find that there was insufficient evidence with respect to a few of the government agencies. And so it was limited to, uh, instead of, you know, 15 agencies, it was 12 agencies that did it kind of thing. At that point, the media did cover it in, you know, page 30 in the news. Um, and the headline was circuit court scales back lower court decision, emphasizing this, the, the fact that it wasn't quite as many agencies that were doing this, um, rather than the sheer horror that a circuit court actually found that this behavior was going on. And so I wrote a piece about it. I posted it on my LinkedIn page and it's there. If you, if you go to LinkedIn and you, and you look me up, you'll find it there. And I put the live links to both court decisions in the article that I wrote kind of summarizing the story. So I invite every American to read it. I think it's important to read. I think, you know, it's a scary precedent to have been set. Um, and, you know, don't, don't rely on me, click the links and read the decisions for yourself and, you know, read them and realize that these were findings by not one, but, you know, a number of judges. Um, and the takeaway from this is, um, is, is, is not that, you know, one party is bad or, or one party isn't or any of that. To me, once you allow any administration to begin to play games with the first amendment and to begin to pressure. private actors to do its bidding. Um, it is a precedent that, that will continue whoever is in charge of the country and, you know, whichever side it ultimately winds up in and, you know, who knows who'll, who'll be, you know, in the driver's seat in 2025 or, or, or 2029 or beyond. But if whoever's there is allowed to circumvent the protections of the first amendment to, you know, to censor speech that is not, not within, you know, the parameters of what it could considers information, that it's what is, you know, the government decides is misinformation. Um, well, some of that information, um, well, some of that information, as we look back on it, um, seems to have not been misinformation and seems actually to have been the better information than some of the information that we were getting. So, you know, I, I think we all need to be vigilant about that and wherever you are in the political spectrum. And, and I think we all, we all need to embrace each other now more than ever to find common ground, to find not what makes us different from each other, which has been the focus of the last few years, but what makes us the same? What do we have in common? What are the common threads and the common bonds that make us Americans that, that we share together? We've lost that, you know, in, in the sake of celebrating our differences. Ultimately, we've lost the thread that binds us and we need to get that back. IMean, I think one can argue that freedom of speech is the most important freedom that we could have. IMean, it's the reason why it's the first amendment. And I, I've, I've felt it firsthand. I've had stuff labeled as medical misinformation and taken down. It's pretty wild. And I've seen my accounts get shadow banned at times. I went to school for computer science and I can look at the analytics and see when an account's been shadow banned. But most people that wouldn't be aware of that type of stuff wouldn't know that they were. I don't know if you saw the Twitter file stuff, but I think it ties into that where Elon Musk, yeah. I talked to like, he released some communications with federal agencies that were telling Twitter, basically in giving suggestions, as you say, of certain accounts that should be banned and information that shouldn't be allowed out. It's really wild, man. Yeah, no, I, one of the, one of the sources I follow is the free press, which Barry Weiss and Michael Schellenberger, you know, put information out there that is stuff that you won't necessarily find in the more mainstream media. And there is a lot of information from Matt Taibbi and the Twitter files that you'll find on that site and on the, the different emails that they send out. Well, those of us that are on social media and influencers, we talk behind the scenes and we know that there are certain keywords that you can't say that will get flagged. Right. We, we know, we know that. So hopefully we've avoided them in this podcast. Yeah, I believe we have, but it's, there, there are certain topics and keywords you say that will get you, get you banned. It is just wild. It almost like, I don't know, you know, I know you got to go, but it thoughts on how to protect people. From this, does there need to be a social media bill of rights or some sort of, some sort of law protecting creators from this stuff? I, it, what's wild is that you can get banned and censored with no recourse. They can literally take you down and silence you without any recourse. Right. Yeah. And, and I think things, at least as I see in the near future are not going to get better. I think they're going to get worse. There's, I know that there's a, an international coalition, I think based out of Australia, that's, that's really looking to create a higher levels of censorship of social media and of the internet. In accord with other governments that are kind of joining together to decide what should and shouldn't be allowed to be said. You know, obviously those other countries don't necessarily have something that is a counterpart to the first amendment. Maybe they don't value free speech like we do in this country, freedom of expression. But to me, those are, those are terrifying developments. I think the way that you deal with misinformation is to not censor it unless it's calling for extreme violence or, you know, there's always exceptions. But in general, the, you know, the way to deal with misinformation is by, you know, presenting truthful information, you know, accurate information. And, you know, yeah, will, will somebody be allowed to put a blog up about how eating sawdust is, you know, all you really need for your nutritional health? I guess so. I guess so. But, you know, calling that, that blog out and, you know, putting out health related, truthful, you know, honest information to counter it is, is better than beginning to pick and choose what to censor because it really becomes a slippery slope. And ultimately, whoever is in power can decide what their truthful narrative, what is information and what isn't, and can then suppress what is, you know, a healthy diversity of viewpoints. You know, to me, the way we determine truth, the way we determine, you know, facts, the way we determine evidence, you know, is, is by having challenge from both sides. You know, I come in the legal system, our legal system is designed based on a system of adversarial, you know, attack, right? So, you know, I'm presenting one side, my opponent presents the other side, and the trier of fact has to determine what is, what, what the evidence is, you know, what, what, what do you rely on? And so by having both views, rather than just one side presenting there, could you imagine a legal system in which only one side could be presented, and the other side was censored from saying anything at all? I don't think that's conducive to truth. I don't think that works in a legal system, and I don't think that works on social media either. IMean, that's totalitarianism. That's what that is. I think this is another thing that people don't understand. I talk to other social media influencers, and correct me if I'm wrong on this, but the First Amendment applies to the government. It does not apply to corporate censorship. Right. No, it doesn't. You know, private actors, whether they're corporations or individuals or local businesses or social media platforms, they're, they're not bound by the First Amendment. You can choose to, you know, I don't like what you said, or I'm going to make a rule. I can make a rule that in, in my workplace or, or my house, you can't say certain things, or I can throw you out. You know, that's, that's, you know, private rights. The First Amendment deals with what the government can do. But it gets, you know, the, the problem is when the government begins to do indirectly what it can't do directly by maybe pressuring the corporations or pressuring social media to do its bidding for it. And that's the real danger that the government can be a proxy. And one could argue that these social media platforms hold more power than the government does when it comes to free speech. Really? In, in, in, certainly there are people whose livelihoods are dependent now on their social media reach. And, you know, the, a restriction by a social media platform can put somebody out of business. Yeah. I'm in that, in that seat myself. Well, Rick, I appreciate you coming on. This is a very good conversation. Thank you for your time. Is there any parting words you want to leave us with anything you want to promote? So, definitely just not promoting it, but I think every American should read those decisions. The links are on my LinkedIn. You know, anybody who has a platform, a web platform who wants to share that article that I wrote with the links so that everybody can read the cases themselves can reach out to me. I'm, I'm, I'm probably most active on Instagram at Rick Collins ESQ. So, certainly I, you know, invite everybody to follow me. And I try to, to cover almost the sort of things that we've just spent the last hour talking about or kind of what I post about. So, if you're interested in, in any of these issues, follow me on Instagram. Obviously, if anybody finds themselves in a legal or regulatory crisis of some kind, whether it's some sort of threatened lawsuit or a criminal accusation or being arrested or indicted, whether it's in, within the bodybuilding community or, or even outside it. My firm does work in the criminal defense sphere. I've had cases all over the country. I, I've actually, I think I counted the other day, I've practiced law in 41 different federal courthouses across the country, which, which may be, may be a record, you know, most within my little wheelhouse of, of kind of health and fitness related issues. But, but certainly if you're interested in reaching out to me for my legal services, you can, you can go to rickcollins.com, which is my website for my federal defense practice. I've got a website at supplement council for all of my clients in the dietary supplement industry. And so you can certainly follow me there. Paul, I appreciate the conversation. We should do this more often. Yeah. Thank you, Rick. I appreciate you coming on. Thank you very much. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you.