 warnisrako b What's up, guys? It's Big Paul here today with Coach Colton. What's up, Colton? Not too much, man. How you doing? Man, a couple things have happened since the last time we talked. A lot of things, yeah. We had the Arnold, we had the whole erythritol stuff that had set the bodybuilding world on fire. Oh my gosh, yeah. Oh my God. I stirred up so much controversy with that one. Some people thinking they're going to die and other people freaking out and telling me that I was full of shit. And I'm like, Jesus, you think I just told a five-year-old that Santa Claus isn't real? People have the biggest attachments to things. And then once you're like, oh, there might be this problem. They're like, what? That can't be true. I'm like, oh, whatever. For me, I realized the study was kind of hard to correlate. And the guy, what was the doctor's name you had on? He was... Bobby Bitterman? Yeah, he was cool. He broke it down in a really understandable and digestible way for most people. But he was right. It was looking at serum elevations in erythritol and not necessarily the addition of erythritol on the diet. I think that's a big caveat people didn't know at first. But it is correlated with obesity and diabetes. So there is that. But I don't think... I think all things considered, if you're healthy in general, who fucking cares? Yeah, I mean, I don't know. It's like having a couple drinks if you're healthy. If you're in a diseased state, you probably don't want to be putting additional stress on your body. But from what I gathered from the study is they weren't... They didn't go into it initially looking for erythritol. They were just looking for other factors that were contributing to these diseased states. So they were studying. Everybody was freaking out. Well, these were diseased people. I'm like, well, no shit. They were looking at diseased people to see what other things might be present that they had missed in the past. And one common thing they noticed were the elevated erythritol levels. But as you pointed out, it's sort of a chicken and an egg thing. Was this because they were in a diseased state or was it because they were consuming large amounts of erythritol? Yeah. Now, with that said... We need a lot of more research. With that said, I heard one of the doctors pointing out that this may be a good thing for testing, diagnostic testing going forward, that they can look for high erythritol levels as a potential marker for increased clotting risk. Yeah. So that's something to be aware of. It may or may not even be related to erythritol consumption. So they're going to have to do further study. That would actually be a really interesting YouTube video one of us should do, where we superdose erythritol and then go get serum testing done. See if it elevates serum erythritol. See if we die? Yeah. I mean, all you need to do to test me is get me on contest prep. That's why I was freaking out, man, because half my diet was fucking erythritol on contest prep. It's bad, man. I was living off a trivia. The Mio, the orange Mio stuff, man. Oh, my God. I'll consume that. In prep, I literally drank two gallons of water with that in it every day, and it was a lot. It was way too much. Yeah. I was using Mio. I was using sugar-free lemonade in my water. I would drink a lot of, well, Coke Heroes. I got one right in front of me. Although it doesn't have erythritol. It's another sugar alcohol. And then I was getting Truvia, which is funny that they promote it as a Stevia product, and it's like 95% erythritol. Right. It's super weird. It's interesting, too, because it's the only sweetener, non-nutritive sweetener that we endogenously produce. And it's like how they, I would be really curious because I haven't looked into it, but how they figured that out. They're like, oh, this thing gets endogenously produced by carbohydrate metabolism. Like, let's use that as a sweetener. I don't know how it came about, but it's interesting. Yeah, it was neat. Avi was going through the pathway in which it breaks down. I'm sure you saw it. Yeah. I don't have it in front of me. But it seems to be a regulatory system for body. Like, when people start running high glucose levels, your body starts cranking this shit out to deal with it, converting it. I wonder how, is it through the liver that it metabolizes it into that? I believe so. Yeah. I can't remember the exact enzymes responsible, but it is. You have, like, glucose and fructose metabolism, and it works down the pathway of glucose metabolism some way, shape, or form. But, I mean, that's pretty complicated, like, carbohydrate metabolism stuff. And I didn't honestly understand it in its complexity because I didn't even realize this was a thing to be concerned about until it came out. Like, that study came out. You published the video. And I was like, what is this shit? And then I started kind of looking into it. So. Wouldn't it be something of Quest Bars and Monster Energy drinks or making all these bodybuilders drop from blood clots? There is an uptick in that kind of stuff going around. So. I mean, it could be other things we don't know. But, yeah. I mean, I don't know. My thought process was if you wanted to be conservative and be careful, when you're on contest prep, you're already in a compromised state. If you wanted to be extra cautious, it might be intelligent just to maybe pull back on it on contest prep. At least thinking about it for my own. I mean, because I'm already sort of diabetic anyway. And, you know, you're doing things to make your blood thicker on contest prep. And just you're dehydrated. You're some probably, you know, have erythrocytosis. I mean, there's just a bunch of other shit going on. Maybe something that could potentially increase clotting factors might not be smart. Yeah. Yeah. And that's I actually just I posted on my Instagram like a study about cannabis causing like cortical thinning in certain individuals. And someone commented like, well, this study is not really inclusive. Like I wouldn't draw conclusions with this kind of data. And my reply to him was like, well, it's that's why data is out there to like subjectively in a way kind of formulate how you might approach certain risk factors. And even though that test was not necessarily looking at erythrocytol consumption, it's like, hey, that might be something that's like an inroads to looking at erythrocytol in its entirety and maybe doing a further study. I wouldn't say like, you know, it's just like how sucralose modifies the human GI tract. That data is not super compelling. But like for me personally, the risk might not be worth the benefit. And so like I look at studies kind of like that. Like I like to be a skeptic and not necessarily follow what everyone else thinks. And if there's like even a slight correlation, it's like that causes me to at least think like what could happen or what are we missing here that I'm not seeing? And I assess the risk on my own kind of agenda, I suppose. So I just kind of went back to basics. I was telling guys like eating a bunch of super processed food is like when is it ever good for you? Right. And now like just let your gut be the, you know, like I know when I drink fucking Diet Coke, like I'm farting, I'm burping. Yeah. I have reflux, you know, like I know that it's not biologically efficient. I know that much. So, well, anybody that's drank more than two monsters in a day knows what happens. Oh, my God. Yeah. Or a monster in a quest bar together. Oh, boy. Oh, that's nice, man. Toot, toot. You need a seatbelt for the toilet. At least I do. Yeah. I mean, even like, dude, even some way concentrate, like if you get a really bad brand out there, that stuff can wreck you. I mean, I've had, I've had dudes complaining about farting and like their wife can't take them anymore. And I'm like, well, let's, let's look through the diet. And it's like three scoops of way concentrate throughout the day. And it's like that stuff can wreck you too. And some people might not consider that processed food, but that's fucking processed food. And some of those things do have erythritol on them. So. Yeah. And that's been another one that people get mad at me about is I really try to steal, steer people away from protein powders. Yeah. Um, I mean, I do use some protein powders in my, my diet, but I spend the money and get a really. Right. High quality micronized, you know, whey isolate, not the cheap garbage crap that people get at Costco. Then when you actually look at the ingredients on it, it's like, it's not even, it's way concentrate mostly. Right. And it's like 30% isolate and there's a bunch of other trash in there. But you're right. If you're farting, that's a sign, man. That's what I tell people. If you're, if you're super gassy, something's wrong. Right. It's not, no, there's a research that supports, like if you're fluctuating more than 18 times a day, it's probably correlated with some form of gut dysbiosis. So like you could assume at least that, Hey, that's just not, I know when I'm like peak performance, optimally firing on all cylinders, like having normal bowel movements, I'm not farting a lot, but I know when I'm not feeling great, I'm bloated or descended. I'm tired all the time of getting brain fogs. I need naps. I know that I'm farting a lot. So like just the first principles tells me that that's not good. I laugh. Dr. Todd, he talks about it all the time. He calls it pooping and digesting food like a dog. Yeah. Ever since he said that, I've been looking at my dog's shit. I'm like, how's this motherfucker pooping? He's right though. But anytime you give the dog something off the menu, you give them a piece of pizza, they start farting and then they get diarrhea. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, it's always happens. And if they got a really good clean diet, the shit heightens up really fast. Yeah. I mean, he, he said, if you're, if you're fully digesting your food, you shouldn't have to wipe. That's a, that's a fucking fact. It's true. I use the Bristol stool chart for my clients and usually want to be like type four, type three, other seven stool types. And, um, the, the rarity of that kind of stool or that bowel movement is crazy to me. And it's just cause I think truly a lot of people just don't like whole food. You talk a lot. You're just like a salt and pepper guy, but there's people who just like douse their shit in all sorts of sauces and seasonings and have to get really flavorful. And with their ways of cooking. And it's like, sometimes that stuff isn't really beneficial. Yeah. Everybody makes fun of my super bland cooking, but I have IBS man. And so it's like even garlic. I, I, have you ever had an all cat test done? No, man. I went in and had an all cat test on it and I'm like fucking allergic to everything. There's hundreds of things that came back, you know, garlic, onions, peppers. I mean, all these different things like the people. So, so I stick with, I've worked with my gastroenterologist, but I stick with a low FODMAP diet and I have my clients run a low FODMAP diet. I'll give them a list of approved foods that are all low FODMAP. Um, and I found that if they stick to that, they generally have pretty good digestion. Yeah. I do the same exact thing. I'll have, I'm a selective dieter. So I'll have, I do macros, but I count whole macros and then I have like a menu essentially they can pick from. Like you said, it's, it's just a list of proteins, a list of fats, a list of carbohydrates, and they can kind of choose from that. And then I even do a list of vegetables too. Yeah, that's exactly how I do it. Yeah. It's just the easiest way. It's like, you can choose what you want, but it's all low FODMAP. We know it's going to digest well. And it's like, if you can't find something in there that you love, there's at least, you know, 3000 combinations of food. Like you're, you're lost. You're out of luck, you know? It's funny how many common foods that bodybuilders eat are, uh, high FODMAP things like broccoli. Oh yeah. That's the only thing. Yeah. Onions. Yeah. Stuff that are stuff that I think even asparagus is high FODMAP. Yep. Asparagus, Brussels sprouts. Brussels sprouts. Yep. Yep. All these things. And then guys wonder why they have, you know, so the old chicken and broccoli thing is probably not good for you. No, no. If you can eat like a hundred grams a day I've found. And then once you exceed a hundred grams of like one of those dark cruciferous veggies, that's where things start getting a little funky. And, and you have to also consider the oxalate count. And this is, you know, a little bit pedantic, but oxalates do get passed through the kidney and they're like little crystallized molecules that, um, plants produce in, and they, they can cause kidney damage. And if we're already putting our kidneys that a state of risk having like an abundance of, um, these, these, these oxalate containing compounds, things like cauliflower, broccoli, spinach, so on might not be the best thing, especially like a contest prep or, you know, when you're administering a lot of compounds that would lead to, uh, renal issues, then Hey, maybe not so good. Yeah. So many bodybuilders end up with fried kidneys. So it's, it's a very, a very, very, very common thing. I was worried about my, I think I told you I was worried about my kidneys and my GFR came back. It was fine. I heard that. Yeah. You had some pretty good blood work besides your hemoglobin A1c, right? I wouldn't, I wouldn't say good. It was the things like my A1c was high. My lipids were a little high, but those are tend to be interrelated at least in my experience, if your lipid or if your glucose metabolism sucks, it usually screws your lipids up. Yeah. Yeah. I use lipids as like a proxy for insulin sensitivity. So it's like a pretty one-to-one correlation. It's interesting though, because I think you said you took Lantus out and then the hemoglobin came, the A1c came up. Yeah. I, I have not been formally diagnosed and I probably should go to a doctor at some point, formally diagnosed, but everybody in my family, I, I, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's a really rare form of diabetes that my, my, like my uncle and some other people in my family had, my grandmother had it. It's all on my dad's side of the family, but it's, it's type 1B. So it's, it's, you're not fully, I probably had it my whole life. I did looking back on it and I just didn't know, but it's pancreatic insufficiency. It's not insulin resistant. So I'm like somewhere, I'm not like fully type 1. My, my pancreas still makes insulin, but just not enough. That's so interesting. What I, what I speculate, because it seems like things like metformin and semi-glutide and stuff like that have had zero impact on my, my glucose levels. So I just experimented. I pulled out, I really just did it to see what would happen. I pulled out the Lantis. I also ran out of it. So I pulled out the Lantis in my, my, for two months on my A1c. Yeah. I mean, it's, it's good though. Cause you're, you know, the best of people that maybe represent how beneficial it can be when you're pushing calories up as far as just a low dose Lantis. Cause if it kept your lipids under control and your A1c, that's pretty hard to argue. It's beneficial. Yeah. And I, I've also seen, and I speculate that some older bodybuilders have pancreatic insufficiency as well, more so than insulin resistant for just resistance from pounding carbs. I've seen like guys that I've had that are coached that I coach that are older and that can't grow. And then I throw in their running glucose levels a little high, not like, you know, like, like I would say like in the pre-diabetic range. And then we throw in some Lantis and all of a sudden, boom, they start growing. Yeah. That's what happened to me. Honestly, I think that was the biggest difference between that first year and the second year is, is I started using this one. Yeah. Well, it's, it's interesting too. Cause I'm going to post a study about this later this week, but there's a very clear correlation with exogenous insulin usage and the modification of your gut microbial to support carbohydrate metabolism and prevent things like leaky gut, which is, it's super interesting. And when we think about like pancreatic issues, a lot of it happens from immune response and like potentially like something like a leaky gut causing pancreatic beta cell dysfunction and that leading to like diabetic states. So I think it's like all kind of intertwined. Your situations may be a little different, but for bodybuilders, it's like you're pounding food constantly. You're doing oral drugs that are deteriorating the endothelial wall. And it's like all these different things kind of, I guess, triangulate into like a, a catastrophe for organ health. Well, I mean, you think about it over the longterm and somebody has been pounding it and bodybuilding for 10, 15 years, you know, using GH and you, you have this, this cycle of insulin resistance and then your body has to crank out more insulin to keep up with the food that you're eating. And, and most of these guys don't take breaks from the food. And then you just, you know, I would imagine I'm just speculating that there's gotta be on top of the insulin resistance. Even if you drop the GH and get your insulin resistance back in check, at some point, you probably have burned your pancreas out, the beta cells. Yeah. It's a lot of taxation. I mean, people aren't as, as much as you can change a physique. It's, I don't think it's normal to eat six, seven, some, I mean, some guys eat eight meals a day, uh, all causing insulin secretion. You know, it's, it's gotta be stressful after years and years and years. There's, there's no way it's not. Well, we know that that's not a way to live a long time. Yeah. Yeah. When you look at longevity data, it's like, all right, well basically starve yourself and, uh, eat enough to stay alive. Yeah. I know Justin was talking about it. He said, if I wanted to live to a hundred, yeah. Um, I probably would just eat once a day. Right. And that's just no fun. No, no. And yeah, we, he, he was on the discussion and it's kind of a, kind of an interesting discussion. You know what, you know, how healthy is subjective. Yeah. You know, so I, I don't know. I mean, what, for me, I want to be optimized physically too at the same time. I don't want to trash my organs in the process of doing it, but that may not be, my goal is not to live till a hundred. Right. Um, but I don't know, I don't want to be around on the post, uh, apocalyptic wasteland. Yeah. I just think about when I hear stuff like that too, I just think about Wally. Have you ever watched Wally? Oh yeah. And all the, the fat people sitting around like hover chairs that just get food directly delivered to their chairs and robots serve them and they don't move at all. They're all just like super obese. That's like the world I think about. Cause yeah, you could live for a very long time and be this completely, you know, this bag of a human, right? This like sack of bones. But I don't think that's life. Like, I don't think there's women that are going to find that attractive. I don't think you'll make a lot of money doing life that way. I don't think you'll like, when we talk about life, it's also not just lifespan, but health span. Like how, what can I get on a plane and go travel around the world? Can I hike a mountain? Can I, you know, lift a fuck ton of weight, which is fun for anyone. Can I fight some bad guys? Like those are things that I just want to be able to do, you know, and not having that ability because I chose a path of like, well, I like David Sinclair is like 130 pounds. Like the dude is tiny, man. He's skin and bones. I'm like, I don't want to live like that. Like, I don't care if I get an extra 10 years. It's ridiculous. It wasn't the quality of those 10 years, you know? I don't, I don't either. I'm the same way. I'd rather, I'd rather live a few less years and be like that. I don't know. Maybe I'll change my mind when I'm at that point, but I don't know, man. I, I would, I would rather be optimized. That's just me, but there is a line to walk. I mean, what would people do in bodybuilding is just utterly stupid, but. Right. Yeah. I think that, you know, realistically, I think there's a safe way to do like, there's really, I mean, like high blood pressure, um, you know, mineral imbalance and stuff. Like those are the main things we need to worry about in bodybuilding. And most people just do that because they don't know much. Like they, they don't know a good diet. They don't understand like actual pharmacy, like how to actually use drugs. They just say, throw more at the problem. Um, and I think if people could control blood pressure and water retention and heart rate and things like that, like you'd be, a lot of these dudes wouldn't die as quick as people think bodybuilders die. I realistically believe that. Yeah. I heard Dave Paloma the other day talking about, uh, Nasser and, um, I, I don't know if you're familiar with him. Oh yeah. Um, you know how he basically, I mean, he claimed that he could run crazy high doses and not having five grams or something a week. Yeah. Yeah. He was running like five grams a week and then he got no side effects from it, but he had the side effect of dying. Right. But, but, uh, supposedly, you know what I, what Dave Paloma was saying is that he, you know, and I remember this, nobody tracked their fucking blood pressure back in the day. Yeah. Nobody was even aware of it. Yeah. I mean, that's like a new thing. That's like in the past eight years, like John Meadows started telling everyone to, you know, start measuring your blood pressure and do your blood work. It's like, I remember back when I just started getting into the scene, like that still was rarely talked about, like checking your blood glucose or doing blood pressure measurements. I was just lucky to have Dante Trudeau as a man mentor back in the day, because I like 2003, 2004, he was telling, um, me to manage my blood pressure. Wow. And, um, nobody was back then. Nobody was back then. It's crazy. And it's, it's, it's wild to me too, because it's like dudes will start using gear with already existing hypertension and then they go up words from there. And it's just like, that trajectory is not going to look good. It only takes a little bit. Like it doesn't take long being in that state for someone to have a negative outcome. I mean, you're, you're, I just think about things as like a time horizon. Like how long is my kidney going to take like little brutalities from having hypertension? Probably not very long. You know, it's a very, it's a, it's a very weak organ in reality. And it's like, it's the number one cause of death in males in America. So I just, it's like the easiest fucking thing you can do is measure your blood pressure. It takes one minute. And it's just like, even if it's just once a week, just fucking do it. You know, it's an insurance. I have all my, I have all my clients do it. I make it, I make them send it and send readings on their check-ins. Yeah. And I also have them check their fasted glucose levels and make them send them on check-ins too, just to keep an eye on that. Yeah. I do. I do heart rate and heart rate variability plus those as well. I think heart rate's important because you, you really realistically want to see like below 60 beats per minute to have a fit cardiovascular system. And I've seen dudes like 80, 90 plus, like hanging around town, just like not doing anything. I'm like, man, this is fucking not good. Like you need to get mine has never been that low, man. Even in college. That's it. You know, it's, it's person dependent, right? It's your milieu. But I do believe that like, if it's not, it's, it's something related to like, Hey, you need to do a little bit more card. Like I do cardio every day at some capacity and mine's, you know, my resting heart rate while I sleep is like 50 beats per minute, 53 beats per minute. And while I'm waking, like right now it's, I don't know, it's right now it's, it's probably like 80 cause I just had a coffee, but it'll be back down to sixties pretty soon here. Yeah. I guess I'm not, I guess I'm not that far at night. Mine is probably my, my resting heart rates in the low sixties, I would say. Yeah. That's good. Yeah. Yeah. I just like, it's the way I think about it is that you have like, you have a Daytona 500 NASCAR and it goes around the lap a couple hundred fucking times. And by the end of it, the engines like, I'll check it right now. We'll see what it is sitting here talking to you. I had a giant thing of coffee. Um, and, and then you have like the Toyota and it's, you know, RPMs are at like 9,000, 13,000 RPMs as it's going around the Daytona. And then you have a Toyota Camry that's on, you know, whatever generic gas highway revving at, you know, 1800 RPMs, 2,200 RPMs. And that thing lasts 500,000 miles, but the NASCAR only lasts the race. And it's just like, if your heart's 90 beats per minute continuously, it's like, that's the Daytona 500 car that you want to be the Toyota Camry and have your, cause it's just, it's mechanical tension. The same thing as anything. It was 73 sitting here. That's not bad. Mine is, I lied. It's already 53 beats per minute. So I'm pretty, um, I also do take Nabivilol on rest days. So that could be part of it. I mean, yeah, that's, that's going to help. Yeah. Um, I, so, you know, sometimes I have to, like, if I get going really hard on a cycle, I'll have to throw in a calcium channel blocker. That'll pull it, pull it back down. Yeah. But I don't know. Yeah. I think it's blockers make me feel weird though. I don't fuck with that stuff, man. It's like the, I'm, I'm actually, you know, a lot of people maybe follow my stuff. And I know a lot about drugs, but I'm pretty drug averse. Like I don't like to do anything unless I find actual value in it. And so stuff like that. It's like, I don't like statins. I'm like, I, yeah, I get it. But the way it makes you feel, it's just, and the research supporting, like it, it's weakening for, for ligaments and tendons. It's like, I don't even want to put myself in a situation to have some, some, like, cause long-term data is very sparse. So it's like, what if we create an epigenetic change and that sustains itself for the rest of our career after just doing that? It's like an SSRI, right? Like you take an SSRI once and you have like this altered brain chemistry for a long time. Like Steve talked about this figure of Steve, cause he did an SSRI. He came off and then he had like literal withdrawal symptoms for a very long time. And he said that was like the hardest, one of the hardest things he's ever done is harder than PCT off testosterone. And, uh, it's like, it's scary. Cause there's a lot of guys who just say like, just here, prescribe this, this, and this. And then it's like, those effects can be long-term and deleterious. And then I worry about what those are. Yeah. I mean, I, you know, it's funny you talk about the SSR or not, um, the, uh, statin thing, man. I tore, I've torn both of my ACLs and both times when I tore them, I was on a higher dose statin at the time. Wow. Interesting. Yeah. I mean, I don't know if it was a quick, this last tear, I didn't, I wasn't even doing anything, man. I was just playing basketball and it just blew out. I mean, that's doing something. I mean, but it wasn't like I cut or somebody hit me or anything like that, man. It was, it was really, were you the weight that you are now? Uh, no, I was, this was four or five years ago. I was probably like 2230. You weren't fucking massive. And then, yeah. And then the other one I did in my early twenties, I was, it was skinny then, but no. What's the trajectory for you? Like what, what is your, like, I know we talked about it before, but is it still like compete, get a masters pro card and maybe go. I don't even know at this point, man, I keep getting injured. And I just like, part of me is like, I don't like being this heavy. Yeah. I know everybody thinks it's cool being big, but it's, it's not fun, man. Like I literally get calf cramps walking with my girlfriend and, you know, and then sleep sucks. They haven't having to use a CPAP machine and eat all this food. It just, it's, it's a miserable existence to be honest with you. It is hard, man. And the food is like, people think steroids are expensive. It's like the food is what really fucking robs you money. Like that shit can get so expensive when you're buying. I mean, at least for me, I eat a lot of meat. So it's, I mean, it's, I mean, I'm eating three pounds of chicken a day. Yeah. Dude, it's terrible. It's like, that's several hundred dollars a week and then adding carbohydrates and it's just like, fuck dude, so much money. And I've thought the same thing. I'm like, man, is this really worth it? And then it's like, Fuad talks about this. It's like the one hour you step in the gym, it's like the best fucking time in the world. Then the rest of the hours outside of the gym are like, fuck, you know, it's like shit. Would you use training in offseason? I used to, I don't anymore. Sure. How come? It's just, I mean, it just makes my blood work go to shit, man. Yeah. Did you, you heard that Samson just started using trend for the Arnold. I heard that, man. That is the most insane shit I've ever heard. The man is almost 300 pounds winning shows like mad. And he's just now using trend. It's like. Milo said he had to talk him into it. Yeah. He's like, I don't know. I don't know if I want to do it. I'm like, that's crazy to me. Like he's right there. Never used trend and he's used it, but didn't like it. And then he's like to swore it away. And now he's getting into it again. It's like, and he only got into it. I think he got up to his highest dose in that Arnold prep. Milo said it was going to be maybe 300 milligrams per week. He hadn't done it yet, but when they started, it was only 25 milligrams. I believe Monday, Wednesday, Friday kind of thing when he was talking about it on the podcast. And it just blew me away. It's like, people think it's such a necessity. And it's like, here this motherfucker is beating all sorts of bodybuilders who rest assured are probably running way more gear. And now he hasn't touched it. You know, it reminds me of the stories of Ronnie Coleman back in the day when he was prone. Didn't even know what steroids were. It's so crazy, man. And Kai Greene's the same way. I don't know if you've ever seen Kai Greene when he competed naturally. It's just like this fucking monster of a man. And people say genetics don't matter. It's that's pretty fucking nuts to me. However, Nick Walker is a good case to make against the whole because he wasn't that amazing even on gear initially. No, he wasn't. But he's I know he's supposed to be an incredibly hard worker. Yeah. But I mean, if you're Nick, you got to be sitting there thinking thinking to yourself. You see this guy walk on the stage, beat you. That's never even used trend before. And you're like, like, what the fuck do I do, man? Yeah, that's that would be hard, man. That'd be so fucking hard. And he's not just beating him by a little bit in my mind either. Like you could argue that I think Nick has could have won that show easily. But he's Samson's bigger. He's just not as lean. Like he's not as hard yet, but he's bigger, taller, has a much better physique. In general, I think he needs to get his guy now taken care of. He has a little bit of guy now. Yeah, he definitely has guy now. We noticed that when we were going through it. Yeah. But that's I mean, that's really it. Like that dude and Nick Walker. Here he is. Probably. I know he's pushed it pretty hard from what he's little bits he said. And I can only imagine. But that would be heartbreaking. Yeah. Yeah. You got to be sitting there thinking to yourself, well, what's the point? Right. Because he's still like Samson's still got all this trajectory he could unleash. Yeah. He can get better. He's got room to grow. It's like, what the fuck? It's crazy, man. I mean, he reminds me of Ronnie Coleman so much. Yeah, he does. Probably more better flow, to be honest with you. He has a realist. I mean, Ronnie had AI mean, I love Ronnie. Like he's the fucking guy. I've talked to him recently when we went to the Olympia, but he the later years, man, he just his stomach did not look his physique was just. I don't even know how to describe it. It looked like you blew a balloon up and then it started to deflate a little bit and it just it wasn't a pretty look, whereas, you know, Samson has that that fucking pop and that just tiny cinched in waist. It's amazing. I mean, I wonder how much I know Milos blew him up and I don't know how much credit to give Milos there. How much of it's just Samson's a freak. Yeah, I think what happened if my honest opinion is Milos was the guy that like finally convinced him to say like, hey, let's actually start using some dosage. Like it's let's get you on a real cycle. I think to be honest with you, I and I've said this before many times, training doesn't really matter that much. It's a lesser variable when it relates to your diet and what year you're taking. I believe training plays a large role. But outside of that, I mean, Milos is just having guys do high volume. What we know causes hypertrophy and a fuck ton of insulin. So, you know, it's going to make anyone grow in my mind. I want to give you a high five because people get so mad at me when I when I say it on my list of priorities of things that matter for bodybuilding. The training training is number three. Yeah. I have diet, PEDs and then training is the way I listen. People are like, that's not true. Training is the most important. I'm like, I see plenty of dudes training really hard in my gym that don't look like bodybuilders. Yeah. And I just the same. I see dudes who don't even have not taken a set to failure in their life. And they have, you know, 23 inch fucking arms like it. It doesn't even fucking matter. It really like if the diet is the number one that if you want your physique to change in like a couple of weeks, the diet's the guy. And then drugs are just additive to that. They're going to super physiologically boost the effect you get from the nutrition. And then training is just going to make your muscles look a little bit rounder and fuller. But the the if you're natural, the margin of error is like 10 percent. Like you can step out of that 10 percent margin of error in your training and you probably won't experience much result. But when you're using gear, you have like a 70 percent margin of error that you can you can fuck up shit pretty bad and still make progress because you have that signaling pathway just ramped up all the time. So even if you cause enough to create a adaptive process, it's like that 70 percent is still enough to get the adaptation to continue. I just it's it doesn't matter, man. It's like do what you love. That's my biggest thing. Like preference comes first. If it's high volume, if it's high intensity, you're going to fucking get there. You know, I don't know if you saw my video about Kevin LeBron about about him, how he would just like not train half of the year and blow up. Yeah, that's a prime example. Yeah, true, man. I had one of the best physiques in the world and looked like a fat. He looked like Paul before gear type guy. I mean, he's a local guy. So we used to see him around once in a while. And I actually it's funny after I had that video posted up because everybody was like it made me laugh because I guess I'm getting old. But people are like, oh, that's lies. It never happened. And I'm like, yeah, it happened. But his nutritionist from the from the 90s reached out to me and he's like, he's like, man, I had a front row seat. He's like, it was absolutely true. He goes, he's the only guy I've ever trained that where you feed him more food going into a show. He said he was eating like 70,000 calories a day going into a show. Wild man as wild. It's it's I wish you could just as crazy as it sounds, I wish you could just dissect humans like that, do a genetic analysis, figure out what's different and like what their CAG repeats are and just like copy and paste into people. That'd be awesome. I don't know. But yeah, I mean, I it's funny. Everybody gets so hung up on training. I I mean, I'm not saying the training doesn't matter. Certainly it does. I but I think you need to train like a bodybuilder first and foremost. Yeah, I'd see a lot of idiots that are in there, but none of it matters if your diet's not buttoned up. Yeah, I always put diet at the top. If I have the bodybuilding pyramid, I have I have diet at the top. Then it's gear and then it's training at the bottom. Yeah. And it's clear to it's like evidence from clinical research supports like if you're overfeeding protein, you get a hypertrophic response without even mechanically overloading a muscle. So and it's funny. Everybody talks about rest and recovery, but I think a lot about a lot of these guys that are at the top of the pyramid of bodybuilding. Those dudes aren't sleeping. They're out fucking partying all the time. Right. And, you know, I'm not saying it's the best for you. I'm a six hour a night guy. I have been my entire life. So probably means I'll die soon. But I don't know. Like it's that whole thing. I think there is some merit to deloading or whatever, but I don't think it's as frequently as people maybe think it is or or what they think it is. Like a lot of people think you need like a complete break, like one whole week off, no training. Like you have to take everything serious and aspects of recovery. And I truly think like Lee Priest said, like, he's like, what the fuck is a deload? You know, he never took a break or decreased volume. And I agree with that. Like, I think people get postified a little bit too much. Like you're on gear, dude. You're on gear. You're eating fuck tons of food. Like you're you're fine. You know, you might be a little tired, sleep some more or maybe take a day off and then get back in the gym. You know, I do think you can overtrain, but I just don't. It takes a lot. This was another thing that that I really upset people with. It said that 99 percent of people aren't overtraining because there's this irrational fear and bodybuilding of overtraining that just perplexes me. Yeah, it's like you go into the gym one week and you get a lower number than you had the last week or you do one less rep or whatever. It's like, oh, I need a fucking deload. It's like, dude, that shit happens. Like it's just you're not always going to be perfect. Sorry. You know, it's next week you'll come back. You'll probably be even better. I mean, bodybuilding is literally the only sport where people have deluded themselves into thinking that working less yields better results. Yeah, that's so true. Taking time off. I'm just like I think about the NFL. I mean, the level of output that those guys have and they're not doing deloads. No, it's fucking insane, man. And yeah, you want to talk about dedication like those dudes are getting head injuries left and right there. I mean, it's it's fucking wild. Then they train your round. Baseball players like I know I've coached some professional baseball players. Holy fuck, man. They don't take breaks. They're required to train every single even the minor league guys have to show up every practice six days a week to get a paycheck of like four thousand dollars a month. Like every day. There's no not practice. It's like it blows my mind. And people are like your muscles get OK. Your muscles might get fatigued if you're training like an asshat and you're not sensibly, you know, structuring your workouts. But it's so rare. And you really have to be advanced to push yourself to a point where you are going to overtrain. Like, you know, someone like Jordan Peterson, I think he could overtrain. I really do. Because he can lift so much weight and stimulate so much of his muscle in lifting that weight. But someone who's three years into this, like you're probably not going to be able to overtrain if you wanted to. You just don't have the capacity to. I'm sorry. But if you're looking at Instagram between sets and you're not sweating when you're walking out the door, you have zero chance that you're overtrained. Yeah, I just I just don't. I literally saw a guy in the gym the other week that was that was looking at TikTok while he was doing like presses. I'm like, you are not generating enough effort to wait about overtraining. I trained with a guy. He's like a football player. And he found me on Instagram and he's like a 21 year old kid. And he's like, I want to train with you. See what it's really like. Like, fine, man. Like, let's you want to do it. Let's train legs to. Two extra. We were on the leg press after doing a hamstring curl. And the second set of leg press, he started puking. And then the third set, he said he had to go home. Like, he couldn't do it anymore. I'm like, you know, like you have to push that hard. It's like that's the requirement. I still had, you know, I still had pendulum squat. I still had leg extensions. I still had lunges like it. You underestimate like people think they're working so hard. It's unless you I found many times if like I had a very awesome opportunity. To train with Branch Warren once. And while his training is wild, like just doesn't make sense to me. The amount of effort that man applies in a single hour is more than most people can do in a single week. Like it is outrageous. And it showed me like we have a lot more than we give ourselves. You know, it's yeah. People say, oh, I better take it easier. Oh, that was enough. It's like, how do you know that was enough? I mean, do you think about it? Like just you're a military guy. I mean, think about like what the Navy SEALs go through. Yeah. Yeah. It's a great fucking point. And they're fine. I mean, the sleep deprived training all day. I mean, lifting weights, you know, swimming. I mean, they, they, those guys are pushing everything past the limit. And yeah. You know, they, they do just fine. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of it's just up here. A lot of it is. Yeah. It's all mental, man. And I like my whole prep. I didn't do a single deload. Like I didn't stop training once. It's like, I'd never done that. And it's just like these people talk about like, we need a, a reset week during prep. I'm like, I don't know if you do though. I just think like maybe having a diet break might be useful, but that would be like the one time where I think, okay, we could decrease volume and intensity a little bit. But outside of that, like small window of time, like four weeks out from a show, I just don't have a justification to say, okay, we need to completely take you out of training. I think I've only ever been over trained once in my entire life. And that was on contest prep one time where I, I like got to the end and I literally could not do two plates on, on the leg press. I think my CNS just completely shut down. Yeah. That's bad. Yeah. I mean, and that's the thing too. You'll know when it fucking hits you, like you will know. And it, it rarely have I ever worked with anyone where it's like a fact that they're over trained. Like sometimes it's just like, they're tired. It's like, okay. I think it was Broderick Chavez. I don't know. I think, I think it was him that said, uh, uh, a deload is like toilet paper. You know, when you need it. It's true. Very true. I mean, but you're right. There were no deloads. I mean, fuck. I never even heard of it until the early two thousands. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you talk to anyone, um, like we, you talked to Lee Labrata. He talks about it too. He's like, what? We never took a break. Like you're always posing your round. You're always training your, your bodybuilder. It's your full-time job. Like, what do you mean? And Milo says the same thing. And it's like, you know, I'm, I'm listening to these guys cause they have, you know, well over 50 to a hundred pros under their belt. They're pros themselves. It's like, they've been here, done that. And it's just like hard to argue. I don't know. Like if, if Olympic athletes who are potentially natural, probably not, but potentially are fine. If you have, if you have dudes running ultra marathons that are 200, 300 miles long continuously without taking a break and having done that after running hundreds of miles each and every week leading up to that, I'm sure you're going to be fine lifting a couple of weights for three or four sets. Like it's not going to kill you. I think Justin was talking about this recently, but like, um, um, his humans, when we originally started hunting, when we were cave dwellers, we would hunt animals to exhaustion. That's, that's how we, that was our, well, that intelligence was our advantage, but endurance was our advantage. They would literally chase down that elk or whatever until it doesn't rain out of gas and then kill it. Yeah. Yeah. And that's, that's part of the reason why we're so efficient at being metabolically flexible. We can use glycogen or carbohydrate. We can use fatty acids, like pretty readily available, whatever's the most present, um, or needed. It's like, there's, you can run out of, you can run out of glycogen. Guess what? Your liver is going to start producing it. Like you can keep going. No, it's, people get too scared of this stuff. I mean, we would hunt and starve, starve states. Yeah. Yeah. This is like chronic, you know? Well, uh, interesting question though, because this is something I noticed that the Arnold actually was, uh, Nick Walker's legs came down tremendously. And we're talking about overtraining. So I'm curious on your thoughts. Like, did you see his legs come down? Cause I, Oh yeah. They, we were like sweep came down pretty dry. We were talking about it on, um, our Arnold classic review that his legs definitely were, were down. I, I think now this is, I wouldn't say this is overtraining, but I, I think that guys overdo the cardio on prep and especially the step mill. I think that's where I've seen, I just me with people that I've worked with, I've seen so many people lose their legs on the step mill. Yeah. Yeah. I've always seen that too. And I'm curious as to why that happens. It's gotta be glycogen depletion, right? Yeah. It's, it's gotta be that, or, you know, maybe you are just the, the actual mechanical load of moving yourself up that step mill is too, too much to recover from. Cause you're doing it like almost every day. It just goes in reverse. You know, at a certain point you're, you know, we, we have, there's some research that supports, like if you have delayed onset muscle soreness past 72 hours, you're actually catabolizing more tissue than anabolizing in some situations. Now I think that's probably different for people who are enhanced, but as far as natural people go. Um, so there could be something there where like you do potentiate catabolism by way of not letting recovery happen. Well, you, I mean, the body's very adaptive. We, we know that, and you don't see anybody that's climbing Mount Everest with 32 inch quads. Yeah. I mean, you just don't. Yeah. So, I mean, but I, I've seen so many people melt their legs on, on prep. I've done it myself, man. I completely melted my legs on contest prep, man. I got big legs and they just evaporate it. But I found like when I walk on the treadmill, if I just do lists and keep the cardio lower and let the diet do the work, like this past year, I don't think I went over 30 minutes of cardio. Yeah. And I, I just did the treadmill and just walked or walked outside and I, my legs hung on pretty well. Yeah. The most I did this last prep was, and I've, did I mean, my glutes were so strutted. I could feel the ripples in them. It's, it was nuts. I only did 40, the most I ever got up to, which was only for a week was 45 minutes, five times a week. And that was on an inclined treadmill. And then the biggest thing I focus on, which some people do, some people don't, but it steps. Like I try to get an average step count of about 10,000 and that's pretty much all I need. I do love the recumbent bike though. I think that's like one of the, for me, at least it's a really good one. Cause I feel like it gets a ton of blood in my quads and it kind of, it isn't stressful to them, but I get a huge pump in my fucking leg. It's really weird. Now you do see cyclists with huge quads. Yeah. That's, there's that one motherfucker, man, who is like 30 points. It's fucking crazy. Huge quads. Yeah. Now that, that is one exception to an endurance athlete with big legs. So, yeah, I mean, you, you, you do see that. I'll cycle now. And then I used to cycle a lot. I usually my cardio, I'll start off at the beginning of prep on the elliptical. I used to use a step. No, I don't do that anymore. And then I just transitioned to just walking afterwards. So you think Nick maybe did a little bit too much cardio? I'd probably just do too much cardio would be my guess. I think so too. Cause there's no, he got so much leaner and he said he was eating more food. So the only variable would be just easily more cardio. Like he had to, or he just, the extended duration of his cardio is too long for him maybe. And that just brought his legs down. Who knows? I mean, you think about it. How long did that dude been on prep? Yeah. I mean, you pretty much just have to come out of the Olympia and just go straight back into at least a maintenance phase. Yeah. Yeah. Which he said he kind of did, but I'm curious as to like, what, I don't know. Like it's very strange. Cause they were, for me at least they were notably like very notably smaller. And it's just like, they were, they were significantly smaller. We noticed it. Yeah. Like even as adductors were like, they had that gap between his legs. He usually doesn't have that. I'm like, how the fuck does that happen over the span of, it was like, it was six, seven weeks in between, I think, or something like that. Yeah. The Olympia was one, a little longer. It was probably two months. Right. Cause the Olympia was in December. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was about two ish months, 10 weeks, something like that. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, even that's like a pretty, I don't know, out of imagine he would have came back fuller, maybe a little bit leaner, but it seemed like he was almost flatter. I don't know. Well, I heard him saying that they were trying to push conditioning. You want it to be the best conditioned. Right. I mean, that's always a sacrifice that you play when you're trying to be the most conditioned. Yeah. And I think, I think if he was, if Samson didn't show up and Andrew didn't show up, I think he would have won easily. Like it's just, he was up against probably the most favorably composition dudes in the whole fucking I have BB right now. Like small swasties in the game. I was impressed with Rami. Rami looked great. That's another thing, man. And I, a lot of people are like, he got robbed. I think he did get a little bit robbed because his conditioning was amazing. Like his side leg on that side bicep man was, or side chest was outrageous. Like the, the striations went all the way from his knee up to his hip. Like it was insanity. And he placed, he placed fourth. Right. And then Sean fifth. Yeah. Yeah. And man, I just, I'm like, how did that fucking happen? I will say there was interesting. I did like a, a social experiment. I was with some friends at the time. I was at that birthday party. I was at, and I'm like, I'm curious, who do you think has a better physique? And I chose Samson and big Rami. And everyone said big Rami's legs. He's like, they're like, what's wrong with his legs? I was like, that's interesting. Like everyone immediately jumped to that. Or, you know, one girl said like, oh, he has pumpkin legs. Like gross. I'm like, interesting. And they all said they'd prefer Samson as a physique over big Rami, not knowing anything about bodybuilding, which I thought was intriguing. I, I, I would have had him in third place, but I don't know. I mean, that was, I'm going to pull. Pull a video of him up that it was pretty. I know people posted like, um, pictures too. Yeah. Like this is fucking insane, man. Like that is way better than he was at the Olympia. I think his, his, his lats still have a little funky stuff going on and his triceps are definitely a little bit flat, but it's still hard to deny. Check this out, man. Yeah. That's the, from his fucking knee to his hip, man. It's just insane. Look at that. What the fuck is that dude? I mean, he's got some ridiculous hamstrings. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, his conditioning was ridiculous. I mean, shredded glutes. Look at that. It's fucking nuts. Yeah. But you're right. He's still got that thing where his lower back is. Yeah. It's just like, he just doesn't have any lower lats, which, you know, I know people speculated that it was nerve damage. Maybe it is. Maybe it's not. Well, the, um, the weird thing is, is like someone can't just have no lower lats. This is why it's weird because it's like the lat insertion has to come from your humor, essentially up at the top of your rib cage down to your, your lower lumbar. Right. Like it has to connect. That's like where it has to connect. Yeah. And it's one singular muscle. It's not like it's divided into sections up your back. It's like, well, there's different strands, but it's for the most part, it's a strip. Yeah. It's one muscle. Yeah. So it's like, how does that happen? And I can't think of anything like there's no medical diagnosis for this kind of stuff. So it's interesting, uh, how this would even happen. It has to be, I don't, I just don't even know. It might even just be something as stupid as his fucking posing. Like realistically, I don't know. I mean, it could, it could, yeah, no, you're, you're a hundred percent right. It could be his posing. And I, I, I can't tell you, you know, I talk to people all the time. How many, how much posing matters, man, how you can win or lose a show. But I mean, yeah, you can look here at the anatomy of the, you can see, I mean, it, it's, it is one muscle unless he's just humorous and yeah. Unless he's just not activating that bottom part of it for some reason. I don't know. I mean, I would, you know, maybe if you had some sort of damage in your lumbar spine that it wouldn't activate down here. I don't know. Yeah. It's tough. It's, I just think maybe like, I don't know. I don't know. Like a lot of the new school training stuff gets a little bit, um, it, people mentally masturbate with like training mechanics and stuff too much these days. But I do think there's some merit into some of the lat exercises that have been recently like really honed in to, to train like the lower lats. And I noticed a lot of old school guys don't do that. So maybe he's just not efficiently training those lower lats. And as he's getting older, the, the muscle accretion rates are a little bit shittier for him. And thus not getting a lot of volume on that lower back might be causing some atrophy. I'm not sure, man. It's, it's fucking weird to me. I I've always, I've been curious cause people say like nerve damage, but if it was nerve damage, like theoretically, wouldn't his whole, his whole lot not be functioning appropriately. I don't know. Yeah. I don't, I don't, I don't understand the physiology of it enough to speculate on that, but yeah, I would think it would affect his whole, his whole lat. Dr. Todd was talking about, and you, you went down the training, but he was talking about how Rami doesn't deadlift or do any barbell rows or anything like that anymore. It's all braced machine stuff. So maybe that had something to do with it. Yeah. There's no erector work and. Cause he had, he had said that his erectors had looked like they had atrophied too. Yeah. And they, they do. I mean, they're flat. Like that's men's physique guys have larger erectors than Rami does right now. It's, it's kind of strange. Yeah. I mean, and there is a, there is, you know, a thing in bodybuilding now where most guys don't aren't doing deadlifts or squats anymore. Yeah. I mean, I don't, but I'm old. I do. I guess I do. I do deadlifts. I shouldn't say that I do, but it's dumbbell deadlifts. You know, it's not like. Yeah. I mean, I do stiff legged dumbbell deadlifts, but I do that more as a hamstring exercise, but I mean, it is getting your, it is getting your lumbar as well. But yeah, it's, it's an interesting thing, but he looked great. I thought other than the lower back issues, I mean, his conditioning was on point. Yeah. It's, it was surprising to me to see where he placed. Cause everyone was thinking like, oh, it'll come back. And then they said the dents and his quads were gone, which they fucking were. They were completely gone. I'll give it to them. It's, I don't know how they did that. Whether that was synthol or who knows? I don't know if it was the stem cells. That's crazy. I don't see that physiologically actually happening somehow, but it like tissue regrowth is such a long-term thing. I don't see that happening in that short amount of time, but I don't know. It's gotta be some sort of sarc, sarcoplasmic response. Right. Yeah. In the short term. Yeah. I mean, I think they just blew his peak at the last show. I think so too. He was obviously flat and he just was so. I'd heard a rumor too, that he had gotten sick. I don't know. I don't know. I mean, I don't know. Yeah. It's, but then it's like, like oars was sick for the classic physique. Um, Arnold and he fucking looked amazing. He placed second and looked better than he did at the Olympia. Well, he's also not 300 pounds. That's true. That does change a lot of things. Yeah. So, I mean, you know, there's, there's a lot less to work with there. You know, it's probably easier to fill back out. And, you know, when you're dealing with a big bodybuilder, man, it's tricky filling out a guy that size, I would imagine. Oh yeah. Yeah. I can. And it's, I know for, for me too, like just as a variable, like I, it takes me a little bit to flatten out. Like I can be full one second and I'm, I do, I need so much fucking food. Like I can go without food for a little too long and I'm flat and it's, it's super annoying. So I know that someone like him, I can only imagine the response. Like you, you have to feed carbohydrates almost like a drip feed, you know, it'd be more efficacious to almost have like an IV, uh, glucose administration for him at that point. It's, I can't imagine like what it takes. I heard Mila Sarchev talking about carbon up Dennis Wolf. He did. Yeah. Where you'd have you eat like 3000 grams of carbs. And he, he has talked to, I thought you were going to bring up, he talked about IV, uh, glucose. Cause he's definitely talking. Oh, did they? I didn't know they definitely talked about that. And it was like a obscure podcast, but he talked about using IV glucose before it was like, holy fuck, dude. Well, I don't know how the hell you would eat 3000 grams of carbs and stay like even like I, you could try, but like my gut would be fucking disgusting. Well, you'd have to use insulin. There's no way you can possibly eat that much. No, you'd have to use a fuck ton. Like there's absolutely no way that's not. It'd have to be all majority simple sugars. Yeah. I mean, shit that, that would be, I'm trying to do the math on it. So there's a, that would be 60 cups of rice. Holy shit, man. Yeah. That's insanity. That's fucking crazy. Yeah. There's no way. That's not happening. That's gross. Your mouth would be so dry after like pooping a cinder block. Fucking gross. You need a crowbar to get the shit out of you. Oh my God. Have you ever got an enema? What is it called? An enema for a peak week or anything? No, I've never done. I thought I needed one. Oh dude, this is a funny story, man. I had a contest prep. I was so dried up at the end. I didn't like shit the whole last week, man. I was sitting on the toilet crying, trying to get stuff out and nothing would come out. And it was hilarious. Like after the show, I went like on my Benji. And I, I, I, we were coming down the highway driving home and I thought I was going to have the shit in the ditch on the side of the highway. It just like, it just like all came out at once, man. I had to pull into a gas station and it was, it was just like the most disgusting toilet ever. And I'm like, I don't care. It was one of those ones where it was over the water. It was like, it was like weeks worth of stuff. That's awesome. Oh man. You get so dried up at the end, especially like I, I think that time I was doing zero fats at the end. So yeah, that's going to fuck you up. Yeah, no, that that's, that's bad news. I don't know. I don't think I'm going to do that again. Yeah. I always have when food gets low, it's always like it becomes, people talk about digestion and prep and it does get worse, but you can mitigate it in some ways, but it's pretty normal because you're just, I mean, the reality is you're not eating nearly as much food as you were. So it's going to be more infrequent, but yeah, I remember I thought about getting an enema and I was like, man, I just don't want to mess anything up. I've always been curious to be like, man, that'd be kind of useful. Cause especially cause I'm in classic and pulling a vacuum is so essential. Like dumping everything out would be kind of nice. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know what it would, if it would have any effect on, um, like loading. I mean, cause water and whatnot, uh, because so much of that's, yeah, potentially, potentially your GI uses a lot of that. And technically, I mean, if you, if you displace, cause the, the water you drink has to travel through your small intestine. So like if, if you're displacing the mucosal layer or anything like that, I don't imagine that happening though. Unless you're maybe doing like a coffee, it's like a little acidic, like a coffee enema. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I was trying everything. I was trying every kind of laxative and stuff at the end. Nothing was getting me going, man. Right. I've been there too. It's, it's crazy how stuck you could get like nothing magnesium citrate, even pharmaceutical laxatives like won't do shit. Oh no. Yeah. I was like using everything, man. But man, as soon as I drank some water and ate some French fries, it hit me about a half an hour after I left drostanolone. I'm like, Oh man, this is not good. Oh shit, dude. Yeah. When I have a YouTube video, like four, almost five years ago now where it was like my first show, I won my pro card in the PMBA and I went on like a rampage of food. Like I just bought as much as I could, just clicked record on the camera, set it up and had like a table full of shit. And I remember that day, man, I just, I was miserable. Like I was shitting. I was like vomiting. I was like, everything was coming out of everywhere. I was like, this is, that was the last time I ever did anything like that. I was like, I mean, that was this, this was the show that I went hype on the tree make afterwards too. Yeah. I just, I drank like two gallons of water right after the show. Bad, bad, bad idea. I warned people about that and it just like flushed everything out. Yeah. And, and I woke up the next day and my, my fasted glucose level was like 400. I heard Jesus. And I couldn't see man. Like my vision was blurry. That's crazy. Yeah. I learned about that in the military because dudes would pound water all day because we'd be rucking or something. Yeah. And they wouldn't eat salt or eat food. It would just be drinking water, water, water. And then they, they'd start having seizures, you know? And it wasn't because they're like, they were hyponatremic. They just didn't have enough sodium or even potassium. And, uh, that shit's scary, man. Like it, it, their brain shuts down. Like their organs start to, it's fucking scary. And you hear of, uh, marathon runners and shit dying from it sometimes, you know, from drinking too much water. So like now after shows, I'll start, I'll hit the sugar-free Gatorades. Yep. Or a sugar-free Pedialyte. Uh, I'll do the Pedialyte and, uh, coconut water is what I'll typically do. Yeah. I definitely learned my lesson about that. I was so thirsty from the, uh, from the diuretic and water depletion. I just went ape shit and, and just, and then ate a bunch of sugar on top of it. And then when, when your electrolytes are all out of whack, your body can't pull, pull up any of the carbs. Glad you're fucking fine, dude. That's scary shit. Oh yeah. You can die from that. Yeah. You can like 400 milligram per deciliter blood glucose is just, is dangerous enough. That's terrible. Yeah. When, when I couldn't see when everything looked like it was. So you're like, oh, there's something wrong. Yeah. Something's wrong. I probably should go get this check. Yeah. A little bit. The stupid shit you do for contest prep. All right, man. I got to wrap this up. All right. Fun. Yeah. I appreciate it. I got to get this anyway. So ladies and gentlemen, don't go blind for a show. It's not worth it. Never worth it. And I got third place in that one too. So I'm in my class. So I wasn't even. Almost qualified for nationals. I looked like shit. And then I drank a bunch of water. Third place is not worth dying for. No, sir. No, sir. All right, Colton. I appreciate you. I'll put all your contact information in the description below. If people want to get ahold of you. Guys, go follow this guy. He, he should be a superstar right now. He knows way more than I do. It makes no sense to me that you have more followers than you, but we'll work on that, man. We'll get you up there. You're one of the smartest people out there. I think right now your content you're cranking out is fantastic. Thank you, Paul. I appreciate it. All right, man. Take care. Deuces. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. I appreciate it. Thank you.