 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, big Paul here today, I have James Krieger with me. James is an expert on trening and research when it comes to trening. I work with Brad Schoenfeld and some other guys out there, I work with Brad Schoenfeld and some other guys out there that are pretty smart when it comes to this stuff. I enjoy going down the rabbit hole when it comes to trening and this is something I like to share with some other people out there, get you a little more knowledgeable about trening and what works, what doesn't work and we'll dig into the science of this stuff. How's it going James? Ah, good, thanks for having me. So what got you, what led you down the rabbit hole of digging deep and going, going, going into the deep end with, with the trening? I don't know. I think I've always been a little bit of a scientist at heart. I'm actually a former computer science guy myself. I, I grew up, I grew up in the MS DOS days, you know, like, I taught myself, I remember in high school teaching myself assembly language programming on the old, you know, Intel x86 processors and like, you know, I'm, you know, we're talking like the, you know, IMean, you know, I remember having writing programs and, you know, C and like, uh, the base, you know, even the old basic interpreter on, on MS DOS, like all that stuff. But so I started off as a computer nerd and then I don't know, I kind of just lost my interest in it. And, um, at this, at about that same time, I had really gotten into weight trening. I was a little bit fascinated by the changes that, you know, cause I was a really skinny guy. I'm, I'm still, I basically, I basically went from skinny. I'm more, I'm kind of athletic looking now. It's not like I'm some huge jacked guy or anything, but, but I was fascinated behind the, um, changes that were happening in my body and kind of the science behind it. And I also found that whenever I would read the bodybuilding magazines out there, the sections of the magazines that would interest me the most would be where they talk about studies. Like they talk about whatever, you know, research was. And so that kind of led me down that pathway and I ended up changing my major to exercise science. And, and it kind of just went from there. And then I, you know, ended up, you know, getting to know guys like Brad Schoenfeld. I actually had known Brad since, IMean, we're talking, I think IMet Brad online probably late nineties than, you know, before I think before he even had his PhD yet. I'm not, I'm not sure he had his PhD yet at the time, but, uh, but anyway, you know, just becoming friends with those guys and, and it just kind of took off from there. So. Yeah. Brad's, Brad's the, probably the, I'd say he's probably one of the smartest guys on the planet when it comes to that, that kind of stuff. Yeah. I'm, I'm the same way, man. I have a degree in computer science. I also have a degree in music, but, but I like, I like, I like puzzles. I like solving puzzles. It's, you know, figure programming is like solving a puzzle and peeling the layers of onion, the onion back. And that's sort of what I like to do with trening and hormones and, and nutrition and all that stuff and figure out how to piece all those together and figure out what's the most optimal. And I compete in bodybuilding too. I've done pretty well in bodybuilding. I was just shy having my pro card this year, but it's, I don't know. I like, I like to me, it's like, it's like guys love to row upstream all the time. Like, like, like they try to, they do things in the most difficult way possible because they have feelings about stuff. They, they need to be hardcore about things. And it just blows me away. Like you look at all the scientific data on trening and it seems like the most, the way most people tren is probably exactly wrong. It's always, always fascinating to me because power lifters seem to have very organized, structured, well-researched trening. They, they, they seem to understand how to tren. A lot of the stuff goes back to Russia. I'm sure you know, back in the sixties and seventies, I guess, maybe even further back than that. And these guys took all that research and brought it over here and applied all that, but bodybuilders tren like idiots. I don't know what it is about bodybuilders, but they just tren like morons. And we have a pretty vast amount of data now on what, what produces the, the most optimal hypertrophy when it comes to trening. IMean, it, it, it seems like the data now is almost irrefutable. I think Sean, Brad published a meta study recently, wasn't it? I think I saw on volume and how volume affects trening and yada, yada, yada. Um, I'm not sure. IMean, I, I did, uh, collaborate with him on a meta analysis, but this was like, uh, this was probably 2017. I think when we did it. Yeah. Uh, so, and we, so we did a meta analysis on volume and, uh, you know, the general gist of that meta analysis was that, you know, you know, if you looked across the body of research, you know, on average, you know, people tended to get the best hypertrophy with, you know, you know, 10 plus, you know, basically double digit weekly sets. Now there's limitations with that data. It's like, you know, it's based on averages. It's, uh, you know, IMean, you're taking, you know, whenever you do a meta analysis, you know, there's, you know, it's only as good as the data that comes in. And so, and there's weaknesses in the studies, you know, that were, you know, incorporated in the meta analysis and stuff like that. But that was just kind of the general gist of it. You know, IMean, my thinkinGHas evolved on volume even ever, even ever since then, you know, I tend to view volume now as a, as a progressive overload tool, you know, and just like anything else, like, you know, IMean, you're always trying to do a little bit, you know, some more reps or, you know, more weight over time. Right. But, you know, my attitude now is kind of using volume in the same way. Like, you know, you know, you hit a rut, you hit a plateau. Okay, well, you add a little bit of volume, see if that helps, you know, you know, if it does, and you stick at that volume. And then once you hit a rut again, you add some more volume until you reach a point where adding more volume just doesn't help anymore. And then, well, then that's the time to maybe back off, you know, so it's like, so I kind of favor a cyclical approach to volume now, you know, and the nice way, nice thing about that is it allows you to individualize your volume. So one of the, you know, one of the limitations of looking at research studies, as great as they are, and they do tell us a lot, they can't always tell you what happens on an individual level. Like, you know, yeah, I think, you know, I think on average, you know, a good chunk of people are probably going to have, you know, have pretty good results, you know, in that double digit weekly sets. But there's going to be some people who are going to need more volume than that, there's going to be some people who for some reason just do much better on low volume. And so I kind of favor a more kind of auto regulatory approach to volume now, and just kind of using it as a progressive overload tool. That's how my thinkinGHas evolved. You know, that's exactly the way I see it, too. It is a another variable to modulate as you try and try to achieve progressive overload. IMean, there is only so far you can take progressing weights. IMean, I got to the point where I was incline pressing 405. IMean, how much more am I going to incline press, right? Yeah, yeah. And so, plus, you know, one of the things I like that Dr. Mike Israetel did is quantify some of these variables, you know, stimulus to fatigue ratio, you know, minimum effective volume, maximum recoverable volume, all of that. But one of the things that I never really considered before was the exercise, the expense of the exercise, the risk versus benefit, the fatigue cost of an exercise, and how that plays a role into things, too. So, you know, if I'm blasting out a heavy set of deadlifts, IMean, how much more am I going to be able to do? Yeah. But, you know, backing up to the volume thing, so that's exactly how I tren. I progress volume over a block, and then I'll back off. You know, IMay advance weight and then advance that weight at the beginning of the block and then add more volume as I go. And with those variables that Mike had quantified, the stimulus, or I'm sorry, the minimum effective volume and maximum recoverable volume, I kind of know where I'm at now. You know, I know, like, for me, like, eight sets per week, something like that is probably the minimum I need to do to maintain. And then the upper, and it varies from muscle grip to muscle grip, too, I've noticed. You know, so for me, like, the top end for me, like, so for something like legs, if I get, or quads, if I get more specific, if I get over 20 sets, then I'm kind of getting into the territory where I can't recover. I start going backwards. So I progress my volume over a block somewhere in between those two numbers. Yeah. A question for you, do you think that has to do, I know there's a lot of variables as far as people, individuals as far as ability to recover from volume. But do you think fiber type, muscle fiber type distribution has any effect on that? Or has research shown any difference? I am not aware of any research that's shown. I'm a little bit skeptical that muscle fiber type would play a role just because the differences in muscle fiber type between people aren't, they're not, like, enormous, you know? IMean, you know, someone may be, and this is really oversimplifying things anyway, because really muscle fiber types are kind of on a, they're more on a, what I want to say, more on a kind of a continuum and not like this fast twitch, slow twitch, right? You know, but just to simplify things, you know, someone might be 50-50 fast twitch, slow twitch, but someone else might be 60-40. But it's, we're not, IMean, you're not talking like such a drastic difference. And I'm not anywhere of any research that suggests that one muscle fiber type recovers better than another. I don't know. I've always been kind of skeptical of that. I'm not saying it's not true, but I'm just not, not really sold on the idea, you know? Yeah, that was always sort of a bro logic thing that I heard tossed out there, but I had never actually seen any research data on it. You know, it was one of those things you hear guys talk about, but I wondered what the variability of muscle fiber type is from person to person. You know, I was curious to, curious if you knew anything, seen anything. I hadn't seen anything. I also, you know. Yeah, I haven't. There's also, go ahead. Oh yeah, I was just going to say like, yeah, I haven't seen anything. But I know, IMean, you know, IMean, we know that even like, IMean, we know that even slow twitch fibers respond pretty well to resistance trening. IMean, and they're recruited as well. So, IMean, I'm just, I'm skeptical of not only fiber type, but also trying to target specific fiber types. Like, I'm just like, I just don't think, I just haven't seen any convincing data, you know, one way or the other. So, IMean, there's other variables that play into it too, you know, nutrition. Oh yeah. You know, that's another thing too. Like I saw recently was talking to a guy, talked about how he had changed his trening and then he started making a bunch of progress. But then I peeled the layers of the pack and looked at his diet and he wasn't eating protein before. Well, animal protein before he added animal protein in it. It made a big difference of, you know, in his, his results. You know, things like that, that people don't consider nutrition plays a huge role into it as well. So as far as, IMean, what do you, IMean, what's the primary driver? What does research tell us is the primary driver of hypertrophy? Well, I think the primary driver is, is, IMean, if you want to get down to it, it's tension on the muscle fibers themselves. So, IMean, that seems to be the driver of hypertrophy. That's why you see that. That's why you see stretch overload cause hypertrophy. Right. IMean, IMean, some of the old classic studies, Jose Antonio, I remember, I think his grad work in the nineties when he was a grad student, you know, he hung weights off bird wings. Right. Yeah. I remember that. Yeah. He hung weights off bird wings and he caused hypertrophy, just the constant tension. Right. But it's the same thing. And, you know, when you're doing resistance trening, you're causing tension on those muscle fibers. And so that's, that's the primary driver is the tension on the fibers to stimulate that hypertrophy. Then, you know, everything else becomes secondary. You know, how long, you know, how long is that fiber subject to tension? You know, how often does it need to be subject to that tension to, for you to stimulate, you know, protein synthesis in the fiber to a sufficient degree to where it actually grow in size? You know, that type of thing. But, but it's the tension itself. That's, that's, you know, the primary stimulus. Yeah. Mechanical tension. And as you mentioned, we can, I would, you know, the variables that we can stimulate that with load is obvious, right? That would be one. Um, uh, and then volume, I would say would be another one. And then, you know, one that people don't consider is exercise form. I see a lot of guys that they just get really good at cheating or leveraging weight up. They're not actually placing any stimulus on the targeted muscle. So, you know, these are things that people don't, don't think about. Um, as far as the research on reps and reserve, this is one that kind of, kind of, kind of blew my head open over the last, you know, half a decade. I, I'm older. I'm, I'm in my late forties now. And I used to tren, I used to have this knucklehead thing in my head where I had to tren everything to absolute failure and beyond. And it just got to a point when I got older, all that did was get me hurt. Yeah. Yeah. Just getting injured all the time. And I read Mike's book, the scientific principles of hypertrophy. And I started keeping a couple reps in the tank on everything. And I started growing again. That that's in my late forties. It's, it was adding a little more volume, keeping a little more in the tank and I didn't get hurt. It's interesting that a lot of the new studies, maybe that was the one I was thinking about with Brad where they were talking about reps and reserve. But it's interesting that with the reps and reserve about how you don't need to tren to failure to, to elicit hypertrophy. Yeah. Yeah. And that's the thing. IMean, what a lot of people don't realize is that, IMean, you know, you're recruiting, you know, most, if not all your muscle fibers fairly early in a set, even with a moderate load. And so that's number one, why you don't need to tren to failure. And then I think, you know, you talk about that stimulus to fatigue ratio, you know, trying to eke out that last rep or two to failure is causing a ton of fatigue, but it's not necessarily adding much, if anything, to your stimulus. Right. So it's like, you know, but yeah, there's tons of research that suggests, you know, even one or two reps in reserve works just as well. IMean, in fact, there's a few studies suggesting it might even work a little better. It's kind of a toss up, but, you know, yeah, just leaving a rep or two in the tank, you're going to go grow just as fine. And you're not going to leave the gym just absolutely wiped out, you know, or like, like I said, maybe gettinGHurt, like if you're losing form or whatever, you know, the interesting thing is usually what I like to tell people is stop when you get like a really noticeable slowdown in rep speed. Right. Yeah. And I think that's a good, you know, rather than trying to time your reps and, you know, you know, looking for a certain velocity loss threshold, which I just, I don't think you need to do that. I think once you get a really noticeable slowdown in your rep speed, then I think that that's probably a good, good place to stop, you know? So because that chances are you're only going to have a rep or two left once you hit that point anyway. So, yeah, and that's exactly how I've been doing it. I'll wait until like I am starting to struggle to get the weight up a little bit and then I'll pull back there. I've also, you know, it's the whole stimulus to fatigue thing. You know, you're not absolutely trashing your CNS when you're, when you're doing that. You're not, I've noticed like not causing like severe damage, like joint. And I think a lot of times, like when guys give those last few reps, they end up cheating or swinging or heaving the weights. And then you're doing joint and connective tissue damage as well. I think a lot of guys mistake that with overtrening. They think that they're overtrened when they're actually just form sucks and they're putting a lot of stress on joint and connective tissue and not actually the muscle. But what I've found is when I keep a rep or two in the tank, I can actually tren everything twice a week and recover just fine. And I would imagine, you know, I know there's an upper limit on it, but I would imagine that over time that that accumulates more stimulus and probably adds more potential for hypertrophy. Maybe, maybe not. I don't know what the research shows on that, but it seems like I can get more frequency in and potentially have more opportunities to grow. Well, yeah, I think, you know, my stance on frequency is, is basically it's a tool to manipulate volume. Right. So like, right. You know, you know, it's just a way to, you know, let's say you're, let's say you're doing a classic or bro split or whatever. You just get this point of diminishing returns in the session where you keep trying to add more and more sets, you know, right. But if you're going to add another day in the week, you know, instead and get a little bit more weekly volume that way, you're actually probably going to do better off. You know, you'll probably be better off. So, and in fact, there was a recent study. I know, I think it was Mike Zordos covered this or he talked about it, but I haven't read the paper myself, but, but basically they looked at frequency and they found that frequency didn't matter on a volume equated basis, which is an agreement with, you know, a meta analysis that I've done with Brad before I'm trening frequency. Frequency doesn't really matter on a volume equated basis, but if you're using frequency to add more volume to your week, then that's where it can be beneficial. And so, so yeah. Yeah. That's what I found. Like you were saying, I'm rather than doing 20 sets of workout, I can split those 20 sets across two workouts, you know, 10 sets. If I know my maximum recoverable volume for, for legs, it's 20 sets or quads. Let's just say quads. IMean, that would be an impossibly long workout if I'm trening everything together where I can split that up into two workouts over the course of the week. And get, as you said, we get, get a little more, it makes a lot of sense, get more volume in that way. But I, I, the way I've been trening probably for the lasT4 or five years is I do a push pull legs and I hit everything twice a week. Yeah. I keep a couple of reps in tank. Um, essentially I follow what Mike's, Mike's principles are. And I do a five or six week block where I'm pushing volume up and I've been very judicious with my exercise choices where I try to pick exercises that are not going to blow my CNS out as far as fatigue goes. And, you know, especially at my age, increased risk of injury. So I like, for me at this point, I don't see any point in doing deadlifts or squats at my age anymore. It's just not, the risk to benefit just doesn't seem to add up to me. I, that, that's another thing. Like I thought, I thought that was very interesting that is I'd never really considered the fatigue cost of certain exercises before. So what I, if rather than torching myself on aromasingle set of deadlifts for back, would I be better off saving that in doing multiple sets of, of say, you know, some sort of machine row? What I'd probably get more stimulus from that. Right. I would assume. Well, and that's the thing. IMean, if I were to go back and do a lot of my trening over again, like there's so many things I would do differently. And I, and I wouldn't like, like I have a, just a lingering back issue now. And, and, you know, I'm at a point where I, there's very little I can do with my legs. Part of it, you know, I don't know if it's, if it's a disc issue I have or whatever, but even things like leg press or whatever will, will cause me back issues now. And so I'm like stuck doing leg extensions and stuff, but I used to squat and I used to do a lot of front squats. And while the back injury happened when I was going really heavy on front squats and I lost my form, you know, and it's like, if I were to go back, you know, and do things over again, you know, I wouldn't be, I wouldn't have been doing that. You know, I just like, it's, it's not worth the, you know, it's not worth the injury risk. And there's other things too. Like I, you know, I used to love doing weighted dips. Like, you know, it was one of my strongest exercises and like, you know, I could really load up on it and, and I would do heavy sets, you know, but the problem is with dips is that it just, it puts your shoulders in kind of a compromising, you know, it's not the best position for your shoulders to be loaded up, you know, and, and, and now I'm at, you know, I'm, I just turned 50 and it's like, I can't do dips anymore. I don't, I haven't done them now for, I don't know, several years now, but like, but again, it's just, you know, it started to cause me shoulder issues, you know, even though, you know, I, I was, I was still doing it even into my early forties. And, you know, it, it added up over time, you know, and if I were to go back, I probably would have never done, I probably would have never done the dips just knowing what I know now, you know? So. Yeah. It was the same thing with me, man. I, uh, I actually tore my UCL, my elbow doing weighted dips. And then my, my shoulders are a mess now. My labrum, I'll be 50 next month, but my labrum, my labrum, I have a torn labrum in my left shoulder. Yeah. From wear and tear. IMean, like, and you'll see it intuitively. Most big bodybuilders, professional bodybuilders. I'm, I'm around that crowd a lot. They stop doing stuff like that. They don't do that stuff anymore. I think they figure out that you can't keep trening that way and sustain a career. So you don't really see, it's interesting because it used to be that everybody thought you had the squat, deadlift, bench press, and you don't see big pro bodybuilders doing that stuff anymore. Yeah. They just don't do it. And the machines now are really good too. You know, there's some. Yeah, they are. Yeah. IMean, we have some of this, my, I'm lucky at my gym. We have all the new equipment, but like some of these Atlantis and Panada prime machines are just really good. I don't know why you would need to take the risk of tearing something. I feel like a lot of barbell exercises just put you in a very vulnerable, you know, fixed position where if you lose balance or get out of whack a little bit like bench presses. I think I've seen more people get hurt while doing flat bench press. Oh, yeah. I read a study. It was the, damn it. What was it? It was a group of orthopedic surgeons. They said something like that. Basically, pec tears do not exist outside of bench presses. Really, like normal bench presses and football. I think those are the two places that people get pec tears playing football, which would make sense because of the way your hands are positioned for blocking if you got your hand clapped. But it was something ridiculous. It was like 80. It was over 80% of pec tear surgeries were from caused by flat barbell bench presses. Oh, geez. IMean, it doesn't surprise me. IMean, that's actually one area where I was smart when I was young. Like when I first started trening, like I never did the barbell bench because it always felt uncomfortable on my shoulder to do it. And so I just never did it because, you know, I didn't care what other guys were doing. It's like, you know, I always did. I always did dumbbell stuff. But, of course, then I was done doing the weighted dips. But, yeah, it's like and now, yeah, for me, my pressing movements are a machine bench press. But, like, I keep the setting on it so that the handles are pretty low. So it's almost like a decline, right? Yeah. And also my hands are neutral. You know, my palms are facing each other, too, which is easier on your shoulder joint. Yeah. Right. So and then the same thing, I do incline dumbbell press, but same thing, like I don't flare my elbows out. I kind of have my elbows in. Yeah. And I have my my palms facing each other. You know, I can't do as much weight doing that. But but it's like it's way easier on my shoulders, you know. So you're also mechanically, I would think that you're placing more load on the pack anyway. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Rail or barbell flat bench press, at least from what I've noticed, is just anecdotal observation. It seems like it mostly the guy if you look at power lifters, they all have their chests aren't that big. They have big front delts and big triceps. So it seems like it's a it's, you know, mostly a tricep and front delt movement. Yeah. But they're also, you know, putting they're essentially with the way they get their arch and everything and how you're it's really a decline press. So it's not even really a flat bench press, but the old elbows out wide grip barbell bench press the bodybuilders used to do. It's just I think it's chronically dangerous. It's the same thing with squats. Like I see with squats. It's another thing like people try to. For me, I want to protect my spine at all costs. You already talked about it. If your spine, if you put your spine in a compromised position and you blow your blow a disc out or, you know, have some sort of catastrophic injury, you're not going to be able to tren optimally. Well, and that's the thing. Not only that, but it affects affects all the other areas of your life. Like it's like, you know, IMean, back issues, like I got a, I got a bodybuilding friend who's, you know, had, you know, he's had back surgery and stuff. And like, you know, and me, like actually just, I don't know, towards the end of last winter, early spring, you know, it's like, you know, one thing I like doing is like, you know, I like, I like snowboarding and stuff. And, but I went in the gym and I did some single leg press thinking it wasn't going to bother my back. And, and it ended up really messing my back, my backup. And then I couldn't snowboard. I couldn't like do the stuff I like doing, you know? So, and so now I'm just like, you know what? It's just not, especially me. It's like, I'm not even, you know, I've competed in one physique show and that's, I'm good with that. So it's like, especially if you're not competing, it's like, there's no reason, you know, I can understand if you're a power lifter and you'recompeting in squats and deadlift, obviously you got to do that stuff, right? But if you're a bodybuilder, you know, you have other alternatives. And if you're not a competitive bodybuilder, if you're just like, just trying to, you know, look better or whatever, even then that's even more reason to be safe. Because like, IMean, you know, there's no reason to mess yourself up, you know? Yeah, it's interesting. It's, it's like I said at the beginning, I don't think bodybuilders, I'm a bodybuilder and I enjoy bodybuilding. Most of the people watching my channel are bodybuilders. It doesn't seem like bodybuilders put a lot of critical thought into how they tren. It just don't. They just don't. Like I, like, like just asking yourself, do you really need to squat? So something like that. I've seen so many guys, I don't want to name a name, but I know a guy that just got his pro card and was continuing to squat crazy amounts of weight. You know, 700, 600, 700 pounds and fractured his spine, cervical spine. Had, you know, fell forward and had the bar roll up on his neck and, you know, his career may be over. You know, so, and then, you know, as a pro bodybuilder, if you get there, you get your pro card and you can't compete, then you're not going to make any money. I don't see what the point, what the point of it is, but I, it's like squats aren't even that great of a, for most people, I guess it depends on your unique physiology, but aren't even that great of an exercise for leg development anyway. Yeah, it totally depends on your body type too. Like, like I'm, you know, and this is part of the mistake that IMade when I was trening, you know, trying to do front squats. I was never built for squatting. I have long legs, a short torso. Like, so automatically my squat is already really back heavy because, because of the length of my legs. And so it's like, I was never even built for squatting. And on top of that, you know, I have, I've always had fairly inflexible hamstrings and hips. IMean, I remember even as a kid, like, you know, doing the stupid president's fitness test, whatever, and you do the, the sit and reach. And like, I could never, even as a kid, I couldn't touch my toes. You know, I just like, so just having that inflexibility and stuff would just, you know, as I was just asking for trouble, you know, trying to squat when I'm not even really built for squatting. You know, it's like, you know, so. IMean, these are the critical questions that I just like, people don't ask themselves. I see guys trying to jam the square peg or drain the round peg into the square hole. IMean, it just, it's, some things don't work and it's individual. Like I, I'll see guys, they love to look at an outlier and use an outlier as an example. Like the, you know, Tom Platt squatting. I'm like, well, Tom Platt was five too. That dude was built for squatting. IMean, yeah, I'm six. I'm almost six too, man. It's I'm the same situation as you. The squats for me are just a glorified good morning. Right. I'm all, it's all lower back for me. I'm not, I'm not getting much and not, not to mention that. I just like think, is there really anything better about a barbell squat than doing say a hack squat where my spine is protect somewhat protected, you know, as far as your quads are concerned, it doesn't really, right. Doesn't really matter. IMean, you know. Yeah. And I think that's something that a lot of bodybuilders forget our, our job. We're not power lifters. Our job is to stimulate hypertrophy. That's what we're in the gym for. The numbers, exercises don't matter. I want to be able to stay in the gym, stay relatively injury free and tren as frequent as I possibly can and maximize hypertrophy without tearing myself up and extend my career as long as I possibly can. And the guys that last as long, you know, like in their fifties, like I have generally are more mindful of that. I believe me, I've done damage to myself when I was younger, but you look at the bodybuilders. It's funny, like the guys that have long careers, guys like Dexter, I don't know how much you follow bodybuilding, but Dexter Jackson and Kamal Ergoni and guys like that, that, that last into their fifties, they all tren intelligently. They're not doing trening like a power lifter. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're all, they're all, what would you think would be, IMean, if you were to design the perfect program for hypertrophy, what would it look like? IMean, IMean, obviously, you know, it'd be individualized. IMean, um, just some high level. In general, you know, it would, it would involve, you know, a mixture of compound and isolation movements. You know, um, I would choose exercises that are fairly low risk, you know, as far as, you know, low risk of injury, um, but still can provide good stimulus. You know, I would say frequency. I think there's a lot of flexibility in terms of frequency. I've tried to structure it to fit someone's lifestyle or whatever, you know, in preferences. Um, again, I would use volume as a progressive overload tool. Um, you know, uh, uh, let me think here. You know, I tend to favor long rests, uh, between sets. No exception might be for some isolation movements. I think you can get away with shorter rests, but definitely for the compound movements. I think you got to do long rests. So, you know, it's just, uh, you know, even if you're trening in like moderate rep ranges or whatever. Oh, and that's the other thing for rep ranges. I would just stick with moderate rep ranges for most exercises. You know, there's just no reason to be doing, you know, five RMS and stuff, you know, IMean, you just, you don't need to. And for some of the isolation movements, IMean, you know, you can be doing sets of 15, 20 or more, you know, and as long as you're pushing the near failure, you know, IMean, the research shows you'll gain just as much muscle, you know? So, so, you know, it's kind of funny if I were to go back and speak to my younger self, that's, that's kind of, I, that's how I would kind of structure my trening, you know? So. Yeah. It sounds exactly how I do it. I have, I used to be a low rep, you know, five to eight rep range guy when I was younger and do less volume. I would tren intent more with more intensity. That's, you know, obviously if you're lower rep range, heavier, heavier weights, you're going to need more time to recover. You can't push recovery. You can't push the volume as much. That's another thing you touched on the, the rest. Guys get obsessed with blasting through their workouts fast. I, like you asked me about rest time between sets and I, and it's always been my take to go when you're ready, when you're like, it never made sense to me. If you're not recovered and ready to do maximum effort on a set, why would you push another set? Yeah. And I think that's especially the case with compound movements. And I think by taking short rests, you actually, and there's some research to show this, that you actually on a set, on a set equivalent basis, for example, if you take one minute rest versus three minute rests, you'll actually gain less size with one minute rest. You know, if you do the same number of sets, now you can make up for it by doing more sets, but then what's the point? Like, you know, it's like, it's like, you know, you do, you know, three sets of lat pull downs with three minute rests or six sets with one minute rests. You know, it's like, you might as well just do the three sets with, with three minute rests or whatever. So it's like, yeah, I just think, and that kind of gets me to something I wrote in my research review just recently. I think people probably overthink their trening a little bit too. Like, you know, like I said, you know, you don't even really need to time your rest. Yeah. Just, just rest until you feel ready to go again, you know, and it's fine. Like, you know, you don't need to time your rest. You don't need to time your reps. You know, I know guys like to say, oh, I'm going to do this four zero two tempo or whatever. Right. You know, and, and like the research suggests that, hey, as long as your tempo is controlled, you know, it doesn't really matter whether you're eccentric is two seconds or four seconds or five seconds. You know, it's just like, just make sure that the weight is controlled and you'll be fine. You know, you don't really need to overthink it. And, and even the same thing with set volume. Like I said, I just, I like to use it as a progressive overload tool. So, IMean, I've, there's this one guy who would constantly private message me and he asked mEQuestions like, should I do, is it better for me to do three sets two days a week or two sets three days a week? Right. It's just something like that. I'm like, dude, you're overthinking it. Like just, just do either way is going to work fine. Right. Like, you know, so. Yeah. Guys, guys overthink shit sometimes. Well, yeah, it's like people, I think people, they try to micromanage their bodies. Like with some, you just don't have that precision with your body. Like you just don't have that level of precision. It's just like, you know, there's, there's a lot of flexibility in the way it, in the way that you can design a trening program. You know, you know, as long as you just meet basic principles, there's a lot of different ways you can design a trening program and get to the same result. You know, I do nutrition for a lot of people, but I get guys, it's the same thing with nutrition. I'll get guys. They're worried about the osmolarity of their intro workout shake and they're not even following a structured diet. I'm like, it doesn't matter, man. It doesn't matter, dude. You know, who cares? I never, I've never thought about the osmolarity of my intro workout shake. IMean, I guess if you're at, you know, if you're at the highest level and you have everything buttoned up or you're an Olympia competitor and everything is just dialed in, then you can focus. My take has always been, don't worry about the 5% when you don't have the 95% button. Oh yeah. Yeah. You know, get, get the, get the 95% buttoned up first and then we can focus on the little, the little stuff. Yeah. Yeah. So most people don't do the 95%. That's for sure. But yeah, that's interesting with the rest times that you said that because I, I'm always telling people just go when you're ready. You don't need to time it. You don't need to think about it. Yeah. Rep ranges. IMean, I, it's, that's sort of where I've settled into. I'm compound movements and somewhere in the 10 to 12 rep range. Yeah. And my isolation movements, probably 15 to 20. Yeah. Um, and then rest times, like I said, I don't time it. I would guess I'm probably in the three minute on, on compound movements. And then, you know, obviously a cable curl is not aromasingle arm cable curl is not going to take as long to recover from as a heavy, you know, a hard set of hack squats. Right. Right. So, you know, it may be more like a minute or a minute and a half when I'm a cable curl or something like that, but just when I'm ready, if when I can give maximal effort. Yeah. So that's, that's sort of, sort of been, been my, my, my take. And then, yeah, IMean, I think it's, as you mentioned, it's just basic principles. I've noticed to form. I don't know what your take is on form, but this is another thing I think where people that are trening for hypertrophy get themselves twisted up. They get obsessed. This is another thing like with, with progressive overload. I, I do, you know, obviously it works, but I think guys get obsessed with beating PRs a little too much. Yeah. Yeah. And it doesn't matter if you beat a PR, if you just got better at leveraging or cheating the weight up. I, it's, it's really insignificant. Yeah. Yeah. It's even hard to call that a PR because you literally just changed the way you did the exercise from the last time you did it. Like if you, you know, if you didn't cheat last time and now you cheat to get a rep this next time. Yeah. Okay. You got an extra rep and you did a PR or whatever, but that extra rep, you cheated to get it anyway. So it's like, you know. Yeah. It doesn't really matter. IMean, I'll see it all the time at the gym. You know, I have 20 inch arms and then there'll be some kid roll up next. I'm curling the 35 pound dumbbells. There's kid roll up next to me, picks up the fifties with, you know, 13 inch arms. And I'm like, what are you doing, man? You know, you're not, you're not, you're not impressing me if that's what you're trying to do. Um, I just, it just blows me away. But, and that's another thing I think I try to get through people's heads when I'm working with them is power lifters. If you're a strength athlete, your job is to get the weight from point A to point B in the most efficient fashion possible. Right. We're not worried about mechanical tension. Yeah. If you're, it's really, we actually probably went less low on the muscle. We want to get, get maximum leverage and perfect technique and form to move that weight is in the most efficient fashion possible. It's probably the exact opposite for hypertrophy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It totally is. Yeah. Um, and that's, I was going to say, that's the thing I think a lot of guys don't think about. And that's why I don't get hung up on PRs. I used to track and write down everything I did. IMean, which can be helpful if you're, if your form is maximized for hypertrophy and you're consistent with your form, then it, then it can be a tool, a tool to measure. But I think it becomes almost irrelevant if your form sucks or if you're trying to maximize form for improving leverage and getting weights from point A to point B. You're not a power lifter if you're a bodybuilder or if you're trying to grow. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I totally agree on that. Yeah. IMean, you know, yeah, I'm a big fan of, of, you know, tracking, you know, weights and reps and stuff. And, you know, I do it myself, but, you know, I'm pretty smart about my form and stuff. And IMean, I, um, um, but yeah, if you're starting to progress, progress just because you're starting to cheat that then, IMean, that's just where a thing where someone has to be honest with themselves. I was like, are you really, are you really, are you really, are you still maintaining your form or are you, you know, just cheating to get the extra, you know, a few reps out, you know? So believe me, I love tracking stuff. My spreadsheets have spreadsheets. I'm a computer scientist. I love data. I have, IMean, I track all my food. I track everything, my, my, my trening and volume. And I've, I've like, I know where all this stuff is at now. I just, some, some of the young guys I work with, they just get too obsessed with, with beating PRs. And I'm like, it doesn't, it's relative, right? Yeah. Yeah. If, if, if your form sucks, it doesn't really, really, really matter. Um, all right. I think, I think this is good, man. Is there anything you want to promote? Are you, uh, have any services you want to promote? Yeah. IMean, if you check out my website at weightology.net, I've got a research review. We cover some of the latest research and exercise and nutrition. And, and it's not just me writing the content. Uh, Dr. Cody Hahn is one of the writers. Dr. Brandon Roberts is a writer. And we also got Astrid Naranjo as a writer. Um, and yeah, we'll review some of the latest research. In fact, we just reviewed the, you know, some people may have heard of it. The big, uh, protein study by urine trauma. Oh yeah. Yeah. That was a really cool study. We just reviewed that in our research review just in the past issue. So yeah, it's just a monthly subscription. And if you subscribe, you get access to all the back content. IMean, you know, stuff going back to, you know, 2017. IMean, we've got content dating all the way back to then. So, so yeah, it's something people, if they want to check out, they can, they can check out their research review. So, and I'll put a link to that in the video description below folks, if you want to, you want to, and I need to go subscribe. I'll do that as soon as we're done here. Oh yeah. I love, I love nerding out on stuff like that. Thanks for coming on, man. Yeah. Thanks for having me.