warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Yeah, it might be. Well, anyway, Jay Cutler was talking about the one set to failure thing and how you always tren with volume, but yeah, it was an interesting conversation. They were talking about volume. They were talking about two times a day trening. They were talking about the trening to failure thing. Um, and Jay Cutler was basically talking about like he never trened a failure. Um, he would do five sets of five. Failure like that to have a lot of wear and tear on their body. I was taught early from like reading, you know, Arnold stuff. And then Chris Asito kind of took me under his wing and kind of taught me a little bit about trening. And I think that's the theory that I followed. So it was volume trening repetitions from eight to 12 short arrest periods. I just honestly, it worked for me. You don't see a lot of 50 year old guys going at Dorian Yates type trening and getting the most benefit out of it. Everyone was on this kick one set to failure type thing. So the way, yeah, I don't know if that was him clapping back at Dorian a little bit. Cause Dorian was kind of, uh, um, talking, you know, about the reps to reps and reserve thing this week, or I think it was last week. I don't know. It might, might've been him, him clapping back at him a little bit. It seemed like, but I actually, I have strong opinions on this one because I've done both. I've done both. And I will tell you like at 54, I tried the, you know, this, uh, Paul, right before I started trening with you, I was doing the, the JP style one set to failure, super heavy. And I was constantly either getting injured in pain, soreness, couldn't sleep with a shoulder. And the moment within two months of changing to high volume trening without going to failure within two months, I have zero pain in my body. IMean, zero. And I trened six days a week, so. Yeah. IMean, the way I look at it, it's there, there's knobs that you can turn on the trening spectrum. If you're going to turn intensity up, you got to turn the volume and the frequency way down and vice versa. If you're going to turn the intensity down. Uh, but I, I'd like to me like this, there it's, it's bizarre that there's this notion that trening with more volume is somehow soft. I'm like, bro, come to the gym and try to do 20 sets of chest sometime. And you tell me if that's fucking soft, you know, doing one set and I'm out in 30 minutes, that's, that's, I don't know. It's, it's different, but look, they both work. People get very emotional about it. If I know, if I want to trigger people on social media, I put some posts up. That's one of them. That's a trigger for sure. Yeah. Yeah. A trigger point for, for muscle nerds on social media is trening volume and intensity. And another one is a, is a low carb, high fat diets, reps and reserve. And just say like, I love reps and reserve and watch the fireworks. Yeah. Look, I like, I'm not like sittinGHere thinking like, Oh, three or, or I are like people asking me how many RIR I am. And I'm like, I don't fucking know, man. I just go in and I tren like, and like when I feel like I'm getting close to where my form is starting to break down, then I put the weight down. Yeah. And I do, I do, do still try to tren progressively. I think you should try to progress where you can. If you're, if you're using the same weights over and over and over week after week after week, month after month, year after year, you're probably not going to grow. Right. No, you know, but you know, a bigger muscle is a stronger muscle. So, IMean, that, that is undeniable. I'm going to send you this other. And we can, we can also measure that progression. We can measure the progression of the muscle. And we can, we can also measure that progression in different ways. Like it doesn't have to be like, it's such a, I don't know. Well, IMean, your volume is progressing to a certain degree too. Of course. IMean, if you add, if you're adding a rep here, a rep there, same way, but you're adding reps, you know, or adding sets. IMean, that's, that's progression or adding time under tension. Yeah. Or slowing it down. Right. Same amount of reps, but you're going way slow. Well, there's also this argument too. Like I hear, you know, and look, we know that mechanical tension is the primary driver of hypertrophy, but I do think there is the super science and people will argue it, but that there's the metabolic effect of trening with more volume. It doesn't work. You'll, you'll hear people say that, but I have a hard time buying into that, especially with increased glute for trensport increased up, uptake of amino acids and glucose while you're trening, especially if you're enhanced and using insulin and other things like that, that, that those, those do have an effect. IMean, you can clearly see it with the guys, Mila Sarchev and Hany Rambod and Chris Aceto tren. They all tren with, with high volume and they're all probably using insulin and a fair amount of carbohydrates. And that does, that does have an effect. And I think people forget that the sarcoplasm is something like 80 to 85% of, 80 to 85% of, well, I think it's 75 to 80% of muscle structure. It's a muscle structure, only 20 to 25% contractile tissue. For you to over tren it, you have to really be, like I said, I've been missing meals. I'm not sleeping in that, but you were volume trener. How many sets per body part would you do? Minimum 20 eyes would be 20 tries. 20 legs could be 30 or more. I haven't said the Mike Mensa one time. Does that really work? Yes. Well, you know, it does this year. You got under tension, you go super heavy, but most people thought you just do one warmup set. Say your heaviest squat was six plates. People think you do one plate warmup and then go straight to six. So you'd be tearing all the muscles. I don't really believe in overtrening. To me, I'm like, yeah, that's another one too, is the whole, the warming up to that one big set. No, no. The fear of overtrening is basically what he was talking about. People, people have this, this really bizarre fear of overtrening. And, and I would just, I don't think most people have ever truly overtrened. I think they mistake joint aches and pains with overtrening. Yeah. I just nailed it. No one who's arguing about this knows what it feels like to actually be overtrened. It's like, have you, have you actually ever overtrened? I have had it happen one time and I've talked about it before and I was on contest prep and where my central nervous system just would not fire. I like, you know, I'll work up to, I don't know, eight, nine plates was aside on the leg press. And I remember going into the gym to warm up with two plates and I could not fucking move two plates. It just wouldn't move. My, my central nervous system just said, nope, not, not working today. Not working. Now that that's true. That's your, your body saying it's a safety cutoff switch. It's like, well, they were talking about on the pro podcast, like there's no elite athlete that, that trens thinks that trening less leads to better result. They, except for, except for bros and bodybuilding, it's, it's just really bizarre to me. And again, people get very emotional and upset about it. IMade a post about it this week and there were, there was some super angry people in my D why doesn't anyone today tren twice a day? You think I could say lazy as Ronnie said, everyone wants to be a body, but I don't want to lift heavy. And everyone wants to be a pro bodybuilder, but yet I think you're a pro bodybuilder or you do sleep, eat and tren. And they're like any more than 45 minutes over trening. I'm like, show me any other sport where the top guy in that sport only trens 45 minutes a day. Did anyone only tren once a day back then? None of us are over trened. Everyone wants to be big, but they want to do it in the least amount of time with the least effort. If you think about it, you shouldn't be getting yourself to a point of overtrening. Anyhow, if you're mindful of tracking your soreness from session to session, let's say quad session to the next session, you're able to kind of really gauge that maximum recoverable volume and find a sweet spot for yourself. Yeah. You want to live somewhere in the middle. Yeah, exactly. So you can just reach right up to that edge and know that your recoverability is, is going to get you to the next session. So you can tren optimally rather than picking up soreness or rolling over soreness or soreness, um, what do they call it? Overlap, you know, so you shouldn't, if you find yourself in that position, you might not be tracking metrics as well as you probably could or should be. Well, IMade a post and it really got some feelings hurt, uh, that if one set to all outset to failure, fucks you up so bad that you need a whole week to recover. There's something seriously wrong with you, man. IMean, IMean, come on, man. IMean, IMean, I look at guys that are construction workers or guys moving furniture all day long. IMean, these guys are liftinGHeavy ass fucking weight and moving shit around all fucking day long or football players. Yeah. Professional football players, um, that are, are out, you know, they, they do a two, three hour practice, then they lift weights. Well, and then they get beat up. Like after that. Yeah. Yeah. So like the human physiology and our ability to push, you know, like people say, well, then you should do 500 sets. I'm like, well, that's a stupid fucking argument. Um, of course there is an upper limit to things that 500 sets is just as ridiculous as one, um, in my opinion. Um, but I, and I've tried both ways and, and I think that's a consideration that you really need to be more careful with as you age, like with the aging body. But I, I did hit style trening all through my twenties, um, more of the during its style trening. And I really loved it. I enjoyed doing it. I do like the psychologically, I love progression. I love beating the law book. I love going in and having that mentality that I'm going to war with the weights, but you get to a point where your body just breaks if you keep doing that. Yeah. Yeah. And that shit don't fucking work when you have to do it. And it should not work when you get past 40, man. And I don't be, there'll be some guy comes along that says he's an exception, but then usually when you start peeling the layers of the onion back, these are the dudes that are constantly hurt. Yeah. Yeah. Constantly hurt. Or, IMean, you know, we all compete. So it's different when you're in competition season, what your body can recover from and what you could recover from in your twenties in prep versus your twenties, not in prep is totally different too. You know, if you were constantly in a calorie surplus throughout your twenties, like, yeah, you keep pushing it like almost to no end. But at some point that has a, you got to pay the paper, especially if calories are low. One of the reasons why I started trening in the mornings is I know you have more, you know, sympathetic drive in the afternoon theoretically and you can lift heavier or whatever. But I feel like when I'm trening the mornings, I can recover from it better. I am less likely to have the systemic fatigue that I can tren more and spend more time in the gym and recover better. Well, there was a third video. If you want to see it where they're talking about trening twice a day, Lee and Jay both used to tren. Jay talked about trening seven days a week, twice a day. Yep. There was Roman Jay. IMean, I was doing it myself. Honestly, I think about adding a second workout. Yeah, no, I've been seriously considering it too to kind of speed up getting back to where, where, where I've been at. I've thought about like with my PPL maybe going into the morning and doing triceps and then in the evening coming back and hitting my big compound movements. And then, you know, on my pull day doing biceps in the morning, biceps and abs and then coming back in the evening and doing my compound movements. I did, I did try that by the way, the twice a day thing for about two or three months. And I can't honestly, like, it wasn't, it wasn't bad. It really wasn't bad. It wasn't better or worse the results I feel than aromasingle session. But it was interesting like splitting it out like that just because of the equipment I had available during the day versus the evening, you know it ended up working and my work schedule but I didn't see anything better or worse, you know. Yeah. IMean, for me, it's just a time thing. Exactly. It was a time management thing more. Yeah. IMean, if I had a home gym where I could just walk downstairs and do the stuff, it would be a little bit different, but I just, my days are usually packed from fucking start to finish. I just don't have, I don't know. I thought about trying to doing an experiment and documenting it and see what happens. What's the worst that could happen? I could tear my bicep tendon again. There's somebody out there. Zionic said he wants to watch you go to your journey to pro. So that'd be, you should start documenting that. People want to see it. Yeah. I don't look so good right now. I think it goes back to what Dave was saying about MRV, right? Like if you can recover from two workouts a day, great. But if you don't have your recovery lined out right, you're just trening like an animal. You're always going to be sore. You're never going to grow any muscle, you know, and that's, IMean, that's really a constant repair mode, right? You're going to be constantly repairing. Called, um, you know, poor recovery really at the end of the day. It's like if you, I think of it as like a gas tank, right? Like you have to put all the things in the tank, proper nutrition, proper sleep, proper supplementation, proper management of your autonomic nervous system. And when you have all those things, right, your tank is here and you've got plenty to do to deplete that tank in the gym. But if you're not completely replenishing that tank and you're going in with a half a tank every day, you're just not going to go for it. Mike, my tank is on the yellow time. I just use drugs. IMean, that bumps it up. I would say aside from a good drug protocol, recovery protocol is probably the most important. I joke. I joke. I joke. Don't, don't listen to me folks. I kid. So that would trust people saying that Roman admits his trening is therapy. I wouldn't use him as a good example. Well, IMean, the results still speak. IMean, he's an elite level bodybuilder. IMean, he's one of the best, probably top 25 or 30 guys in the world. Yeah. So IMean, whatever he's doing is working. Yeah. You know, granted he maybe could dial it back a little bit more, but then it wouldn't be him. I, I personally, like I don't give a fuck if, if one sec grows people better, I would not want to tren that way. I just wouldn't want to tren that way. Yeah. That would just be fun. I agree. Well, it's like myself. I can honestly say like when Paul and I first met and I had asked him to coach me, I did tell him right off the bat, I go, the only thing I have that's a weird stipulation is the trening. I'm going to have full control over just because for myself, I have to enjoy it. And it helps with my sobriety. Like I have to be able to go in there and get out what I need to get out for the day or, you know, enjoy that aspect or just break away from the weekly grind, you know, in the gym. So I think there, I think you're right. There's definitely something to, if you're not enjoying your trening, you should be able to find a way to get your cake and eat it to find a way to kind of manage it.