 advancesandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandandand Good, man. It's good to have you on here. Literally, strongman is something I know absolutely zero about, dude. I'm a knucklehead bodybuilder. I just know how to eat chicken and rice and pose and squeeze my arms when I do bicep curls. That's the only thing I know. Yeah, training-wise, we're kind of on the opposite ends of the spectrum, like we talked about. I'm doing the most dangerous stuff possible. I've got a couple of 21-year-old college football players I'm training with this summer who are just really putting me through it. I'm kind of working out. I'm going to be 40 this summer, and I'm making a comeback from strongman. I've had about five years off of competing. In the fall, I'm doing Great Lakes Strongest Man, so I've been training for that really intensely. I'm about 10 weeks out right now, so it means I'm really sore. Strongman's cool, man. We have some guys at our gym that train it, and I watch it. Man, you've got to be – not only do you have to be strong, you have to be in shape, too, cardiovascular-wise. It's both. Yep, you've got to be able to move your feet, too. Yeah, you've got to be explosive. You've got to be able to do overhead. There's a lot of strength qualities. I call it the mixed martial arts of strength sports because it combines so many different things. Power movement, high-wind games, stone lifting, sometimes even arm wrestling, moss wrestling, stuff like that. So that's kind of what got me interested in it. It's just it is the most extreme of the strength sports. You really have to be good at everything. So it kind of keeps things new and interesting all the time, but also dangerous. So that's kind of where we depart. Training-wise is you're trying to get as big as possible, as safely as possible, and I'm still risking myself every time I step in the gym. Well, life is no fun unless you're living in the margins and taking a chance here and there. Yeah. That's where the best things happen. Yeah, it's not fun unless somebody can get hurt. I think that's a good rule of life. Like, I know people talk about bodybuilding being nuts, and I'm like, man, it's nothing like climbing Mount Everest or doing something. I mean, even football, man. Football is crazy. Yeah, sprinting 50 yards and running into somebody with your face as hard as you can. Like, when I was a kid, they didn't even think that was bad for you. Concussions? Yeah, you'd be fine. You know? I mean, you can like, God, I don't remember what the study was, but like football players just do not live as long as regular people, man. Just from the beating they put themselves through. But I don't know. I'm a quality, not a quantity kind of guy. If I shave a few years off my life doing some cool shit that nobody else is doing, I'm okay with that compromise. Yeah. I may change my mind when I'm 75 or 70 and on my deathbed. I don't know. But that's sort of my thought process. Yeah, I think it's the average lifespan of an NFL football player is 55 years old. So those guys are nuts. Yeah, they've given up 20 years of their life to do that, you know? Yeah, and I remember like with linemen, like defensive and offensive linemen, it was even lower, I think. Yeah. Professional wrestling, even, you know, people make fun of professional wrestling. Those guys don't live a long time either, man. They're beating the crap out of each other. Yeah. Yeah. Jumping and bouncing around, all that stuff, that part of it's real, man. That's a lot of wear and tear on your body. Yeah. I've had some professional wrestlers I've helped out, man. And it's brutal, man, some of the stuff that they put themselves through. So it's not a joke, man. I mean, even though it's scripted and something painted out, I mean, they're beating themselves up. Yeah. Yeah. It's like I said, it's real in that aspect. I would think for sports like football, and you talked about hockey earlier, that strongman and the attributes you are enhancing through strongman probably translate well to both of those. Yeah. It's actually kind of a funny connection is that the guy, the pro hockey player I worked for, when he was an active player, he trained with Charles Poliquin. I don't know if you're familiar with him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Charles is favorite. Everybody knows Charles. Yeah. So he trained with him directly, and then he trained later with Art McDermott, who was a pro strongman. And they actually, that was the first book I read on strongman, was Charles Poliquin and Art McDermott's book on strongman. And so he believes, you know, just as Poliquin would, you know, in a sport like hockey, you develop as much general strength as possible, but then you have to apply that to your sport. You know, it's like, I can get your squat and your deadlift and your bench press up, but it's not going to necessarily make you score a goal. You're going to have to apply that, you know, through skill. And that's kind of the separation that they make. And that's kind of why it works for me in that sport is that it is kind of so different from any of the young. Man, I should have looked this up before we talked, but I remember, God damn it, where did I read this at? It was the other day or two that I was talking about, like, Russia with hockey players, like how they start these kids off, like, at five, six years old, working on skills and strength. Like, like crazy young, crazy young. And they have this whole theory about how you need to develop a certain, certain dexterity skills and stuff first. And then it was an interesting article, but how they have like an entire system ironed out for how they, how they do it. Yeah, that's actually something I studied in college. You know, I have a master's degree in exercise science. And that was a big area of study was the, what they call the lifetime sports mastery program in the old Soviet Union, because they actually put the real scientists on the case. Yeah. You know, studying these things. Where in America, we usually had like a guru style coach that kind of had their own way of doing things. And, you know, when you were a coach in the Soviet Union, you had to go and take, you had to award a report to of scientists and say, I'm training these athletes like this because of X, Y, and Z. And you had to be able to defend yourself, you know, and there was other people putting input into that. And so that's where a lot of the actual research on exercise science came from there. And that's what, you know, they found because they were a communist country. They could literally, they would go through a school and sort kids out and say, you know, if you qualified in whatever, like, for example, in the Olympic weightlifting program, they would go with a dynamometer for grip strength. And if you scored in the 95th percentile or higher, they would snatch you up to the Olympic weightlifting school. Okay. And so they actually combed through kids and picked them out and developed them. And then let's say you didn't, if you're a female gymnast and you were doing gymnastics program, but you grew to be over five foot five, they would put you in a weightlifting program. Like they had a system for dealing with all different kinds of things that we never had in this country. Yeah. I went down the rabbit hole reading about it. It was really fascinating. Like how they, and China does the same shit too, I think. Oh, they're doing it right now. Yeah. They're doing it right. They're doing it right now. But it was, it was, it was very interesting. Well, I have a PhD in bro science, so that's my, that's my background. I just read a lot of stuff. I'm a nerd, man. But no, it was really fascinating how they, they, they just have systematically created these programs and, and it's all science-based. It was, you know, well-researched and, and, and very interesting. I know, I know it's same true with powerlifting. A lot of the modern powerlifting is derived from, from, from what I understand, you would know more than me. But from, from the research that was done in Russia. Yeah. You know, cause like, you know, in Russia, let's say like a Tudor Bampa was a famous, a track and field strength coach. He graduated at the top of his class, class at the math university. And he, and then they put him and said, okay, here's your first job. You're going to run the Olympic sports program. Okay. So that is the difference between what they were doing over there and what was happening in America. That may have been the dude I was reading about that came up with like the whole system of formulas for figuring out some, some maximal lifts and how to progress all that. I, I remember reading about it. It was some, some math guy in Russia that came up with that whole, that whole system of programming, all, all of the, all of that out. Well, yeah, there was AS Prillipin who, whose Prillipin's chart is the basis of Westside Barbell and all their programs. Yeah. Maybe that was what it was. Yeah. I don't, I don't recall the names, but I, my brain's fuzzy, but this was a couple of weeks ago. I was reading about this. Yeah. What he did was he took thousands of weightlifters log books and he tracked which ones were making the most progress. And then he charted what weights they were lifting. And then he put it into a kind of a simple, easy to read chart. And Louie Simmons got ahold of it and then turned that into the Westside Barbell philosophy. Yeah. That's what, what was it? The conjugate system or whatever that he used. Yeah. So, yeah, I remember, I remember hearing about Louie reading and reading about all the Russian stuff and digging in at all, digging in all that. He was just one of those guys that was self-taught autodidact, I guess. You know, he didn't even graduate high school. Right. I don't think. Right. I'm not sure on that one. I don't want to verify that. I want to get to the Westside guys. Yeah, I know. I don't, I don't know for sure, but I, I mean, I mean, Louie's a legend and I was just out. Uh, and did an interview with Dave and it was interesting talking to him about Westside and all that stuff. It's, it's, it's some pretty, pretty cool stories, man. It was, it was pretty neat being there. Yeah. Those are the real garage days. You know, me and Joe Miller were talking about that for guys like us that lift weights before the internet was really a thing. It was a little different, wasn't it? Yeah, man. I remember trying to figure out, uh, how to lift and like, there was just no information and all the stuff in the magazines was just BS and garbage. Mm-hmm. And the guys that actually knew what they were doing kept it secret. You know, they didn't want to give anything away, man. They didn't want to tell you how they were eating. They didn't want to tell you how they were training. None of it. It was all, it was all closely guarded. I remember, uh, the very first gym I worked out at was sort of a, I don't know. There were some hardcore power lifters that worked, worked out there. And, and those guys, man, it was, it was like being a member of the club. You, you didn't, you didn't get in automatically, man. You had to, you had to be around for a while. They had to see you working hard before, before they let you in. Yeah. I mean, I have to always tell the story of my strong man club. Like the first time I showed up, the guy that ran it, he goes, he looks at me and goes, you know, cause before that I was doing bodybuilding. He looks at me and goes, Hey, bodybuilder guy, I'm not going to learn your name for six months because you're probably going to quit. You know, this wasn't as friendly and inviting as it was, you know, couldn't Google. I want to be a strong man and just, Hey, come sign up on our gym. You know, you had to know somebody. Yeah. I remember, uh, uh, like I learned real quick about rack and weights. I forgot to rack weights and dude smacked me in the back of the head and told me I was like 16, man. This is a grown man. Smack me in the back of my head and told me, rack your fucking weights, kid. It was serious like that. Kids don't understand. Like it was like, yeah. And if you really wanted to learn something, you would have to go to the big guy at the gym and like ask him a question. You know, you couldn't just, there was no bodybuilding.com. Give you a program and just give you some advice or anything. Yeah. And unless they saw you around for a while, they'd usually just tell you to go fuck off. So that was, that was the part that was, uh, that's, that's really changed. I mean, it's, it's cool now that there's so much information out there, but there's also a lot of bad information too. That's the, that's the downside. Yeah. You know, there is one other thing we have in common too, before we were talking about for liver King, I'm still pissed at him. Um, but like, so I found out, you know, I got a bunch of nephews, my 14 year old nephew. It's just, he's starting to play football and just complaining. He can't gain weight. He can't gain weight. And then I found out he's watching liver King and he hasn't eaten a carb in a year. Cause he thinks I'm going to look like a bodybuilder by eating, you know, this low carb diet, man. I'm like, you got, you can't carve a pebble buddy. Like you got to put some mass on, you know? And so I had to deal with that. And then, so I know you remember something else, but. Well, I actually got ahold of his real diet and, and did a breakdown of it. And he was, the dude was actually eating carbs. He was putting dextrose in his, in his shakes. So he was, he was completely full of crap. Yeah. Yeah. That's okay. See, that's not primal. Is it not, that's not primal. No, no, he was, he was put, I remember it was, it was either dextrose or it was maple syrup. That's what it was. I think it was maple syrup that he was putting in. He's putting in his shakes. It was like some weird ass stuff. Yeah. But I have to give it to the guy. He made probably made millions of dollars, man. He's smarter than all of us. Yeah. I mean, you know, he's laughing all the way to the bank. Yeah. Yeah. And that's kind of what, you know, what I was talking to John Revis about is like, and that's one reason why I put myself out there a little bit more with my social media and done a little bit, a few more things is like, you know, there's a lot of, the kids kind of go for the easiest, dumbest thing they can find, you know, especially the 14 year olds and you've got it. There's gotta be some good information out there. Right. And it's shortcuts. Shortcuts sell. I tell guys that all the time. There's all the time people trying to sell shortcuts and the God's honest truth of it is, and you know, we were talking about it before. It just, it takes a long time, man. It's a lot of, a lot of freaking work. Like I, and I work with a young bodybuilders and they have their three year plan to be on the Olympia stage. And I'm like, yeah, that ain't happening, man. Even the, even the best, like you look at the best guys, it's usually seven to eight years of hard training before they even, before they even turn pro. Yeah. If that's a talented guy too. Yeah. And that's a talented guy. I mean, that's like, you know, that's like a Nick Walker or somebody like that. Yeah. You know, I tell kids at the gym, you know, I said all the time, but, um, they'll ask me some real super specific question. I can tell they won't be training for a year or two. And I'm just like, man, it's going to take you 10 years to actually get real strong, you know, no matter what, whether you're doing sumo conventional or your pinky in one inch or L one inch or whatever it is, it's just, it's going to take a lot of time. People don't like to hear that either. No, I think it was a Matt winning. I saw an interview. He was talking about, he met Ed Cohn and he was talking about how, uh, I think he said he was like 19 years old squatting 700 pounds and Ed Cohn told him in another five years, he could be up to 800 and, uh, or whatever it was. I'm throwing arbitrary numbers out there. So don't quote me on this stuff, but Matt, Matt said he was like, what? Yeah. He's like, what do you mean? He's probably thought five months, not five years. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, but that's definitely say is, and maybe you, I don't know if you've ever seen any different, but just in the lifting world, every time you see a real young phenom, you very, very few times we ever see him carry through and actually have a career, you know, a lot of guys get stuck in that front end and don't realize how much work it's going to take to actually get there. Yeah. I think sometimes when people are genetically gifted, they don't, um, they don't, they don't have to work as hard. And so they don't put you, I mean, you see it all the time in professional sports too. You'll see the guy that comes in, that's a phenom. And then they just fizzle out. Um, and occasionally you do get the work ethic matches the, the, uh, ability that, that, that does happen, but it's, I mean, for every, you know, I am a basketball guy, but for every LeBron James, there's, there's a hundred dudes that could have been LeBron James that just didn't do it. Yeah. That's what they could saw the Michael Jordan documentary, man, that guy worked hard. You know, I never, I didn't quite know exactly how much dedication he had, but Oh my God, he was an animal. Yeah. I didn't realize quite, I didn't realize the extent of it, I guess. He was, it was interesting too, because he was one of the, I think he might've been one of the first NBA guys to incorporate, uh, weight training. It was with Tim Grover. Um, he started, you know, it was really rudimentary looking back on it, but, um, he, he incorporated it because they told guys back then, I remember playing in high school and they said that it would make you stiff and you wouldn't be able to move. Yeah, absolutely. That's still a big misconception. I have to deal with all the time in the strength training world, you know, people either kind of know or they don't know. Um, but yeah, I mean, it's, uh, that's, that's a problem that's been going on since the 1970s with sports coaches is them trying to interfere with what's going on in the, in the strength side. I mean, they don't really understand it. So what's your approach? Like if you have a young athlete, uh, you know, high school, high school kid or whatever that wants to excel, what, what, I mean, what, what are you doing? I mean, a football player or whatever you hockey player, which, what's your approach with those guys? Well, you know, a little bit, it varies by sport. Um, but typically not a ton. And, uh, so I start most of my guys with just the basics, basic powerlifting, you know, a bench press slot, deadlift, obviously, you know, and I look at it, the analogy I use is like karate. You know, when you start out, you're doing white belt stuff and we move you up to yoga, but every kid that's a white belt wants to do the black belt stuff, you know? So, Hey coach, when am I going to do the law? Hey, probably never, you know, or it's just not worth it. You know, certain things for certain athletes are just too dangerous. So with my young guys, my big thing is just building up the big three, you know, the bench squat and deadlift pull-ups too, and maintain the strength balance. But these, one thing kids got to do is gain weight and just get bigger. Right. I mean, that's the first battle that we all went through. Like you said, you were one 65 when you graduated. Was that one 65, one 70, something like that. When I graduated college. Yeah. Out of college. Yeah. So that, that a hundred pounds didn't exactly come overnight. Did it? No, not, not until I met Dante Trudell and he told me to eat a lot of food. I'd never eaten so many, so much food until I met that guy. He was, I remember him telling me, I thought there was going to be some super secret sauce to it. And he was like, he's like, your primary anabolic is food. Yeah. And then, and then, and then hard training, hard training and food. That's, that's the secret. I'm like, what? Yeah. Like, okay. And what else? Yeah. Yeah. No, that was, that was, that was pretty much him, you know, hard training, eat a lot of food. I mean, man, man, I, oh my, we would do, I would do some stupid stuff. Like I couldn't put weight on. So it would be after workouts, he would, he would have me go. I remember having me go to McDonald's and I'd get a milkshake and put a scoop of protein powder in it and have two, two or three double cheeseburgers with it. That was my post-workout meal. Not that I'm suggesting that now, but. And that's what I, I try to explain that to my growing athletes and my young kids is like, you should not be eating like an adult. You know, like some of these parents, they're feeding their kids, you know, chicken and broccoli. Like, listen, this kid just burned, you know, 2000 calories in a hockey game. Plus the work. So he can eat McDonald's or he can have, you know, a shake with ice cream in it and all that stuff. So, you know, and it's good. It comes from the parents. And then like, you know, like my nephew, same kind of issue is these kids think that they should look like bodybuilders when they work out. And they kind of use that as a success. And it's like, no, when you're 14, you're not going to look like a bodybuilder. Okay. You might have abs, but you're not going to have, you know, a chest that pops out and stuff like that. It's just the slow, steady gain in weight. That's what they need to focus on. Yeah. And you sort of have to get a little fluffy at first. And then, you know, and I'm not saying obese, but I mean, there is an upper limit. I found nutritionally, but, but yeah, you, you know, you do sort of have to go through, I don't know what that caught the baby fat phase, but you have to, you have to get a little, little, little fluffy, a little big, and then, and then you can carve it up afterwards. Yeah. Yeah. Cause I, cause I get that complaint all the time from my young body, my young lifters. They think that, Hey, coach, I'm not looking like a bodybuilder yet. It takes a lifetime of work to do that. Right. I mean, I wasn't able to compete. I didn't, I competed when I was 25 and I was barely ready to do it. You know, and I was after lifting weights since I was 14. Yeah. And you see the guys that do it when they're young. I mean, even like, you know, what, what did Nick Walker say? He started lifting when he was 15, 14, 15, something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Those guys that get their growth spurts out of the way, they can start lifting, you know, real heavy early like that and kind of get a head start, you know, that's what. How, how young do you get guys, uh, starting lifting? I mean, do you, do you have a thought process on that? Oh, that's the biggest question that I get actually as a strength coach from parents, from, you know, athletes, especially, you know, um, young parents, if it's their first kid going through, like one of the biggest issues, obviously you talk about, you know, uh, or the old wives tale is that lifting weights is going to make you short or stung. That's the biggest misconception that I get. Okay. So here's where that comes from. It comes from the, just the idea that, you know, does playing basketball make you taller? No, but lift being short, you know, makes you better at lifting weights, especially in the early stages. So guys that are short tend to have a lot more success in weightlifting, especially in the beginning, especially sports like powerlifting, Olympic lifting, guys are short brains in motion. So kind of the idea has become hipso facto lifting weights makes you short is the same idea that playing basketball makes you tall. No guys that just have early success in it are usually on the shorter side. So that's kind of where that comes from. As far as scientifically, no, it doesn't do anything to damage a growth plate, something like that. But here's the big, the big but here is that for young kids pre puberty, and this is how I separate it is that you need to focus on endurance and you need to focus on body weight. And not only because that's what they need to build up because they really can't develop the strength at that age. So there's no point. Okay. So I would much rather have a 12 year old hockey athlete be able to do 50 pushups than try to bench press, you know, 135 pounds. Does that make sense? Yeah. Hormonally, they're probably just not in a position. There's nothing there. There's nothing to work with. Right. You know, I'm sure, you know, it'd be frustrating with you to work with a client with no hormones. So a kid can develop a lot of strength endurance. So that's what I look. Okay. I'm trying to get a kid that's, you know, pre puberty to do 20 pull ups to be able to do, you know, walking lunges, 50 body weight squats, a lot of plyometric stuff. A lot of, see, that's pre puberty is when neurological learning is a lot easier to happen. So you train kids pre puberty, you can work on fast footwork, skill, skills and drills, development, things like that will do a lot more good. It's easier to learn a language pre puberty, anything that brings us more plastic. So that's the type of stuff you focus on. I really love kids to do gymnastics. That's the first thing I'd love a kid to do. You know, we're going to start off from day one. Wrestling is another great sport that develops because basically gymnastics is like a handbook of how to use your own body. And then wrestling teaches you how to move somebody else's body in space. And then, so those are two great basic ones. And then once we hit that post-pruberty phase, then we can go on to full on lifting. Obviously we have to do that progressively and, you know, obviously building up lower back strength and things like that to avoid injury. But yeah, that's kind of how I gauge it. Yeah, my daughter's a volleyball player and she's almost 16 now. She's almost six feet tall and I got her started lifting when she was 13. Oh, perfect. Yeah. It's even more important for girls. Even more important because of the injury. And she's stronger than the boys at her school already, you know, so it's, you know, it's pretty wild to see how kids develop, how fast they develop. Right. And that's the exciting thing for, you know, when you're training kids is that they make progress so fast is that it's real easy for them to stay interested in it because, you know, if you and I were getting better every time we stepped in the gym, then we'd be a little bit more excited about training. Right. But for them, they actually get to go through that. I'm just trying to hang on at this point, man. Yeah. Yeah. I think I told you I got two 21 year old training partners who won't let me off the hook for anything. I did that on purpose because I've been very sore this summer. But for that very reason. But yeah. And so. Like for a volleyball athlete in particular, you know, the things that you want to be working on is like what's called a power to weight ratio. So how strong is she relative to how much she weighs? You know, so it's like high level plyometrics, you know, squatting and deadlifting, but in a manner that's not going to ever gain any weight. Just focus on her strength development. And then obviously with any female athlete, the biggest issue is ACL injury prevention. So a ton of hamstring stuff, ton of glute stuff. We'll keep those knees. Luckily, volleyball is a pretty non-contact sport, even though somebody can dive into your leg. Yeah. We did. We did travel volleyball this year and I can't tell you how many ACL injuries I saw, man. It was nuts. Yeah. Yeah. Women are at a six times higher rate of injury than men for ACL tears. Big reason is that they have a wider pelvis so that the hip, so it's called a Q angle, so that the femurs come down at an angle and then the knees kind of fall out from down there. And then if that knee gets driven inside, then that ACL will tear. Well, I've popped both of my ACLs. I've been through that twice. I know what that's like. It was not fun. Both times playing basketball. Okay. Man. Ouch. Yeah. Yeah. In my late 20s, I had some dude fall onto the side of my leg. It was just a freak thing, man. And then a few years ago, like four years ago, I was just horsing around and being big, man. It probably is not. I just went to cut and it gave out. Oof. Yeah. Yeah. Most common injury when I worked at Lifetime as a trainer back in my early 20s was older guys in their 50s come out to play a pickup basketball game. They'd come down from a rebound and tear both their quads off. It would happen. Oh, man. I officially retired from basketball after that ACL tear. I have not touched it since. Yeah. Basketball's the best left to your 20s and maybe early 30s. It's funny. Like all these injuries, man, I did myself in. It's not so much from weightlifting. It's all been like my shoulders are all wrecked. That's from jujitsu. And then my knees are all tore up from basketball. Yeah. And I think one other thing we got in common is I know Mike Isretel, he used to train at Royal Oak Gym. We got a couple of training partners in common. And yeah, I love his stuff from like my personal training clients and stuff like that. I think I've heard you mention that. That's one of the best programs to actually get bigger without hurting yourself. Yeah, I sort of, you know, we talked about it before, but I, you know, worked with Dante Trudell when I was younger and, you know, really subscribed to that HIIT philosophy when it comes to training. And it served me well while my joints held up. But I just, as I got older, I made the shift. I figured out that I needed to do something different, man. And so I gravitated. I read Mike's book. I went down that rabbit hole, the scientific principles of hypertrophy. So if you haven't read it, it's a fantastic book. And then he has an entire lecture series that he put up on his YouTube channel that parallel the book. And it's really good, man. It's like he literally goes through each chapter and explains the material in each chapter. And I'm just like, man, this makes perfect sense to me for where I'm at in my life. And, you know, he doesn't speak in absolutes. That's what I liked about it. So that's what I found with training. A lot of it is subjective. But for me, it made a lot of sense to go with a higher volume, picking exercises that work for me. I mean, one of my friends is an exercise physiologist. And I asked him, you know, like, you know, what's the best? My elbows hurt. What's the best thing to do for triceps? And he's like, the thing that doesn't hurt your elbows. So really, at some point, and I heard Israel Tell say something similar, but that's at some point, that's, it really is that simple. But, you know, in bodybuilding, it should be, you know, I always tell people this, if you just want to do pure bodybuilding, that should be one of the safest forms of lifting weights that there is. You're getting hurt doing bodybuilding. It's usually an ego issue, you know, that's mostly what I think. It always fascinates me with bodybuilders. Bodybuilders are the most idiotic people when it comes to training. Their training is probably the dumbest out of all of the, all of the strength sports, man. Like, like, like powerlifting is, is, is programmed out. And you have, you know, period, it's all periodized in, and it's, you know, there, you're not training, you're not doing maximal lifts every time you go into the gym. But I mean, literally powerlifters work up over a block to, if I understand it correctly, to a maximal lift where you're going to absolute failure. They're not, they're not hitting, you know, they're not living in that danger zone. And literally bodybuilders have this meathead mentality that you have to rip your tricep off the bone every time you go into the gym and nothing is programmed out. It's all, it's all just winging it. And there's no thought put into any of it. At least there hasn't been until like Mike came along and some of the modern, modern guys. It's just fascinating to me that training is so advanced in, you know, even in strongman or, or sports, but literally bodybuilding is just completely has been improvised and idiotic over the years. Yeah. I always felt like the training has been left in the stone age for bodybuilding. You know, every time I've seen guys at the gym get injured on a leg press or something like that, I just asked myself, why, why would you, you don't need to do a thousand pounds on that leg press. Nobody asks you how much you can lift in your show. Right. No, no. I told, I told my guys that all the time. Like, oh my God. That's a, that's a conversation I have with guys, you know, like guys, like one guy was like getting all worried about his bench press going down. And I'm like, dude, nobody's going to ask you on stage how much you bench press. They don't even know how much you weigh. It's just what you look like. The judges don't even know what you, what you weigh when you get on stage. Like, don't worry about what you weigh. Don't worry about how much you're lifting. Just look the best you can. That's literally the goal of the sport. Yeah. The guys get, so they can kind of get caught in these other little rabbit holes of trying to impress their, you know, or they think that that's a proxy for progress or something like that. Well, they, well, they can't decide if they're a power lifter or if they're a crossfitter or if they're a strong man or they're a bodybuilder. There is no, and this is something that Mike Israel talks about is training specificity. Like you would, you would not train like a soccer player if you were a football player. Yeah. Right. So why, why is bodybuilding? Why are you not training specifically for your sport? It's never made any sense to me. Yeah. And it's like I said, if you do that, you should be relatively safe. You know, you shouldn't be getting hurt on like extensions or, you know, you can, like you said, you can change exercises. You can work around things, you know, but for me, if I got to lift a 250 pound keg, I got to lift a 250 pound keg. There's no, you know, that's kind of the difference is like, you know, like strength training, you're always seeking to do lots of reps with perfect technique as heavy as you can, you know, because it's a learning thing, you know, but it's not very safe. Yeah. I mean, a lot of that's neuromuscular, right? Yeah, absolutely. A lot of it's learning, you know, like my training partners are, like I said, there are a couple of, one guy's actually switching over from college football to college lacrosse. And then another guy, the other guy's a football player and wrestles at Case Western. And, you know, we've been training strongmen together for the last few months and we still haven't got anywhere near to half the events, you know? And every time we learn a new one, we're like, okay, put my hands where I got to do what? And there's just like, and that's one of the guys said, there's just so much to learn, you know, and kind of with that first attachment, Joe Miller and I are putting out a book called Old School Strongman in the fall here that should be coming out. Oh, that's awesome, man. Yeah. So, because it is a lot to learn. So one thing we want to do is give people a head start, you know, in the garage days, everybody kind of grabbed you by the collar and told you what to do or what not to do even more. So it's more likely to happen. But yeah, so we're trying, I'm trying to re-engage people in the sport, but it's just, you know, powerlifting is a lot easier to get into. You do bench press, squat, and deadlift. Yeah. You know, and it's just, it's a much lower bar entry. You don't need as much coaching. It's just easier to get into. So this is one thing that is kind of a passion project for me that hopefully, like I said, will release this fall. Yeah. I wouldn't even know. Like, I know, you know, enough about powerlifting to be dangerous. I just don't even know the first thing about strongman, where to even start. Yeah. And who does, you know, like I said, the way I learned it was showing up to a garage full of dudes and standing around and, you know, watch it, you know, so I got to learn it that way. But like I said, not everybody's got access to, you know, a strongman group or, you know, the equipment or things like that in your area. So it's, like I said, it's, it's tough to just kind of get going from the ground up. Yeah. I see a handful of guys at my gym training. And we have, we have actually had some pretty good strongman equipment and stuff there, but I really don't see a lot of people training. It's mostly bodybuilders and powerlifters at my gym for the most part. Yeah. I mean, that's, that's typical though. There's just not as many people that do this sport. I would say there's at least, you know, three to four times as many powerlifters as there is strongman. And it's just, you know, and I'd say there's 10 times more bodybuilders than most powerlifters and strongman for that matter. Strongman draws a big crowd though. Yeah. You know, that's, it's visually entertaining. And that's, you know, when I invited people to my bodybuilding shows, they were like, what the hell did I just watch? But my strongman shows, whether you're seven or 70, people got, you know, everybody understands what a car is or, you know, what a cat weighs and things like that. So it's just, it's easier to understand. Yeah. Bodybuilding shows are pretty boring to be honest with you. Yeah. You know, but you know, one thing people always do say when they do, when they did go to shows that they're always shocked, you know, for people that didn't know anything about the sport is how different everybody looked, even in the same weight class. You know, you and I know that like all line up all the heavyweights, you get a very different look from, you know, number one to number 10 or however many guys there are, you know, so they, a lot of that has to do with training, you know, your genetics too. I don't know if you're lucky enough to be a small waist guy, but I don't think my pelvis was ever small enough to, to look that great out there. Yeah. I got lucky. I got, I got the small hips and the small waist. It's not the greatest for strength, but it's great for bodybuilding. Yeah, exactly. That's why I tear ligaments and stuff. I have the small joints and the small. So yeah, I can fit into like 33, 34 is when I'm 270, 280. Oh, okay. Yeah. So that definitely gives, it helps you do the taper on stage. That's for sure. Right. Yeah. It gives you the illusion of looking big. It's like Chris Bumstead. Like I look at that dude and like, he looks like he weighs like 30, 40 pounds more than what he does. Yeah. Like I was so shocked. Does he weigh like 260? Was that it? On stage is like in the two thirties. Yeah. Man, that makes me feel even worse about myself. Yeah. Yeah. So it's now I, you know, I'm sure they're doing, you know, putting him in the sauna to make him make weight. But yeah, he's like, yeah, I think offseason he's like 260. He's, you know, not, not crazy big. I mean, even Arnold in Arnold in his heyday, I think he was on stage in like 230, 235, something like that. Yeah. I mean, that goes to show you how important genetics and shape. Yeah. I weighed more on stage than Arnold, but I don't look like Arnold. Like I think this is a certain way your attendant attachments and just your aesthetics are just, there's kind of only so much you can do. Right. Yeah. And, you know, structure, you know, like if you have a smaller bone structure and all that stuff, I mean, there's some people that are blocky, some people that aren't, you know, so that, that all, that all plays a factor into it. But, but yeah, literally what makes you a good bodybuilder would probably make you a terrible strength athlete. Yeah. You know, and that's, I see that all the time is people kind of end up being a square peg in a round hole because they picked the wrong strength sport. You know? Yeah. There's guys like if you're, you know, a shorter guy or a short limbed guy and you're trying to do strong man, well, guess what? They have equipment's really big and you got to have a big reach and you got to have big hands. You got to put things up on high tables and stuff like that. So sometimes I'll tell a guy like, Hey, you would have a lot more immediate success in powerlifting than you ever will in a strong hand, you know, but like people who choose an emotional decision, not, you know, a biomechanical one. It's funny. You talked about wrestling. I started off with wrestling and I figured out real quickly that, you know, being long and gangly was not good for wrestling. I was better suited for basketball. Yeah. I wrestled for three years. I was terrible at it. Mediocre, I guess. I got better as I went, but I wasn't great at it, but it did give me a base. It definitely, Jesus Christ. Wrestling is the hardest sport to train for hands down. Yeah. I think that's another thing that we have common. It's a, I was doing Brazilian jujitsu in college. I was in my college jujitsu club and I actually was getting ready to compete in my first jujitsu tournament. And then my car broke down. This is my, you know, I was in college. That's the kind of car I had. And then the next week I did my first strong man show. You know, I got like 18th out of 22 or something terrible, but I fell in love with it. And then I kind of launched off from there. But that was my trajectory before that. I was getting really deep into Brazilian jujitsu. And jujitsu is so humbling, man. I remember the first time I went in for a class and the place I, the academy I went to is an old school academy. And they sicked a black belt on me on the very first, first class, man. It was, it was trial of a fire, man. And it is this little guy, man, 150, 160 pounds. And I was like, what? I'm like, I feel like I can, I should be able to at least defend myself against this guy. And it was like somebody doing magic to me, man. I got choked. I got, I got armbarred. I got, I got put, put in shoulder locks. It was like, I got tapped out like eight times in a five minute roll. And I'm like, all right, I gotta, I gotta learn this shit. Yeah. I just remember, I felt like I was illiterate. Like I just, it was like something I completely did not know anything about. You know, the natural, you get off your back. And like I said, we had a blue belt in my class that was six to 165. And I never beat him. It was just, it was like fighting an anaconda. You know, it gets you rolling one way and then do, do, do, do, do. And then, you know, next thing you know, you're an armbar, you know? Yeah. I mean, a salty blue belt's pretty dangerous on the street, man. You would, and people don't realize like that, that it's, uh, you, you could, you, you could do some damage. Yeah. And I tell everybody, you know, if you get a chance to learn the, just the basics of Brazilian jujitsu, it is literally the difference between, you know, life and death. I think it's certain it can be. Well, I've had to use it twice, um, in practical, literally two weeks ago, I had a guy try to steal my wallet when I was in Florida. Oh yeah. Grabbed me and I, I, I wrist locked him. What did he do? Did he just hand, hand your wallet back to him? Oh, he was screaming, man. Picked him wrong. Yeah. I was sitting in my parked car, man. He reached in my car, reached in my window and tried to grab my wallet, uh, off my lap. Wow. Yeah. It's crazy. So see, there's a reason to learn jujitsu, isn't there? There you go. Yeah. A simple wrist lock can do, can put somebody on their knees. Yeah. And like the conditioning aspect that you're talking about, I remember, cause I never wrestled and, uh, so it was extra hard for me to learn jujitsu, but I remember tapping out like when I first started all the time and guys are like, are you okay? And I'm like, I just can't breathe. I'm just, I'm out of shape, you know? Well, after you do it for a while, I'm sure you experienced it. If you did it for a while, one of the big things they start teaching you is energy management, like literally how to pay pace yourself. We would do these, uh, and it's, I'm like I said, I'm very mediocre, but I, I, uh, we used to have these Saturday classes where we would do 90 minute rolls. We would go in for 90 minutes and just, just go from one person to another. You know, you would take, you do a five minute roll and take a one minute break, five minute roll, one minute break. But we would do that for 90 minutes straight and you have to learn how to pace yourself. Yeah. And still you're in pretty good shape after all that, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember smelling like ammonia. I'm sure it wasn't burning through, through, uh, amino acids and everything. It was terrible. That's where I got my first case of ringworm. I don't know what that was. Oh yeah. It's the rite of passage, getting ringworm, um, going, going, going to jujitsu. Yeah. I had no concept of what it was and that's when I was starting to do strong man. I showed up with a ringworm about this big in my arm. We were doing circus dumbbell ringworm and staff. And then, and then like all the guys that are black belts, like every single black belts had shoulder surgery at some point. Oh, what is that from an uncontrolled arm bar or something? No, probably from shoulder locks because, because like with shoulder locks, like your body doesn't give you, like, there's no feedback. Like you, like you feel like, like literally that's how I, how I screwed my one shoulder up. Like, I'm like, I'm okay. I can get out of this. I'm okay. I'm out. I get out of this and then just pop, you know? So you don't have that pain signal. I don't know what it is about shoulders, but like they're like with somebody's got you in an arm bar or a choke, there's some, there's some warning, um, that your body gives you that, you know, that you're in trouble, but like shoulder locks just don't, you don't have that pain. Just goes from zero to 60 like that. Yeah. And don't a lot of jujitsu guys get a bad lower back too. Isn't that also an issue? Yeah. I've seen that some, I think shoulder injuries seem to be the most common thing guys get. Um, uh, I've seen guys break, you know, break their arms, but not, not from, um, not from, uh, arm bars, but from bracing, you know, putting your arm out when you're falling or, or somebody rolling up on your arm. I've seen that guys breaking the wrist, you know, not keeping your hands tucked in there, you know, they're always trying to teach you to protect your arms. Um, you know, so those are, those are common injuries that you see. A lot of the schools now that are kind of watered down, they don't really do a lot of rolling anymore. They, it's kind of, I don't know. It's kind of, uh, strip mall jujitsu. It's kind of like what they did to karate and Taekwondo. It's like, where they just want to give you a belt and kind of keep you in the system. Yeah. The, the academy I went to was a guy that grew up with the Gracies and they did not hand out belts. Oh, okay. I can see how that's bad for your membership after a while though. People get a little. Oh yeah. Yeah. Bad for business. Great for making tough, tough competitive. I mean, literally like I was there for four years and I'm still blue belt, man. You know, so, so it's like black belts. Like it was 12, 15 years to get a black belt at the academy. Yeah. Well, at least that's a real one, right? Yeah. A real one. Like you, like if you got a Gracie black belt, like a real Gracie black belt, you know, you're, you're, you're a bad, bad MF-er. Okay. So if you've got a black belt in 10 years, you'd be speeding through that process basically in a legit school. Yeah. I mean, they have like the Gracies, they have an hour count with classes. Like when, when I went there, like it was like you had to do 500 classes before you were even qualified to test for the next belt, but it was really, that was like the minimum requirement. You didn't, you didn't like get 500 classes in and go to the, go to the professor and say, Hey, I'm ready to test for my belt. You got asked. Yeah. I was going to say, cause it can probably end up. Yeah. You didn't ask. They told you when you were ready. So, and then, and then they take you out. And really the, the belt test is just ceremonial at that point. They, they go through, like you go through, there's a list of, um, uh, moves you need to know and you have to demonstrate those moves and then you, you roll. It's like a ceremonial thing. And then they give you the belt. But at that point you've, you've, you've earned it. Oh, okay. Well, you know, the story, like where, where the whole black belt thing came from in, in Japanese martial arts, right? No, actually I don't. No, they didn't, they didn't like do belt promotions. It was literally, these guys would wear white belts on their kimonos and they had rolled on the, on the mat so much that the belt would turn black. So that's how you would tell how advanced a, uh, a practitioner was by the color of their belt. So like a Brown, if the belt had turned Brown, you knew, you knew the guy was cause they never washed the belts. So that's like a tradition in, in, at least in jujitsu it is. You don't wash your belt. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's probably why you got ringworm. Yeah. That's right. Those ringworm issues. But, but, but I, you know, I, I'm probably slaughtering the story, but in traditional Japanese martial arts, that's how you knew an advanced practitioner because they had rolled on the mat so much that their belt, their white belt literally turned black. Yeah. I like the concept. Yeah. It makes sense. Literally. They earned it. Can't say they didn't earn it at that point. Well, the Japanese are some tough people, man. Yeah. I mean, I think martial art, I always make a parallel between martial arts and lifting weights. You know, like I said, there's, you know, different varieties of lifting weights are just the equivalent of different varieties of martial arts. You know, they're good for different things. You know, like, I don't know if you know Cornelius Perkins. He's a, he's a British guy. He's a, he's a bodybuilding trainer, but he, I heard him make the comparison of learning how to lift for bodybuilding, like mastering a martial art that you have to master the lift and learn how the lift works. And it takes years and you have to be conscious of it and feeling it. And I thought that was a really good analogy. I never really had considered that before. Yeah. It's like, I, uh, I always say, cause this happens kind of in the strength coaching world a lot. Let's say, you know, I'm a strength coach and, uh, I love Olympic lifting. So I'm making all my athletes of all my different sports do Olympic lifting when that's just, you know, it might be unnecessary in a lot of cases, or it might be, you know, with hockey players, I'm worried about the risks and that cause unnecessary issues. So instead I can just as easily use a plyometric or something else that can replace that. But some people get so into their particular, um, their sport or, you know, their variety of lifting weights that they try to apply it to everything. And so that's one thing as a coach, I'm always trying not to do like, yes, I'm a strong man, but you're not going to see any of my hockey players lifting rocks. Okay. Like it's just, yeah, no, that's smart. Yeah. It's like, you have to let, don't let your personal preferences kind of interfere with, uh, you know, being objective about what's best for somebody else. You know, no, that's very smart that you need to program the training out. All right, dude. Well, I appreciate you coming on, man. I got to wrap this up. Um, uh, where can people get ahold of you? Uh, so just checking me out on Instagram, Joe Sheffield, strong man, a mosque first attachment affiliate as well. And so, like I said, three person attachment, I'm releasing a, uh, ebook coming up here in the fall, old school strong man. So look out for that. And I'll put your contact information in the video description below so people can get a hold of you. And I appreciate you coming on, Joe. Thank you very much. Yeah. Thanks for having me, Paul, man. All right. It was awesome. Appreciate it. All right. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. So let's talk about the vaccine. So let's talk about the vaccine vaccine vaccine vaccine vaccine vaccine vaccine vaccine vaccine