 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Have y'all run GH like super high in prep. That was what we were going to talk to you about. Compared to offseason. I'm really high offseason prep, but for certain reasons, right? Okay. So Chase just did this experiment where he used 18 units because the serostim container says use 18 units for a hundred for 50 kilogram person. 18 right before bed, not split up. So me and Roman talked about this part and he's like the reason why they tell you not to split it up is because compliance. A patient isn't going to be sophisticated enough to split their doses. So they just have you shoot it all at once. And if you look at the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by the chart, by And he said this was a game changer. I also talked to Andrew Barry about this, and he got that tip from John Meadows is to shoot the whole Serostom thing at night. And then I also talked to Martin's old coach, which is – I'm drawing a blank on his name. And we all discussed it, and it's like even though the 2IU at a time spaced out is what's supposed to work best because it drives up local IGF-1, not systemic IGF-1, and systemic IGF-1 is inhibitory towards localized IGF-1, it seems everyone burns more fat and builds more muscle when they shoot a shit ton before bed. And then it's always a shit ton. It's not like the same amount before bed is better than spread out. It's a shit ton before bed is better than spread out. And so my method and what I've been doing is two units in the morning before fasted cardio, two units post-training, and then I'll use another eight units before bed. And I've been seeing really fast fat loss, and I've seen an increase in size in about three weeks so far. This was Chase before and after his 18 units experiment. So – Was this like a post-show rebound kind of phase? No. No. This was cutting. Okay. Yeah. I mean, he basically came off TRT. He was trying to have a kid. But keep in mind, too. The difference is he's also running six grams of testosterone. He wasn't at the time. He wasn't at the time. Not that much. He wasn't at two grams. He was running two grams. And then after he got up to 270, he went up to four grams. Then after he got up to 280, he went up to six grams. He was just experimenting, I think, to see how his blood worked. I would never run that high. So we don't know. It was just a ton of gear, huh? Yeah, a ton of gear. Yeah. I guess if you throw the kitchen sink at it, something's going to stick, right? Yeah, you'd hope so. Like, if you don't, like, damn. Damn. Yeah. Sad story. That was basically what prompted me because I'd been down this rabbit hole. I even bought Kekal's book and read Kekal's book, and Kekal's like, shoot it at night or take a third of it, break it off, and do it post-training. And that seems to be like, and we talked about it. I mean, what are your thoughts about this? Because how, because the idea that it's two IU per hundred kilograms at one given time, it maximizes localized IGF-1 expression. Can that be amplified with increased estrogen? Can that be amplified with increased insulin? Like, if we shot GH, insulin, GH, insulin, insulin, GH, and, like, spread it out like that where we resensitized and shot more frequently than four hours, how can we squeeze more GH into someone without breaking that localized IGF-1 rule? So, this is my, my thought around growth hormone. And, and, and so for growth hormone, at least the rise in it, you have a, you have a, like, a peak serum level, like, around three hours. So, the actual time for it to decline is a lot longer than just even that four-hour period. So, I think once, once we get in that territory of growth hormone rise, timing is going to start to be less and less important. Like, it can matter, but it's also probably only matters around the fat loss aspect because growth hormone, actual action on adipose tissue. And then once you have IGF-1 conversion, man, that's going to be elevated for, like, 36 hours after administration. So, now at that point, it's really hard to control it. I think maybe if you're having, like, a one injection, right, but you, you might max out that effect or it might not even matter for localized. I have no way to say, like, systemic versus localized. Like, that, that was, like, a cell culture study. So, you're talking, like, bottom tier of evidence. So, I think of growth hormone, like, calories for the day. Okay. Your total calories is what matters most for the day, whether you're going to lose weight or gain weight, right? Take your total growth hormone for the day. That's what matters most. Now, after your calorie amount, it probably matters, like, your macro breakdown. And then probably the very least important at the top is should I eat my protein 30 minutes before I train or, like, an hour before I train? It's like, well, if you eat the right amount of protein for the whole day, it probably doesn't matter. And I think that's how growth hormone definitely applies because you have plenty of guys using it all kinds of different ways. But it seems the more you take, you have more X amount of response until you have a very more amount of side effect, too, that comes along with it. So, I think the total dose is what matters most. Take your growth hormone for the day. If you want to get a little bit more nuanced, it's probably a good idea to break it up at least two, maybe three times. I think that's getting more into side effect control, maybe keeping more stable blood glucose. But, again, if you want to get down to, like, how can we, like, time it around this meal with that long of an action time, you just won't even be able to do it. I don't think it's worth chasing it down. So, I think, like, for this example here, like, taking 30 IUs at nighttime, like, well, what if you took 15 IUs a.m. and p.m.? Because we're comparing it a lot to, like, well, no, I'm taking two IUs a.m., midday, p.m. But you're not taking, like, 15 and 15. So, I think you need some type of fair comparison like that. So, I guess. Yeah, that's where I kind of stay on a growth hormone. I'm like, hey, don't overcomplicate it. Just take the amount of growth hormone needed to see out your effect with minimizing side effect and probably splitting it into two doses per day would probably make a lot of sense. What you were doing was you were doing it twice a day because you said you would forget to bring it with you to the gym. It was like, well, if that, I was like, that would drive me nuts for years if I was, like, missing my, I would have my GH in the car. I'd have my insulin taped to my leg. So, I would go in the bathroom, rip the insulin off, shoot it mid-set. Or, like, I'd do my lifting, my heavy lifting first. Then I would shoot my insulin and IGF-1 mid-workout before I do my hypertrophy work. Then I would shoot my GH in the car because of the 15 minutes it takes to get home. I wanted to maximize the amount of the peaks before my first meal. It's like, and everyone was like, oh, I just forgot to bring it. I'm on my way to the Olympia. It was like, what the fuck? It was like, I've been taking this shit way too seriously for so long. I even did it to the point where I was, you know how, like, the mTOR pathway, supposedly you hit two grams of leucine. It spikes mTOR. And then it takes four hours to reset, but you can shoot carbs in the middle. And I say shoot carbs intentionally. Shoot carbs in the middle, and then it resents the mTOR. I was like, oh, that's like a brainchild. You do your GH and protein at 12. Then you do your carbs and insulin at 2. Then you can do your GH and protein at 4. Then you can do your carbs and insulin at 6. And I was, like, trying to mix and match. So, there's eight meals a day, one protein, one carb meal. And you shoot a different peptide with each of the meals. And I was like, I don't know anyone else doing this. And I'm not growing up. I'm too lazy for all that shit. Yeah, I think, like, that over-pontification is what kills a lot of people's progress in the first place. And maybe there's data behind this stuff. But, like, the impact that it might actually have at a cellular level is so insignificant. It's like, I would rather just shoot it all at once or something like that. You know, it's funny. It reminds me of people doing the same thing, like overanalyzing their movements in the gym. Or, you know, like going out and buying the $200 squat shoes before they've, you know, managed to master, you know, squatting 225. You know? Well, I wasn't there. Okay. I was going to be concerned if you kept pointing to yourself. I've got multiple types of squat shoes because they all hurt my feet because they're all too narrow. So I opted for the ultimate squat shoe right out of the gate. I got Birkenstocks. I do props. That's the way to go. Chase messaged me. He said I used the wrong before and after. This is the right one. Yeah, that makes more sense. Okay. But that's still 30 pounds. Still crazy. Yeah. And that's not all water. You can see that that's got some muscle to it. Oh, yeah. Hell yeah. Almost no fat. And someone was asking me about the waist. I'm like, he's eating more food. He's eating 6,000 calories. I don't think that that's intestinal inflammation and stuff. And that brings up the other point is localized IGF-1, you know, you do delt and delt. That's going to be in the delt. But it still eventually goes systemically, most likely. Whereas if you inject, let's say, the subcutaneous fat, that's going to be systemic. But the systemic will go to your delts if you start lifting with your delts because of blood flow, correct? Yeah. I mean, some might have some, like, liver conversion. Then you might have some muscle conversion as well. So it's systemic. So it's likely getting shuttled around, right, to where you are training. But, again, I think, Todd, it's just – I think it's overcomplicated more than what it probably needs to be. Especially when we see these, like, genetic freaks that for what they do, they're just – they don't even – it's just taking up the drug. And they're just freaks, right? I don't think Ronnie Coleman was thinking about all this shit. No, no. So if we were to break this down for the viewers so that they had a vague idea of what we concluded, what I'm hearing is shoot the lion's share before bed if you're trying to grow. If you're going to do fasted cardio, do maybe a unit and a half or two units before that. And post-training, you can use some of that GH2, assuming there's four hours in between post-training and bedtime. Does that sound about right? Those are the three best times to take it? Yeah, roughly. I mean, with growth hormone, I mean, if you're able to fast for, like, 90 minutes or so, 60 minutes before you do cardio, then probably two to three IUs there would actually have the most timing benefit. Pre-bed, there might be some application as we actually have a big rise at bedtime. And there is a study in children, a.m. versus p.m., and they had better blood glucose control taking it at p.m. So that might be another rationale where we would put it. Around training, probably doesn't matter too much timing-wise because we're looking for IGF-1, and that's going to take a while to rise and be looking for hours. So I'd say, hey, if you want to do a.m., p.m., divide it out that way. If you want to do a.m. around training, at that point, I think just split your dose and probably don't let that dose go over four IUs in one hit because we see plenty of pros. Anedotally, we should look at what's done as well. And there's a ton of pros that probably will max out one dose around three or four IUs, and coaches that use it that way. So I think that gets you to a level of somewhere between probably six to ten IUs is a good working range, max working range because there's definitely benefit below. But when I see beyond that, a lot of guys just have too many sides with water retention, hand numbness, blood pressure problems going beyond that amount. So that's kind of my general takeaway of using growth hormone. Don't make it any more complicated after that. All right. Yeah. Like, don't try to nuance the timing more. Like, that's going to be your big ticket to get the most out of your growth hormone. When did you start seeing side effects, Paul, at 12 units? Once I got past 10. It was just like I couldn't feel my hands. I'm running 12. I have no side effects. But I used to get them at six. Back about 10 years ago, I would get side effects at six units. Right now I'm being 12, no problem. And I know Chase says he was having no problems at 18 units when he was going sub-Q. When he switched to intramuscular, he started having problems. Paul, did you prep with high growth hormone with Justin? No. Last year I didn't use hardly any. I think I was running like five units one prep. This was off-season. You pushed it higher. Yeah. I tried 15 for a while, but when I did 15, I was falling asleep at my desk all day. I couldn't stay awake. There's such a fatigue cost to it. That's something I struggled with, too, is just the sleepiness. And trying to be productive was just unreasonable. It wreaked havoc on my productivity. Most bodybuilders just lay on the couch and play video games. I just watched Attack on Titan for the last three days. So I didn't go to the gym. I got to be productive. I got businesses to run. Maybe I'll bump my growth hormone up these last weeks of pushing up before I drop. You can blame it on me. I never make 212 again. You can blame Todd. You're like, I was so sleepy. I slept through the show. Todd's a son of a bitch. It was like... Well, for some guys, they don't get watery off of it. It won't skew the visuals to where they can judge, like, is this fat or is this water? I think that's the problem. I don't seem to get the water retention, but I never carry a lot of water. Even in the offseason, I don't get that bloated. My body is just always pretty dry. But I guess it's just how my body is. Everybody's different, though. You're just leaning jacked. No fat. I know. I'm definitely getting fat in the offseason. But for coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.