warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up everybody. Big Paul here today. I've got an interview for you with John Heck. IMet John through my coach, Justin Harris. John is a former NCAA offensive lineman, strong man. He's just a giant human being. Six foot seven. He's over 300 pounds. John has gotten absolutely ripped and he's huge. He's a gigantic dude in the interview. We talk about getting big, how carb cyclinGHas changed his look on things. He's gotten lean through doing carb cycling diets, working with Justin Harris, same sort of diet that I run and that I run with most of my clients. And John has completely trensformed his physique. He's gone from being more of a power builder, offensive lineman looking type of guy to now he's chiseled. He looks like a, looks like he could compete in bodybuilding. I think he is going to try to compete in bodybuilding this year, but it's a great interview. I think you'll enjoy it. John's getting into coaching now. So if you are a person who's into strength and conditioning, like if you want to just be big and strong, John might be your guy to talk to, but I think you'll enjoy this interview. We go into a lot of topics. Uh, we talk about everything, a little bit about PEDs, not too much, but mostly just diet trening in where John has come from. And it's a really good interview. I enjoyed talking to him and hopefully I will have him in for some more interviews soon. And I think you guys will like this one and we'll get started in just one second. What's going on everybody. Big Paul here with John Heck, former college division one offensive lineman and strongman, I guess now bodybuilder. What's going on, John? What's going on, man? It's a pleasure to be on. John, you're a big dude, man. How tall are you? I am six foot seven. Holy fuck, man. What's the biggest you've ever weighed? I weighed in at 365 when I was at the peak of my competitive strongman days. 365. That is, that is nuts, man. Uh, uh, do you still compete in strongman or you're done with that now? It's been a few years since I competed. Um, I had a fairly catastrophic nerve injury. Um, I lost a lot of function in my right leg. Um, and I've since kind of rehabbed it back to where I can, I can squat, I can deadlift, I can do all those things. But as far as walking with an a thousand pound yoke, uh, the super heavy farmer carries things of that nature. I don't have full function in my right calf. Um, so I'm, I'm a huge risk of blowing an Achilles. Um, if I load the fuck out of that right leg, um, while moving. Um, so I kind of took a hiatus from strongman. Um, I would potentially compete down the road. It's, you know, a few years of rehabbing this nerve. It's kind of slowly coming back. Um, but the other thing was I was kind of climbing the ladder with football strength and conditioning. And the thing that sucks about strongman trening compared to bodybuilding is your trening sessions take forever and strongman. IMean, you are big guy. Yeah. And I was, I was actually pretty beefy at that point. I think that that was a couple of years ago. Um, and then the shredded guy. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's a few weeks ago. I, what were you saying about the trening? Just the strongman trening. IMean it, aromasingle trening session, you might be looking at a three hour session because if you're trening, you know, a multi-implement carry medley, you got to have a crew with you. Then you're, you goT4 different implements, you're warming up. Then each implement has to be loaded to 300 pounds. And then you've only trened one event that day. And then you've got to get your barbell work. And so, IMean, just the, the time that it takes to truly tren for strongman and the equipment. And it's just, you've got to have the time and the bandwidth to treat it like a full-time job. And IMean, I'm kind of an all or nothing guy. And if I'm not competing at something at the highest level I can, I'm out. So. Yeah. That's the way I am, man. I, my brain only works one way. It's a hundred percent. It always makes me laugh when I hear here and see how strong men and football players tren. And then I get dudes that are terrified of overtrening from doing five sets. I'm like, bro, you're not, you're not going to be overtrened, man. These guys do some crazy shit. Yeah, I know. There's, it's interesting to see the different psychological perspectives when you look at like the, the performance based guys versus the physique based guys. Cause the way they view, you know, the strongman, the power lifters, look at trening, it's kind of how the bodybuilders might look at diet. And then, then, you know, meanwhile, the strong men and power lifters don't give a shit about their diet. They should. Um, but yeah, different, different, uh, perspectives in psychology between the different, uh, disciplines of the fitness world. Yeah. They would, I, guys would be more optimized if they did both, but there's definitely a cult of bodybuilders that are terrified of overtrening. And I'm like, man, you have to try pretty hard to overtren. IMean, you, you have to work your balls off to be, to be truly overtrened. Yeah, you really do. You really do. IMean, at 99% of the people out there have never even come close to treninGHard enough to creep into the realm of legitimate overtrening. No, no, no, they haven't. No, they haven't. Like, I think about like, IMean, you played football, man. IMean, what, how, how long is practice? What? Three, four hours. And yeah, we're usually from the time you step on the field to the time you're off abouT3 hours. Yeah. You have a three hour practice. Then you, uh, then you go and do weight trening probably and conditioning on top of it. Right? Yeah. IMean, when we're in trening camp, we'll practice out in the heat for hours. IMean, we come off the field, you're probably getting an IV in both arms cause you're so dehydrated. And then you've got a weight session a few hours later. IMean, and of course there's the era of the two days where you're literally just doing two full on practices in the same day in conjunction with your, your weight room work. Um, now whether or not that's physically optimal, um, probably not, but it's what has been done for decades and lo and behold, football players still managed to take the field on Saturdays and Sundays and physically dominate people. Yeah. I think the NFL, they've kind of scaled some of that back a little bit, haven't they? With, with, Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I, uh, my freshman year of college, I kind of came in at the tail end of the, of the two a day era. And then they, they kind of outlawed it to where you could have a full on practice and then kind of a walkthrough. But my, my freshman year, we were banging in pads twice a day for several times during camp. When I was in high school, we had three a days. Um, those were have been completely outlawed. But yeah, I came in right at the tail end of all that stuff. And then in the NFL, IMean, they've got major limitations on how many days they can even practice in pads and season at this point. Well, they want to get those games in. They want to play as many games as they can. Yeah. IMean, they're at 17 game, regular season, three preseason games. Then if you're in the playoffs, IMean, that, that season is insanely long for those guys. Uh, did you play in the NFL at all or no? No, I didn't. Um, I grew up in an NFL household. My dad, he's the offensive line coach for the Kansas city chiefs. He played 12 years in the NFL, but he played for the Redskins. I know you're a commander's fan. What was his name? Andy Hack. He played offensive tackle. He was there. He was there at the end of his career. I want to say it was 2000 and 2001. He was there two, uh, two seasons. Yeah. Well I had season tickets around that time. So I definitely, I'm trying to remember who he, who he was. So I definitely, do you live in Brazil? Yeah, I live right. Actually I live right next to their practice facility, man. I live like about two miles. Yeah. We lived in great Falls, Virginia when my dad was, uh, was playing for the skins and a little, a little bit of a, uh, drive to the practice facility. But yeah, I live in Ashburn. Gotcha. Yeah. Let me, uh, I'm trying to look him up. That's pretty cool. Yeah, there he is. Yeah. Well, my, uh, Redskins have been terrible for a long, long time and they finally seem to have found the most Daniels. Jay Daniels. Need your QB. Just beat the Eagles yesterday. Five, five touchdowns. I know. I know. It's, it's been pretty cool to see them coming back to glory. When they say, uh, I think there's only been five rookiEQuarterbacks that have ever thrown five touchdowns. Something like that. Yeah. No. Jane Daniels has been electric this year. That's wild that your dad played. Um, Yeah, that's pretty, pretty frickin cool, man. So what got you into the strongman stuff? Is that just kind of the natural progression from? Man, I, growing up, I always, my passion was always in trening and nutrition. I grew up in a football household. So my brother, he plays offensive tackle for the Arizona Cardinals. He was with the Texans for a while. So we grew up in a very much football house. I bet you got a lower body fat than him, right? Yes, I do. And I remind him that regularly. He got, he got some more of the, the more athletic genes. I got the stronger, more muscular genes. But he's huge too. IMean, he's six foot eight, 315, great athlete. But yeah, so IMean, growing up, I always gravitated towards the weight room. Anytime I'd go to the stadium with my dad when he was playing, and I was obviously a big kid. I was talented. So football was kind of the natural progression for me. I just, I just fell into it. It's kind of the family trade. And, you know, had a good high school career, got offers to play division one football, went into it. To be honest, I never was truly passionate about playing. When I got to college, I played football at University of North Carolina. The, you know, the offseason trening, that was like my end season. I lived for the trening, the lifting, the running. And I started to care about that more than the football itself. And I'd become an avid fan of powerlifting, bodybuilding, strongman, all that. As a kid, you know, most guys, they're kids my age, their heroes are Peyton Manning and the NFL stars. And to me, those NFL guys, it was all just normal to me, like the NFL world had become so normalized. My heroes were lifters and bodybuilders. So when I got done playing, I went right into strength and conditioning and started competing in powerlifting. And I'm six foot seven. I'm not exactly the prototypical build for a powerlifter. So I knew I wanted to get into strongman. But one of the tough things with strongman is you're so limited with equipment. IMean, you need to go to a gym that has yolks and logs and Atlas stones and all those toys. And obviously, that's that's not every gym. But I found an awesome strongman gym in Raleigh called Spider Strength. And we moved, moved local to that gym for a job. And I started trening there. And there were some good competitive strongmen there that kind of showed me the ropes, got into it, was built for it, already had a great base of strength and took it and ran with it. Yeah, my gym, we have a fair amount of strongman stuff. We don't have a lot of strongman competitors, but we have a lot of we have a couple of professional powerlifters and a couple of professional bodybuilders. The strongman stuff always just blows me away, man, I can, I'm not built for that. I don't have the type of frame to be able to handle that type stuff. But it's like you watch Eddie Hall and yeah, and you know, some of the some of the big dudes and it's just crazy, man, the shit they can do. Yeah, IMean, I think those I think the strongman competitors are the most impressive, well rounded strength athletes out there. IMean, it's you got to be so versatile. In strongman, there's, you can't be a specialist like you can in powerlifting. IMean, you've got to be able to have top end one rep max static strength, you got to be able to do max reps in 60 seconds, got to be able to move, you got to be able to press overhead and deadlift. And IMean, every strong, every strongman. You know, powerlifting meets the same three lifts every meet same equipment, same parameters in strongman, you'll you'll probably never do the same five events in the exact same manner. Oh, yeah, I would imagine it beats you up. I would imagine also that that style trening probably trenslates well back over to football. Yeah, absolutely. I just in the strength and conditioning side of things, I've, you know, tried to integrate a lot of what I took away from strongman into our, our offseason trening for the football guys, especially for the big man position groups, your offense and defensive linemen, there's a lot of parallels there. You know, we can't we can't put our football guys on all the implements, you know, we can't have them on Atlas stones and things like that. But as far as you know, tire flipping overhead pressing, carryinGHeavy sandbags, farmer carries, things like that, you know, we can heavy throwing. We implement a lot of that for football guys. Yeah, I'd wondered why a lot of that stuff hadn't been integrated into football trening, because it seemed like it was, at least what I've seen, like, at more of like a scholastic level, it seems like they just powerlift. Yeah, IMean, at the end of the IMean, a lot of strength and conditioning coaches just don't have a background in strongman, they don't, they're not familiar with the techniques behind it, how to program it in, you know, at the end of the day, a lot of strength programs are going to be kind of bound by the upbringing of the strength coach and whatever biases they had. And most strength and conditioning coaches grew up as lifters lifting in traditional gyms. And for a lot of those guys, that's power, powerlifting and bodybuilding. You know, it's also been wild to me as I've worked with a few NFL guys on diet, and it's just like crazy to me how crappy a lot of guys. Oh my god, dude. So, IMean, working with a lot of our players with nutrition, it's mind blowinGHow bad it usually is. And IMean, for the guys who can commit to it, IMean, they trensform, but you'll look at some of these freak athletes, and you look at them, they look like they're a year out from a IFBB pro card. And then you ask them, what do you, what'd you have for breakfast this morning? You know, bag of Cheez-Its and an orange juice. Like, some of these guys just, it's genetically, I cannot fathom how they have the physiques that they do with the diets that they eat. That just shows you how powerful genetics are. It was, I think it was DK Metcalf I saw in an interview, and he was talking about his diet, and you know, he's like the freak of all freaks. And I think the dude said he ate like twice a day, and one of his meals was like something like three bags of gummy candy and Skittles and then a coffee. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, that's a lot of those guys. And you know, everyone always says, you know, says just genetics, which it is, but I always wonder, like, what exactly is the genetic component that allows these guys to eat like that and just maintain that level of tissue and be as lean as they are? Like, I wonder what actual genetic component that is. Probably some sort of myostatin. Some alteration to the myostatin gene, I would suspect. IMean, the stories on Ronnie Coleman, you know, who, you know, I don't know if you believe him or not, but he had claimed to be natural when he turned pro. Right. And IMean, he did gain another 80 pounds after he turned pro 70, 80 pounds, something like that, to when he was peak Olympian for him. So it's very, very, very feasible that he did. And I remember Chad Nichols, his coach talking about like how Ronnie was living off of Denny's and fast food when he first started working with him and winning, you know, not winning, but placing at bodybuilding shows, which is just insane. Yeah, IMean, you watch some of his videos, like the, you know, the Ronnie Coleman DVDs that are on YouTube. IMean, like half of his meals, he's just eating restaurant meals. Yeah, no, he was. Yeah, no, he was eating Denny's. Some people would have it, man. Yeah, IMean, I know there was a couple trying to think it was back in the early 2000s. Of course, this was these guys got in trouble, but they were doing some cool stuff. I think it was Balco that went and did genetic testing on some of the elite bodybuilders to see. And there were several of them that had a alteration in the myostatin gene where they, but there's, you know, there's different genetic components to, IMean, there's some guys, IMean, we've all run into them, the guys that can eat anything and stay lean. You know, it seems like speed. IMean, you can tren speed to a certain degree, but it's almost like something that you're just fucking born with. Yeah, it is. IMean, speed is a great example of a genetic component that you can improve. But IMean, we have saying you can't turn a poodle into a pit bull. Like, there's only so much improvement you can elicit with an athlete in terms of their speed. It's highly genetic. IMean, it's the same thing in bodybuilding. Like, there's, you know, it might be more than myostatin. IMean, there's also a genetic component to the response to PEDs, too. There is a genetic component to that. PRT and a little bit of GH. I do push at times, but I'm not blessed and hardcore year round. There's that, there's food, how people handle food. There's some people that just stay lean forever. I think the most apparent example of genetics is height. That's one that people can understand, but you can see it in basketball. There's, there's, you know, it's, I think in the, the median height in the NBA is something like six, seven. Yeah. So if you're not six, seven, you're, you probably don't have much of a six, six, five or over. You don't really have any chance of playing in the NBA. Yeah, exactly. And you know, something like your height, man, there's something like probably one in 10,000 people are over six, six. Yeah. IMean, and everyone obviously accepts like, okay, in order to play basketball at the pro level, you need the obvious genetic component of height or to be an offensive tackle in the NFL. You gotta be six, six, 300 pounds getting into the bodybuilding world. It seems like people are more kind of in denial about the, about just the role that genetics play, you know? And I don't know why that is, like why, why people are shocked to learn that the best guys are the ones who need to use the least. They're just genetically. Yeah. And I'm not, I'm not trying to discourage anybody from trying to be better. I am a firm believer that everybody can improve and make themselves better than what they are. IMean, you see it all the time and probably you kind of touched on it earlier. The single easiest and biggest thing that people can do to make vast rapid improvements is change their diet. A hundred percent. Yeah. IMean, I like, I'm doing the bodybuilding thing right now. I'm planning on stepping on stage this year. I have absolutely no illusions that I'm going to be an IFBB pro on the Olympia stage, but I just love doing it. And like I said, I'm kind of an all or nothing guy. And I just love pushing myself and seeing, you know, what, how much of a, how much of a physique can I develop within the genetic parameters that I have. I just want to push the envelope for myself. And I love doing that, but I'm never going to look at these Olympians and, and be like, Oh, he's lying. He's, he's, he's lying about what he's using because he looks that much better than me. And, you know, this and that. You know, there's, there's this odd, like jealousy, insecurity component, it feels like in the, in the bodybuilding world. Well, IMean, it's tough to accept sometimes if you have shitty genetics, I can imagine. IMean, I, I play basketball and I don't want to name names, but I remember like kind of when I realized that there was only so far I could take it. I played against a guy that ended up playing at the NBA. Well, I'm sure IMight as well say, say it. I, but I played, I played against a guy that was an all-star in the NBA when he was younger, before he was in the NBA. And I was just like, I couldn't, I couldn't guard him. Like I was in shape. I felt like I was like a pretty decent player. I couldn't stay in front of him. Like there was nothing I could do. Yeah. I felt hopeless. Yeah. You know, you have that moment and you're like, oh, okay. Yeah. IMean, high-level sports, it's, it's not for everybody. Like the cream's going to rise to the top, you know? IMean, Justin talks about he, I guess he was at a show or in a show competing against Phil Heath, who ended up being, you know, he's called the gift for a reason, but Phil was talking about how he was just basically ruining nothing and everybody was like, what? Like how are you going to beat that guy? Yeah. Like, I don't, I don't, what incentive do, would these guys have to lie about that anymore? IMean, everyone's still out in the open with it. Like there's still dudes that lie. There are a lot of them that do, man. I don't know. I think some of them are just, there are a lot of guys that do take a lot and I think that they're embarrassed about it maybe, or they don't want to seem like they're short-cutting or they don't. And some of it is like, you know, and I, I have blasted before high amounts and it, it definitely works, but then you get to do the people that are giving you the bullshit. And like, I think maybe some guys just don't want to deal with the bullshit. There's some guys like, uh, the financial side of it too. Like, I don't know, like, you know, somebody like Jay Cutler, IMean, does it really benefit him to talk about it? Yeah. IMean, that's very true at this point with a guy like Jay being just such an ambassador for the sport and fitness and kind of a poster boy, like, yeah, a guy like him. Well, you know, it's, I don't want to get you in trouble or anything, but like, it's pretty widespread and professional. Most like, not, I wouldn't say all, but there arEQuite a few professional athletes that are skirting the system and. Yeah, there's no doubt. I think it's just having been at the NFL level and in the college and just seeing all the sides of it. I think people assume that these NFL guys are do are using. It's kind of a misconception. These NFL guys are on, on tons of anabolics. I just, I didn't see that. I think a lot of those guys are probably using GH in. Yeah. Yeah. I, that was my experience, man. I think guys are using stuff to help with recovery to keep themselves help. Yeah, exactly. IMean, keep themselves on the field. A lot of those guys, like putting them on tests, any of the traditional anabolics won't necessarily help them. If you're a wide receiver, like it's not going to make you more twitchy run better routes, see the field better. And a lot of those guys, like it would not benefit them to be bigger. But to your point, IMean, just anything pertaining to longevity for those NFL guys, anything that they can do to extend their career, whether that's GH or PPC one five seven, which was outlawed recently. Which is crazy to me. Yeah. It's absurd. IMean, there's a compound it's it's soul mechanism is healing and why, why outlaw that? And it's pretty benign. IMean, it's, it's way safer than even taking an NSAID, like ibutamoren or something. Yeah. It's, it's strenge to me. Yeah. IMean, hell, IMean, if I was trying to make it to the high slope, I'd be doing every damn thing I could to, well, IMean, that's another, that's another thing I've always kind of thought with, you know, with these bodybuilders, like for these guys who were, were bodybuilding is their career. Like if taking more would allow them to be an Olympian or place higher on the Olympia stage, you know, why not? Like if it was my career and my ability to put bread on my family's table was contingent on my physique and I knew taking a few extra CCS of whatever would make me better. IMean, I would have granted, you gotta, you gotta stay alive and healthy and all that. But IMean, like those guys, like it's, it's their career. They need to get to the top and do whatever it takes. IMean, just like in football, IMean, you're, those guys are risking their bodies, their brains every year they're participating in the sport. Yeah. Football's crazy, man. I don't think people realize how dangerous it is on the football field. Yeah. Oh yeah. It's violent out there. Yeah. You see guys getting carried off on stretchers every year. Yeah. Yeah. We, IMean, a guy I worked with in Houston, Tank Dell, wide receiver for the Texans. He just had a horrific knee injury playing the Chiefs on, on Saturday. It was, you know, carried off in a stretcher and hospitalized. And IMean, just, it's a, it's heartbreaking. Some of these injuries that happen. IMean, every now and then you'll see someone get paralyzed or of course the, you know, the DeMar Hamlin incident with the, and he's back now. Okay. He's back now. It's crazy. Yeah. IMean, these guys are gladiators, man. They're, they're warriors. IMean, same thing with guys that do MMA. IMean, that's absolutely nuts too, man. I've worked with some MMA guys before. They're, they're, they're another breed of animal to talk about, not guys worry about over-trening man. They should see the way MMA guys tren, man. They are madmen. Yeah. I know. IMean, it seems just to be the best at anything to truly be the, the elite at anything. IMean, you're pushing the envelope somewhere. Like there's no balance in your life. You're, you're taking years off your life somehow. That's what I tell people. Like, like, that's why it drives me nuts when guys like think they're going to be a top bodybuilder, but only being in the gym three or four days a week. I'm like, do you really think that's true? aforementioned electrocardiogram, acid ref YEB,했던 carryover,ckeledon, aonlipoinfission, compilingulin ja tyi port, ямиvul becognation du mamm into leulang. eldnivortachcyothis ki getiweilyaseedrobe, ppaweest gdccudnivftein aduct themselves in mutation and assimilation with our nervous systematically that are so weak and beautifully hidden due to epilepsy. And thisaminoercaps spends a lot of time digressing about this every 62st IMean, just to get to the top in business or whatever you're doing, it's no different. IMean, I worked as a CEO in a, you know, 40, 50 person company. And I've run four or five businesses, man. IMean, it's seven days a week. You work 10 hours a day, seven days a week. IMean, that's just how it is. Yeah, that's just how it is. I was watching a documentary on Elon Musk. They were talking about like when he would literally sleep three, four hours a night sometimes and just go right back, go right back to work. Yeah, IMean, that's in the pursuit of greatness, like you're making sacrifices. That's the only way you're going to be truly elite at anything that you do. And IMean, I think like a lot of these guys, it becomes it's not about money. It's about like it's about winning, you know, when you're it's about being the best, whether it's your bodybuilder and in the NFL or a CEO. I think if you're pursuing greatness at some point, that becomes an even bigger driving factor than money. Yeah, it was. I think it was Henry Ford. I remember reading a book about him and he said that the money is just a way to keep score. Yeah, that's a good way of putting it. Yeah. Henry Ford, I believe it was the one that said that. IMean, I've always enjoyed grinding and working at something. IMean, it's you. You talked about it earlier. Like if you you got to have something, man, you got to have a goal to work chip away at. Yeah, IMean, I think people I've always tell people do hard things. Like it's good for humans to be challenged. Like if you're living a life of ease, IMean, that that's that's how people get depressed. That's how people get depressed. IMean, when you are not challenged, when you're not ascending somehow, pushing yourself, winning somehow, I think that's when IMean, whether no matter how much money you have, life just becomes you lose that fulfillment. I can't tell you. And I know you're kind of getting into the coaching thing, the online coaching thing. That is probably my favorite part of my coaching career. That is probably my favorite part of the coaching thing, that it's taking a guy who hasn't had any big wins in his life. And gettinGHim in shape and that just kind of opens up your mind. It's it's it's like you see the light go on and like like, fuck, I can apply this to other areas of my life. It's not just getting in shape. It's not just bodybuilding. A lot of times I'll tell guys like guys that want to get in shape. I'm like, dude, just just do a bodybuilding show. Just say I'm going to do a bodybuilding show in November. And they're like, I'm not a bodybuilder. And I'm like, it's not about the bodybuilding, man. It's you have that deadline in front of you. Yeah. And that goal that you work, you're working towards. You're going to work harder. I promise you. Absolutely. Or, yeah, IMean, that's, you know, with same with like powerlifting or strongman, whenever I work with someone who's kind of new to it, I'm like, sign up for me. And they're like, oh, I don't feel like I'm strong enough yet. And I'm like, no, you'll never be strong enough. If you if you approach it with that mindset, sign up for me. That's going to light a fire under your ass. Yeah. And you're going to be that much more motivated in trening, have that much more sense of urgency with everything. It's going to hold you accountable. IMean, bodybuilding is a great example. That's I think that's part of why I love going through the bodybuilding process is just like, like I said earlier, you're doing a hard thing every day. You've got boxes. You got to check. You got to hit all your meals. Every one of those meals is like a win that you're checking off. And, you know, there's such a high level of accountability and structure and discipline required for it. And when you accomplish it, like you said, you can you've really just taken charge of your own life and your own body. And you can start applying that in other realms. Well, you've seen it now. IMean, now that you've died it down the diet, it's all up here. One hundred percent. Yeah. IMean, that's that's all that's all mental game. And so I've always wondered this just as a observer and a fan of bodybuildinGHaving never competed, you know, watching the Olympia, the Arnold, and you hear about some of these guys who compete on the Olympia stage and the narrative is, oh, so-and-so didn't come in in shape or so-and-so's conditioning was off. I'm like, how is that possible? Like, how is it possible to prepare prep for the Olympia and not have dieted sufficiently to come in lean enough? You know what IMean? Like, is that not something they should have noticed and realized eight weeks out and just dieted harder? And I'm truly asking. I've had, I've heard some stories and this goes back to the guys that are genetically gifted, you get these dudes sometimes that have been able to get away with it and make it to a pretty high level. I'm sure you see it in football. You get the guys that can get to the NFL just purely on physical talent alone. And, but they get there and then everybody's physically talented. And then what separates you from the other dudes is hard work when everybody else is gifted as well, genetically. So there, there is a bit of that, that happens. And I've heard some stories about former Mr. Olympia's that just couldn't stick to diets. You know, they- That blows my mind. Cause like you said, it's all mental. IMean, you, like, like you can almost just mathematically just put out a diet plan where, you know, you'll pull off enough body fat to be, to be lean enough in time, IMean, just in that- IMean, there, there was always the stories about Big Ramy. That's why he could never get it together. Cause he couldn't stick to a diet. And then when Chad Nichols finally got him to win, he had, what's his name? I forget the guy's name, but he had, he had him go, former bodybuilder go live with him, like for the lasT4 weeks to make sure he kind of stayed on track with his diet. Yeah. Yeah. It's crazy how much food and hunger can really, IMean, just have such a control over you. IMean, you know, I've, I've, I'm obsessed enough with it. When I commit to dieting, I'm not going to go off plan. Like to go off plan would give me so much, the anxiety of knowing I went off plan and might've sabotaged the hard work outweighs the reward of, of eating, you know, off script. But man, it dominates your thoughts all day. Food. Once I am locked in on a contest prep, IMean, getting in shape's always been kind of my, my, IMay not be the biggest guy on stage, but I usually can get ripped. And my mindset has been when I'm on prep, once I'm locked in, I don't want to get up on stage and have anything creep in the back of my head. Like, damn, I should have not had that cheat meal or damn, I should have done that extra bit of cardio. Yeah. I want to walk on stage knowing that I've done everything as perfectly as I can. If I get up there and I've executed the plan as perfectly as I can, I still lose and so be it. That was fate. You know, that was the, um, I've worked with Justin, um, off and on over the years. Um, he's coached me through multiple diets and rebounds. Um, the one thing I couldn't stand with his diets would be like the cheat meal. Um, not because I didn't want to cheat meal, but because I could, I was always in my head about it. I was like, am I doing too much in the cheat meal? Is this really benefiting me? And I couldn't get like a straight answer from him. Like I wanted him to give me just a militant, like you can have this many calories with your cheat meal or no, the cheat meal is not actually going to benefit you just stick to the script and eliminate the cheat meal. Like the, the mental questioning as I was eating the cheat meal, it like gave me anxiety. IMean, physiologically, do you need it? Probably not. Unless you're super depleted. I, my first show I did with him, I actually over dieted. I went too far and I didn't do any, I didn't, I didn't do, I didn't do one cheat meal that whole, we got to the end and Justin's like, all right, no more cheat meals. I'm like, dude, I haven't had a fucking cheat meal the whole time. What are you talking about, man? Yeah. I was like, you've had no cheat meals. And I'm like, no, like none. I haven't, I haven't had a cheat meal in 20 some weeks. Yeah. And, uh, I like, like for me, like it's the actual opposite other mind fuck for me. Like I have to force myself to eat some food because I have such a fast metabolism. Um, so, IMean, that's also part of being disciplined too, is doing what's right. Not what you think you need to do. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. That's why it's, IMean, I always, uh, prefer to work with the coach. Just take some of that. emotion based decision making equation. Well, that is the thing when you find even even guys that are just non bodybuilders that are dieting. That's the thing that you find is that people get inside of their own heads when they're when they're starving, like they make bad decisions. And it's hard to really IMean, you know, this man from from coaching other people. It's really hard to be objective about yourself. IMean, even even Tom Brady, I'm sure had guys he leaned on to help him. You know, it's like even the most objective person needs somebody to help them when they're in in that situation. It's hard to get out of your own head. Sometimes that's why there are coaches. Yeah, to help people with this stuff. So I, you know, usually with me, like, I'll just surrender to Justin on contest prep. And I'm like, just tell me where I need to go, man. Yeah. It seems like so many people, you know, they, they work with a coach. And then as they get further and further in, they start listening to outside voices. Yeah. Oh, well, this coach does this or Oh, but I saw this guy does that I read this. What do you think of? Oh, man, anytime I get AI can tell you some prep horror stories I've had. I've had dudes that I've prepped and they their girlfriend gets in their ear, their their buddy gets in their ear. Somebody they know that did a show. I've had I had a couple instances of this of it this year where guys just start stop listening to me and started listening to other people and then it gets all fucked up. Yeah, IMean, you just got to trust the process with the coach because IMean, the coach you're working with the outside voice doesn't have the context of everything that's been done leading up to things they haven't been observing your body throughout the whole process. And IMean, it's like, IMean, in strength trening, like, you know, with a offseason program for football. IMean, there's no one perfect way to do things. There's no perfect program. IMean, what we do things is going to be different than how the University of Alabama does things different than how Michigan does things. It doesn't mean one is necessarily better than the other. But you need to buy in and trust the process and lock in on the program you're trening in. That's the only way it's going to be successful. Yeah, IMean, I just tell people if it doesn't work out the way you want it to work out, then fire me after the prep. Just hang with me through it. Listen to me. Every time I've ever had somebody that starts deviating. Shit goes sideways. When they start second guessing things we've lost. IMean, I've been there before. I've done it to myself. I fucked my I am I know enough to know that I can't trust my own decision making when it when I get deep into prep that I'm going to be objective about how I look. Yeah, IMean, I was ready to show one of my pro card this year. Honestly, I was ready to pull out at the end. And Justin's like, no, you're fine, man. Just just get through it, man. And I'm like, I'm like, I just don't think I'm ready, man. Yeah, yeah, it's, uh, we're our own worst critics. IMean, especially when it comes to the physique stuff. It's like, we're just got these goggles on when we see ourselves in photos in the mirror. We always look worse in our own eyes than we really are. Well, it gets way worse with a calorie deficit and tren in. Yeah, no kidding. Very paranoid. Anyway, I didn't even use any tren this year. I shouldn't I shouldn't say that I was I just kept it bland this year. So you've been a full blown convert with the carb cycling diet, right? I am. Yep. So I did, I did my own diet this past go around. But I was I was still following, you know, the same basic carb cycling parameters with Justin doing one high day a week and low days of my non trening days, medium days and all the other trening days. With that cheat meal, instead of doing a free meal, I just did an unlimited carb meal. Honestly, man, that's what when I'm doing the cheat meal, I still keep it clen. Most of the time when I do, I just go eat a steak. Yeah. And I'll get a big steak, you know, maybe something a little more fat in it, like a sirloin, but nothing crazy. And then I just jam a bunch of carbs with it. Yeah, the uphill battle for me this past year with diet stuff was I had my gallbladder removed. It's coming up on almost two years now. But pre gallbladder removal surgery, IMean, I could, I could eat anything. IMean, I could destroy the biggest cheat meal you can imagine and be fine. Anyway, I got my gallbladder removed. And right afterwards, I went to the doctor and they said, well, you know, you're not going to be able to do that. So I went into a diet and calorie deficit, eating clen, small meals, had no issues. As soon as I attempted to rebound, it was the first time I was going into a calorie surplus post gallbladder removal. I was immediately the first day of the rebound. I was so, the most painful bloating I've ever experienced. IMean, my face, my eyes were shut. My face was so bloated, my ankles so puffy, my stomach completely distended. I just couldn't digest those huge food volumes anymore. So I really had to change my approach to, I'm doing a much more conservative rebound this go around. I'm four weeks into this thing and I was much more conservative with it. Yeah. IMean, welcome to my world, man. It's, I'm always battling with my stomach. It's a, you know, it just, it just changes as you get older. And I do think a lot of guys as they have been doing this for a long time, especially guys that have done fatty, higher fat diets in the past, end up having gallbladder issues, I think. Well, the doctor told me that it was actually the process of losing extreme levels of body fat result in the buildup of those stones. And that by dieting every year, year after year, and you know, I'd get up to 330 in my offseason and then diet down to 270. And I'd done that several times. And they said it was actually those extreme diets that caused the stone buildup. Interesting. Yeah. Yeah. I've seen a lot of guys end up having to have their gallbladders removed. It's, that's not that uncommon. So maybe that is a contributing factor. I always just assumed that it was from, you know, some combination of PEDs and fat, you know, all the bile dumping and stuff. Yeah, I'm sure it's a contributing factor. Yeah. So I just always assumed that it was something to do that. And then just as you get older, your, your gut starts to get worse. Yeah. So this past year, it's been a whole gut health initiative for me. That's, that's been my biggest area of, I learned a lot and become a better coach for it going through my own gut health issues, but implementing fermented foods like kimchi and sauerkraut and utilizing glutamine and oral BPC-157. Yeah. Um, you know, I, I've basically thrown the kitchen sink at this thing over the past year and found some things that really have, have worked. Um, one thing I've just learned, I can't do high volume, high fatty meals anymore. Um, that just destroys me. Um, so the, the higher carb low fat approach is more conducive to not having a gallbladder, which works out nicely for, for bodybuilding. Um, go ahead. And I just think it works better for everybody, man. The high, the high fat diets are just, uh, you gotta be careful. IMean, you need a certain amount of fats. You need a certain amount of EFAs, DHA, EPA in your diet. And that's a thing that drives me nuts. Like I get guys that want to eat a shit ton of fat. And I'm like, can you explain to me how eating a crap ton of saturated fat contributes anything to muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or body composition? I don't, I don't know how people become so indoctrinated with this idea that like the, the, you know, the keto and the carnivore is like the ultimate way to eat. And like, I talked to so many people who swear up and down. The key to being lean is, is carnivore and keto and just these super high fat, low carb approaches. And I don't know, I don't know how we got there. Well, IMean, you can just look at the bodybuilding stage. Bodybuilders are the leanest people on the face of the planet. Really? IMean, they get in, there is nobody doing carnivore on, on, on the Olympia stage. Yeah, exactly. Now look, Hey, this is, this is my thing. Like I, I, you know, I don't want to completely bash it. It is probably better than the average shit American diet with a bunch of processed food in it that I will. And I think that's why it works for so many people. It will get you to a certain level. IMean, if you think about it, if you're just eating fresh meats, IMean, you are eliminating every, every junk processed food. There's no ice cream, there's no French fries, there's no potato chips. There's, you know, none of the trash stuff that people normally eat. And it's really just an elimination diet. And you're probably going to end up, if you're eating just pretty much all protein, you're going to be eating less calories than you were before. So it's just going to be a sort of a simple, easy way to create a calorie deficit for your body. pronation, epidemigin is check, després estephone, qu'est-cEQue c'est que vous devitez bien commander, réfléchissez avec diligence and try to do your hand at the exact perfect way to intake that answer. And then I'll give you an example of that. So let's talk about I guess your second question. They're probably, like you said, they're avoiding junk, they're living a lifestyle outside of just the diet that's probably conducive to being leaner or beinGHealthier. And I do think a keto or carnivore diet might have some utility. Like if my goal was just to live to be 100 years old, like IMight follow some iteration of keto where I was intermittent fasting and eating, you know, one, two meals a day consisting of some higher fat options, lower carb stuff. IMean, these clinical studies on rats, they show the way to basically extend their lifespan to the human equivalent of 200 years old is basically keep them on the brink of starvation for as long as possible. Yeah, at the end of the day, it really is more about a caloric deficit than it is what you eat. Yeah, for sure. IMean, if you care about longevity, just restrict your calories as much as you possibly can and eliminate as much stress in your life as possible. And move. Yeah, move. For sure. IMean, you look at the populations that live the longest on the, what was the documentary on Netflix? It was the Blue Zone, I think it was called. I know, I should have taken that. Yeah, yeah. But they basically looked at all the areas, like Japan would be an example. I believe Japan has the longest lifespan on the planet. I believe that's correct. Yet, they have one of the highest incidences of alcohol and cigarette consumption, which makes no fucking sense. But what they do there is they mostly just eat fish and rice. That's what they eat. And they walk a lot, a ton. And there's almost zero obesity in Japan. And they live off of meat and rice, really. That's what it boils down to. Mediterranean diets. You look at Mediterranean diets, it's meat, lean meats, vegetables, beans and bulgur and things like that. You know, so, IMean, it's just, it's not rocket science at the end of the day. Yeah. IMean, it's really not. Just control your calorie intake. Move. IMean, that's just... With that said, the cool thing with the carb cycling is if you're a person who wants to play with maximizing performance, like if you want to be an elite athlete or a bodybuilder or a powerlifter, by cycling the carbs, you can really manipulate and mess with the energy storage systems of the body. IMean, you've seen it, you know, like that high-carb day. You can eat in a surplus and not gain fat. And it has to do with how your body stores glycogen and synthesizes glycogen. And I think that's what a lot of guys miss out on that are trying to optimize and want to look like that, that you're really just missing out on that. Yeah. 100%. IMean, and that's why I still am a firm believer in carb cycling. And then even, you know, in a growing phase, having those low days, it just helps you stay insulin sensitive. It helps you keep your appetite up, gives your digestion a break. So there's a lot of value in the carb cycling. I'll even sometimes fast on my low days. I've been implementing some fasting over the last year. I'll do something like where I eat my last meal at 8 p.m. the night before and then I'll go till 8 p.m. the following night and then I'll break it with like a 16-ounce steak or something and a potato. And then I go back to my carb cycling routine. I'll do that every couple weeks. But IMainly do it because I have IBS and it seems to let my gut settle down. Yeah. Yeah, no, IMean, controlling your digestion when you're trying to push size, IMean, it's everything, which is why like the whole old school just force feed dirty bulk makes no sense. IMean, you're just fucking your own digestion. And then at that point, you're not actually absorbing the nutrients that you're eating. No, no, you're not absorbing anything you're eating. And you're on top of it. You're making yourself fat, probably accumulating visceral fat, the worst kind of fat, and continuing to move insulin resistance. I pay it like with my coaching clients, I kind of pay close attention to insulin sensitivity. I'll have guys, it's probably unnecessary, but I'll have guys track their their their glucose fasting glucose levels. It's sort of a canary in the coal mine. If I start seeing a consistent pattern of it going up, then I'll have them get an A1c and a fasting insulin test. A lot of times fasting insulin will be a precursor to actual insulin resistance. You'll see like their their body starts cranking out more insulin to deal with the insulin resistance and then increased A1c will follow. But that's that's generally kind of what I do. And I'll keep an eye on it. I found what I found is like you can only push in a calorie surplus for something like 16 to 20 weeks and then and then you got to back back off and diet down and then repeat the process and end up with the end up with gallstones and having your gallbladder removed. Yeah, no doubt. No, I agree. IMean, I I've definitely been a culprit in my earlier days of got some dirty bulks and you just get to a point where you just your hunger is shot. You just feel like shit. Then it negatively affects your trening. Then you're not sleeping. You've got acid reflux. IMean, it just seems so clear now that taking a more conservative approach with with growing just in terms of the way you're pushing food and having those low days, having doing some fasting and things like that, keeping your digestion, insulin sensitivity intact is so crucial. I've seen some of the food Eddie Hall eats. Yeah, IMean, that's so that's the thing is like, you know, I've I work with a lot of power lifters and strongman competitors and football players as a nutrition coach. And IMean, I tell all these guys, I'm like, dude, the nutrition is the missing piece of the puzzle for you. And it was years ago when I got into the bodybuilding diet, I learned how beneficial it is as a lifter to periodize your diet annually like a bodybuilder. IMean, getting lean allows me to. Yeah, exactly. That's how you do it. Yeah, exactly. Just permanently four hundred pounds plus year round. What do you know from from doing it? IMean, you were you were just touching it, but like getting lean and then pushing back up and then you stay even leaner and you just perform better. Yeah, IMean, if you're a young power lifter or strongman competitor, you you've got to be big to be to be elite. But do you want to be big as in you're carrying a tremendous amount of muscle tissue, which is going to allow you to be stronger, or do you just want to be a fat fuck? And if you want to put on as much muscle tissue over the course of your career as possible, the best way to do it is look at the people in the in the world who do it the best, the bodybuilders who puts on muscle tissue better than bodybuilders. Nobody. And look at the way they diet. They diet down. They get lean and that helps them build tissue. Yep. Yeah, it's IMean, I wish I had a time machine. I could go back and tell the. Twenty one year old me this, because I thought that. Although I still love some McDoubles, but I thought hammering McDonald's all day long was the secret. Yeah, IMean, I was I was a skinny basketball player, man. I was like, I got to put on weight at all all costs. Yeah, IMean, that's what everyone said back then. IMean, there was no there wasn't the information out there that we have today. IMean, just anyone would tell you if you need to gain weight, you need to just eat to a level of physical discomfort all day, every day. Yeah, IMean, that was my approach. IMean, I got to cut this off. Is there anything you want to promote? I know you're coaching now. How can people get a hold of you? Yeah. Follow me. DM me on Instagram at what underscore the underscore Hex 71. Shoot me a DM for trening, programming or nutrition coaching. And then I just got a YouTube channel started up. Just drop my second video today. It's John Heck Performance on YouTube. You can go to his Instagram page and see all the crazy weights he lifts. If you feel weak. Yes, sir. All right, John. Well, thank you for coming on, man. I appreciate it. Absolutely. Thanks for having me.