 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, folks, big Paul here today with Jonathan Griffiths, the carnivore bodybuilder, carnivore muscle. What's going on, Jonathan? Not much yourself. Not much yourself. I'm just glad to be here on your channel. I'm just glad to be here on your channel. I've been watching you for quite a while. I like all your stuff. I like all your stuff. I like your talks about trening. You talk a lot of sense. You talk about just treninGHardcore, doing all the right stuff, pressing all the right buttons, don't the T's, crossing the I's, you know, that sort of thing. So yeah, very cool. I appreciate that, man. I do talk some nonsense sometimes too. We were talking beforehand. This is always a learning journey. I'm trying to learn and be open-minded about things. Jonathan's here to set me straight on carnivore. I was picking on the carnivore guys a little bit recently. So how lonGHave you been doing carnivore? Yeah, so I started carnivore 2nd of February 2020, so four years. Four years. So I've done it for long enough to sort of say, you know, I know what kind of does and doesn't work. I'm a nutrition consultant. I've spoken with hundreds of people that do it or some version of it, whether that be keto, low carb or carnivore. Yeah, I'm pretty chill. I run a YouTube channel. I talk about carnivore, bodybuilding specifically, building muscle, losing fat. I don't focus too much on the PED side of it because, you know, you get – I'd say it's out of my area of expertise, to be honest. So I just stick to what I know. My degree is nutrition. I've been exercising, trening for 15-plus years. So that's my forte at the moment. And I'll be honest with you on the PEDs. People vastly overthink it, man. There's really – IMean, I talk to a fair amount of pro bodybuilders. There's only like two, three, four things they actually use. People just – and then you just escalate the doses as you get bigger. It's not really – it's funny to me that everybody wants to be – everybody wants to be an endocrinologist or a biochemist when it comes to PEDs, but then they don't give any thought to trening or nutrition, which in my opinion are probably more important than the PED aspect of it. Yeah, I'm messing around with my diet and trening all the time. Like I'm still reinventing myself. I'm not, you know, stuck in my ways. My macros change. You know, I give myself a guideline. My treninGHas a guideline. But I'll change it if I need it. You know, so I'll just go by feel for the most part. Pretty instinctive. But yeah. So what led you down the carnivore path? What got you started on the carnivore diet? Yeah, so when I was very young, I did a water fast. So two weeks, just water. And what was odd is I didn't lose any weight. And I was like, how do I do something like that and not lose any weight? And people listening to this are probably thinking, you're talking a load of crap. If you don't eat for two weeks, you're not going to lose weight. And I was like, I didn't lose any weight. That's the bottom line. I thought there's some sort of hormonal element to it. I thought maybe I'm retaining water. Maybe my body's doing something weird. Puffy fat, you know, that sort of thing. And yeah, sort of since then, I've been interested in nutrition. I've kind of went along the side of the high carb diets. I have been on diets where I've been eating 1,000 plus grams of carbohydrates per day for periods of like nine months. And on high protein, you know, high fat, different variations. I actually did a basically a protein-spare modified fast for about five months straight for my first contest when I was 16 years old. I got an effect, but I just didn't get leaner. So I got some maybe like 7 or 8% body fat, you know, abs, that sort of thing. But my legs weren't dug out or anything like that. And I was like, okay, this obviously isn't working. Then, you know, things trenspired. I got diagnosed with autism when I was 21 years old. So just think first or second year of university. And I noticed that the diet wasn't helping me. So I noticed, oh, today I haven't eaten much. I feel better. My guts are more clear. So I was like, okay, this is interesting. Then I revisited it a few years later. So this would be 2020. And yes, I started it again. But I did it too lean. So that's where a lot of people have problems. They start the diet doing essentially a chicken breast, you know, strip loin steak sort of thing diet. Too lean, tuna. But you have to add a lot of fat at the start of what you don't get fat adapted. Otherwise, imagine you're... IMean, I don't like to use calories as a measurement. But say your calories were at 6,000. You start a carnival diet. You do, you know, same amount of protein. Your fat's a lot lower. Your carbs are pretty non-existent. You've just decreased your energy intake by about 2,000 plus calories, if not more. So no wonder why people don't adapt well. Because they don't give the fuel, put the fuel back in. They don't give the body energy to deal with it. Some people experience trensitional issues. So I usually tell people, generally speaking, to do it every period of like four to eight weeks. So it might look like maybe the first meal out of your day, you make that a keto meal. Then the second meal, third meal, fourth meal sort of thing. And you do that maybe two weeks at a time. So just keep changing the meals. I'll say each week that goes by, you're doing more meals that are carnivorous or at least ketogenic. That's probably the best way to go about it. IMean, your body is a biologically dynamic, adaptive being, you know. We can't just switch diets overnight. A gut microbiome doesn't like it. We get upset. And you're probably going to ask at some point, but how's my crap? How's my poop? Completely fine. I go back once a day. No issues, no stren, normal size. You just have to give your body time to adjust. And I think that's where a lot of people have issues. Now, one of the main objections I get is, you know, how does someone eat so much food on a carnivore diet? Because you're eating mostly steaks. IMean, what I can do, from a point of reference, I'm six foot one. I'm not an enormous bodybuilder. I'm a classic physique bodybuilder. I weigh about 220 on stage, something like that. I've walked around at 275 before. Didn't feel great. I've got a spine disease, which means walking around at 275 just doesn't really work. So from there, yeah, that's kind of where I'm at now. But, yeah, I'm happy to go into any sort of talks you want about carnivore diets, blood, anything you want, really. Yeah, so like I know we talked about it before. My one, and I'm a person when it comes to diets, I look at diet as a tool in the toolbox. I've definitely, I've tried every single type of diet you can imagine over the years. I ran keto for a while. I've done high carb. I've done low carb. I've done moderate carb. I've done high fat, low fat. Everything that you can possibly imagine. And what I've seen is there's a lot of genetic variability from person to person. And I don't have a one-size-fits-all approach to everybody. I tend to run carb cycling diets for bodybuilders. But, like, if I have somebody that comes to me that's morbidly obese, you know, 350 pounds, insulin resistant, IMay run a low or zero carb diet or a keto-style diet to repair insulin sensitivity and get them losing weight. You know, so I look at it as a tool in the toolbox with certain tools for certain jobs. The one thing that does concern me with carnivore, not just carnivore, but keto-style diets with bodybuilders, is most bodybuilders are using PEDs. It's just a fact. And PEDs already cause lipid skewing. And I see, I have yet to see, I've looked at thousands of blood panels over the years, of somebody running PEDs and doing a keto or high-fat diet that doesn't have some sort of lipid skewing. You're already going to have lipid skewing from the PEDs most of the time. So what's been your experience with lipid skewing and how to control that when runninGHigher fat diets with bodybuilders that are specifically running PEDs? Sure, yeah. So my experience has been, not for me, my range always tends to be the same. So in terms of the normative range, which is based on the average population, which we know isn't healthy, you know, these blood test range are just, they're just spitballing an idea of what we think is appropriate for a human being. But yeah, mine are in that range. All my blood levels, cholesterol, LDL, HDL, triglycerides, that sort of thing. What I do notice is people's LDL tends to go up. Yeah, that's what I see. Yeah, so if I get someone's blood lab, so I'm not a phrobotomist, it's not something I'm an absolute world expert at, but I tend to look at other things outside of that. So I look at their inflammation, HbA1c, thyroid hormones, kidney, liver, things like that. I think they're a better indicator of long-term health outcomes than any lipid panel marker. The problem with lipid panel markers is they're largely genetic. Now, when we take in any substance, whether that be an oral PD, so, you know, dynabol, for example, that will skew that for a period of time that you're using it. Now, my kind of thought towards that is your body's trying to repair itself by sending out repair molecules in the format of, you know, cholesterol, for example, to repair the damage from whatever's being done. But one of the things I notice is across the board in every single aspect of someone's blood panel, the people that are doing ketogenic carnivore diets are better overall, especially true when we talk about HbA1c. So the, you know, the glycated red blood cells, that tends to tren lower. So people actually have a lower HbA1c. So they're not running around eating lots of sugar, carbohydrates, what have you, which is the cause of diabetes. You know, it's measured by specifically carbohydrate intolerance. And obviously people like you, Paul, and maybe myself as well, we can tolerate a lot of carbohydrates without getting insulin resistant and things like that. But it comes to a point where we have to tone it down. We can no longer eat 1,000 grams of carbs a day. So we have to trensition the diet. So I think whilst we can get away with having a high-carbohydrate diet, I think as time goes on, we have to change something further down the line. Now, when we look at the epidemiology, which is quite, it's not my favorite kind of science. And I'm sure, as you know, in terms of the hierarchy of evidence, it's very low. It's what you might use to form what you call a pilot study. So an epidemiological study doesn't inform on risk because risk is a causal statement, meaning you'd have to have an intervention study. So, for example, you might have a mouse, mice, rodent study, you could get these guys in these cages eat, I don't know, chocolate. The other ones eat steaks, you know, measure their blood, measure their muscle mass, things like that, see what happens. That's a lock-in metabolic ward style study so you can identify what is the problem. The problem with epidemiological studies is they allow for too many extreneous variables and confounding factors. So things which can affect what the study would actually, let's say, dictate. So when we talk about things like the blue zones, for example, and they'll say, oh, the blue zones, people that, you know, are vegan, vegetarian, not us really. But they'll sort of say, you know, these people live for longer. But it doesn't count for the fact that the people that are centenarians, that live in those areas, were eating a predominantly animal-based diet for the majority of their history. So the 120-year-old grandma, who they're accounting for in that study, wasn't eating a modern-day blue zone Loma Linda-based diet. They're eating a real food, whole food animal diet for the most part. Now, they probably did have some vegetation depending on where they were. And that's where the topic of epigenetics comes in. So epigenetics basically affects our genome on a kind of like a linear fashion, so chronological fashion. So you have my mum, for example, she's blonde, my nan, blonde. That passed down to me. I've got no hair, but I was blonde. So that's what epigenetics is. So basically the adaptations you have to your immediate surroundings. So that kind of goes into the point of what you're saying about the blood levels. It's largely genetic. So genetics will impact what our body deals with because of our native, you know, terrain, our environment. You know, adaptations like, you know, being pale skin. I'm from a Scandinavian descent, so I'm going to be pale to absorb that level of sunlight. If I was black, I wouldn't do very well in England where I'm from because I wouldn't be able to get enough sun to thrive, to absorb vitamin D, so on and so forth. So, yeah, that's kind of my take on the blood leopards thing. But what I will say is we have almost like a bell curve when it comes to things like cholesterol. Now, it's hard to say how this would trenspire to a bodybuilding population that's using PADs because we don't have the hard science. We do know, like he said, the blood lipids tend to get a bit skewed. Now, when we look at this bell curve I'm talking about, people with high cholesterol seem to live the longest, which is counterintuitive to what everyone believes. But if we actually look at the studies, look at the science, that's what it says. So anyone that can pull up a graph which says, you know, over 70,000 years of human life, this is what's happened with these people that have this cholesterol level. And the people that have the highest cholesterol level seem to live the longest. So, again, this epidemiologist is not hard science. We'll struggle to ever find hard science. But people in Hong Kong, for example, they have one of the highest diets, highest saturated dietary intakes for fat that we come across. Same with a lot of these Asian kind of countries that sort of Eastern world kind of place. So same is true for Japan. Loads of countries that eat a lot of steak, fatty ribeye, things like that. They have high cholesterol levels, high saturated fat. But we don't see them living for a short period of time. So, yeah, that's kind of my take on the lipid hypothesis. And I think largely it's overstated. But if someone's blood lipids were skewed and they were otherwise normal, I'd be looking at something else, so a different blood marker. So measure of inflammation. And if someone is particularly concerned of heart disease, I'd recommend a coronary artery calcium scan, which is probably the gold standard. So I think a lot of the problem with the cholesterol thing is extrapolation. But if you're truly concerned about it, you should do the right gold standard test for the job. Yeah, I recommend that my clients get a calcium CT scan done once a year. You know, it's funny because my LDLs always run high. And I always show zero. And I am taking PEDs. And I'm on a low-fat diet as well. So even still, my LDL is skewed high. It's just genetics. It's the way I'm put together. But it is interesting with Japan. They are one of the longest-lived populations in the world. And they also are the heaviest drinkers and smokers as well. So it just shows you how much of a role the genetics plays into things. From what I understand, at least what you see with cholesterol, high cholesterol doesn't mean that you're going to have cardiovascular disease. But people with cardiovascular disease tend to have high cholesterol. So they're two very independent things. And it's, you know, I know I'm just speculatinGHere. But I think it's the combination of risk factors when you put them together. So, for example, if you have high blood pressure, you know, and then, you know, you end up having arterial wall scarring from the high blood pressure, years of high blood pressure. And then you lay down plaque, you have high cholesterol, you know, calcium buildup, all this stuff. That all mixes into the equation. So, and that's what really concerns me with bodybuilders. If you look at bodybuilders, especially PED using bodybuilders, body mass does play a role in cardiovascular health. It's probably the biggest thing that plays a role in cardiovascular health. For sure. I think just beinGHeavy is the biggest problem. Yeah, I agree with that. And what I see is that they have all of these different cofactors. So it's just me as a coach, I would think that it's probably best just to play a conservative to protect my clients if they are using PEDs and keep them, be conservative with the lipids. There's nothing to lose with, and this is the way I look at it. This is what I tell guys. It's like buying fire insurance on your house. Your house is probably never going to burn down. But just in case, you may save yourself from having a stroke or a cardiovascular event by being a little more conservative. That's just sort of my take on it. Now, like you were saying, it doesn't necessarily mean that you're going to have a heart attack or you're going to have a black coronary artery. Yeah, I think one of the misnomers people have about cholesterol is that it clogs up your arteries. But it's actually the firefighter trying to put out the fire. Right. So if someone came to me that, you know, the cholesterol was, I don't know, 600, 700, that's a bit unusual. That's quite far out of the range that I'd think something could be wronGHere. But then I'd look at the other factors to see what the problem was. And if someone tells me, oh, I'm running, I don't know, a gram of tren a week and dine a bowl every day. And what's it one? Letro 2.5 milligrams a day. Yeah. Yeah. There's obviously a problem here because you're not letting your body produce the hormones and all the things that it needs to. So the natural human development isn't occurring. You're throwing things out of whack, which seems to be the problem with a lot of buildables. Yeah. I tend to look at other things myself, but that's just me. Yeah, I do too. IMean, like we were saying, it's all a bunch of cofactors. IMean, if you're insulin resistant, you have high cholesterol, you have high blood pressure, and your BMI is high. IMean, that's a recipe for having a heart attack, right? Yeah. Absolutely. You know, so, IMean, definitely insulin resistance seems to be the primary risk factor for cardiovascular disease, at least from what I've seen. People that are, you know, just have this, a lot of people I think are walking around type 2 diabetic and don't even know they are. At least that's what I've seen. But yeah, that's my primary concern and why I'm a little more conservative with guys with dietary fats that are running PEDs that are also big dudes. But I, you know, long term, I think probably just controlling insulin resistance and having a lower body mass index. It seems to be the people that live the longest, and I think this is the part that they miss on these diet studies, like the blue zone and things like that. But it's really simple to me. It's the people that are the small people that live the longest. They just do. People that are on some sort of calorie restricted diet, no matter what the diet is, it seems like those are the people that live the longest. If longevity is your concern. If I were, if my goal were to live to be 100, I probably would run, you know, do some sort of intermittent fasting and maybe eat once or twice a day, have a primary meat-based diet with some vegetables. And I know that's not a carnivore thing, but a little bit of fruit or whatever just for micronutrient sufficiency. But it really, when you look at diets, like they, there isn't, they've done studies on it, like from varying types of diets, there isn't much of a difference in longevity. It seems to be calorie restriction seems to be the primary and body mass index seems to be the primary predictor of longevity. Yeah, I'd agree. There's a few things I wanted to unpick in that. So the first thing comes to mind is the calorie thing. So I don't tend to use calories. I'm going to explain why people think that I'm being a bit, I don't know. They probably think I'm just trying to try to be difficult. But the thing is calories are a measurement of, of food energy in a closed thermodynamic system. So, you know, a calorie is what, how much energy it takes. So one milliliter of water to be raised by one degree Celsius above neutral temperature. So obviously the problem with calories is, well, if, if, if protein has a thermic effect of 20 to 30%, say, well, that isn'T4 calories anymore. It's actually abouT3. Fiber has about 1.7. Apparently carbs has 3.8, something like that. 3.6. In fact, there's obviously, there's less involved in turning fat into energy because it's readily broken down by the body. There's not a thermic effect of that so much. We've like 1%. You might be surprised, but I don't count calories either. I just give people memos. Yeah. The best way to track food intake is to track food intake. So most of my diet plans work like, you know, 500 grams of 80, 20 gram beef, four eggs, you know, filet of salmon weighing this much raw cooked. Then if someone deviates for some reason, I just put them on a macro plan. So these are the macros of, of the default, you know, that you've been on. Um, that's where you should look to. So that's why my big thing about calories is it throws people down the wrong scent. And that's where the, if it fits your calories kind of thing comes in and it pisses me off a bit because, you know, some people go out there and say, oh, you know, um, a thousand calories of pop tarts, the same as a thousand calories of white rice. Well, it's not really one has vastly more nutrition than the other. Um, so yeah, it doesn't really trensmute. And obviously your carbohydrates have to turn to sugar. So you'll, you'll get diabetic, whether you eat mashed potato, or if you eat skittles, for example, your blood sugar will do different things or do the same. Your blood will release your body release the same amount of insulin for that load of carbohydrate, but that load will take a different period of time. Right. Yeah. I think that's what people don't understand as well to the body. And like, I don't, I don't know why people don't understand. Like people would think of energy, energy storage in the body. It's just being fat. Your body can store energy in multiple ways. IMean, protein structures are energy. Your body will break down protein structures. If you're deficient in protein or deficient in calories. IMean, you'll, you'll see it. Like if somebody over diets for contest prep, they're going to lose muscle. That's your body metabolizing stored energy. We'd obviously, we don't want that. Right. Um, glycogen is another way that your body stores energy. Body fat is another way that your body stores energy. And like you were saying, I think that's why it makes sense to focus on macros. IMean, you're going to, while net energy balance does reign true, where we metabolize that energy from can vary based on the macros that we eat. Right. So if you tend to eat more protein as versus carbohydrates, you may have a different body composition result because of how your body's metabolizing those calories. Hanging on the muscle is very difficult. I don't think people understand how your body does not want to be big and muscular. It would rather be small, skinny fat. That's what I tell people that's more efficient for surviving the cold, harsh winter of the ice age tundra in Northern Europe. Right. The other thing as well is, IMean, we have the greatest proportianavar mitochondria in our brain and our heart. So per, per size, per volume, that's, that's where the most mitochondria are. So the more muscle we build on, build up on our skeleton, the more mitochondrial energy or output we're taking from our brain and our heart. So there's always a point where I'm sure, you know, when you've got really heavy, and most bodybuilders that probably listen to this, you know, you get really heavy. You don't feel as energetic. Well, no wonder why, because you've just depleted that amount of mitochondria that you've got available to produce ATP. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I find that that's when, and this is where we'll probably differ, where, where higher carbohydrates will come into play. I, you know, for an average person who's not lifting, that's not walking around as a 270 pound bodybuilder, you're, you're, you're not going to need to eat five, 600, a thousand grams of carbs. You're just going to get fat and insulin resistant, but you got this, this big dude, an open class bodybuilder who has a lot of tissue that's metabolically demanding. They just soak those carbohydrates up and use them. And it's, you know, carbs are also protein sparing too. That's another thing that people, people don't realize as well. Eating more protein is protein sparing as well. So, IMean, it does work both ways. That's, that's just, so that's why I don't have a one size fit all approach to people. You know, we were talking about that before, like that morbidly obese guy that's insulin resistant. I, I can see the allure of something like a carnivore or keto diet, or even, even like I will run somebody on something like that. Because obviously if you remove carbohydrates from your diet, you're probably going to fix insulin resistance, right? Because the primary cause of insulin resistance is too much insulin circulating, right? And being sedentary. The, the, the solution for insulin resistance, in my opinion, is lifting weights, being active and lowering your carbohydrates. It's you'll, you'll see it with contest prep guys go through contest prep. And generally the first thing we pull out on contest prep is carbohydrates because they're just fuel at the end of the day. They don't really serve any other purpose in the body. If you pull those out, the end result is going to be lowered insulin resistance, improved insulin sensitivity. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. I completely agree. It's kind of like a, the bucket we can fill or not fill. If we ever fill that bucket, you know, the insulin resistance will pick right up. Have you heard of something called the Randall cycle? No, I haven't. Okay. So this is a biochemical process. It's not woo. It's not BS. You can Google it sort of thing. Basically what it entails is you have a biochemical process in your body and in your body or your blood at any given time, even your cells, you've got an amount of glucose. You have an amount of fatty acids. Now your body stores about, give or take abouT4 to six grams of glucose in your blood at any given time. The problem is when we eat too much sugar, that amount obviously goes up and the body has to clear it out. Now, when we've got too much sugar in our blood and too much fat in our system, so we've had a load of, I don't know, peanut butter or something, then we've got too many fatty acids, too much sugar. And there's a cross inhibition mechanism which prevents the body dealing with that glucose. So effectively you've got too much in your blood. When that happens, it causes inflammation and glycation, which causes aging. So if we think of a bodybuilder that's trying to carb up before a show, thEQuickest way to do it really is to obviously eat lots of carbs and lots of fats because you're causing that blockade. So that the propensity for that amount of food that goes in is much higher in terms of being stored. So doing a carb load with a low fat diet isn't such a great idea in my opinion because carbs per gram, for example, they're very weighty. If you're having mashed potato, rice, glucose powder drinks, you have to take a lot of mass in your diet in order to get the amount of food in to carb up. But that's probably one of the issues that people are having with the carb up on stage. So we've seen guys that are just bloated before the stage. But if I said to someone, okay, eat a bowl of mashed potato, not too much water and put a load of butter over it, something like that, that's obviously less mass. Like, you know, a hundred gram stick of butter or whatever it is, is 80 grams of fat. If you tried to get a hundred grams of carbs, that's what, 20, 30 grams of carbs. So you just don't get the same benefit. But like I said, the Randall cycle isn't something you want to activate because it is inflammatory, but it does seem to do something interesting for feeling pumped up. And I believe that's the cause of insulin resistance in my opinion. Yeah. We, like we were saying earlier, we do all sorts of crazy shit for bodybuilding. That, that is a, that is a thing, a distinction I like to make to people that, that we are not eating for health with bodybuilding. We're eating for physique enhancement. It's a very different thing. I would eat very differently if I were not, I were not a bodybuilder. Yeah. Here it is. The Randall cycle. That's it. Yeah. So you've got, you've got a cell there, which is the orange wiggly thing. Yeah. So cell and then you've got the cytoplasm, which is the area inside the cell. Um, I'm sorry, that's a cell. That's a mitochondria. Okay. So you've got the, the glucose comes in, the fatty acid come in and all these processes come in. What you actually see here, you can see it clear as day is the fatty acid cycle is a bit clener. Actually has something called, it actually produces less deuterium, which is a heavy isotope of hydrogen. The thing is in the mitochondria, you have these different little complexes like wheels and actually have a nanomotor in them. It sounds a bit, a bit weird, but they do actually have a literal motor in them. When you put too much deuterium in there, that nanometer no longer spins at 9,000 RPM. So the fatty acids are a clener source of energy because what we know about glucose is, is very high in deuterium. So if, for example, we look at the glucose content of, I don't know, pineapple sets, I don't know, 20 grams, that 20 grams of, of glucose will have like a shit ton of deuterium in it. So maybe 160 PPM. So, you know, like, so like a fluorid and toothpaste might be, you know, 1,200 PPM, something like that. It's kind of the same kind of concept. So you have a certain amount of deuterium per gram of whatever nutritional source is, but fat sources seem to be significantly lower in deuterium, perhaps around 110 to about 130. So there's less atomic mass going through the mitochondrial, you know, complexes to produce energy. So that's kind of my point on the fat side of it. So it is, like you said, like the carb diet isn't conducive to longevity. I would argue a fat-based diet certainly is. Improves mitochondrial function, which is something a lot of everybody was looking at now. So a lot of guys are looking at, you know, NAD supplements, glutathione, methylene blue, loads of different things. But you can achieve the same benefit by doing a carnivorous or ketogenic diet where the fat is very high. But you don't get the same benefit if your fat intake is made up of like seed oils and crap like that, because that's not really food. So it has to be coconut oil, beef fat, lard, tallow dripping, butter, stuff like that. Yeah, that's interesting. You know, we, my coach I work with, he does a fat slash carb load going into shows. It's not a traditionALCARb load style. So we will have, and I'll do the same thing with my clients. We'll do a higher fat, moderate carb load the day before the show. And I tend to have gotten better results. I just didn't know about that portion of it. So this was, so I learned something new today. That's interesting. Yeah. And we'll, you know, and like when I run high carb days with my clients, what we'll do, we'll have a fatty meal at the end of the day with the high carb days as well. Yeah. It helps to sleep as well. IMean, if, if you're bloated as hell, cause you know, carbs tend to be more bloaty than fats. Yeah. You're not going to sleep as well. IMean, I sleep like a rock nowadays, honestly. I never used to sleep. It used to take me hours to get sleep. And I actually sleep less cause I'm sleeping more efficiently. My body tends not to like fats. Like if I push my fats up, it just makes me sick. Yeah. Your body's used to it. Remember what I said earlier about like the trensitioning side of things. So you have, you have enzymes that are produced by the liver and secreted through the gap, the gallbladder. When you tried to overburden yourself. So say you go from a thousand carbs, a hundred fats to 300 fat and a hundred carbs, your body's not enzymatically upregulated yet. So the same thing. If you go, you binge after a, say, say you, you cruise into a show, you turn up shredded, you don't carb up. Then you go out and have a Chinese and Indian takeaway dominoes afterwards. You feel like crap. You're bloated for days because your body hasn't upregulated those enzymes. So your body will adapt to what you feed it. But there is, there's a good, better and best case scenario in my opinion. Yeah. Usually what I do if I'm going to have a high fat meal is I'll just take some lipase just to kind of help, help with it. And it tends, tends to work. I know what I was, I had a couple of questions. I was going to ask you some stuff I'm curious about. So nutrient deficiencies with, with carnivore diet. That's one of the things I've seen like with isolation diets. I've seen it a lot with people that are vegans. They end up having a pretty, pretty severe nutrient deficiencies. And I've also seen it with some keto and carnivore guys. More specifically, I've seen guys come to me. The main one that I see when I'm looking at blood panels, I see a lot of guys that are severely B12 deficient. And I know vitamin C can be an issue too with, with it. How are you handling that? Are you supplementing, supplementing in those? Good question. Yeah. So obviously I've looked at this in quite a lot of detail and I understand why someone would be skeptical. Cool. Cause you know, we, we hear a lot about vitamin C, you know, everybody will now, nowadays out there takes like a gram three times a day or whatever it is. The truth is when you take in an antioxidant, its effect is to reduce oxidation. Now you get the most amount of oxidation when you're eating a high carbohydrate, high glucose diet. So when you think about it, there aren't carbohydrates really in my diet. I drink raw milk and yes, there is an amount in lactose, you know, so there's, I'm under 50 grams of carbs a day pretty much. And I don't need extra vitamin C. Now the amount of vitamin C we need in our blood at any given time is in the nanograms per liter. Now, if you look at the liters of blood in my body, it's very insignificant. Now when we look at some of the nutrition data websites online, so if we look at nutrition data self.com or whatever, and it'll say, you know, pretty high B vitamins, potassium, you know, stuff like that. Then it will get down to vitamin C and it'll say 0%. But what you should actually say is no data, which means they haven't measured it. But what we found actually, believe it or not, is there is actually an amount of vitamin C in animal meat. So it's not a massive amount. Like I said, we don't need a massive amount. So it'd be maybe one or two milligrams in, for example, a fillet of steak or, you know, a fillet of salmon, something like that. You got to think an animal when it's going around, you know, before we kill it, for the most part, most animals tend to produce their own vitamin C. We're one of the few animals that don't produce vitamin C by ourselves. So they're producing it in their own cells, in their own body, through different pathways. We obviously ingest that vitamin C, then it gives us that antioxidant effect. But vitamin C is one of many, many, many, many antioxidants that we need in our diet. So other things, you might include selenium, astaxanthin, for example, which we do get a lot of in our diet. So, you know, in fish, for example, there's a lot of selenium, astaxanthin, same with milk. There's different things like that, different compounds. The problem is our food system is very much appropriated and cultivated towards a high carbohydrate diet. So if we go to supermarket nowadays, 80% of the supermarket plus is cereal, grains, wheat, flour, rice. It's carbohydrate, processed starch, food, basically. So we're very carb centric. So we do have a higher requirement for vitamin C. Now, what vitamin C does is it blocks up the GLUT4 receptor, which is, you know, involved in glucose trensport. But when we have a low carbohydrate diet, i.e. a carnivore ketogenic diet, we don't actually need as much vitamin C because we're not blocking up that system. So they compete for the same receptor. So that's my take on vitamin C. I've never had scurvy. I've never had briquettes, any, you know, antioxidant issue. I've never had it measured admittedly, but I've never met anyone with scurvy that's followed a carnivore diet. Yeah. I don't think there's been anybody that's had scurvy in the last couple hundred years. I know it was an issue with sailors because they were eating salted meats. Yeah. Back in, you know, I don't remember when they discovered it, 15, 1600, something like that. So, yeah, IMean, I'm just lookinGHere, according to the NIH, that it's as little as 40 milligrams a day is enough to prevent scurvy. So it's really not much. Yeah. 40 milligrams. I've seen the... Pretty much nothing. Yeah. In the context of a carbohydrate-based diet where, you know, the average is what, two and a half thousand calories, 250 carbs, whatever, yeah, you will need 40 milligrams. I'd speculate a carnivore diet, you're probably going to need a few milligrams, if that. Yeah, interesting. And B12, it's really B12 is the one I see. I have a lot of guys, it's both carnivore and keto. I get guys come to me, they feel tired, they don't feel well, and I'll see severe B12 deficiencies a lot of times, and I have to get guys to go get B12 shots to get themselves back up in the normal range, and then they feel better. That's one of the things that I've seen quite frequently on blood panels. That one surprised me a bit. I don't dispute that's happened, but I've never seen it happen myself. Tends to be, for me, people are in, like, the hundreds of percent over. I, from what I understand, and correct me if I'm wrong on this, like, the little bit of research that I did reading in on carnivore diets is that you have to vary your meat sources. I think there has to be a certain amount of organ meat in to get all the micronutrients that you get. Is that correct? Not strictly speaking, no. So this isn't an appeal to authority, but this is an appeal to what I've noticed on the field working with a few hundred people. And I will say, most people don't consume organ meats. Generally speaking, the average person I consult with is eating abouT4 or five animal foods over a given week. So usually that, if they're white and they can tolerate it, it'd usually be dairy, eggs, beef, maybe salmon, chicken, or turkey, something like that. But yeah, I've not come across that. Yeah, so I assume the salmon's in there for the EFA is correct. So you're making sure that you're doing it. There's a good amount of omega-3 in grass-fed meats and other meats. The problem is people look at it in the wrong kind of scope. So obviously our body would take in the fat that we eat and it will store in our body. Now we have an omega-3 to omega-6 ratio, which can be measured in the blood. When I've seen people's blood tests, it seems to be that the omega-3 to 6 ratio is significantly better than what it would be otherwise. So for example, mine is around one-to-one. I supplement with omega-3 and I eat a shitload of oily fish. So go have any sort of thing. So I'm not a really great example, but the person that isn't eating loads of oily fish still doesn't have any issues with omega-3. They seem to get all they need from just beef, for example, or lamb. Lamb's actually very high in omega-3. I would think that you probably have to eat grass. You touched on grass-fed because from what I understand, the corn-fed beef or the feedlot beef doesn't have that inadequate amount of EFAs in it from what I understand. But it's very skewed. So I would imagine that having a grass-fed beef is probably important. Am I wrong in that assumption? I'd say most people I speak to, particularly those from the US, tend to just eat whatever beef there is. So the cheap stuff, and they don't seem to have issues. They don't claim to have inflammatory issues or joint pain. A lot of their pain and loads of health issues that I do have seem to be put into remission. I think the only issues I really have for people that start a carnival diet, people that start it too quickly, is a day one carbohydrate diet, day two carnival diet. That's when people have issues. So you have to trensition your body, get your body used to the way it feels and stuff. Yeah, I know that trensition from going into... I assume that you probably just get into ketosis after a while. But that trensition from going from running off carbohydrates or glucose to ketosis is pretty awful sometimes. Yeah, for a lot of people it can be, especially if you're... IMean, one of the reasons for that is, you know, a lot of people, they start a carnival diet, they're eating significantly less food than what they were before. What we know about protein is once that protein intake is around 35-40% of our total calories for the day, which in a carnival diet for the most part usually would be, people notice that appetite tends to go down. So they eat less food. Therefore, they lose body fat. Therefore, they release stored toxins from their body fat. So that's why, you know, support... That's why they say grass-fed meat. One reason is the fat is where they store the essential fatty acids. The other reason is that's where they also store the toxins. So if you're from the US and the food system is the way it is over there, then it's a bit more important. Where I'm from, most beef is grass-fed. There's farms around me right now. I could just walk over there and they're eating grass. It's different in the US, so there's certainly a location accessibility side to it, I think. It sucks here. IMean, nobody eats lamb. I don't know of anybody that eats lamb over here. That seems to be a European thing. And the beef that we have here, unless you specifically buy grass-fed beef, you have to look for it, right? In the grocery store, the stuff that you're going to get are probably going to be corn-fed feedlot type beef. At least the cheap stuff, the grass-fed stuff is usually twice as much. Paul, you'll like this. I have a friend called Rick Rodriguez. And he's 40, I think, sorry, he's about 56, 57 years old. And he's been following a carnivore diet for 40 years. And there's a lady called Maggie White who's about 80. IMight be misrepresenting it, but she's been following a carnivore diet for about 65 years. I have no nutrient deficiencies. And these two people are exceptionally healthy. So if anyone's listening to this now, they can Google it, look these people up. They're legit people. One of them's a rancher, so he's obviously going to have a lot of meat. But you look at them and you think, wow, they look about 20 years younger than what they are. I will say this, man. You know, talking about nutrient deficiencies and stuff like that. Sorry. The average shit diet, I don't think people understand how awful American people, the typical American person eats. I would imagine that anything is going to be better than what the typical diet is that people eat over here. IMean, you're going to see improvement in health. Yeah, I've got a scale to it myself. So I think the worst diet we can follow is a breatharian diet. We'll see because you need to eat. The next one's probably for a period of four years, standard Western diet, vegan and vegetarian diets, if supplemented properly, are better than a Western diet for a period of up to four years, assuming you're not nutrient deficient. But I speak from quite a lot of experience here. I did used to manage a vegan healthy shop and I wasn't vegan. IMet a lot of vegan people and they were not healthy people. They tried to add supplement a bad diet, spending three, four hundred dollars a month on supplements. I think you hit the nail on the head. Usually what I well, it can't. I have I have worked with some vegan clients. Let me back up a little bit. It takes a lot of work. You have to be you have to be very, very, very judicious with your I don't like speaking in absolutes about diets, but you have to be very judicious with your food choices to get everything in that you need to get. And usually what I see with vegans is they end up deficient in essential amino acids a lot of times and they just end up your body just ends up chewing itself up. They waste away. I think there's an initial improvement in health. People feel better. Probably just because they're lost weight. They're in a calorie deficit and they've detoxified a bit. But then you get in the state of nutrient deficiency and they end up looking like cancer patients after a while. So, yes, it's sad to see. And, you know, people, people hear us talking about this. We're not talking about this as if say, ha ha, you're doing it wrong. It's more we pity these people that can't be healthy on on the diet they're doing. So ultimately, if someone feels better doing a diet, do it. But I've had my experience. It's not been on a vegan diet. That's always been my thing. You know, people ask me, what's the best diet? I think it's the one you can follow and be healthy on. It's really that simple. I am not ideologically married to any sort of diet philosophy. Like we were saying earlier, I see it as a tool in the tool belt. There's different tools for different jobs. And some things work better for some people. Others don't. I don't know personally that I could ever go without carbs for an extended period of time. I did keto for about a year one time. And it was the most miserable I've ever been in my life. It was horrible. For some people, it can piss them off. I just felt horrible. Like this whole thing about people talking about feeling better. I did not feel better on keto. My body seems to run better when I have some level of carbohydrates. Now, like I said, like, you know, if I was giving up the bodybuilding portion of it, I would probably stick with like fibrous whole grains and things like that. I don't know. But probably more of a Mediterranean style diet, which is very low carbohydrate. Did you want to talk about fiber at all? Yeah. Let's talk. Yeah. They actually had that next on my list on fiber. That's always been a question for me with the whole fiber thing. And people, I really don't eat that many vegetables. People give me shit about it. But morning Coleman didn't. Yeah, I know. I'll have a little bit here and there. But I found that vegetables, for me at least, I've had issues with IBS. Vegetables and high fiber really messes my gut up. That's the issue that I run into. Now, I understand the alcohol's mortality rates, if you look at studies, tend to be lower with people that consume a lot of fiber. And I do supplement a little bit of fiber at night. I'll take a fiber supplement. But I'm certainly not getting it from food sources. But what's your take? That's always been an argument I've heard about against keto or carnivore is the lack of fiber in the diet and how that can cause problems. Yeah, so what people talk about and they're saying about fiber is it basically feeds the colonocytes in your colon. So it produces something called a short-chain fatty acid. What people don't realize is you can get them from meat. The problem is, like I said, the trensitional things. You have to titrate the carbs down, the fiber down, the protein, the fat up. So butyric acid will come from, it's a short-chain fatty acid, it will come from butter, for example. You can get it from other things as well. There's lots of short-chain fatty acids. Propionic acid is one of them. There's quite a few. But people just assume you can only get them from fiber, which isn't true. The other thing is people think it adds bulk to their stool and helps them go. But we've not seen that in any study. We've not. I've got to frame this correctly because otherwise people misunderstand what I'm saying. So we've got one cause and effect study on fiber intake. And they've got a group of participants. So IMight be able to link this in the comments below or something afterwards. But it's a group of participants, and they all have different fiber intakes. So high, medium, low, zero, something like that. And they found the more they lowered the fiber intake, the better the digestive system was in terms of how they felt. So there's subjective markers of how they felt. Now, this was a short-term study. But what they did was they did a follow-up further along down the line later on. Maybe I think it was about a year later. And they sort of said, oh, I still feel good doing the zero protocol. So that's the only cause and effect study we have on fiber intake. So like I said, the all-cause mortality thing. Yeah, people that eat a whole foods diet, you know, they're not eating Snickers bars. They're eating fruit and vegetables. Yeah, they're probably going to have less processed food in their diet. But therefore, they're going to have better digestive health, live for a bit longer. But then those people have something called a healthy user bias, which I'm sure you probably know about. So for example, in different studies with different populations, for example, in California, those people in those studies will be people that don't smoke, people that don't take risks, people that arEQuite health conscious. They get the sun, walk the dog. You know, they don't eat junk food. They go to the gym, work out. So that's what healthy user bias is. So it confounds the whole issue. You can't point to cause and effect of fiber intake being useful. And when we look at the actual error bars of these studies, meaning we have the tren line, then each average along that tren line, if I say, if that makes sense, basically have a massive error bar, which means people did all sorts of things, which means there's no control to the study. So you can't really point towards fiber beinGHelpful. It's almost, that's the thing that always gets me with diet studies. It's almost, there's no way that you can control for everything. There's, there's, there's almost no good dietary intervention studies. We have, there's, there's two I can think of. So the first one is the fiber intake one. The second one, funnily enough, is by a researcher explorer called, it's like, I can't spell his name because I'm stupid, but it's like Willimer Stephenson, something like that. So he was an Arctic explorer about a hundred years ago and he went to see the Inuit population and they, for anyone that doesn't know, a high fat diet, meat, no vegetables, no fruit, nothing. Well, there's nothing that grows there. There's nothing, there's subtle there, you know. Right. So he said, okay, this is what I'm eating. And everyone, no, I didn't believe you were going to survive on that. You got no carbs. You got no fibrous, you know, matter sort of thing. No roughage. And they're like, okay, we're going to lock you in a lab and we're going to see what you do. So he gave him the same sort of diet, you know, the meat sort of meat and fat diet. And he was healthy, nothing went wrong. And they followed up for a really long period of time. He had no health issues at all. So that tells me, okay, we can survive on this diet. We're not one going to get ill. We're not going to get scurvy. You're not going to get, I don't know, fiber, malabsorption, fiber insufficiency sort of thing. So yeah, nutrition science is useless. And that's coming from me who is a nutritionist. That's my one degrees in. I'd say it's a lot of extrapolation. IMean, logically thinking about it, you would have to lock people into a room and control what they eat, how much they eat and every aspect of their lifestyle. Like that's the thing, like, I don't know how much you can extrapolate from nutritional studies. You know, maybe rat studies. You can, to a certain degree, because you can force a rat to eat a certain amount of food. Or you can control how much exercise a rat gets, et cetera. But it, like there's so many co-factors. Like, you know, how much person exercises, what type of exercise they have, what they eat, how much they eat. I don't know how you control for that in a study. So the best we have is anecdote, really. Anecdote, real people that aren't funded by anything. Yeah. I run a nutrition consultancy. Yes, I, you know, propose that a carnival diet is excellent because I've experienced that benefit. I work with anyone. I tend to move more towards an animal-based diet, if anything. So that's my own bias. But I think even if I didn't run a nutrition consultancy, I'd still have a YouTube channel talking about this sort of thing. And I've had a tremendous benefit from it. And I know lots of people that have as well. Like all these incurable diseases. IMean, I'm not going to say the diet has cured them, absolutely. But in a lot of cases, it certainly helped. One person to look up is someone called Andrew Scarborough. He's 12 years cancer-free in remission. And he's been following a paleo-ketogenic diet, which is pretty much like me, but very, very, very high fat. So essentially, he's eating a low, moderate protein and high fat. And that's to control seizures and a very vicious brain cancer that he had. There's other examples as well. People with MS, you know, depression, anxiety, all sorts of things. Like across the board, I've never met so many people that are healthy because of a diet. I do think we have to be cautious saying the diets cure certain things, but it certainly can have an effect on it. IMean, we do know that cancer seems to feed on glucose. So I know I have seen some people that say there's some success with lower carbohydrate diets of people that do have cancer. And I know keto does work with people that have seizures, right? It seems to get rid of that. But I'm very cautious and skeptical when people talk about diet curing diseases. But it certainly, it seems to be nutrition is the most important aspect for our health, right? It does seem to be the thing that we can greatly impact our health with is how we eat. I certainly have seen it too. You know, but I'm always cautious on making those sorts of promises. I'm not telling people, you know, to just trust in me, absolutely. So I'm not cominGHere trying to sort of push people in this one direction in a corner. IMean, if what you're doing already is working, go at it. But just consider some of the things I said. There are different mechanisms that come into play. There's lots of biology that goes into it. You know, the Randall cycle is just one of many examples I could give. The other one is the deuterium aspect of it also. IMean, the third example IMight give is circadian biology. A lot of bodybuilders nowadays spending two hours, three hours in the gym under, you know, blue light, stressing themselves out. Now, if you chuck on a pair of, I'm not suggesting this. I'd rather people just tren for a short period of time. But if you go to the gym, chuck on a pair of these. After you work out, you'll calm down. Your heart rate will go lower much quicker because the blue light helps you. Well, it promotes the release of cortisol. So you think the morning light in the day that you're awake, that controls your wake and sleep cycles. So there's so much outside diet that people don't think about. So what you're telling me is I'm doing everything wrong with my trening. I tren right before. I tren at the end of the day. I always tren at night, man. It's terrible. It makes it hard to go to sleep. I used to as well. Yeah. I tren at 9 or 10 o'clock in the morning now. But yeah, I used to do the same at 6, 7 at night. Yeah, I tren like at 8 or 9 at night. Very late. I wish I could rearrange it otherwise, but my schedule doesn't permit me to do so. In an ideal world, I'd probably tren in the early afternoon would be what I would like to tren. So that way my CNS is not all stimulated and whatnot before bed. Yeah, honestly, check out the blue blocking glasses or something. Honestly, they – I get the blue light blockers in all my glasses, all my prescription glasses because I sit in front of a computer screen. No, not those. Oh, no. No, not those ones. No, these ones. They have to basically deflect and absorb like 450 nanometers blade length. So the ones you're wearing are good for like daytime. But if you're, say, staring at a street at night, editing videos, recording, interviewing someone, once it gets dark outside, chuck them on. If you have a suggestion for those, send me a link and I'll put it in the video description so people can check those out. All right, man. Well, I appreciate you coming on. This was very, very, very insightful. You bring a lot of good ideas to the table. You're definitely well-researched. And I appreciate the thoughtfulness that you put into all this. And taking a chance and coming on, I promise you I wouldn't bully you. I do like to make fun of carnivore guys sometimes because there are some idiot carnivores out there. If somebody can give me a reasonable scientific and logical explanation, I'm all ears. And most dudes, it's just eat meat. That's what cavemen ate. And I'm like, come on, man. You got to do better than that. Yeah, I don't really eat raw meat. It's not like you see online. Most of us just eat meat with a bit of salt and butter and eggs and stuff like that. It's nothing too crazy. There's some people to look at there. John Anderson follows an animal-based diet to my understanding. Sam Pearce, an Australian bodybuilder, IFBB Pro, follows a carnivore diet. He's got Crohn's, C's, I believe, or IBS. A few other people to think of. But there's athletes, Sean Baker, world record holder in rowing. There's some cool guys out there that have done pretty incredible things. So it shows people it can be done. But just don't expect miracles overnight. It's something you go into slowly and eat out the most benefit for making the smallest match change. Jonathan, I appreciate you coming on. If people want to get a hold of you, how can they find you? Sure, yeah. So my YouTube channel is just Carnival Muscle, which is on the screen now. Quite easy to find. Otherwise, my website is compositionconsult.com. I do coaching, consultations, diet plans, trening plans, and e-books. And I do a free e-book as well. So if you want to check that one out, it's all on there. Well, folks, I'll put Jonathan's contact information in the video description below if you want to get a hold of him for coaching or check out any of his materials. Please do so. Give him a follow on YouTube. Jonathan deserves the follow. He's a very smart, thoughtful man. I appreciate you coming on, Jonathan. Thank you. Cheers, have me. cheers, cheers, cheers. cheers