 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, battle-tested, expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright, hey guys, this is Paul here today with Justin Harris and Joe Miller from First Detachment Nutrition.!!!! 2000s, we competed together, we competed together, we were coaches together. Joe was actually, Project Super Heavyweight, Joe trained with Steve Kuklo and I, Joe was the third person who I can't remember if you had started at Lifetime recently then, but it was Joe, Steve Kuklo and I who trained together and we filled Project Super Heavyweight and I think Joe had just started at Lifetime and could no longer do our, because we trained in the morning and so Joe missed out on that, that, that fun, but we, we trained together for several years. Uh, and, uh, he was actually one of the first nutritionists on, uh, Tropona Nutrition with me. Uh, also before I think he went to Lifetime. Yeah. And so we've, uh, we've known each other for quite some time. That's funny. I remember buying that video a long time ago. I remember you, I remember you saw it and I bought that video and watched you guys train. Yeah. Probably mailed in like a manila envelope with handwritten address and everything. Well, I have a couple of claims to fame. One of them is like, there's one of your like million plus views squat videos. You can see my pants in the background. I'm like, that's my pants. I'm like, look at that quad sweep, you know? Um, but yeah, no, we were, we, you know, we, we kind of, uh, stay in contact, but you know, both got really busy. And then just, uh, about a couple of years ago, we reconnected. We're looking to do some stuff in the medical field together and, uh, still looking to do that probably like 2024, late 2023, got some plans for that. But, um, uh, just really always wanted to kind of reconnect and rework together. And then an opportunity came up with first attachment. So, um, yeah, I decided to partner up obviously Justin with his expertise and quality and the products and things and some of my background. So we're, yeah, we're just kind of excited to get this thing rolling and get some good product and good service out there to everybody. Yeah. I like your, the thing I like about your products and I know this is probably, probably not the best way to phrase it, but I, they are made for guys like me that use PEDs. Yeah. I mean, we have the entire PCMS line. That's yeah. You know, the QRF for liver health, uh, uh, renal reset for kidney health, uh, suppressor for, uh, insulin sensitivity canopy for the digestion aid for the people who are eating the type of food, the, the food volume you're eating, which is quite a bit. So, yeah, I mean, it really was the thought, you know, who's cause you know, you think mainstream, you know, obviously has the most people, but who's by supplements, you know, uh, housewives don't buy supplements. And D or whatever they want, you know, people who buy supplements and buy a brand are, are people are more or less hardcore people who are really involved in the sport. You know, young kids that are really guys that are trying to learn, uh, people like you who are dedicated and serious and then also concerned about their health or want to keep themselves healthy so they can stay in the sport for a long time. Um, but it's really, you know, I think, you know, like I, and I heard Fuad Aviad say this and I don't want to like, uh, uh, plagiarize him, but you know, he said like, he thinks what worked for him is that he wasn't, you know, they, they weren't ashamed to be bodybuilders and they weren't ashamed to say they love the sport. And I feel like we're the same way. You know, we, we are bodybuilders. We are power lifters. We come from the sport, you know, and we, we want to honor the sport and we love the sport. And so we want to be a part of it. Yeah, I really, I mean, it's, I thought it was very slick how you had, uh, certain supplements that are engineered to help alleviate some of the side effects we get from PEDs. I, I, I know we talked about it before the call, but I ran QRF on this contest prep and I was, I was taking a halo test and at the end and my liver values were the lowest they've ever been after contest prep. One week after contest prep, I, my, uh, ALT and AST were in the high twenties. I've never had that. They were like, they were like 300 last year. Yeah. It's a, it's a great product that it's expensive produce and hard to produce. We don't make a lot of money on it, but it's one of our better sellers and, and we really don't even push it because, uh, it, it sells, you know, people use it and they see immediate effect from it. We've got, I mean, a couple of good things we have. I've got several type two diabetic clients who, uh, have completely got off metformin or whatever other, uh, type of blood pressure or blood sugar medication they were on by using our suppressor. Uh, well, you know, it's got 1500 milligrams of berberine and other ingredients with stuff I've talked about for years, but I have, you know, real world data with several people with, you know, A1Cs nearing seven fasted blood sugar levels in the one 6170 range who are now waking up with fasted blood sugar levels consistently under a hundred and often under 90 and with A1Cs now under six effectively no longer being type two diabetics and off their, off their prescription medications, even at this point. Yeah. I've always had issues with my glucose running high. I don't know if I'm pre-diabetic or whatever, but, uh, I'm also running that as well. And I've had, I've had good luck with it. I haven't had my A1c tested again since I started it, but I noticed my glucose levels are in the nineties again. Yeah. I was going to comment on that too, is I, uh, just as far as the products and how they work and how they're formulated is, you know, the core, as Justin said, like the core is the more hardcore athlete, but in my experience and kind of the, the general health sectors, I spent a good amount of time in the kind of the corporate world and that, and then also in the medical field and looking at general population, like labs and things like we're going to stay true to our brand and who we are and hardcore that, but there's also a lot of people that I know, friends and family members that are just more your general, you know, they work out here and there, but not as hardcore, but they're seeing a lot of the great health benefits from it. And so seeing, seeing kind of, you know, just, um, how those other things can help them. I mean, I think we talked about before, maybe on one of the videos like metformin and how great it works, um, for the things that it does relative to blood sugar. But also I know, I know three or four people in my family that can't take it and they need it because of the, um, yeah, it's really bad. So by switching to this product, um, I have three of my closest, uh, family members actually that were, you know, switched over to use a suppressor and seeing, you know, similar results in their blood work and from their physicians, which is pretty cool. Yeah. And there's, I mean, there's more than just that too, you know, as a bodybuilder, you know, metformin can lower appetite, which if you're trying to add size, it's not what you want to do, but there's a secondary thing. You don't want also that Fomin works through a cyclic AMP, which is like an anti-inflammatory process. That's actually counter to hypertrophy. You know, now if you're on PDs, uh, you know, obviously poor insulin sensitivity and high blood sugar isn't good for, isn't promoting muscle growth either. So you want to fix that. But the problem is if the fix for that is something that's anti-hypertrophy, that's counter to hypertrophy, you know, that's kind of putting it, you know, you're putting like walking uphill on a backwards escalator, you know, maybe you can run really fast, but you still got to go against that backward escalator when you're using something like that. Where berberine conversely works through IGF-1. IGF-1 is actually more insulinogenic on a milligram per milligram basis than actual insulin. And so metformin works similarly to improve insulin sensitivity, but it also works through IGF-1 to basically promote insulinogenesis, which, you know, which is the most potent, uh, uh, stimulator of, you know, of insulin receptors really. So it's, it's, it's doubly effective in that it controls blood sugar where you don't want elevated blood sugar. That's going to slow muscle growth, but it also doesn't hinder muscle growth by the actual product like metformin does. Yeah. And I've seen it with, you know, with a lot of the guys that I worked with, especially the over 40 bodybuilders. It seems to be the limiting factor with a lot of the dudes is insulin sensitivity and glucose uptake. As soon as I get guys fixed in that area, they start growing. I get a lot of middle-aged bodybuilders come to me. It's just like, I can't grow anymore. And we address that, you know, through, through, uh, berberine and sometimes metformin and better dietary choices, but it does seem to have an impact with people growing significant impact and body composition too. I've seen guys improve body composition. I know with me, I stay leaner. I, like I, I will say metformin does crush my appetite sometimes, uh, struggle with my appetite, but the, I have noticed since I have been using suppressor and berberine that my body composition is much better. Yeah. And you can imagine that food. Yeah. I mean, it, you know, insulin has a purpose, you know, it, it, it, it absorbs things. And so I always, I always show a picture, you know, insulin, I always view it as like a, like a, a basket, you know, and the insulin hormone fits in that receptor. It goes in that receptor. And what, what happens is it shuttles, shuffles some proteins around that cell. And it's basically like opening a shower drain. You know, you take a bathtub or a bath or whatever, you close the drain and the water fills up. You open that drain, the water gets sucked down. That's what that insulin does. It opens up the channels that allow nutrients to flow in. And most importantly, it allows, uh, amino acid uptake, a higher rate of amino acid uptake. So if that cell is stimulated for muscle protein synthesis and you have poor insulin sensitivity and insulin can't bind to that receptor, that cell's trying to synthesize new muscle. And it can't because your insulin sensitivity is low. You increase that insulin sensitivity. That receptor is now responsive to the insulin. insulin fits in that receptor, shows those proteins around. Now that cell that wants to build muscle sucks in amino acids and actually builds the muscle. Yeah. I've seen it happen over and over again. Older guys, you know, we address that and then they start growing. Yeah. Every, every time I run into an older guy, they can't grow. It's almost always an insulin sensitivity issue. Are you? Yeah. And I'm curious, Paul, are you using like a immediate release metformin that's affecting your, uh, appetite or extended release or what? No, I don't use the XR. I use the regular. Gotcha. Yeah. I was just curious if that would, if that would help with that. I, you know, I've seen a mixed feedback on that and on the medical side. And then, um, I think we were talking a while back to that. The, there's some creams out there. I know that are compounded that, um, metformin is into that kind of supposed to like lower the GI stress. But myself personally, I was all pumped about the creams and still just was like, you know, on the toilet all the time. So I'm like, well, this is, I had to switch. Metformin works and you need to improve, uh, insulin sensitivity, but that's why my first round, my first defense is always a burberry product like suppressor because metformin is fighting against you two ways. A, the cyclic AMP, which is, you know, counter to hypertrophy and then B, if it kills your appetite. So there's two pathways that it can negatively affect muscle growth and only one pathway that it can improve muscle growth. You know, where you have like suppressor, you have, it improves muscle growth, insulin sensitivity, but it also works through IGF-1, which improves muscle growth. So it's just, you know, it's all beneficial. Obviously that's, that's not enough. You need to look to metformin, but in my experience, the 1500 milligrams, the dose of suppressor seems to be approximately equal and improving insulin sensitivity to about a thousand milligrams of metformin per day. Yeah. That's pretty impressive for an over the counter supplement that it can do that much. Yeah. Hopefully it's, hopefully it stays over the counter. That's the problem. As soon as the, as soon as the FDA finds out it works, we'll, we'll see. Well, yeah, I know. Yeah. I know there was the issue with that with also with, uh, NAC, which is in the QRF product. Yeah. I don't know. That's why it was hard to produce. Yeah. I think they've backed off on that now. It seems, I don't know where that stands, but NAC is very effective. Yeah. You, you have to do some, yeah, you have to do some tricky things and kind of, it's gotta be like you under additional scrutiny, you know, but it's, it's difficult to produce, which is why, like I said, it's, you know, our margins aren't as high on that, but it's, you know, I mean, I'm a bodybuilder. We're bodybuilders first and foremost, you know? And so it's, if we were purely a money-making business, maybe that wouldn't have been our first choice, but we look at it as produce what works and what people will use, you know, and, you know, make a better product than everyone else. And, and, and things will fall into place rather than coming at it as just trying to make a product with the highest margins, in which case we wouldn't have the NAC and we'd want to have an effective product. So. I mean, NAC works, there's just no two ways around it. So does Berberine. Berberine works as good as any pharmaceutical. Yeah. Yeah. I was going to mention, Justin, I think you've talked about this a lot. I'm sure like, you know, Paul, with a lot of your viewers are, um, I would, I would assume, well, you probably have a mixture, but I would assume, you know, a lot of them are maybe early in their bodybuilding as well. Um, or looking to kind of have those long-term, you know, the majority of the guys, the majority of the guys that watch my channel are middle-aged when I look at the demographics. Okay. Interesting. Nice. Old guy bodybuilding. Well, there's a lot of them then, cause there's a lot of people watching it. So yeah, I think the thing, the point I was trying to make on that is I think like just thinking back to me in my early twenties when, you know, Justin mentioned like me, him, Steve, you know, a couple other, uh, people that went on and do really well in the sport were training and some of them were, were gone in their late twenties, early thirties out of the sport, um, for, or, you know, for a number of, uh, reasons, but the main one being that just didn't take care of their health. So I think like, that's a big thing that Justin's always reached is, you know, if you can put on, uh, you probably have heard him say this before, and I'm sure he'll say it after I, I mess it up, but you know, five pounds a year over 10 years is, you know, 50 pounds of stage weight, right? But you have to be able to last that 10 years and a lot of damage can be done if people are, you know, using the wrong things, not taking care of it, not doing the maintenance work they do or, or, you know, supplementing the health side of it to kind of keep the system clean and going forward. And that, you know, that's, there's a lot, you know, there, there are a good amount, uh, you know, I'm sure they've taken really good care of their bodies as well as genetics, but there's also others that it's an uphill battle. Well, there's been more than others. I mean, you look, go online, you know, viral dropping like flies and it's really insanity because you, there's only a few things you need to take care of, you know, nearly all of the health problems stem from high blood pressure, your blood pressure. You know, I've talked about this before. You're you're it's really kidneys, but it stems from blood pressure. Your kidneys are like a filter. If you think of a coffee filter and you run it under, you know, soft rainwater, that's going to filter rainwater forever. You put that coffee filter under a fire hose, all that high pressure, it's going to tear apart the coffee filter. It's no longer in a filter. And that's what happens. You know, people use orals that they're, they do things that spike their blood pressure. They don't take care of their blood pressure that eventually blows out their kidneys. The heart's response to that is that it's working against the bigger pressure. And so the heart muscle grows thicker. The way the heart works is the muscle doesn't grow outside the heart. It grows inside the cavity. So the cavity gets smaller. The heart rate increases. The next thing it has to do to try to keep up with the filtration requirements, because it can only beat so fast is it'll start. It's last move is to dilate kind of like a, like a last ditch effort. You'll get dilated caromyopathy and then that'll damage the kidneys even more because your fluid volume will increase. And then if you notice all these bodybuilders, what everyone says, you know, their last, you know, I saw him last week, he, you know, he said, he's dealing with pneumonia or I saw him last week. He had some kind of chest cold. You say, well, he's feeling so great, but he's thinking he's getting better. That's what it is. Cause that end stage of that is the pulmonary edema fluid buildup back into the lungs. And that's why all these bodybuilders have pneumonia. Well, and it's silly because all of this could be prevented and you can push things pretty hard. I mean, I'm not, you know, I'm not one of those guys saying, you know, use baby doses, you know, like the sport is the way the sport is, but you can push things. If you're just smart about it, take care of your liver health, keep your insulin sensitivity high, track your blood pressure, get your blood work. And then when you get your blood work and you see things out of whack, use a product like we have to fix that problem. If you're AST, ALT are elevated, get on QRF. If your blood sugar and A1c are elevated, get on suppressor. You know, it's all, if your digestion is terrible before you get colitis, before you get IBS, like everybody learns of getting from pounding food for year and year, get on canopy. You know, we, we designed the digestion products. Just everyone else designs digestion products based on like acidophilus as the only thing they put in or all they care about is probiotics. We put in a product that was like designed specifically for guys that are eating a lot. So you don't develop IBS. Like everybody, but we've got digestive issues after they've been in sport for 10 years. If you're going to eat pounds of chicken and rice, you need something to help that also. And so that, that's all it is. You know, just track things and be smart about it. And you can, you can be pretty aggressive with stuff for a long period of time and walk away without health problems. Yeah. I think it's interesting. Like the, uh, uh, the, the court, like the correlations of like a hardcore bodybuilder and some of the damages they'll have from getting bigger, but it's kind of similar that like, uh, for the, you know, super obese or the, uh, metabolic syndrome people. And like the general population have these issues because I have noticed, you know, getting some digestion, digestive aid, like they have, like, cause they're eating so much that obviously bodybuilders is different, good quality food, but they're still getting like the same, some of the same issues where like the, you know, when people are eating just garbage for years too, they're going to, they're getting those issues. So, um, it's nice to see all those things that can, that can, you know, help and kind of get ahead of that. But, um, but yeah, it's just, it's just interesting to me that as the body gets bigger, like it, you know, needs extra support and puts extra strain on it. I mean, I'm almost 50 and I'm still doing it. You know, I don't know if I should use myself as the example, but I've always been pretty conservative with, with, uh, my gear usage. I think Justin told me I was sub using suboptimal amounts one time. You're in the low end for sure. But, you know, I've always tried to play conservative, um, and, and then monitor my health as well. You know, I get blood work done. I do things, you know, it's not, it's still, it's still a dangerous activity at the end of the day. I tell people, I used to ride motorcycles. It's there, you're increasing risk by getting just the very fact of getting on the motorcycle and riding it. But there are things that you can do to mitigate risk, you know, like wear a helmet, drive safely, take a defensive driving course. It's just like with bodybuilding and managing your blood pressure, keeping an eye on your blood work. Like you said, um, you know, not running stupid orals and train year round. Uh, you know, the, the dumb shit that I see the 25 year old it's doing all the time. Deep on trend 365 days of the year. Yeah. Yeah. And you have, cause you have to consider the, where are all the top guys in the sport? What age are they? 38 to 42. You know, I mean, guys aren't winning the Olympia 23 anymore. You don't reach your peak in the sport to around age 40. You have to consider that. Like you want to be the best 25 year old. You can be yes. But if being the best 25 year old means you're no longer in the sport when you would be your best bodybuilder and your best chance to actually make money in the sport, then you're doing something wrong. And so anything you're doing, you have to consider the fact that if you're 25, you have 15 years before you're actually going to fully reap the financial rewards from that work. And if you're doing stuff that means that's going to mean by age 30, you got health problems are out of the sport. Then, then you, I mean, what was the point of it all? Cause you, you never even got to see what you could become because you blew yourself out before you got even anywhere near your prime. And there's only so much muscle protein synthesis. You can stimulate in a given time anyway. You know, it's, it's the bell curve of, you know, when, when you push things too far, it, it's the descending gains. I look at it as a, as a cost versus benefit ratio, you know, where, where is the top of that curve at? And I want to be at the top of that curve, not slightly behind it. Yeah. Not above it. Yeah. Well, that's the thing. No one takes stock. No one does that with anything they do. It's like, you know, there's a linear path and where are you on that path? I'm here. My goal's here. Where am I on that? And you can look at other people. Let's say, okay, who's the, who's the fastest growing humanin history? It would be probably like big Rami or Nick Walker, Nick Walker's, you know, burst on the scene. So let's take him. He did his first show in 2012. He's gained a 100 pounds of contest weight since then. I mean, that's amazing. You know, like if you're, you do your first show and you're, you know, 180 or one, 185, that means you're 285 pounds in 10 years. And, you know, competing at the Mr. Olympia, anyone would say that's an amazing rate of progress, right? That's, that's 12 pounds a year. That's one pound per month. If you break that down to the actual weight of the protein, you know, you, you say, you say a hundred, 500 grams of protein is 1.1 pounds, you know, a protein weight. If you break that down, you're talking about 18 grams of protein per day on average. There's 24 hours in a day. Nick Walker has been synthesizing less than one grams of protein per hour to new muscle. And he's the fastest growing humanin history. So you think about that per hour. So if you eat every three hours, that means at most, and he's been under this, but on average he, in that three hour span, he's been, he's synthesized about two grams of new muscle protein. So that's for every meal. So how many grams of protein are you eating that meal? 50, 60, 70, 40, a hundred. The fast, the most any human on earth is synthesizing is two grams of that. So rather than just blindly throw things at the problem, you know, like the dartboards over here, let me just start throwing darts at it. Think of what you're doing, you know? Cause that's, that's your upper limit. Everything you're doing is bound by that. So we, we have very limited protein synthesis. So rather than just pour protein at the problem, let's make sure we're maximizing the ability of the protein we eat to be synthesized. That means proper carbohydrate uses. That means proper healthy fat uses. Let's make sure that the gear we're using is maximizing that. Cause you know, when you guys do these mega cycles for eight weeks, you're still bound by that upper limit, you know, you're not, you're not, you don't magically get extra growth. So you're going to do this death cycle for eight weeks. Okay. Eight weeks is what is that? Like 56 days or whatever. Yeah. Terrible math. A number of math. So yeah, so 56 days. So you got like 18 grams times 56. So like a thousand grams. So that, that eight weeks, you have a thousand grams of protein maximum that you're going to synthesize. You're going to do all those orals and trend for two pounds of potential muscle growth, you know, or cause that's the upper bound or you can take them. And you know, that two pounds, that two pounds is your upper limit every eight weeks. Why not pick a cycle that allows you to stay healthy? And rather than just be eight weeks and then be near death and having to go off, stretch that cycle to 16 weeks and come out of the 16 weeks healthy. Then you get twice as much muscle growth and you're healthy at the end of it. You know, like no one takes stock of that. It's mind boggling. Yeah. Bodybuilding is a long game. It really is. You have to have your 10 year plan. It's like, there's, there's really, there's really no way to shortcut it. No, no. Nick Walker had shortcut it and that's what the shortcut is. One pound per month. Yeah. 10 years. I remember I saw an interview with him one time. I think he said he started taking gear when he was 16. I think that's what he said. Not that I'm encouraging that, but that's, that's how, you know, people talk about how young he is, but he's been at this a long time. Yeah. Yeah. He's been competing for 10 years. Yeah. How old is that dude? What? 25, 26. Yeah. So he's probably been competing since. Yeah. If he took gear and he competed at 16, that would make sense. Yeah. Yeah. I'm pretty sure his first show is 2012. Cause he puts up like a comparison, like, you know, before or after to show how far he's come, which is amazing. Yeah. But even then, like, yeah, that's amazing. But that was, that took 10 years. That's a full decade. Right. 12 pounds a year. Yeah. Most people don't have the ability to grind away at something like that. I mean, it's, I mean, really anything in life is like that. It takes, it takes, uh, there's a, I have my original degrees in music, but there's a thing in music called 10,000 hours to perfection. Right. Yeah. If you've heard that before, but they say it takes 10,000 hours of practice to perfect an instrument. And it's, you know, there, that, that seems to apply to a lot of other things in life. Yeah. Just in general, if your goal is to the success, the end, you're not going to get there. If you, you, you have to love the process, the process has to be your joy. Uh, and that's, what's going to, that's, what's going to cause, allow you to reach the end goal, the success. But if you just want the success, you're not getting there because the success is a, you know, a fraction of a percent of the, of, of the whole process. 99.999% of the process is the work and the time. And if you don't enjoy doing that, you're not going to get to that 0.1%. Yeah. I used to do jujitsu. I used to do quite a bit of jujitsu and there was always a thing in there. They were saying that you got to get tapped out 10,000 times before you get a black belt. Oh boy. I believe it. Yeah. The black belt criteria was brutal. You had to like murder someone to get your black belt. It's funny. You see like guys from top academies, you know, that'll be a brown belt and they'll roll with a black belt and make them from a different kind of academy and the black, they'll make the black belt look like an, you know, a child. It's like, it's funny how strict some, uh, academies are with giving up that black belt. Some of them have weird rules. Like you have to break a bone or something. Yeah. I went to, uh, the academy I went to, the guy actually was from Brazil. And came here with the Gracie's originally, and he did not give out black belts. I mean, you, you, it was 12, 15 years to get a black belt. Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, it's the same thing in bodybuilding. I mean, it takes 12, like I, I always laugh when I get these guys that have their, their, their one cycle plan to get their pro card. They're going to compete in the local show, qualify for nationals and then get their pro card in, in, in two shows. Yeah. Or the other guys, they always, I don't, I don't want to compete until I'm ready to compete as a pro. It's like, well, then you're not going to compete because one, you got one that ain't, that ain't happening for 15 years. And two, it's not happening period. Unless you get a couple of competitions on your belt. Cause no, no one, your first competition is always tough and you don't really start progressing until you start competing. So I get that all the time. Well, I get all the time. I'll get guys nearing 40 who have great physique. Maybe they're 260 pounds in the offseason, but, and they're still insisting on not competing until they look like a pro. And it's like, dude, you're 37. You've been at this 15 years, do a show. And I can guarantee that's your only chance of getting that next level. You'll be, it's pretty, it's slipping away already. Cause you're getting old, but you're never going to get it unless you compete. You know, like I want to be the best competitor, but I'm never going to compete. Well, it seems that the more people compete too, like the more they're, you know, just their, their physique overall just grows and shapes and kind of, you know, expands a lot faster than if they were just, just doing their normal kind of deal. Just that it seems like that, you know, you get better at competing by competing. Right. So, yeah, I think Paul can attest to that with his, you know, the post-contest rebound if handled properly, it was really your way to kind of, that's, that's your one true way to kind of short, that's your, that's the closest thing to a shortcut. There it is. Yeah. The rebound. I mean, I, I was a perma blocker in my twenties. I, I remember I kept telling myself one more year, one more year, one more year, one more year. And then it just never, never materialized. Well, what just for people that might not know out there, um, can you walk through just your progression, Paul, like, you know, when you first competed and kind of like, and then, you know, what you've done and then what your next plan is. Cause I, I think that's, that's, you know, there's some pretty crazy comparisons from when you started to when you, and that you have on like Instagram and stuff like that out there. Yeah. When I was in my twenties, I, uh, I, I, I trained with Dante Trudell actually. Um, Dante trained me back, back then, um, before he was Dante, uh, before everybody even knew who he was. I mean, way back when, like 2002 and I worked with him back then for several years and I got pretty big. I was a perma balker and then I quit lifting for like 10 years. Um, had a couple of bad injuries. I just did a powerlifting competition and I, uh, ended up rupturing a disc in my back and blowing an ACL out and just like all kinds of shit. And then I'm just like, fuck this. I'm done. And I got tired of, I trained people. I got tired of people arguing with me all the time about, um, this or that. Um, and I just walked away from it completely. I, I worked on my business. I did jujitsu and I just stayed away from it completely. And then I, uh, the ultimate motivator, I got divorced five years ago and I'm like, I got to get myself back in shape. And I just kind of got back in and started lifting and got bit by the bug again. I think Justin and I, would we have been working together three years now? Yeah, I think so. Yeah. And, uh, what was your stage weight at your first show? 180, something like that. What's your weight? What's your weight right now? Um, uh, like close to 270. Yeah. No, I, you're, you're, uh, I actually, when I presented at Swiss, I use you as my case study for my presentation was post-contest hypertrophy. And basically, you know, why is everyone not taking advantage of this? And, uh, people like people thought your, your picture photoshopped when I put them up. No one would believe them. Well, they can reach out to me. I'll tell them. Yeah. It was kind of a unique situation because I, I had been big when I was in my twenties. I was, I don't know. I'd say I was power lifter big. It wasn't like bodybuilder big. There's a difference that, you know, the, the third, I remember Dante, like his diets were crazy. Like he would tell me to go to McDonald's afterwards and eat four double cheeseburgers and workouts and, and put protein powder and milkshakes. So that was, that was what I was, when I was younger and then, and then I decided to do the show, but yeah, yeah. One 85. And then I was two 37 on stage this year. So that was, I don't know, you know, doing the math. It's like 50 pounds, 52 pounds. I think stage weight in one year. Yeah. Yeah. But it's a bit deceiving because I had been big before. So yeah. And you were, you were over dieted for that first show. Yeah. I mean, I don't know where I should have come in at, but you know, so it's, it's not like I've, you know, added 52 pounds of real contractile tissue in a year. I don't know. You know, you've had a lot of size. I mean, you can see the pictures you've had. I mean, cause even offseason, offseason, you, you've had a lot of size. It's been very impressive. It's wild. What's wild too, is like people always told me you couldn't gain after 40 and I'm a, I mean, I'm 48. Yeah. Well, the reason you can't. Still going strong. The reason you can't hormonal, you don't produce as much testosterone and typically body fat. Typically as you age, you have higher body fat levels. So you're going to aromatize more of the testosterone you do produce into estrogen. And then your insulin sensitivity is going to be shit. And so again, again, going back to it, you stay on top of your insulin sensitivity. You keep your blood sugar or blood pressure under control so you can use anabolics to skirt the hormonal issue. And you're not over 40 anymore. You know, the reason you can't get over 40 is because of the natural age adaptations that happen. Well, if you don't, they're not natural. They're, they're because you're not healthy. You know, if you take care of those things, then over 40 doesn't mean anything. I mean, it means something eventually, you know, that wear and tear on the body. But I was going to ask you guys, cause you were talking about like crazy diets from back in the day. Do you guys remember hearing a like Dan Duchesne? Oh yeah. Body, body opus. Body opus. Yep. I did that diet in high school. So when I competed as a teen, I did that and it was brutal. I had like teachers sitting down with me and like counselors, like asking if I was okay. Cause I was just like, looked like a skeleton walking around my school. So that was, that was pretty, pretty intense, but did you guys ever, ever try any of that? That type of a rotation or whatever? I remember Dan Duchesne's a pre-workout. What was it? Ultimate orange. Oh yeah. Oh, I threw up on that a few times. We had a hundred milligrams of ephedrine. Yeah. Yeah. I took that the first time before the senior year, my first football game senior year in high school. And so I was super pumped because I, I was like, I was talking about this. I was a super late bloomer and my family's all very big. So I was like, I was a late bloomer as far as puberty, but puberty and weight training hit me in the same year. So I went from like 140 pound junior football player to a 240 pound senior football player. So I went from like a little guy on the team wasn't that good to the biggest guy in the whole school captain of the football team. And so I was so pumped for that first, that first game. I wanted to make sure I was as amped up as possible. So I got my first batch of ultimate orange and probably was like, I'll do a double. I don't even remember, but I put it up in the shaker bottle, you know, and I'm on the bus and I'm chugging it. And then I felt like I was ejected from a rocket ship. I couldn't, I was like, my heart rate was like 170 during warmups, just all fired up. I remember throwing up on that a few times. I mean, that shit was essentially meth. Yeah. Yeah. It's so illegal. So, and I wouldn't be surprised that there was other stuff added. Cause it, even a hundred milligrams of federal and this stuff was, this stuff still had an extra kick. There may have been meth in it. Well, you remember that there was that Xenadrin product too. And like the late nineties, early two thousands. Like I remember I worked in sales and I was a little punk kid and I used to pop that before I go to work. A sales job at like, it was a circuit city. I made like what's called president's club. Like one of the top salesmen in the company because I just wouldn't shut up. I went up to like every person. Hey, how's it going? What's going on? What kind of phone are you looking at? Let me help you with your phone. I'm like, I'm so fucking ready. Those were the good old days, man. Yeah. I'm looking at it. Go to the truck stop, get trucker math, many things. Well, if you don't even remember it's hot stuff, hot stuff. I think they even got, I think were proved to be putting dbol in it. This is the mid nineties. That was the first supplement I ever took. And I think I took it after I found out about it. So by then the good stuff had been removed and that it just tasted like black licorice. And it was just terrible. And it had probably four boron and moose testicle in it and everything that didn't work. But at one point I had dbol in it until I got, that got removed. And then suckers like me came in. Yeah. I remember all the, all those old, uh, supplements that would have like math and dbol and shit like that. Oh yeah. This is the wild west. I remember my first protein powder. I got it. It was probably like 94 and it was just some crappy brand. And I remember like reading the label and like in all caps, it says must drink immediately after mixing. And I'm like, well, yeah, of course I'm going to drink. I'm not going to mix it and just set it out all day. So I blend it up. It's all blended. And I, you know, like I can't remember. I think I use like maybe like a blending thing. Like you push and it would spin. I didn't have like an actual blender, but I'm blending. It's fully blend. It's all look. I take that thing out and I set it on the table and I go like this. And as I'm bringing it to my mouth, it like coagulates into this like gelatinous mass. It had to be like some kind of collagen protein or something. But like, I'm like kind of watching this as I'm pulling it back on my brain. It's like, oh, I should probably stop. I did it in this like snot mucus ball just lumped into my throat. It was disgusting. I can't. I wish I remembered what that was so I could find out what the actual protein was in it. But this is beet pre-whey. This is before I was using whey. This is like there weren't many protein. Oh God, it was so terrible. Well, I was going to say, I'm glad that we linked up in 2022 when you know as much as you know now about the ingredients and quality and stuff with products. Because back in nearly 2000s, I remember you were testing so many different ingredients for supplements. I know you'll tell. I'll let you tell the story. But I remember there were many times in between sets running to use the toilet. Yeah. We were like, uh-oh. When the first high molecular weight carbohydrates, Waxy Maze, we were learning about this probably like 2005 or 2006 with Dante and from True Nutrition or True Estrue Protein at the time. And we were like this, you know, like reading about this. It's like, this is amazing. You know, like this super high molecular weight, low osmolarity. It's got big clump of glucose molecules, tons of surface area. It gets in the small intestine. This is going to revolutionize everything. Well, one of the products, we had like, it was like 13 different versions of like a high molecular weight carbohydrates or amylopectin variations. This is like number 11 or something. And we took it and it was like magic. It tasted terrible. It was like battery acid. I mean, it was very, extremely difficult to get down. And this was a time when I would have drank battery acid to get better, you know. And this was like, just like get your mind, chug, swallow. Don't throw up. Don't throw up. Chug, swallow. But after you took it, it was like instantly your skin dried out, your vein. It was like it sucked every bit of water in your bloodstream. It was like magic. I remember like furiously like email because we didn't have text. You had text, but it was the old text. We had to touch each button however many times it was to get the letter. That's how old we are. Yeah. So it's quicker to email. And I'm like emailing Dante. I was like, oh my God, this is amazing. It tastes terrible. But if you can get the flavor, I was like, if you did this before you stepped on stage, it's like a miracle product. And so Dante like calls the manufacturer. He's like, number 11 was amazing. You know, we want to, you know, we want to look into getting that, you know, bulk produced. The only problem was it tasted terrible. And they responded. They said, taste. He's like, yeah, it tasted terrible. They're like, taste. What do you mean taste? He's like, yeah, it tastes disgusting. We could barely drink it. And the lady goes, that's a filler for wood glue. So just drinking straight poison. I mean, that's probably my arteries are probably clogged. That was wood glue fillers lodged somewhere, right over here somewhere still. Oh, man. It was the wild, wild west back then. Oh, yeah, yeah. Innovation, right? It was all part of innovation, right? So. Yeah, we found, I found a chlorohydrobiotin. It was a product that I found someone's 1999 nutritional thesis. And it was, because I was trying to find things that worked on acetyl-CoA carboxylase 2, which is kind of like a metabolic encoupler and basically, you know, like dictates how your mitochondria burns fat. It was like, like if you could manipulate, it'd be like the Holy Grail for fat loss. And so I'm like, find anything I find online. I find this research paper and there's like this chlorohydrobiotin. And I contacted the LSU nutritional science department and they still had it in cold storage. And I pretended I was like a student for some other university, you know, a scare serve. You know, me and my fellow research folks would like to, they sent it to me. My fellow meatheads. Yeah. They sent it to me. But then like something in the correspondence must have made it imply that I was going to like eat it, you know. And like the professor was like, I would strongly advise you. There's been no data. I would strongly advise you not to take this blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And so I never did though. Cause I was like, God, you know, like I want to try it, but I'll try it eventually. I got to pick a day where if something goes bad, I can immediately get to the hospital and that day never came. But yeah, I remember back then, I think you were used to get on intense muscle, right? We talked about this before. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Everybody was talking about all these different things. Dante was on there all the time. I remember Dr. Scott Stevenson, John Meadows. Homenculis. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Scott Stevenson's name. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was a crazy board on there. Skipp Hill, all those guys. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. There was a lot of neat information shared on there back in the day. Yeah. Skip's still on there. He still runs all his clients there, I think. I mean, that's his board. But I just met him for the first time at Swiss, actually. I've known Skip since the 90s. The first time I met him was on Anabolix. Anabolix, B-O-L-E-X, probably like 99 in the nutrition subsection. And at the time, I think I was just starting out. I mean, I don't think I was even having people pay me to do their diets yet. But I would have people not take Clin during peak week. And I think at the time, I was cycling like two weeks on, two weeks off. And so I just timed it for that. And he changed my mind on that because he actually argued. You know, my argument was that I want to be able to fill out. And his argument was basically that, you know, being dry is more important than being full. And I remember that conversation because I was like, because back then, you'd actually have good conversations. You know, now the internet is just, I hate you. No, I hate you even more. I hate every idea you have. But back then, you could actually work things out. And he changed my approach to it. But so I've known him, you know, forever, since the 90s. And that was the first time I ever actually met him in person. Yeah, Skip's a good guy. Was he the one back then, too? I mean, this is, again, late 90s, early 2000s. But was he doing like the, they used to call it a shitload? Yeah, the skipload. Yeah, I think skipload was more, it wasn't straight shit. I think, I believe it was, I'm not even positive, but I believe it was more high sugar-based junk food. Okay. I just remember being jealous of like the guys who were doing it. I'm like, Justin, what's going on with this one? This one looks a little tastier than what you got me doing here, man. Yeah, rice or candy? Can we try, this one looks, I think it looks better. Yeah, I remember I had him do my diet back in the early 2000s when I was, when I would try to lean down. And it was basically like, I don't, you know, I apologize to him if I'm slaughtering this, but from what I remember, it was like keto during the week. And then you'd have the, he'd give you a time window on Sunday just to basically eat all the fucking sugar you want to eat. You know, cereal, pancakes, whatever, man. He'd give you like, like a, like a eight hour window just to shovel in as much as you want. I think he underestimated how much junk I could eat. People, I always want to enter like a four week out contest bodybuilder in an eating contest. I always felt like, man, I could dominate. You pick me like three weeks out of a show, bring me in. I'll eat till I die. You know, like how many wings to win? You know, like can I eat more after that? No, I was just going to say, I remember like, like laying. Cause Justin, like I, you know, I get the message and we're, you know, he's, he's coaching, doing my plan. And he's like, all right, this Saturday, you got three hours to, you know, have your crap meal. What he meant was like one sitting. So I remember laying, my feet are like this and in between it was just like donuts and chips and everything. And I'm just eating and I fell asleep. There's like powder on my face and everything. You come at it with a strategy. Okay. Three hours. If I eat. Three hours. Yeah. This first 20 minutes. One bite every 18 seconds. I can maximize. He's like, what the hell are you doing? I mean, now, now I understand. It's my early twenties, man. I was a meathead, you know, but now I understand the, the benefit of the cheat meal and how to, how to maximize it. Yeah. One of my friends who shall remain nameless, but when he finished the show, he gained 30 pounds in six days. I'm like, how is that even fucking possible? That was a good in the hospital. He ended up in the hospital. Yeah. There's a kid in Indiana who competed as a middleweight in 2002, 2002 or 2003. When I was there, he gained 70 pounds in the first five days. Oh my God. And was hospitalized for like a period of time, severe pancreatitis. And that's 70 pounds on a guy who weighed 160 pounds on stage. But yeah, it's like, geez, you could get flash pulmonary edema. I mean, that's, it's insane. Yeah. He was hospitalized for quite a period of time. Man, I got a lot of stories like that. There's another person who shall remain nameless, who was also on intense muscle and who was in, oh, geez, I'm thinking of a bunch of people now. I remember a client that, Nate Wolf was one of my nutritionists at the time. He had a client who went like insane, a high school student who was like that super obsessed, you know, did the whole, would refuse to have cheat meals. And you'd have to tell him like, no, the cheat meal isn't like a break from the diet. It's to improve things. It's not just how much you suffer. Well, he, in the middle of a class in high school, senior year, he decided he was Jesus. And he was like hallucinating, probably like low blood sugar or something and stood up and called the class. He was Jesus. And yeah, it was, man. Yeah. Yeah. My buddy, he ended up in, he ended up in congestive heart failure. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my God. So bad. Yeah. Like, I'm like, dude, what the fuck did you eat, man? And he was told me how he had a whole pizza and ate a dozen donuts after the show. And I'm like, my God. Yeah. I used to have to be careful. I, uh, uh, my buddy, I used to do muscle mentor with Brad Hall. Uh, he, he would always be mesmerized because he was, he was like, my body didn't know how to work. 88 anti-diuretic hormone. Cause, uh, he could never gain weight. And I like, I'm like, I can get, I can be 300 pounds eating chicken and broccoli if I wanted to. And so we went to the Arnold 2016. The first one I did with the prep Luke Sando for, uh, and I ate only off the bodybuilding menu, but I was, I, cause I, even if I don't want to be fat, I have to restrict what I eat. Even when it's clean food, my appetite's just enormous. But while we were there, I was like, I was just going to eat as much as I want. So I was around flank steak and rice and I gained 16 pounds that weekend eating clean food. That's crazy. I'm the opposite, man. I lose weight in a hurry. I, I, I, I think I'm naturally a skinny guy. You, yeah, you're interesting. Cause you, you can put it on pretty well if you can get the food in, but it takes a lot of food. And like, and we learned at that first prep, your metabolism starts going and it just, it'll run away. It's like a, it's like an old diesel truck with a runaway turbo, you know, like if you're not careful, it just self energizes and just burns through everything. Yeah. I mean, while I was sick, I, you know, I had the flu and pneumonia, but, uh, the past two weeks I dropped like 16 pounds, 15, 16 pounds just, just from that. But I, yeah, the way it comes out. Yeah. It's the opposite with me at the end of prep. Like I hear people talking about not having any energy and whatnot. I get spun up and I can't, I can't rest. I can't sleep. I'm constantly pacing around. Yeah. Yours went out. I remember that first prep. Your, it, your metabolism went run away in a hurry. It was like, we couldn't control it. It was like, by the time we even realized you were losing like pounds a day, I'd never seen anything like it, you know? Cause usually by the end of prep guys are like not eating, doing two hours of cardio. And they'll, and they'll not lose weight. They're just body like refuses to just shuts down where yours is like, just decided to get on meth. I don't know. Like metabolism just went into overdrive. I mean, at the end of it all, I think we talked about it right after your show. Like, yeah, okay. That was, you know, wish we could have caught that a little earlier, you know, stop the bleeding, not let you so flat on during peak week. But I knew it was going to be like a magical rebound, uh, because you were just absolutely primed for like the best slingshot of growth imaginable, you know, coming. Long diet after layoff used to be big, regaining some lost muscle, regaining some lost muscle that got lost in the last weeks of prep. And you were just completely depleted in every way, water and glycogen. And that's like, like if you could design, if you're like, you're playing a video game, you know, and it's like, you got to design your, your starting point, you know, that's what you would design. Like a guy, an older guy knew the ropes, knew how to gain size, had been big before, got back into it and now he's over dieted and over depleted. Let's see what we can do. That was fun. Are you going to hate me when I tell you this? But this year I didn't even do any of the hit cardio. I just walked on the treadmill, man. Well, I, uh, I have a fun hit comment on that one. So I, uh, I was kind of similar where I sent Justin pictures. Like, I don't know when this was, was like a year and a half ago. And I'm like, yeah, I think next year. Cause I, I competed in my early twenties for a while. And then a late teens, early twenties. And then what was I? 39 or something, 38, 39, whatever. Um, Hey, here's some pictures, you know, what do you think? And he's like, no, no, like compete now, just do it now. So I'm like, all right, cool. So I do it. And then fast forward, like I'm deep into the prep and I was at your house. I'm like, yeah. He's like, how's it going? I was going, that's not that bad. It's not that bad. He's like, I was like, the only thing, man, is this hit cardio is just killing me. And he goes, hit cardio. What do you mean? Aren't you like two weeks out? I'm like, yeah. He's like, oh, I'm sorry. I forgot to say you can drop that off two weeks ago. I'm like, you, you're killing me, man. So I was like, thanks. Thanks a lot, buddy. Yeah. Well, the hit cardio is there's two different reasons there's in the offseason. It's because I don't want you doing cardio. I don't want to waste time. I want to, I want to make sure that. Especially for the bigger guys. Cause when you're 270, that's a lot of oxygenated tissue. That's a lot of muscle that requires oxygen. So when you were doing higher ups of squats or higher up back movement, I don't want your lungs to be the failure point. And that's very quickly to happen. I mean, and if you don't think it will, you know, imagine a set of 20 on squats, you know, are you, are you failing? Cause your muscles are burning or you're failing? Cause you're getting out of breath. You know, when you're nearing 300 pounds, it's much more likely it's out of breath. So the hit cardio in the offseason is for that. It's it, it gets us in. So cause I don't do hit like the, it's not real hit. It's a modified hit. It's not like 15 seconds hard and then take a break. It's like one minute harder, one minute lighter. And the reason the thinking is like, cause you know, like a 20 reps out of squats is going to be a one minute set. And so we want to optimize what around our training. And that's going to, anything you can do for a minute on the, like on cardio, but that's hard, but not, but also not so hard that you can't also recover in the next minute to do it again. So it's not quite hit and that's our offseason. And then, you know, those are like, I do that like, like 10, 12, 14, 16 minute increments. So you're only like a 12 minutes that you're only doing six, really six minutes of work, but that'd be like six high rep sets, you know? So we get done, we boost your appetite. We didn't burn that many calories. We certainly didn't burn too many calories that we can't make up for with food and especially with the increased appetite. And then it improves your training and prep. It's a little different and prep. It's really because it lets us burn cardio, more cardio per, you know, per minute. You know, I can do 20 minutes a hit and burn more calories. And if I did 30 minutes of, uh, but with the bigger guys, I'm, I'm slowly hit cardio is hard when you get up over 20 minutes when you're 260 pounds. So I'm, I'm using more or less now with the bigger guys than I had in previous years. Yeah. I just assumed that it was because it was a higher energy output, but it was just purely math. You know, you're getting more bang for the buck, but I don't know, man, I do it in the offseason. I'll do the, I'll do the hit in the offseason. I usually get on the step mill and I'll grind it out or, or the elliptical. I'll do it on the elliptical sometimes, but, um, I I'll be honest with you. I just walked on the treadmill for my, for my prep. I mean, I'm not planning to compete or anything. So my only care is that I don't, I just don't want to, I still want to be able to train hard, but I kind of titrate mine around that. Like, uh, you know, I do like my, I've been doing a lot of super sets, like sissy sets, sissy squats, a freestanding sissy squat, super setter with back squats. And, uh, when, when it gets to where those are lung sets rather than muscle sets or leg sets, then I'm like, okay, I got to add some sessions back in. And then until I can get to where I feel, you know, usually within three weeks, I'm like, okay, I'm, I'm grinding these out again. Time to get lazy with the cardio. So it's like, it goes back. I just, I just have a crazy metabolism. I always have, I mean, when I graduated college, I was 170 pounds. I was just, you know, and I'm almost six too. So I'm skinny guy. I think I was telling you about this, um, Paul, last time we, we were recording or talking. Um, I started doing like bag work and, uh, did Krav Maga a few times too. And that just kind of helped like, you know, just going in and doing that type of training. Like it was a break from like staring at the treadmill or at the wall, but it was also like little bursts here and there. And it was kind of functional as well. So it was kind of a nice break. Um, I actually need to start that up again, but, uh, and then, and then the bag training, I felt like my legs weren't as banged up cause I would do a split like glutes, hamstrings, calves, like, and then did like more quad dominant on a different day. And was all that cardio and a stair master or whatever. I was just like, man, I was just constantly sore. So like, you know, hit hitting the bag, just upper body wise too, was kind of like a nice little break. So, you know, I think it's just, as long as you're getting the heart rate up, you know, you're going to, you're going to see good things come from it. Yeah. When it's nice out, I like get outside and walk in or take it, you know, I'm not too far from the mountains. I'll do like a light hike or something like that. Uh, that's what I, what I usually do, but it, I, I, I don't have any problems getting lean. At least I haven't in the past. Maybe that'll change. Oh, I'm just, it's funny. Cause I'm just, I'm so the opposite. Even I've never, I've never not been on a calorie restricted diet, even in the offseason. I mean, I would, it's funny. I mean, that's why I probably, I became a coach and nutritionist because it was, I always had to be on point, but even at my biggest, even at 300 pounds, I was still limiting my food to, you know, and I was eating clean food and eating less than I wanted to. I don't know what's wrong with me. There's a guy, uh, to rare or something like that. A French guy from like the 1800s, T E R R E, maybe something like that. It's a, it's a funny story. If you listen to the stories, you'd eat like live cats and they think he's maybe eating children, babies, uh, and just like an insatiable appetite. And sometimes I'm like, I wonder if like, cause I could, man, I could put some food down. I just never, I never lose my appetite. And just always, even when I'm full and you put food in front of me and thinking like, Oh man, that would be so good. And the other problem is, is my taste buds are, I like everything. That was always the joke when I, when I was an engineer and I would travel, you know, and they would like pick restaurants, you know, and they were, you know, afterwards people kind of critiqued me on the, like, how'd you like me? I was like, Oh my God, it was amazing. That's like, like, do you ever not love? I was like, no, I mean, I never tell you about the worst food I ever ate. It was amazing. I don't, I don't remember if I do have to bring this up though. Um, cause maybe we can, we can go after him, uh, offline on this one. But I think when I was interviewing John Revis, I think he said he beat you in like a sushi eating contest or something. I think it was. Oh yeah. No, that was, uh, where were we? But that was because I ate right before we went to the place. Oh, so the truth comes out. You ate before you went. I ordered, I ordered Grubhub and I was just finishing up and we left for that. But, uh, it's funny what I'm talking about. Yeah. Yeah. No. Yeah. Cause it, well, yeah. Yeah. Cause I mean, I felt like a, I didn't feel like a man. It's like someone ate more than me, but I didn't know we were in a contest. So I would have known. I would have, no, I'm kidding. Speaking of sushi. I think I've, I've told the story before, but it needs to be told. I wish I had video evidence of it, but flew out of the end in 2015. We did a seminar, Ken Jackson's job with, uh, John Meadows and, uh, uh, I can't remember who else was there. Asante was there. Uh, Ken was there, but, uh, uh, really good turnout. Good, great summer. But we all went to sushi afterwards and, and, and, uh, was dieting and, uh, Meadows was coach then at the time. Whoever it was gave him a cheat meal. I went to sushi and I could, I mean, I could like list numbers and it would absolutely not describe it. I don't know how he didn't die. I've never seen, you know, you watch Nathan's hot dog eating contest and they're like, they eat 70 hot dogs. Nothing. 70 hot dogs is a pile like this. You know, he ate at least, at least 200 pieces of salmon nigiri. And that was, and he was ordering a roll. I mean, I was just like, cause I've had huge cheat meals I've eaten. I mean, I think I took two large pizzas down one time, like on a cheat meal. I mean, I've eaten massive amounts of food. I've got like my name on walls all across the country. You know, like a restaurant that had eating challenges. This was a mind blowing. They brought out just, you know, cause they have like the, the, the, the, the big plates and the boats, you know, if you go more than a boat, they have like those catering trays that don't even fit on the table. You know, they're like, you know, this big, just Matt. They brought that out with nothing but salmon nigiri. Just roll after roll after roll, like 200 pieces. And that was aside from his rolls. And he got other types of nigiri and, and, and he just sitting there just while everyone's talking. And it was like, just, it was like, if you ever like see the home, the Simpsons episode when Homer like goes to hell and they try to feed him donuts to torture it. And he just like, and it was just, I have no idea like how that compressed into his stomach. Even if his stomach blew up to the size of like, you know, when they blow, like burst those old water, uh, water packs or whatever, and those things that just blow up to the size of a massive balloon, that thing could have been a hot air balloon. And I don't, it was, it was mind boggling. And I think about that anytime anyone brings up food, because I've never been so amazed in my life. It had to be like 36 pounds of sushi. That's crazy. That's insane. I've heard stories about big Rami too. I've heard, I heard somebody, a friend of a friend that went to dinner with him said it was an ungodly amount of food that he ate. I believe it. There's that Kai Green, uh, when he, after a show in like years ago, I mean like 2010 or 11, and they went to like a Denny's or something. And they showed the, he, he spent like $268 or something at Denny's and they showed his thing and it was like, it was like four orders side salad, three orders T-bone steak. And it was just do, do, do, do line after line after line. Did you see that thing with Ronnie Coleman recently where he was saying that he ate at Denny's every day for his pro bodybuilding career? So he thinks he spent over a hundred grand. I think it was over a hundred, a hundred grand. No, I gotta see that. Or was it IHOP? It might've been IHOP. Maybe. But I, well, I remember, do you remember like cost redemption? He ate out every meal, you know, it was like black eyed peas, Chipotle or meal after meal after meal. I think it was IHOP. Yeah. Genetics. Those genetics, like some, because you see the gamut, like work with people and you see it's, it's, it's really remarkable how some people process nutrients, you know? And I mean, there's genetic components to anything, you know, you don't play left tackle in the NFL unless you were born a giant, you know, six foot eight, three 30, you know, you don't, you don't play wide receiver unless you were born like a rocket, you know, you got to run a four, three or under. Now you don't pitch in the majors unless you can throw a hundred miles an hour, but some people have like a hundred mile an hour metabolism or some people have, uh, you know, like 400 foot home run power metabolisms. And it's, it's remarkable to watch. I got a client, uh, Cody Losey, uh, taller guy, but God, I think we're at a thousand grams of carbs on his medium day and like 1500 grams on his high day. Uh, three and he has three of them a week. And we have him drinking like, uh, I think two gallons of half strength Gatorade a day. And, and he's big boy, you know, he's two 80 or whatever, you know, but it's, and I think why I want to say 70 or 80 grams of protein per meal. And we're doing, we're adding fat and it's just like, it's unbelievable. Uh, Ben Pollock was another one. Ben Pollock, I think we were, we were at eight 50 or 900 grams of carbs on his medium day and like 1200 on three high days a week. And he had strata glutes. Yeah. He's a local guy to hear, or at least he used to be, but I've, I've heard people talk about him eating the amount, the amount of food that he could eat. Yeah. And he's, he's incredibly strict. I mean, even his cheat meals weren't, they were just, he just stopped measuring the food. He ate the same foods. Uh, yeah. Just, he would eat just, he'd make, watch him make a bunch of egg whites and mix it in his rice. And he was like, he wouldn't even pay attention. Just putting it down while you're like, I don't think he put seasoning on it or anything, but crazy metabolism. I'm a, I'm a no seasoning guy. I'm, I'm, I'm terrible. There's a guy at my gym. You, we, we talked about him before Brandon Barrow. Yeah. He, he is all, I think, I don't think, I think people underestimate the role eating goes into this really. I mean, I talk about it all the time. People get upset, but I, I like Brandon always is eating. Like he's always got a bowl of food with him walking around the gym. Oh yeah. Yeah. I always used, I mean, Joe and I always used to, I would miss a workout before I miss a meal. One hundred percent meals were that diet was non-negotiable. I didn't want to miss a workout, but if a wedding came up or, you know, like a kid's birthday, you'd miss a workout. You never miss a meal. And people don't want to believe that. And it's the, it's the weirdest thing. Cause all the people telling you that are the top guys, you, you know, they're the ones saying, and it's like all, and all the, like the little guys who look like shit are, you don't want it to be gear. Or, and obviously gears involved, everyone's using it, you know, and that's, you can't like minimize the value of that, but you get a bunch of like perma-balker 24 year olds who barely look like they work out, put them in a circle. They're going to talk about gear. You get a bunch of like pro bodybuilders together. They talk about food. That's it. That's what you diet like right now. What are you eating? You know, they never ask what your cycle is because they know what is there like 12 compounds. I mean, there's, what is it? 50 anabolics ever invented, you know, like everyone's using the same stuff that there's no mystery there. It's all the food. You get a bunch of bodybuilders sitting around. That's all they talk about. And even worse, like you get a bunch of bodybuilders going somewhere and that's what all they're, that they're all nervous and stressed about is, you know, how long is this going to last? Anyone know? Yeah. Food order. I didn't know. I didn't make my food yet. Do you have any, what am I going to do? How long does it take to get food around here? It's all food. Yeah. It's wild seeing Brandon. I mean, he's a big dude and he's just, he's just constantly like, he looks miserable. He's over there eating until he looks like he's going to throw up. And he's, it seems like taking breaths between bites of food. Yeah. Yeah. Struggling for your life. Fighting for your life there under that chicken and rice. So I, I have a hard time getting it down sometimes. My appetite isn't always the best. My appetite is fine, but it's more the cooking and cleaning all the time. I'm just like, I'm like, oh man, that pan's dirty. Like, oh, maybe I won't get sick. I might just throw the meat out of it. That's seasoning. It builds up. Exactly. Exactly. It builds its own seasoning. It's seasoned. All right, guys. I know we had an hour blocked off. We're probably going past that. I really appreciate you taking the time out for me and anything you guys, or you want to talk about the supplement company a little bit before we jump off. Yeah, sure. I mean, we're, we're happy. We're, we're glad we're able to sponsor you. We love what you're doing with the, with the podcast and everything you do on social media, you know, like kind of just stormed on the scene and you talk about the things that need to be talked about in a way that needs to be, it needs to be presented, you know, like that really well thought out presentation. And I love that you're, you're getting a great response from it. We want to be included as a part of it. And, uh, you know, you've been a client, you've been a great client. So we're really happy to, to, to be involved. The supplement company is first attachment and go to firstattachment.com. Uh, it's like we said, cater more. I mean, we cater to anyone, obviously, but we're designed for, we're bodybuilder, for bodybuilders, by bodybuilders, for bodybuilders. You know, our, we have, you know, inter-workout nutrition that I preach, I preach forever. Field rations is one of our best sellers. Our WTF pre-workout pre-work. We get two flavors. Now there isn't a better pre-workout of the market. You're going to love it. It covers everything. It's not just pure stimulation. You know, most places do pure stimulation to just, you know, fry you, which is great. You want to be amped up, but you don't want to be anxious. And so we have anxiolytics and adaptogens on top of the stimulants to kind of temper that. So you're, you're amped to the full extent, but you're also, you know, not anxious. And then other little things that other companies neglect, you know, you'll see citrulline malate in products and because citrulline is a great product. Why do they use citrulline malate? Well, it's got better bioavailability technically, but no one does dig deeper into the science behind it. The problem with that is citrulline malate is L-citrulline bound to malic acid. You can't absorb citrulline malate. You have to break them into components. So the first thing that happens is that enters the body. Then you have to break apart that. You have to cleave that malic acid from the L-citrulline, which takes time because your stomach's already acidic itself. And so, and then absorb the L-citrulline. So that, how long does that take? That might take an hour and a half. So you take your pre-workout driving to the gym. That's great, right? Your last set of the workout, that L-citrulline is really kicking in. You know, you don't, you don't want that. So what we did is we use just pure L-citrulline to bypass that. So it gets absorbed immediately. You have it available during your workout and to offset the fact of that it's slightly lower bioavailability, we have a full 10 grams of it in there. So we eat the cost on that. We don't, we don't upcharge it for that cost. We eat the cost on that to make a more effective product. And we do that across the board. You know, our suppressor is, you know, clinically dosed, uh, levels of berberine. Everything's designed to maximize what we do. Our canopy digestive aid, like we talked about earlier, you know, we don't have a digestive aid that's just acidopolis or just probiotics. We have those in there, but ours is designed for what we have issues with digestion. Like we just talked about the massive amounts of food. You know, we want to, we want to be able to continue eating. We want to absorb that. We don't want that bogging us down or, you know, sitting in our stomach. And so our canopy is designed to maximize that. You know, you're going to use orals. I'm not a fan of orals, especially in the offseason, but your liver enzymes are going to be elevated and they're going to be elevated just from training because the byproducts, the muscle breakdown are processed by the liver. And so we have our QRF with NAC and we, we go through the hoops and we go through the issues of getting that produced, which is not easy. You know, we got Tudke in it also, and we just do it across the board. You know, our fat burner, go pills. You see a fat burner. What do they do? They add like gargolsterones, all these things that don't work, but have big names and, you know, and just give you acid reflux, but so they can list 75 ingredients. We didn't do that. We said, what works? You know, we need to, we need to block adenosine. The adenosine is what makes you feel as tired. Adenosine, uh, uh, blocking adenosine is why caffeine, uh, increases fatty acid oxidation. So we have caffeine, but we also have tea cream for the same reason. We have L-theanine as an anxiolytic. We have, uh, yohemine, but what's, what's the problem with yohemine? Yohemine can make you like clammy, you know, especially at higher doses. So we dropped the dose in half of the yohemine. So it's just 2.5 milligrams. So even people who are sensitive to yohemine are able to take it. You know, we have a green tea, but what, what, what's beneficial about green tea? Green tea isn't magic. It's the components of green tea. It's the EGCG. And so our green tea, we don't have green tea. We have standardized EGCG specifically at the dose that maximizes fat burning. And all of our products are designed like that with one goal in mind. What works? What works? I'm me as a former competitive bodybuilder. What would I have wanted to take to improve my health and improve my ability to compete? And that was the sole focus in the, in the formulation design. That's awesome, man. I, I've had good, good results with everything so far. Um, I, and I really appreciate you guys coming on and talking about it. I'll put everything down in the comment section or in the description links to everything and discount code as well. Um, we'll be down there as well. If you guys want to check it out. Um, I appreciate you guys coming on. Thank you. Thanks for having us. Thanks, Paul. All right. We'll see ya. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off.êtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtreêtre