 naringin,isexual, pyrrho, naringin,isexual, naringin,isexual, naringin,isexual, naringin, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, Big Paul here today with Skipp Hill and Justin Harris, what's up guys? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? All right folks, Big Paul here today with Skipp Hill and Justin Harris. What's up guys? What's up? What's up? Just noticed that all three of us have glasses. I don't know if that means anything. I don't know if as you get older. We're smart. We're all using stage names too. I was good until about five years ago. You guys haven't worn glasses for a long time, right? Is the computer the- No, mine's new. You know what's wild? I couldn't read. It was getting to where I could not read, like, my emails. Yep. You know, and so I thought I was just getting old. I went in, and the doc says, yeah, you know, you need reading glasses. He said, but you need glasses. He said, you've needed glasses your whole life. Oh. And so I was so pissed. I never realized, but I put them on the first time. My wife was cracking up. She started taking videos on me because I was like, I immediately wanted to, because I was obsessed with baseball as a kid. I, like, immediately wanted someone to come throw me a curveball. Yeah. I was like, well, how much was I missing out on? Because I never knew I needed glasses. They're not, it's not like a terrible vision, but he said, yeah, you've had, it's not just that you need, like, reading, you know, bifocals. But he said, no, you have pretty bad vision. Yep. Yeah, I remember, I think it was Carlos Rogers that used to play for the Redskins here, and they cut him because he was, like, dropping interceptions all the time when he was a defensive back. And then he went to San Francisco and got glasses and started, like, intercepting the ball all the time. Well, you know, like, yeah, you play baseball, and everyone talks about, like, reading the seams, you know? And I never could. I was like, I don't know. I thought people were just saying that. I would, like, yeah, I'd judge a curveball because people would always, their hand would be a little bit different. There'd be some, you know, you could usually catch some motion. But now, like, I wish I could go back and play another year. Yeah, I fought it big time, and it got to the point where I was literally holding my phone up, like, and squinting and giving myself a headache. That's right, yep. And it's funny. I know we all did the same thing. You put them on, and you're like, oh, shit. It's like, why did I wait to do this? This is awesome. Yeah, I just started wearing them, like, a year or so ago. My eyes started getting bad. I have the progressives, and then I have these reading glasses that I have for the computer. I actually just got a new prescription the other day. Yeah, I did. How was it with, like, the bifocals that you have? I was nauseous for weeks. Yeah, man. Those things are weird, dude. I can't make them work. They make me dizzy. I was nauseous for, like, two weeks. I took them back. I'm like, I'm sorry. I know I'm supposed to try them, but I can't try them. I need different glasses. So I have different glasses for driving, because what happens with me, especially at night, is all the taillights run together. It's like this big red thing, and I put them on, but it's a different, oddly, it's a different prescription. I guess it's not odd, because you're farsighted and or you're nearsighted. But I have a pair in the car, and then I have these for reading. I can watch TV. I can do other things, mid-range, and drive during the day, no problem. But the computer ate me up. Yeah, I was doing readers. I had my regular glasses, and then I put readers, different ones on. But then I finally did the bifocals, and I decided I was just going to work through the nausea on it. But it lasted, geez. It was probably a month before I could wear them all day. It'd be like I'd wear them for an hour, and then I'd have to go back and wear my readers at the computer. But now I'm fully integrated now. Yeah, I'm somewhat used to them. But I've been on it for about a year and a half, but I mostly wear the reading glasses. You don't need the glasses to drive. You have to join the Tesla club with Justin and I. Yeah. It'll drive itself for you. You like cars. Aren't you a car guy, Skip? I am. I mean, I was a truck. I had a pavement princess for quite a while, and that was kind of my project in Colorado. But we moved here, and I always wanted, I don't want to say a sports car, but I mean, I wanted an M3 really bad and ended up coming across a real good deal on an M5. And I tell you, now I'm a BMW guy. I don't know how I would drive without power now. I don't think I could do it. I almost got the M3. I went for the Justin convinced me to get the Tesla. Yeah. It's the, because I had a, I just sold it. I had a Lotus Evora 400, and I just, I never drove it. Because it was 0 to 60 in 3.4 seconds, 196 mile an hour top speed. But it felt like, it felt like an old van compared to the Tesla, the Plaid. Right. I mean, it's like, so I really like, the Tesla's like a daily driver that was also faster than anything in Europe. Right. And so I finally got rid of it. Faster than an M5. I mean, come on. Yeah. I've been, all that I've wanted an M4, that's still, I'm already thinking, it's like, as soon as I got rid of the Lotus, the next day, it was a nice warm day. And I was like, ah, because there is something about, you know, because that's supercharged and here, and it's, you know, mid engine. So hearing that supercharger behind you or just hearing the rumble, there's always something about that. I'd like to get maybe a big, you know, a naturally aspirated, big black, old something. But I don't know, at some point. Yeah. The internal combustion engine cars, there's just something about them. It's not the same. I almost got the, I almost got the BMW. It was like that close. Well, and I'm looking at an EV. I mean, I've been talking about them. I think, Justin, you saw I posted on it about a year ago or so. Yeah. And BMW is coming out with some wicked sweet EVs. Yeah. They've got some cool ones. But I don't know. It's such a, the immediate power is, it's so different. You know, there's, you don't have to wait for any, you know, no revs to build up. It's just instantaneous. It's a weird thing. Well, and the maintenance, the low maintenance, you know, the rebate on it is still there. I don't think it is with Tesla anymore because they put out. Some of their models are cheap enough. Yeah. I think the Y might be. But then even, yeah, even brakes because it's regenerative braking. So that's kind of hard to get used to at first because you take your foot off the gas and it brakes to help recharge the batteries a little bit. So that's kind of weird that you, because you have to constantly keep on the throttle. There's no neutral coast or anything. But, but that's great because you hardly ever even use the brakes. Yeah. Exactly. It's like driving a bumper car. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Where you take the, take the foot off the gas and it just dies. Yeah. But once you get used to it, it's, it took me a couple of weeks to get used to it, but it's, it's, it's weird driving my, my Honda now. How do you want to drive it? Oh, I have a, I have a old 2008 Ford F-250, a 6.4 liter diesel that a plow truck that I use to plow our properties. And it's getting in that thing. I almost get in accidents because I forget where, what a safe distance is to pull out in front of someone. And I'll pull out and I'm like, I'm giving it everything it's got. That turbo is trying to spool up and it's rumbling and grumbling and not moving. Uh-oh, did we lose? Yeah. Six liter. But I took that. You had a 6.0? I had a stack in the back. That thing would roll coal. It was, it was, it was, it was an awesome truck. You said, yeah, you broke up. You had a six liter, you said? Yeah, six liter. Yeah. Did you bulletproof it? It actually, I bought it used. So it had already been bulletproofed before I bought it because I bought it at 30,000. Oh, nice. So I got lucky in the center because they had a lot of problems with that engine. Yeah. But what, but if you, yeah, if you bulletproofed it, they were, they put some power out. They call them 6.0s. I mean, if you, if you took, you know, yeah, if you took care of the head gasket issues and stuff, they, they're pretty cool trucks and they sounded awesome. Yeah. I chipped it. Amazing. Took the cattle. Air horn or a train horn, whatever the hell you want to call it. Yeah. I had LEDs on the front and the back. So if you were following me too close up through the canyon, I literally would blind you. I'd just flip the switch. And it was, and it, and it was funny because I had options. I'm like, I could just let the turbo back off a little bit, let the turbo spool up and it would just dump. Yeah. Yeah. Those are the best turbo sound. Because of the stack. Oh yeah. Yep. I agree. Sounded like a jet engine. Yeah. What year was it? Oh, six. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Those were, yeah. Those are, yeah. It's like the best turbo sound of any of the diesel trucks, I think. Well, I think that's why I didn't stay with trucks because they ended up, especially Ford, they changed to that, that, that. So my buddy had a problem with his. It was like $6,000 to fix it. But it would, it would, the emissions had to be so much lower. So it would like collect the diesel dust and burn it or something. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The EGR and stuff. Well, that was the problem with the 6.0 is because they had the 7.3 liter before that, which I had an old 7.3 and those were just, those. Well, Steve had one, didn't he? Oh, no. He has, he might. Yeah, he did have one. Yeah, you're right. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. He had that white one. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I forgot about that. Yeah. Because he's got a 6.7 now that's like all built. It's got 750 horse or something. Oh, yeah. I mean, mine, I finally sold it like 300,000 miles. And the only reason was the compression was so bad that you had the, you had to, like, the glow or the, the glow plugs? Yeah. Because the comments have the black heater. I'd have to plug it in in the summer. So it was starting that thing just so bad by the end. But I loved it. If you could get it started, it would go forever and pull anything you needed. But getting it started was a bear. You know, I started mine without glow plugs because I couldn't, there wasn't a plug at Rabbit Ears Pass, which is in Steamboat Springs, Colorado, at about 7 a.m. one morning when it said negative 21. And I'm telling you, I think five years off that engine because I only had about two cranks left and it wasn't going to start. Yeah. I don't even know how it started. That was, the 7-3 at the end when I was at work, I even, I would have to park, because I worked at Eaton, like, heavy-duty truck transmissions, I'd park where the semis parked so I could plug it in. Nice. Because it would, even an eight-hour day, it would, by the end of that, it wouldn't start. It was, but if you could get it started, it would go forever. It was just getting there. Yeah. I'm curious, and no one's going to get this reference but you and I. But was that the Eaton's plant on 94? Yeah. Between, I thought it was. I thought it was. Every time I pass there when I go back, I think, oh, I bet just this is where Justin works. Yeah, that's it. Yeah, yeah. That's funny. Are you a Michigan guy originally, Skip? Yeah, I was born and raised in Battle Creek. My wife is from Michigan, too, so we're both from southwest Michigan. We met at a club. I was bouncing at a club in Kalamazoo called Top of the Rock, and she was underage. It's still there, I think. It's still there. It's up there. It is. It's a, well, the building is. It's a, because it's not far from meetings, but it's Big, what's it called? Brothers and Sisters? Big, big, what is that charity? I forget. Big Brothers or? Big Brothers. Brothers and Sisters. Big Brothers, Big Sisters. Yeah. Something like that. Yeah, Big Brothers and Sisters. Anyway, I went in there, because I'll stop there. I'll stop there sometimes just to kind of remember, because I was, I'd work outside, you know, in the parking lot, because it was one of those crazy places. Uh-huh. You know, you're only supposed to have 700 people in there, and we'd have 1,200. And the owner didn't care. You do that thing where you have to head the door, you click every other person. Exactly. So if the cops come, yeah. Yeah, exactly. And then the fire marshal come and clear the place out. You're counting there. The clicker only says 300. Exactly. Oh, man. And there were two girls working the front desk. I said, you know what? I just wanted to come in real quick. I don't want to be a pain in the butt. But, you know, I used to work here, so I met my wife. You know, we've been married for over 25 years. She's like, oh, my gosh, I used to come here, too. So we sat there and reminisced about the time that I worked there versus the time she would go, and we were there at the same time, and just kind of old stories about it being a club. It was a lot of fun. And so many bodybuilders from Michigan. What's the deal? Is it a bodybuilding state? There's nothing else to do. Have you been to Michigan? Yeah, it's very blue-collar, and I think blue-collar areas like that are big. You know, I always laugh and said, if I had the money now, then I probably would have done something else, too. Exactly. Exactly, yeah. What else can you – when you've got no money for a hobby, you know, $30 a month gym membership, that's your hobby. Do any other hobby for $30 a month. You know, and I think, too, you guys tell me what you think. But, you know, this is my experience, especially living in West Palm and stuff like that. It's just a little – it's a little bit different because it's – I don't know. It's kind of pretentious, and there's a lot of money down here. I thought there was a lot of money in Denver. There's a lot of money here. But the – I think sports and kids who want to really excel at sports don't come from the higher socioeconomic point. No, yeah, definitely. Yeah, no. So I think you get that drive and that ambition to really better yourself from an athletic standpoint, really, in that middle and lower class, especially the lower class, to be honest. Yeah, well, no. I mean, think how many – well, you live in a nice area. Everyone that plays baseball has got, like, their own personal pitching coach and own hitting coach. But who's playing in the majors? The kid running a Dominican Republican using a stick hitting rocks right now. Yeah, I mean, that's the way it is. I mean, it's the same thing with the NFL. Like, all the great NFL players are from just, like, small country towns usually most of the time. Yeah. Yeah, well, look at baseball. I mean, you've got to go to, you know, DR, and, you know, that's – those kids have to know, and their parents have to be telling them, look, we don't have any money. You're going to be poor for the rest of your life. You need to get out there and play some ball and hit the ball right and get good at this. You see some of the stuff they do? We're in flip-flops, and they'll drive nails through them to make spikes. It's crazy. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Driven, motivated, ambition. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Being poor, being hungry, a lot of success has been driven by not wanting to be the way you are right now. Yeah, yeah. And I think sometimes you can see it in people, whether it be bodybuilding or sports, when they get that money and their lifestyle becomes a little cushy and they're not as motivated, then it becomes a money issue and they're motivated by the money versus that passion for what they started out doing. You know what's funny is when Tiger Woods went through his divorce and then his golf game really dropped off, that was right when I was fully obsessed with bodybuilding. And I remember thinking, it just didn't make sense to me because there's nothing that could have done that to me at that time in bodybuilding. You know, like, how do you just, like, not, you know, how can you just not be obsessed when you were? But then it happened to me, you know, I mean, I didn't get divorced. My wife didn't hit me with a nine iron. But, you know, other things happened where, you know, like I had success with the business and the business kind of became focused more than bodybuilding. And then it was, I realized, like, the difference between the only thing I wanted to do was go to the gym to now I felt like I had to go to the gym. Right. And it was a total, and it totally made sense then why that happens to people. Yep. So do you see the gym as an obligation? Because I know I do sometimes. Yeah. I feel like I don't have a choice. It's kind of part of my work day. It's part of my job. Yeah, I feel like I have to. I feel like, yeah, I feel like I'm not, I don't even know the word. But I'm not, there's some integrity loss or I'm not, if I'm not in the game myself to some extent, you know. But it's definitely not like, I mean, I used to not be able to sleep the night before a good squat session when I was trying to hit a certain number or something, you know. Right. I'd be so excited about it. Where now it's like, it's checking a box. It's like, oh, it's 9 a.m. You know, I go get my workout in. I got to, you know, and I have my workout. Where it used to be like, my workout was so that I stopped myself from doing too much. Where now the sets and reps are there to just check the boxes. You know, before it was like, so I had to have a planned workout so I wasn't there for four hours killing myself. Now it's, I have to check the planned workout so I actually do something. Yeah. I kind of had the opposite thing to happen. I completely fell off. I got divorced and then I got remodulated to get back in when I got the divorce. That was really kind of my spark to get back into the gym. I didn't, shit, I didn't work out for like 10 years. I remember I used to be on your board. I remember I was on there all the time and then I had kids and I got obsessed with business. What was your handle? Or. P3RD. What about this though? What about. What I'm wondering is this. Can anybody go back out on the singles market and not be in shape though? Because I mean, I know I see it with a lot of clients, wives or husbands even. What do you have? Once they're in that marriage, they become a bit complacent. They don't have to do the things, you know, that they did when they were single to try to, you know, reel one in. And they become, I don't even want to say, you know, it's not lazy, I guess, as much as complacent. And I think that, that happens. I don't see too many people. Sometimes I can see friends and I will know ahead of time. I'm like, ooh, you just made an about face. All of a sudden you're losing all this weight. You get insured shit within a year. They're gone. You know what they say? Complacent. Complacent in the dictionary is described as the married man's word for lazy. Yeah. Yeah, I completely fell off. I used to even, as Skip fired me, I was a bot on his board at one point. That's funny. We were talking about that on the podcast, too, because I said to him, I'm like, did I really fire you? Like, you know, I can't remember. I don't know about you guys, but I can't remember what I ate for breakfast. I have a hard time remembering. I mean, people remember stuff from the boards. I mean, I feel like I remember a lot of it, and that was like a big part of my life. But the stuff people remember will blow your mind. I mean, people will remember, and they'll rewrite something you wrote in 2009 word for word. You know, like, it's really crazy how big of an impact, intense muscle especially. Like, I mean, when was I really on that board heavily? 2005 to 2008 probably. Yeah. You know, and people still, that's like a large percentage of the people I meet in the sport, that's the first thing they say is remembering me from intense muscle. It's like, that's just crazy to me that, because I'll, I mean, you know, like a name will pop up, like someone like Massive G. You know, someone mentioned his name that too long ago. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, oh, yeah, I remember. But it wasn't like at the tip of my tongue where, like, a lot of these people, it's crazy how big of an impact the board's had. But I don't think you can, I mean, maybe, it's hard to say, maybe it'll be the same thing with social media. Maybe Instagram will die and then 15 years down the road. Well, I mean, intense muscle is still around. So maybe Instagram will fade off, or like the social media as it is currently will fade kind of into something else. And people will reminisce. And it probably will happen that way, I guess. But it's just really interesting to me. It's like, you know, like the stuff people remember from 15 years ago that I don't even remember that I did or that I wrote. Yeah, I remember, Ken, I remember John Meadows being on there. What was he? Mountain Dog One or something like that. That's his name. I remember Dr. Scott. What was it? Homunculus. Yeah. Homunculus. Yeah. I remember him being on there. Dante. Dog Crap himself. I was obsessed with the DC train stuff. Two Gs, two Ps, was it? Dog Gaga Crap Papa? Yeah. Yeah. There you go. Yeah. I think he was glad to come up with the DC. A moniker instead. He kind of regretted. Do you know what's funny? A guy almost wanted to fight me in the gym one time because he was doing DC training. And I know he was because he was doing extreme stretches. And I watched him do a Widowmaker. And I go up to him. And he's a big guy. And I was like, oh, you're doing dog crap training? And he looked at me like he'd never been so insulted in his life. He'd never heard that word before. But I was basically saying his workout was dog shit, you know? He was all worked up. And I was like, I'm trying to explain to him. I'm like, no, no, it's a real thing. Dog crap training. It's not saying your workout's dog shit. Right. But he had no. So I wonder where he got that from. Someone must. I bet you someone stole it, pirated it, and was just, you know, training people with it without saying what it was, I'm sure. Oh, I know it's been stolen and copied, I think, still to this day. No, yeah. Google dog crap. It's just crazy. And I know when I first found that out, I laid into a couple of the guys because they were selling information and everything else. I'm like, that's just, you just lack any integrity and any character at all. You know full well that this doesn't have anything to do with you. And this isn't the first time you've been told and you continue to do it. Yeah. That's a very common thing. I mean, not just in this sport, in all areas, but it's crazy how people will take something that's so popular. I mean, if you find some obscure thing, you know, like stealing a little bit of information to pass a test or something or write a paper, but like stealing something that's really well known and popular. It's amazing to me that people think they can pass it off. But I mean, I guess they can because people do it. Yeah. Can I remember I stumbled into Dante? What was it? Back in the 90s. What was that newsletter he had? Was it underground muscle? Underground. Hardcore muscle? Hardcore muscle. Yeah. It's hardcore something. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember, I remember buying that newsletter and that's where I first, I first found him from. It was like, they were, I think it was like a little like classified ad in the back of one of the magazines or something is where I found that, found that from. Dante and I got off on the wrong foot. Actually, the cycles for pennies thread. I chimed in and I was like, guys, cause people were arguing against it. I was like, guys, it's not rocket science. He's telling you to, you know, eat more food, get stronger and you'll grow. Well, Dante, I think just read like, like it's not rocket science part is basically. And he DMed me and he's like, dude, I'm just trying to help people out. I was like, Oh no, no, no, no, no. I was like, I totally didn't mean it that way. I'm saying it's not rocket science. I mean like, obviously this will work. If you eat more food and lift more weight, you're probably going to add some size. And then we hit it off after that. But he was, he was pretty pissed at me to start. Cause he thought I was saying it was, I think he thought I was saying his program was like too simple minded. I don't even know. But yeah, it was, it was funny how we, that's how we ended up meeting actually was him thinking I was trashing him. And you know, it wasn't simple minded, but in concept it, it, it was simple. Yeah. It's like, it's foolproof. You know, if you take a guy and he's eating 2000 calories and two years from now, he's eating 4,500 calories and hasn't gained a bunch of body fat and he's twice as strong. There's only one outcome in that situation. He's carrying more muscle mass. Now, whether or not it's the most optimal way to get there, you could argue things like that, but you can't argue that if someone's eating twice as much food and lifting twice as much weight and hasn't gained and hasn't doubled in body fat, they've added muscle. You know, it's like, I got a question. Go ahead. No, go ahead. I was going to say, it's really just progressive overload to sit down to its core principles. Yeah. And minimizing, you know, overtraining by maximizing recovery. I completely agree with you. I got a question for you guys though, about, about DC train that I, I can't answer and I've always asked it. I didn't ask it at Dante because of course that way he would be pissed because it would be me questioning, you know, the sequence, but what was the reason to train back after biceps? I can't figure this out. I never, you know, I never did that. And you know what I've, I've found, I have, I apparently have no idea what DC training is. I don't know. Like, it's like the telephone game you'd play in school. You know, if after 20 years, cause people will come like describe DC training to me and I'm like, well, and they'll ask me questions. Like they expect me to be an expert in it because I trained that way for a while. And I'm like, dude, I don't know what the fuck you're saying. That's, I don't remember it being anything like people have overanalyzed it and picked it apart. And where it's like, that's so pedantic now where it's crazy to how like you can't veer from anything. And I'm like, look, from, for me, it was always like, like you said, progressive overload. I don't even remember exactly what it was other than I, you know, there was rest pause sets. We did a widow maker and then the extreme stretching. And it was basically, you know, like don't overtrain, you know, use the rest pauses and try to make, you know, overload progressively. And then you, there was the 20 rep set. And like, I, apparently though, I, I must've, I don't think as, as the, the online DC experts now, I don't think I ever, I did DC correctly because anytime I even mention it, there's someone somewhere, someone messages me immediately, tell me how I don't know anything about DC training. I believe the, I believe the back or the biceps before back thing was, if I recall correctly, it was him saying that if you train back properly, you should be completely nuked afterwards and not have anything left in the gas tank. Okay. That would make sense. Yeah. And with deads being a big component of, of the back training, I, yeah, yeah. You're not going to want to train. You're not going to want to train biceps after that. I think that was sort of the idea if I recall correctly, but yeah, I think that might be, yeah. Partly for me, I don't remember that. I really never, I don't, I never did much for biceps. That was like my one body part that, you know, everyone's got like their one body part that they don't really have to work on. And that, that was it for me. Yeah. We, Justin, we don't, we don't, the rest of the world does not have that. Paul and I are, we're confused. We're like, what the hell is he talking about? We, I don't skip body parts. I can't afford to skip body parts. Yeah. It's like Eric Frankhauser with his legs. You know how you train legs once a year and they get too big. Right. No, I don't. I can't relate to that. I'm sorry. For me, it's my calves. Like I get guys, they ask me all the time what I do for, I got like 22 inch calves and I'm like, I never fucking train my calves ever. I don't do anything for them. Yeah. Back to that, back to Eric Frankhauser. I was at the North, his first national show, North Americans. And when he walked out on stage, everyone started laughing because we thought it was such a terrible synth all in his calves. And then he turned around and flexed them, flexed them. And we realized, and it was like, then it turned to like a gasp. It was the craziest thing. Cause I was part of it. I was like, Oh my God, this guy stepped on stage with synth all that bad. You know, from the front, when they're relaxed, they just looked like two udders and they turned around and flex them and they're striated and like they're that shelf. And I was like, what the fuck is that? Yeah. Yeah. I'd like to try that one day out of the last 40 years where someone just looks at me and is just slack jawed because of my physique. I haven't had that happen yet. I'm still holding my breath. I'm waiting. When's your birthday, Skip? I'm sending a video. I'm going to send a room of me just mesmerized. March 9th. March 9th. You're looking pretty good in your pics, Skip. You're back in form. Yeah. And I appreciate that. You know, I've been back since the end of November. And, you know, I had a cascade of really nasty injuries for about two years. And I think I just posted that today because I was doing curls like a week before I tore my glute. And it just brings up, it's cringeworthy to me to see those things and be reminded of them because it was just such a long, honestly, it's one of those things, especially at our age. And I assume you guys have dealt with this at some point on some level. But, you know, being injured when you're 30 or, you know, 25 or 35 is one thing. But when you have such a horrible, like your worst injuries and you're at 50 and you, that prep was going, it couldn't have gone any better. In fact, it was going so well that I laughed to myself saying, something's going to happen. Like I'm on cruise control. I'm doing zero cardio. I was doing walks. I counted the walks more as neat, but some people will argue and say it's cardio, whatever, whatever. People will argue and it doesn't matter. Pretty much. But my point is just that it was coming so easily and my condition was just so good. And I don't think I've had a prep go that well. And then it just, it went to shit. And I'm so excited. You know, it's funny because there's always a silver line. There's a silver lining if you look for it. And to work through, because obviously the glute, the left glute caused the right knee issues because I'd never had knee issues in my life. And that ended up being worse than the glute to the point where I was told that I wasn't going to be able to train legs again. I was told that twice by specialists in the field. And to be able to move through it and get through everything and be able to come back, I really am now excited again because it's a little bit more, I don't know, it's a little bit of passion back because I feel grateful for being, I thought I was done. And even though I was never a great body, but I'm mediocre at best. I can.viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia viaviaviavia. It was a horrible, horrible feeling. So to be able to move through it, and I've always said this, I think that, at least with myself, and I would think that I can't be the only one who thinks this, injuries and setbacks a lot of times can be really huge learning experiences because I had to really dig into mechanics, and I had to use my brain and be smart, be methodical, be patient, and I am not a patient individual. I had to do a lot of things that I had to step out of the box to be able to do, and had I not been able to do that, I think a lot of people would have just quit, and I just didn't. The alternative was I just sit on my couch and eat Cheetos and drink Mountain Dew. I really had to force myself to go through it, and it was horrible. I mean, I'd go into the gym. I just hated it. I hated every aspect of it, and there's nothing worse than you start to come back. And you're maybe squatting 135, and you get out of the set, and you're excited, and people are looking at you like, what the fuck? You don't know what I'm battling. You don't know what I'm dealing with. Let me be excited because I just squatted 135 for 12 or 15 reps with no pain for the first time in two years maybe. Yeah, I was very lucky in that I never – I say I never had injuries, but looking back, I have so many tears. I had so many little tears that I didn't even really realize were injuries at the time. But I had – like my heavy stuff kind of was like forced away from me, kind of like the same thing, like just at the – you know, like all at once, unplanned. And Pollock and I were training during COVID, and we drove up to Muskegon, and we were going to film and recreate Ronnie Coleman's unbelievable workout, his back workout. We weren't going to do – no one can do that. But Ben could do the deadlifts, and I could do the T-bar rows and possibly the bent over rows because he went to 585 on bent over rows. But at that time, I had done, I think, 4 – or I had done 495, and I want to say I did 545 for like a couple of reps. And so I thought like – and this is – I was – this is, you know, COVID, and so I – like the world shut down, and I had a key to the gym. And so I was – this is one of the biggest I'd ever been. I was around 295, and I have some videos. I post them every once in a while repeatedly so that people think I'm still that strong. But I made bent over rowing like 495 for 10, and I was warming up, and I did my last warm-up, which was 495 for like – I was going to do like three or four, and bent over rows. And on the second rep, my back – my lower back just exploded. And it was – I knew immediately – and I still don't know what I did because it was COVID. You couldn't get in anywhere. Yeah. So I couldn't walk. I couldn't – it was – it was completely done. And I mean – and that was like the last heavy back thing I'd done. And it was – like you said with the squats, I remember, geez, probably the next summer doing squats. And it was kind of the same thing, being able to actually squat because I couldn't – like anything – I still had to be really careful. I don't know if I fractured – I feel like I couldn't have fractured a disc. It seems like it wouldn't appeal properly. I'm sure I like – like a rupture or something. But it was – that really kind of sucked because that was – I was really excited about training. Like I hadn't been in probably a decade and as big as I'd been in a decade and as strong as I'd ever been. And just like that, it was – you know, it was gone. And I still can't do – I don't know if I can. I'm still scared to do anything heavy bent over deadlifts, rows, or any back. And I still don't – I don't think I've gone over 405 on squats since then. But, like, it's a weird thing when you go – you train for 25 years injury-free and then boom, an injury. And now at that point you're – you know, I mean, I'm in my mid-40s now, but I was early 40s then. And it was basically a life sentence. Yeah. Yeah, I blew out my ACL completely. Was it four and a half years ago? It wasn't too long before I started working with you, Justin. That was pretty shitty. I was playing basketball. I wasn't even lifting. I was going to say, I was wondering. I'm like, you probably didn't do that in the gym. You were doing something you weren't supposed to be doing. Playing basketball with the young guys. Yeah. And I felt it explode. And I'm like, motherfucker. Yeah. Did you get it repaired or did you – Oh, yeah. I had – it was completely ripped off the bone. Oh. Yeah, it was completely ripped off the bone. I – yeah, I got it repaired. I had it – it was that. And my MCL was partially torn. So, also, I just went ahead and got both fixed. And then I just kept – I was back in the gym two days later, man. I got back in the gym and just, you know, did what I could. Yeah. Kept going. Feed it some blood any way you can. Yeah, that was pretty – You know what's funny is seeing how that's come around. Because when I was in, you know, learning like therapeutic modalities almost 30 years ago, it was very – back then it was RICE. You know, rest, ice, compression, elevation. Then I think a bunch of RICE's, rest, ice, compression, elevation, stabilization. And then MICE's motion, ice, I don't even know what it is anymore, but it just – it keeps moving more towards motion, you know, move the area. Yeah. But when I first learned, it was like, oh, you're injured? Don't ever move that part for – that body part for six months. Yeah. More like, well, shit, that was really bad advice. No, I actually want to do the opposite. But – Yeah. Yeah. I probably still have that injury had I sat back and just rested and not did anything. Oh, yeah. Excuse me. It's funny. Well, that's when I – I crack up now because right now, you know, like, soreness doesn't cause muscle growth. You know, like, as soon as anyone mentions soreness or delayed onset muscle soreness or anything because, you know, the recent study showing it's mechanical tension that causes myofibrile or hypertrophy. And it cracks me up because, you know, that's the 10th or 11th time we've known what causes muscle growth since I've been following the sport, you know. But it's funny how, like, we know so little about the human body, you know. Yep. And we're always so sure we know everything about the human body, even though everyone that's been involved in doing anything with the human body for any length of time has known that our knowledge has completely changed every decade. Yeah. But we're still always sure what we know currently is exactly correct. Now, is that part of the reason – I'm asking you guys this – is that part of the reason that as good trainers stay in the industry and they train more people, is that part of the reason there's humility? I think so. Is it kind of an understanding – that's kind of what I think, too. I think it's an understanding because you see – I know I'll just speak for myself. You know, I was an arrogant dick. Oh, yeah, yeah. You know, you come out and you – and in defense of myself, I'll say this. I felt like at the time that I had to be kind of confrontational and have that attitude to get noticed so people would listen. I'm not saying I was right. Don't get me wrong. But that was, I think, my thinking at that time. I didn't know it at the time. But looking back on it, I think that that played a big role. But I still had the ego because I thought I had all these answers that everyone needed to hear because they weren't getting it right, in part because I think we were being fed at that time. Maybe not even just at the time, maybe in general, but more so at that time with things that I was starting to see were just not true. They were misunderstood. They were antiquated. It was an antiquated ideology that was – you know, we talked about a lot of that stuff back then from fruit. You know, we'd get called out all the time and argued with because, you know, that can't, you know, be used as glycogen or scythe. Yeah, yeah. Things like that. Oh, you still see that. Yeah, yeah. That's funny. Yeah. Yeah, it's just those types of things. And I think that that has played a part in some of the longstanding trainers to kind of go, okay, I need to check my ego here because I'm constantly learning. And I've been in this business. You've been in this business. You guys have been in this business for a long time and you're still learning. And I think we accept that, holy shit, what is this going to look like in another 10 years or another 20 years? Exactly. Is something I said going to be proved wrong? Oh, no, my wording, when I reply to people, there's a lot more, as far as I know, to my current understanding, I believe where it used to be, you know, absolute. And, you know, like I'm sure I could go back and find some things that I would just kind of like wince at, you know. Sure. Because you, I mean, but even then, it's like the mechanical tension thing is because, you know, like you'd be talking, like when I was in school, you'd be talking to professors who would be repeating things that they knew was true 25 years ago. And, like, the cutting-edge science was kind of showing things differently. And, of course, when you're really obsessed with something, that's what you're always learning, the cutting-edge stuff. You know, you're reading the research stuff, you're reading the new, the frontline research stuff where, you know, you're taking a one-on-one class anywhere. They're not going to be, you're not, you know, like entry-level classes aren't teaching the cutting-edge stuff. They're teaching the old school tried-and-true stuff, which very likely is not even correct anymore. But it's like that with the mechanical tension, you know. So those kids that read, you know, like Brian Schoenfeld puts out an Instagram post from a research study showing this mechanical tension that causes muscle growth. And now, so they are, they're so, they know that, and they know that most people think it's something else. And so they just scour the Internet for anyone, even implying that muscle growth comes from anything other than mechanical tension, so they could jump, you know, jump on it. And I probably did the same thing, you know, back then with things that, like we said, may or may not be true anymore. And so I'm much more humble and cautious in my replies that, you know, a lot of statements start with, I believe, or, you know, as far as I know currently, where it used to just be, you know, this is it. Yeah, absolutely. I always preface everything from what I understand. Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, at the same time, too, and this doesn't justify it, I don't want anybody to think that I'm trying to defend my position. But there was a bit of reverence in the message board days that when you were put up, again, I'll speak for myself. When you are put up on a pedestal and you get a bit of reverence and, you know, let's be fair. We talked, and I don't know if you remember this discussion or not, but we spoke, it was a group of, it was like Dante and you and myself and a couple other people. And the gist of it, I'm paraphrasing, was we could basically say that eating cat turds will make you huge and people would go eat cat turds. I mean, and there's something to be said of that, really. I mean, you know, I can laugh about it, you know, we'll laugh about it. But it's a reminder, too, and you were saying this, you know, 15 minutes ago, it's a reminder, too, the things that people remember us saying, you know, whether it was about training or anything, that the things we say are impactful. I mean, people, and I think we need to be reminded of that sometimes because I've always been one to say, you know, what I do is first world shit. I am blessed that I have people that have disposable income that want to pay me so that I can, you know, live in a high rise and not work a nine to five and make a damn good living and send kids to college. That's awesome because my dumb ass would probably have a regular job not making much money, if I'm being honest, or working in a gym. So it's a reminder to me that even though I'm not doing, I'm not saving lives, I'm not doing heart surgery, I don't also, I have to be careful to not downplay what I do because there are people that will, I mean, I don't want to say we're not changing lives because the impact that we have on people sometimes does have that type of impact. And the things that we say, even though they may have been 20 years ago, and they were good opinions and good information at the time based on our experience and the science at that time, even if it does evolve, it doesn't necessarily make it, I don't think, bad information. It may not make it correct or as accurate today as it was 20 years ago. But I'd even go so far as to say this, if you went back through intense muscle, I think you'd have a hard time finding things that we said, unless we were guessing or speculating, that really were just backwards. No, I agree. I don't think you could go through and find, just take the bulk of the information that we put out back then and organize it into a book or something. And if someone followed that, they would be, they'd be a good bodybuilder. I mean, you know, and you could argue they might be better than they are now because you could argue that the physiques were better back then. But what I think, I think sometimes about the message boards, what I liked about them was that until you got known, you would get confronted. If you said something, you had to, you had to have a reason behind it because people would confront you about it. And I always, every time we talk, I bring up the same thing about the first time we've met, which I don't think you remember, on Anabolics, where I said, I think I had people cut Climbuterol a couple weeks out of a contest because I thought it would affect fullness. And you disagreed. And we had like an argument. You changed my opinion, actually, about that. And you don't get that on social media, you know, because you just say something. And if someone does say something, if someone does disagree with you, you just block them. Right. But then the downside of the boards is what you just said about the cat turds, was that once you've gone through that, like, that process, that, you know, once you've gone through the gauntlet and had everyone, you know, confront you and argue and you had to prove your points and you kind of, you proved it enough to kind of work yourself up to where you're, where you now you're, you know, a member in good standing where people believe what you say. It almost kind of swung too far in the opposite direction where, like you said, you could say, eat cat turds and no one would, no one would argue against it. Which, I mean, which, which, unfortunately, that's where you start on social media because you could say that and no, because no one can argue against it because you can just block them. Yeah. But what was the one guy that was feeding people all the BS? It was a GH15, I think, was the guy's name. Oh, God, yeah. Yeah, that was a shared account as far as to, I know, I'm 99% sure I know a couple of the people that, that shared that account. And I think Nassar was in part of it initially, but it carried on after Nassar died. But it was, as far as I know, a guy named Shane from Chicago, a guy named Alex from, I think, California, that was like an IT that knew Nassar and Nassar and possibly a few other people that shared the account. And if, and like once I learned or realized that I kind of learned that you could see almost all who was posting. And do you know who's amazing at knowing who's really posting? Dante. That guy. Oh, man. I used to make troll accounts. I used to make troll accounts at like Get Big or whatever. And I'd post one post and he would message me on my main post or email me. And he'd be like, hey, dude, you're this guy, aren't you? And I'm like, what the, how do you know that was me? Yeah. He's like, you just say certain words that I know. It's kind of a funny thing because I told my wife laughing. I mean, it's half truth. But if I ever win the Powerball, I know how to cover myself with, you know, blind double, you know, trust and things like that. But I always tell my wife I'd have to get out of bodybuilding because Dante would be the first one to find out that I had a ton of money. And not that he would tell everybody, but that guy can find out so much information. He is so incredibly resourceful that it's almost creepy. Like, how do you find these things out? I used to make troll accounts on Get Big and every single one of them, he would message me right away. And I'd be like, how the hell? Because, you know, it's like you can't be tracking my IP. And, you know, like, and then because especially at that time, I'd be posting from the hospital and it'd be like through a VPN or something. But I don't know what I'm like. I would change things like because I used to double space after period. So I was like, OK, he knows I double space. I would change that. He would still know. I was like, it was it's freaked me out a little bit. He's reading it going. Oh, nice try, Justin. You just didn't double space, which is funny. I think about it because anybody who is younger listening to this will be like double space. What does that mean? Yeah. Yeah. My daughter said that to me. It's like you double space. What's a typewriter? Yeah, exactly. It's like, yeah, you don't have to anymore because it corrects, but whatever. If Dante knew everything about everybody, he had the turn on everybody. It's like he's got a database of information or something. I don't know. He does. He does. He's got. I'm glad he does because he every once in a while, he'll dig through his old files or something and he'll send me an old photo that I completely forgot. He's sent some of Steve Kuklo and I that I haven't seen in forever. And I'm glad because like all that stuff, I don't have any of that stuff anymore, you know? Yeah. And, you know, and it's cool to see because now with, you know, back then those were like, I mean, some of those were like real cameras, but, you know, like that was the very beginning of it wasn't a phone camera. You had to bring a digital camera, you know, and you're in the bathroom with a digital camera and then you upload it to your computer. And so like I just, you know, the guys competing now are going to have, you know, if they care at all, but it'll be saved in their email or on a cloud somewhere. So they're going to have all their pictures. Yeah. I mean, they're going to have all their pictures from their whole career where, you know, I have like three and I'm, it's, you know, I would love, it'd be really cool to, to, to have those, but he does. I know. Cause he told me he's got like all of them and at some point he's going to go through and, you know, he's, he does every once in a while. He must, I mean, he must dig through an old hard drive or exterior drive and he'll send me a couple of pics. Like, you remember this? And I'm like, no, but it's pretty cool to see the pictures. Well, I think I've got pictures of you and Steve on stage and I, and I think it's the Kalamazoo is teenagers. It's probably the capital city or something. Yeah. It was like, that was like my first show. Yeah. Yeah. It was, I didn't know anything about the tan because I had short hair, but I think I just did my tan to here and it looks like I'm just bald. Well, that's okay because half the guys don't put any color on their face anymore either. I can't figure that out in the life. What was the deal with that? I was at the New York pro and I saw a bunch of guys that didn't have the color on their face. It was really weird looking. The women are almost look like they put white powder on their face. There's like a, well, if you watch the women's physique from that, from the New York pro, there were a couple where it's like, that's not just not putting tan on your face. You're like, you're actively putting a light color on your face. It's like such a stark contrast. There was one dude, I think he was in classic physique that was green. Every now and then that stain will react with some people's, like something to do with the pH of their skin. Soap or something. Like one out of 500 or something. Yeah. It just messes them up bad. You always, I always tell my clients, I'm like, you've worked so hard and for so long, all the hard work is done. Don't screw up the posing. Don't screw up the tan, the minor, the minutia. Pay attention to the details. I would say, always bring a top coat of your own. You can, you can trust the tanners pretty. I mean, for the most part, the tanners at the show, because it used to not be that way. You used to have to do your own tan. And so the tans would be such a wide spectrum. There'd be one guy who actually knew what he was doing. And then a bunch of people that are green or orange or, but you know, it's nice as a coach, not having to lay out the protocol because it was a pain to type all that out and explain this many coats, shower after this. But I still usually recommend bring, you know, bring a top coat. Protan does a top coat. They all do top coats. I got a sunraise. But so that if you go through the whole tanning process, you do your final tan the morning of the show and you're about to go to the venue, you can't tell really very well. But if you don't look so dark that you're, you're sure you're, you're so dark that it's going to look stupid on stage, that means you're too light. Add, add a top coat of your own and then go to the, go down to the venue. Yep. Great. Yeah. The dude that was green, that was like, I'm like, you never see, you wouldn't think you'd see that on a pro stage. It was really weird. And that's just like, that sucks. Like all that work and it's over like that. Cause you're never winning. You're not winning a show green. That show was weird, man. The lighting was all weird. It was terrible. There was, you, you, if on the New York pro, if you stood in the center of the box, you were under the brightest spotlight. I think in human history, it was like 30,000 women. You know what it was? If you took one step to the side on either, like the, either edge of the box, the center box, it was great lighting. And if you watch Stu, what's his beef stew? What's Stu? What's his last name? I saw that one. Yeah. Yeah. Sutherland. Yeah. But he, he, he was brilliant. I think blue Taylor's his coach. I think he, maybe he coached him, but when he went and do it, did his individual routine at prejudging, he never stood in the center. He stood on one, one edge of the box where great lighting was. And then he'd turn around and he'd swing his foot over and then he stand on the other edge. But if you stood right in that center, you were under like some kind of high powered police spotlight and it washed you completely out. And there were a couple of spots on the lineup also where like guys, you know, like look terrible and then they move them and they get under different lighting. And the lighting was really weird this year. Well, you know what it was, Justin? I was there in person, man. There was a giant chandelier right in the middle of the, of the front of front of the thing. And they didn't, they, I think they were trying to figure out how to turn it off and they couldn't get the damn thing off. It was really weird. They had the, they had the light on in the audience. I saw them messing with the light between prejudging and finals. They were up there trying to figure it out. So yeah, you do all that work. And then, and that happens every year at the pro qualifiers and anyone who's coached long enough has had a guy who deserves first call out and comes out in the first, you know, when they first line everyone up for quarter turns and they're on the far end with terrible lighting and the judges barely even realize they're there. And then, you know, they, they work them through and they're already out of first call outs. And that happened. And I, and I, this is like the hundredth time I bring this up and I forget the guy's name every single time, but at like the USA's and I think 2017 or 18, there was a guy in third call outs. And when they finally called him out, I don't know where he was through the, through the first work throughs because I didn't, I didn't have him first call. I didn't even know who he was when he comes out in third call out and he looks ready to win the show, but he was third call out and he went back and he comes back North Americans and won North Americans, but he just, he must've got stuck on the end somewhere under a terrible lighting and it sucks that that can happen. But the lighting there was actually better on the ends. It looked like to me. Yeah. Yeah. There was, yeah, there was, there was, there was, that was, there was the best lighting, especially on the viewers. Right side was really good lighting on the right, on the right. Yeah. It looked, it looked really good over there, but it was, it was weird. Cause they had the lights on in the audience and there was a giant chandelier right in front of the stage. So that was like right in the center. I think that's what threw it off. Your guy looked good, Joe, man. He, I think he had the best out of any of it. Oh man. He's looking really good right now. He's like, you know, you got those like a two day out picks and you're like a little nervous. Cause it's like, Oh God, I wish we could step on stage right now. Yeah. We got another 24 hours. Don't fuck it up tomorrow, Justin. That Hammond thigh shot he has is just a killer. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He was, I think he was under 270 on stage, maybe right on 270, but he's in high 270s right now. And in just as sharp, you know, cause he, that second show, you're always a little bit fuller. Cause you, you know, like you, you fill out and you peak for that first show and you don't have to jump, you know, right back into brutal hard dieting cause you're already in shape. And so he looks really, really good right now. I'm hoping we hold it together. Cause I think, well, I guess Ross is doing Toronto, but I thought Ian for sure would be front runner. And I think Joe is the only guy cause Joe will be mid two seventies on stage that could hang size wise with Ian. So I thought this was Joe's chance to really kind of make a statement, but we'll see. Oh, I see his son's pics. I've never seen him look. He's shredded. I've never seen that dude shredded. I don't know where, if it was on Instagram or if Joe sent him to me, there's pics somewhere and he looks really, really good. I've always wondered what that guy would look like. Cause he's like, he's, he's a bubble, you know, human bubble. I've not, it's a five foot tall, five foot wide, five foot length, five by five cube. I'll pull him up. Let's see here. I've got him. I'll assume he was Instagram, but I think Joe might've sent them to me. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, he looks good. Yeah. It doesn't look like it's hard to tell, but it doesn't look like there's a ton of structure, you know, like guys will add structure and some clarity or whatever for those pictures, but it doesn't look like he's got a bunch added. Cause that looks like, you know, like regular wood. Usually guys will crank the structure up on Instagram and then you see the wood lockers. They look like, yeah, I know how that goes. I get clients that'll send me pictures for check-ins like that. Oh God. I tell him like two. I can't tell. You want to look as bad as possible when you send me pics. Cause then we get you looking as good as possible. And then swear up and down. They're not, that they didn't. Oh yeah. No, no. You've ever had, I've had people shop, Photoshop their photos poorly. Yeah. I won't, I won't share them. If they, I've told clients flat out, there's a couple in particular and they're, they're good people. It's just, I, I, I'm like, I can't, I can't do that. I want same thing. Well, I tell people, I say, take two separate sets of photos. If you, if you, if you, if you aren't whatever, secure enough or whatever to just let people see the real photos, take the bright photos with a flash and washed out lighting for me. And then take a separate set in your kitchen with the, when the sun's just, just right. And post those on Instagram. But, but you send those to me and all you're doing is making, you're not going to look as good on stage because you look artificially good to me right now. Let's be fair. Stage lighting isn't all that great anyway. No, it's terrible. I get people tell me all the time, oh, I looked better, you know, three hours after when I was in the bathroom. You're always going to look better in a hotel bathroom. I'm fat as shit and I look decent in a, in a hotel bathroom right now. Or in an elevator or something. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or the, or, uh, when I, if you have people at like a changing room at like a, at a mall, like that changing room lighting. Yeah. I can, I can step on stage in a changing room lighting. I've had people send me pics. Coach, look how I look. I'm like, yeah, you have a single light directly overhead reflecting off mirrors. You got definition and shadows where you shouldn't even have on that. You got a 13 pack right now. You know, that's not real. Quick little story. I had to run down to get a pair of sunglasses or something for my wife from the mall Harbor mall in Miami, which I did not valet my car because there was nothing but rolls and Ferraris and that sort of thing. So I go into the Valentino store to get these glasses and I laughed and told the guy, I said, if I didn't have, if I didn't have any type of light, if I wasn't uncomfortable, I guess I would take a picture in here because the lighting in that boutique was it, it just like you could have a, you could have had a show in there and everybody would have looked. It's just funny how funny how that works. But I think that the stage lighting is, it's like that because they're literally look, they need to see, they need to be able to not only find strengths, but they're looking for the weaknesses and there's no way to hide it there. And anytime there's a shadow that hides the flaws just a little bit and all you see are those strengths. Yeah. Well, on stage, you don't just have one light. You got lights everywhere and they're very, they're so bright that it's hot. Yeah. And so if you, if you can't look good, even with a flash on your camera, don't expect to look good on the lights that hurt from the heat. Yeah. Man, the, the posing room at my gym, there's some magic lights in there. I look like a different person. That's like that Milos old Colosseum gym next to the, the one open, open air wall. Cause I remember Luke Wood, I would always post photos there and everyone's like, he's going to win the Olympia.  naringin.via.via.via.via.via.via.via.via.viavia.viavia.viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia picks in that kitchen and save them. Yeah, those picks helped out a guy named Magnum quite a bit. I think he kind of rode the King Kamali train there for a while to start him, if you will. That's funny because I haven't thought of that name, but Magnum and I went around on the boards. We hated each other. I mean, that guy photoshopped Cox in my wife's mouth in family pictures. It was in family pictures. I just, I couldn't even. And it was funny because I always have to Photoshop them out of my wife's mouth. I remember asking about it. Of course, he wasn't going to be honest about it. Funny thing too, though, as much as we hate it, because it all started about Phil Heath. And, you know, Magnum was claiming that he knew what Phil was doing. And I was friends with Phil and I knew exactly what Phil was doing. And it was probably not what Magnum was saying. Unless Magnum was saying practically nothing, it was wrong. It was primarily about insulin and growth hormone. And I just, you know, it was back during that time where I would, you know, even Dante said, he's like, you're the last person that I ever want to go at, confront on the Internet. He's like, you're really good at it. But I would, we would battle. And then years later, and I can't even tell you what year, because I pulled away from other boards other than Intense Muscle, because I was so busy with it, probably right around, probably starting right around 11 or 12, in there somewhere. And I was only focused on Intense Muscle. But I went back over Professional Muscle and I said something to Magnum. I actually messaged him. And he was cool as fuck. And we laughed about some shit. That's funny. And it was. It was kind of funny. And we reminisced a little bit, laughed at ourselves and stuff. And I remember leaving that exchange with, God, after all these years, I still kind of think you're a douchebag, but I know you kind of think I'm a douchebag, but it was kind of water under the bridge after so long of just despising each other. Just, just could not stand. And he did some, he did far more vicious shit. I mean, man, that's pretty rough, you know, doing shit like that to someone. And he did it on Get Big. And I refused. That's where everyone did it. Well, he was trying to pull me over there. He was trying. And Dante would tell me, he's like, you know, he's saying this. He said, I'm like, you can tell me, but I'm not going there. I will not jump into the lion's den with all those clowns over there. I won't. I won't do it. I'm going to stay where I'm respected and fuck them, basically. I went over there. I had several Get Big Troll accounts. One of them was actually Magnum. But, uh, no, but he's so many of the Phil Heath because at the Junior Nationals 2005, he didn't know what GH was. Right. Because I was sitting at a table with him. Phil, Chris Perdicari took second to him. One of my clients in the heavies, poor Chris, you know, 19 out of 20 years would have won the overall of the Junior Nationals. But he walked into the year of Phil Heath. But we're sitting around asking him questions. And someone asked him about, you know, GH. And he had no, he didn't know what it was. I explained to him on the phone what an anti-estrogen was. And this is why he's getting ready for the USAs. And I'm thinking to myself, you're working with Honey. Like, what the hell? Or maybe he had him taking something, but Phil didn't bother to even care what it was. Phil hadn't, wasn't working with anyone, I don't think, for the, yet for the Junior Nationals. It was after he, like, did, but he, I don't, I mean, I want so badly to say what he was doing. Because it would. I know. It was like, one, it was almost nothing. And two, it was the wrong things you should be doing before. It's laughable. It's laughable. But yet, at the same time, if you factor in, you know, in fairness to Phil, and I, Phil and I are, we're not going to be doing lunch anytime soon because of some personal shit that happened with a client of mine. But from a physique standpoint, you know, he's just, you know, he's incredible. There's no denying what he did. I would have no way to be able to deny that. And back before he basically, in my opinion, got chewed up by the sport and changed, which I had a conversation with him about in the very early time back there at Better Bodies in Denver. But anyway, that's another story. But it just ended up that he was, unfortunately for him, in a way, so good that the things that he didn't know, none of us knew in the first year or two that we trained either. The problem he had was he was just so good that he was on another level that it's laughable that he didn't know. I mean, I remember going to, you know, doing a couple shows on things that he did, you know, the USAs or Junior Nationals on, not knowing any better. And, you know, we all did, but we just weren't on that level. We didn't know. We just didn't turn pro on that. Yeah. Yeah. Well, and he came back to the Colorado State in 2000. I want to say 2004. I'm getting the numbers. He had won it the year before in 2003, but he came back in 2000. That's what it was, 2004, because he had missed the deadline for the registration for Junior Nationals. So then he's like, I'll just do the Colorado State again. And then ended up going straight to, did he go to the, no, he went to Junior Nationals and then he went to the USA. Yeah, because he did Junior Nationals. And it was, man, what he did was all the wrong things and a tiny amount of the wrong things. And we were just flabbergasted. And then he kind of, he looked so insane there that, you know, the people that know things, you know, kind of hounded him, took him under his wing. And he came back six weeks later at the USAs looking like he made a year of progress. And then whatever, you know, two, three months later at what, he won his first pro show. I don't remember which one it was, or Ironman back then. I can't remember. But it was the same thing. It was like a very short period of time later. And he looked already like he made a whole nother year of progress. It was just unbelievable. And then he basically started winning them all in 2011 or all the Olympias. So it's like, Jesus. It's like, I don't know if you've ever heard Ronnie Coleman talk about what he took. And it's like, I don't even think he still knows what he took. Yeah. Well, the thing is, like when people say, you know, like that he couldn't have been natural when he turned pro or what he, I mean, he was competing at like 211 pounds. And then in 2004, he was over 300 pounds. So he gained 100 pounds. You know, most people don't gain 100 pounds on gear, period. And so if he was already blasting everything and then still gain another 100 pounds, I mean, you have to think about it that way. I mean, to me, that's the evidence that, you know, I didn't gain 100 pounds on gear, you know. Yeah, I've been here 40 years and I haven't gained 100 pounds of muscle. I know you and I have talked about it before, but that picture of him in high school when he was like 15 and he was like a grown man. That's when he was 13. Is that the one in the cast where he's like, Ronnie Coleman at age 13, he's got a cast and he's got 18-inch arms shredded. Some people just play with a different, well, it's, and I say this all the time, it's just weird how people discredit genetics in bodybuilding when they don't in any other sport. You know, no one, everyone understands you're not playing left tackle for the Dallas Cowboys if you're not 6'8", 330 pounds, you know. Right. You know, and everyone realizes that, you know, steroids make you a better baseball player because the, you know. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. 13 years old. 13 years old. Yeah. I don't look that old now. I'm 44. It looks like he just came out of a stint in prison for his graduation. But, you know, like everyone recognizes like the steroid or in baseball, guys were hitting more home runs. But no one thinks that if they just take enough that they'll become very bonds. Or everyone realizes that you either throw 100 miles an hour or you don't. You don't just get to, you know. Yeah. But for whatever reason, bodybuilding, it's like the one sport where people just don't give any credit to genetics. Even though everyone knows someone with maybe not that level. But everyone knows someone with good genetics who grows very, very easily. But somehow they refuse to believe that the pros are that way. Yeah. I honestly think it's denial. Yeah. I think, I really do. I think that admitting it basically says that, well, I'm not going to go anywhere because my genetics aren't very good. Yeah. They kind of hold out hope that if they take the right thing or the right combination that they're all of a sudden. I mean, I still get it from clients who are, I consider to be veterans, that they just don't feel that they have the right combination. And it's just. And that's the problem is because two things. It takes so long to build the muscle. You know, it's a decade in the process for most people. And there's so many things along the way you can mislead yourself because you start out with, you know, like test and Decker or something. And then you're sure the reason you haven't, you're not huge is because you haven't tried D-Ball or Anadrol or whatever. And there's so many that you can do that to. And then eventually you work your way through all those. And then it must be because I'm not taking enough. So then you can do the same thing and work your way through the doses. And then you get through the higher doses. And then, well, it must be because I haven't tried GH. And then it must be because I haven't tried high dose GH. And then it's, well, it must be because I haven't tried insulin, you know. And so you've got like a decade of stuff to work through before you finally get, you know, before it's finally forced into, forced for you to believe that, okay, it's, I've tried everything now. I still don't look like it. Or I'm just not willing to take the amount of gear that it takes to get. Like anyone on earth. That's my biggest pet peeve. Or it's even less than that, my biggest pet peeve, when someone posts a picture looking great and they have to emphasize that they look that way on, you know, doses a child would take, you know. Because then I'm like, well, if you look that good taking, you know, 50 milligrams of test every six months, like to me, you're just an idiot then because you could be Mr. Olympia. You're choosing not to, you know. It's like there's no one out there, you've already made the moral leap or whatever to do this. No one takes, you know, like I have a hard line stance. I'm going to do these illegal things, but I'm only going to do them to the small amount, you know. Everybody on social media is just on TRT now. Yeah, it's a trend. It's a phase that I would like to see exit stage right. It's getting kind of old. And not only just them saying it, but even the arguing and going back and forth. Because on the one hand, it shouldn't matter anyway what they're taking. So just shut up and do what you're doing. And, I mean, how does that justify your success? Exactly. Well, yeah, great. You look great on TRT, but you didn't win the Mr. Olympia. Yeah. To me, if you look that good on just TRT, now I just think you're an idiot because you're already, you know, you're already doing things. Why not just add a little bit more and, you know, and start making some money in the sport? Exactly. Start kicking everybody's ass. It's funny. I'm very transparent about everything I do and still people call me a liar. Yes, you can't win. We're in a time right now. This last year has been rough. And I have a feeling it's still going to be, you know, and I didn't like when they were going after everybody from The Rock to, you know, the one thing that I would say was Lion King may have been a little bit different because he was so emphatically denied. But at the same time, I still fall back on the fact that it just shouldn't matter to anybody what they're doing. I haven't asked Justin if his wife likes anal. It's just not my business. You can assume. I don't care. It doesn't impact me. So it's not my business. I mean, we're from the age, though, the muscle mags. Like, everybody was natural. Yeah. No, but everybody was picking metrics. Yeah. You know, it was HMB. Yeah. Yeah. And if you think about it, hey, it is a little unfair, probably more unfair then because they were very clearly. I say very clearly. They were very clearly implying that, you know, the guys in the muscle tech ads and, you know, all those ads. Yeah. You know, I know when I was younger, when I was a teen and I figured it out, I'm like, oh, okay. I'm going to have to take steroids to get big. I was like, well, I already got three years invested. Okay, I'll do it. I mean, it wasn't that difficult of a decision. But it was kind of unfair. I remember thinking it was kind of unfair. Like, oh, I didn't know that. Like, nobody has said anything about this. Yeah, that was the same thing. I was pissed because I didn't like you under the club. Because I didn't, I didn't. My first years, there was the internet, but there wasn't even, there wasn't bodybuilding internet. Bodybuilding.com hadn't even come out yet. I remember bodybuilder, I think it was bodybuilders.org was like the only bodybuilding website, you know, like 97 or something, you know. So I would have loved, but it wasn't like it is now. You had to know someone and I didn't know anyone. And when I finally knew someone and entered into that, you know, like, welcome to the club and you find out that every, it's like all of you fuckers were in this club. Yeah. Oh, yeah. None of you. Nobody said it. Yes. Eight years into this. I remember being in high school and I bought Arnold Schwarzenegger's Encyclopedia of bodybuilding. And I followed his entire routine and his diet to the T and I got smaller. It was at the one where he said that, like, what was his quote? Like, he took it six weeks before a contest and it worked about as good as a good tan. It made about as much difference as having a good tan or something like that. One of his books has that quote. I think it's him. It might be Tom Platt's. I just remember that quote sticking out and I was like, that's a tough one to write. I don't think I could write that knowing what I know. Well, he just said recently, it was just this past week that he said he took 100 milligrams of tests and 15 milligrams of D-ball for his last Olympia. Yeah. Was that Tom Platt's? I don't even think he said that. No, Arnold. No, it was Arnold. Yeah. Oh, geez. Yeah. He's just trying. He probably figures he was going to be next. He was going to be scrutinized next. Yeah. And decided to put a little something out there proactively to kind of get him off his back. Yeah. If I was a celebrity, I would be like, look, guys, no, I just do a lot of cocaine and heroin. And everyone would be like, oh, that's cool. Sweet. No, you're good. I'm not sure what he would have to lose by admitting that he used a lot of shit. I mean, he's talked about it before. He's worth nearly a billion dollars. He's gotten. Like, does it really matter? He doesn't fucking care. He's almost. I mean, you've done more egregious things like, I don't know, having kids with your maid. Yeah. So I don't think that you taking gear is really all that bad in the big picture. He made, what was that movie? Jingle All the Way. Yeah. I mean, there was far worse things he's done. Exactly. What was the story? I heard the one that he was 15 and his pediatrician prescribed him D-ball. I think that was the deal. Really? Yeah. I'm glad I haven't heard it. I forget who told me that story. Better pediatrician than I got. My pediatrician. I got a lame one. I was back in Germany. I just got sexually molested. Which is funny you say that because my doctor at that time, I'm guessing I was 14 or 15. He's given me the cough test. So essentially my balls are in his hand. And I'm asking him, because it's awkward, if a protein powder will help me to gain muscle. And his answer, no shit to this day, Dr. Yanatelli, old as fuck. He didn't have any choice on the doctors you went to because you had a family doctor and you just went to him for like, I don't know, 150 years, two generations or something. Unlike today. But anyway, he looked up at me and he goes, no, protein powder is the devil's food. And I remember thinking, okay, then it definitely works. So I'm going to use it. Yeah. Exactly. That always backfires. I had a, before physical, we had a school physical and one of the doctors was a female doctor. And this isn't why this happened. It happened because I was 15 and they just, I would think I was permanently erect. But I'm waiting in line and I'm like third from going into the physical and I'm rock hard for whatever. Like 15 year old rock hard where it's like, you know, like you could hit it with a sledgehammer. Yeah. Moving. Exactly. Oh my God. And I'm just sitting there. I'm sitting next to my buddy, Sean Egan. And I was like, dude, you're a fucking boner. I don't know. How do I get rid of this? And then he tells me that he's like, someone must've told him that he's like, if you flick, flick your tip, it'll make it go down. So I'm sitting there like, it didn't work. Who would have thought that beating it just solidified it even more. So I'm like just praying to the penis guys, like, please, I can't walk in there with this female doctor trying to pass me for physical so I can play football in three weeks. Luckily, somehow it dissipated. But it might actually work to my benefit because I probably had like a, like a, like a one 10th parche. So I probably walked in and she was like, wow, this, this 15 year olds hung. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. She didn't say it, but she was impressed. Now let me ask you this. Did you take that? This is kind of a transference type thing. Did you, before you went out on stage the first time go, oh my God, what if I get a, what? Oh, paranoid. First time. Paranoid. I was like, yeah, especially because I was all dehydrated. And so what it was like, mostly I was paranoid. People might not notice. Right. No, I was, yeah, I was so worried that was going to happen. But then you get on stage and you realize that you're just struggling to stay alive because you're dehydrated. And the worries dropped as soon as I got out there and the worries shifted to that I was going to pass out and die. But no, I had that first show. I was, I was very worried. These dudes would take Viagra before they go on stage. I was praying it would happen, but. You just went where I, what I was thinking, Paul. You went where I was. I'm like, I'll do a lot of things before I go on stage. But, and I have competed for years and I have never once thought or thought, okay, I might have a heart. But I'm not going to take Viagra. I'm not going to take some pain. I've heard of people doing that. I'm not risking it. No, I weren't. That's. You got no blood flow. What's a good. Yeah. Dylate my blood vessels even more. I'm dehydrated. Where's the. There's already not enough water. I'm already. My veins are already barely there. Yeah. Like that always cracked me up. It's like. Yeah. Like dialing my veins for what? Like it's going to be an empty garden hose. You know, it's like. It's like when Andy Dufresne's crawling through that sewage pipe. Yeah. My veins are big, but there's just a little bit of blood at the bottom. I like that reference. That's good. Well played. All right, gentlemen, I need to wrap this one up. Yeah. I actually got a buddy here from college football buddy, Dan Price. Shout out to Dan Price. He'll probably never watch this, but I haven't seen him. In years. But we're going to go. I don't know. Probably do stupid shit for the next few hours. Nice. Late Thursday night, man. This is past my. Well, it's not past my bed night. Yeah. That's the benefit. Both. Neither of us have to get up for work in the morning. So. Well, this is like lunchtime for Skip, right? Yeah. Yeah. I'm actually going to train. I didn't train earlier. That's funny. So I'm going to get a meal and I'm heading to the gym. Dan's like that. Dan doesn't. Dan's like Skip, too. I was like. I told him. I was like. I got a podcast like 930. I was like, you. Are you a late night guy? He's like, dude, if I'm in bed by five, it's a good night. And I was like. Yeah. Okay. Then we're fine. I'm usually up until about one. But I do all my check ins at night because people don't respond. I know. Oh, my God. That's not a nod. I never thought about that. Because that's my problem all day. I'm like. They're replying as quick as I can type. I'm like. Yeah. That's brilliant. I never thought of that. I had. The light bulb just went off. So I do my check ins. It's my ADD. I can't. I can't write articles. I can't do client work. I can't do anything if there's any distraction. I can't have a TV. I can't listen to music. I can't do anything. Yeah. That's smart. No. But I've slowly been transitioning to because because you can it can like consume you coaching when your client list gets big. And so I've kind of tried to make a promise to my wife that like the six to nine, like 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. I'll be with the family. I'm not so great at it, but because I don't mind staying up and I'm naturally up late. And so I'm moving more towards getting some of it done earlier in the day, taking a break to be at the family and then getting the rest of it done at night. But I hadn't thought about the clients not responding part. That's genius. Let's try to maximize my time. I feel like a light bulb moment. My whole life has changed right now. Yeah. That's been my strategy. This is the first. I mean, this past year has been the first time I've actually had like a ton of clients. I've always like coached a couple people, but I'm definitely feeling the pain and pain now that I have like the social media stuff has taken off. It's it's man. It's a lot. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We talked. Yeah. We talked just a couple of months ago when you were telling me. I was like, I'm going to do. And then now it's like, now I got people in contest prep. It's just nonstop, man. Yeah. I got seven people competing. If you've noticed my eyes keep going. They're doing their, their check-ins. They got seven people this weekend. It's. And we're carving out. So they're sending me their panic texts right now. My girlfriend told me the other day, she said she felt like she was married. She was dating my phone, not me. I'm like, I got to look at these. I mean, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If you're. It's a Saturday morning. Yeah. If you're a, if you're a coach from April through May into early June, you're not, there's no weekends. And then again, September to November, you know, like when everyone's qualifying, I mean, the national, all through the summer, you just have really the national shows. It dies down a lot, but April through early June is good luck finding a weekend open. Well, I'm glad I'm going to do the late show this year. I'm going to do the Masters USA. That way, hopefully I won't be super distracted. Yeah. You get it as a coach. You get a little break in the summer. I mean, you still got like your guys doing the national shows, but you're going to have less of them. And then you get a break in the, like around Christmas time, but man, spring is rough. Well, this is my first year of really experiencing it. What weight class are you? Oh God. I was too, almost two 40 on stage last year. Oh, big boy. He's tall. Yeah. I don't know where I'll be this year. I don't know. Probably that much. Middleweight. Yeah. I don't know that I'm leaner than I was last year at the same. Same weight. I, I, I, I, I, I think I said to you this picture, Justin, comparing this year to last year, but I'm definitely leaner than I was at some daytime weight. I'm around like two 80 fasted. I'm like two 70, two 71, something like that. But I'm six one. That's my height. It's skip freeze up on us again. Or are you still that? Or he is like, I saw circles there for a minute. Remember, I'm hardwired. We couldn't tell if you were like, if you turned into a mannequin, like that old movie, I was waiting for, was it that's what's that song build the ship together. Do you remember that movie mannequin from the eighties? Oh yeah. Yeah. That's what you turned into. You were just, you were motionless. I just froze. I thought you were stunned by my weight though, Skip. I get the circles. They'll, the circles will start to rotate. And, and I say I'm hardwired. So I, it ain't my connection. I don't know where, I don't know where the speed issue is coming from. It's a, it shouldn't be me. It's usually me, but I got Starlink now. I'm, I went from four megabytes per second to 250. I used to have to, you got, okay. So you ended up getting, I was just telling my wife tonight. I'm like, I think, cause she's like, well, why are you doing it so late? I'm like, I don't know. Probably because he has to go somewhere else to somebody else's house to use internet. I don't know. It's changed my life. It's changed my life. Yeah. Cause like dealing, I used to have to wait, change. I used to have to up, like change the client file because it would upload to the drive and I couldn't trust and then answer their email and then come back and hope it had finished changing or uploading. It was, I don't like, I mean, yeah, I look back on it with nightmares, but it's already, it's been less than a week and it's already changed my life. I can do podcasts now. Thank you, Elon Musk. Yes. Thank you. Get his car and his internet now. Yeah. Anything he puts out at this point. When do you get on the stage, Skip? I would like to be on stage next year, but I'm trying not to pay too much attention or get ahead of myself because everything is injury free right now. My training is going so well. So I am really honestly just focused on training, getting, trying to get size back in my legs. And it's coming back, but size back in my legs and, and just really getting weeks and months under my belt. If I can get through this year and I think I can, I mean, the way things are going, everything looks really good. I continue to train smart and listen to my, to feedback and, you know, my body and everything else. Just be really smart. If I can get through this year, I have a feeling that I, that I'll feel confident that I will be good to be able to prep for some shows next year. But I don't know what, because it's been a while since I've been on stage. So I may have to put my toe in the water a little bit, do a few, I'll tell you what I'll do. If I'm being honest, I'll literally sneak into some smaller shows, probably national qualifiers, but smaller shows down here without telling anybody and enjoy it instead of being under the microscope and see how things go. But ultimately I'd be lying if I said that I don't want to get back to, you know, masters nationals. So that's where I was headed when I tore my glute at about six weeks out. So I may have gotten smoked. I may not have, I don't know. I know a couple of guys in there that I have beaten before, but that's time, you know, that's, that's not within the last four or five years. I can look at them and I could try to be realistic and go, you know what? I would have been competitive, but I don't know. Cause I wasn't there cause I wasn't able to make it. So I'm not going to go there and get smoked. I'm going to go there if I can be competitive and we'll just see how it goes. But I'm trying to just, just trying to enjoy the, the training and the, the passion of it all and just enjoy it. And then I'll see, you know, as it gets towards the end of the year, what I, what I want to do. I feel like the race car at the last lap of the race with a dented fender and gas tanks empty, the windshield's cracked. I'm just trying to make it. I should have done, I should have done masters nationals last year after my show. I don't know why I didn't. It was pretty dumb. Sometimes you just had enough though. I mean, it's, it just, you know, everybody's situation, especially with our older demographic, it's just a lot different. You got families, you got careers, you got businesses. And if you're 23, I don't see an excuse for a 23 year old to not be kicking everybody's ass because you don't have much stress in life and you don't have many, in my opinion, many obstacles. I have a lot more respect for the older demographic to be able to balance their passion for bodybuilding and competing with their personalized. And it doesn't always, it's not always balanced, but it can be. It's secondary. Yeah. And it can be. I think that if you're in it long enough and you're structured enough and you're planful and organized, I think it can be balanced. I think people can be, still be good parents and, and good spouses and, and, you know, your business or your career shouldn't suffer, but it is a lot to juggle. There's no question. It is a lot, but I enjoy it. It's, it's a, it's a fun hobby and we'll see how it goes. Very cool. That's why I asked what weight class you're in. Yeah. Yeah. I'm the, I'm the big guys, man. I'm hope, I was hoping to be 250, but well, I don't think that's going to happen. What do you think, Justin? Two, two 40 again. I think it would be heavier than last time. I mean, I think, I still feel like we were over dieted a little bit last time. Yeah. I mean, you're not, you're, you're in decent shape, you know, at our waking 270. So I don't, I don't, you don't see you having 30 pounds to lose, you know? I mean, maybe not a stage weight of 250, but definitely an in shape 250, you know, and the afternoon, you know, you know, Friday afternoon or something. viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia This was fun catching up with both of you. I appreciate you guys. And thank you. And audience, thank you for supporting my channel. And I appreciate each and every one of you. Take care.