 p. Diverse Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey guys, Big Paul here today. And I've got a fun one for you. I recorded a pretty long interview this weekend with Joe Miller and Justin Harris, the one and only from First Detachment Nutrition, Troponin Nutrition. And I have a clip for you today that's funny as fuck, where Justin talks about Fawad Abiyad's epic sushi cheat meal, where he ate an ungodly amount of sushi. And it was Justin's recounting of that situation. And we also talked about elite metabolisms and bodybuilders being able to eat just shit tons of food. You're going to enjoy this one. I'll have the full video up this weekend probably, but I'll roll out some clips this week, some fun stuff. There's some really good stuff in this interview. Anyway, guys, I hope you enjoy. Thanks. I'm kidding. Speaking of sushi, I think I've told the story before, but it needs to be told. I wish I had video evidence of it, but Fawad Abiyad in 2015, we did a seminar at Ken Jackson's gym with John Meadows. And I can't remember who else was there. Asante was there. Ken was there. But it really did turn out. Great, great seminar. But we all went to sushi afterwards. And Fawad was dieting. And Meadows was coached then at the time. Whoever it was gave him a cheat meal. Went to sushi. And I could list numbers, and it would absolutely not describe it. I don't know how he didn't die. I've never seen. You watch Nathan's hot dog eating contest, and they're like, they eat 70 hot dogs. It's nothing. 70 hot dogs is a pile like this. He ate at least 200 pieces of salmon nigiri. And he was ordering a roll. I mean, I was just like, because I've had huge cheat meals. I've eaten, I mean, I think I took two large pizzas down one time, like on a cheat meal. I mean, I've eaten massive amounts of food. I've got, like, my name on walls all across the country. You know, like restaurants that have eating challenges. This was mind-blowing. They brought out just, you know, because they have, like, the big plates and the boats, you know. If you go more than a boat, they have, like, those catering trays that don't even fit on the table. You know, they're like, you know, this big. Just mad. They brought that out with nothing but salmon nigiri. Just roll after roll after roll. Like, 200 pieces. And that was aside from his rolls. And he got other types of nigiri. And he's just sitting there, just, while everyone's talking. And it was, like, just, it was, like, if you ever, like, see the Simpsons episode when Homer, like, goes to hell. And they try to feed him donuts to torture it. And he just, like, and it was just, I have no idea, like, how that compressed into his stomach. Like, even if his stomach blew up to the size of, like, you know, when they blow, like, burst those old water packs or whatever. And those things, they just blow up to the size of a massive balloon. That thing could have been a hot air balloon. And I don't, it was, it was mind-boggling. And I think about that anytime anyone brings up food. Because I've never been so amazed in my life. It had to be, like, 36 pounds of sushi. That's crazy. That's insane. I've heard stories about Big Rami, too. I've heard somebody, a friend of a friend who went to dinner with him said it was an ungodly amount of food that he ate. I believe it. There's that Kai Green, when he, after a show in, like, years ago, maybe, like, 2010 or 11. And they went to, like, a Denny's or something. And they showed the, he spent, like, $268 or something at Denny's. And they showed his thing. And it was, like, it was, like, four-orders side salad. Three-orders T-bone steak. And it was just, ding, ding, ding, ding, line after line after line. Did you see that thing with Ronnie Coleman recently? Where he was saying that he ate at Denny's every day for his pro bodybuilding career. Said he thinks he spent over $100,000. I think it was over $100,000. No, I got to see that. Or was it IHOP? It might have been IHOP. Maybe. But, well, I remember, do you remember, like, cost redemption? He ate out every meal, you know? It was, like, black-eyed peas, Chipotle, or meal after meal after meal. I think it was IHOP. Genetics. Those genetics. Like, some, like, because you see the gamut, like, work with people. And you see, it's really remarkable how some people process nutrients. You know, and, like, I mean, there's a genetic component to anything. You know, you don't play left tackle in the NFL unless you were born a giant, you know, 6'8", 330. You know, you don't play wide receiver unless you were born, like, a rocket. You know, you got to run a 4'3 or under now. You don't pitch in the majors unless you can throw 100 miles an hour. But some people have, like, 100-mile-an-hour metabolism. Or some people have, you know, like, 400-foot home run power metabolisms. And it's remarkable to watch. I got a client, Cody Losey, taller guy. But, God, I think we're at 1,000 grams of carbs on his medium day and, like, 1,500 grams on his high day. And he has three of them a week. And we have him drinking, like, I think, two gallons of half-strength Gatorade a day. And he's a big boy. You know, he's 280 or whatever, you know. But it's, I don't want to say 70 or 80 grams of protein per meal. And we're adding fat. And it's just, like, it's unbelievable. Ben Pollack was another one. Ben Pollack, I think we were at 850 or 900 grams of carbs on his medium day and, like, 1,200 on three high days a week. And he had strida glutes. Yeah, he's a local guy to here. Or at least he used to be. But I've heard people talk about him eating the amount of food that he could eat. Yeah. And he eats incredibly strict. I mean, even his cheat meals weren't. They were just, he just stopped measuring the food. He ate the same foods. Yeah. Just, he would eat. He'd make, watch it, he'd make a bunch of egg whites and mix it in his rice. And he was, like, he wouldn't even pay attention. Just putting it down while, you're, like, I don't think he'd put seasoning on it or anything. But, you know, crazy metabolism. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off.