 Warning! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, Battle Tested, Expert Formulated. Use discount code AB10 and check out 410% OFF. So I'm serious where I say I think I had about 20,000 calories in that 25 period. Alright folks, Big Paul here today and I have a Big Paul Reacts video for you. Larry Wheels made this post the other day about how he gained 53 pounds in 5 days post show. I've seen this happen before. People go on food vendors, have water rebound from taking diuretics at the show. It's happened to me before. I've seen dudes go into congestive heart failure. I've seen all sorts of crazy crap happen post show and it seems that it happened to Larry. You have the full bodybuilder experience where you diet, you get insane and eat a bunch of food and then you blow up after a show. We're going to look at this video and we're going to talk about it in just one second. Alright guys, here I am just two days post show and I'm not going to talk about the show in this video. I'm just going to talk about what I ate and the astronomical amount of weight gain I've had since then. So this is my first time getting fully depleted for a show. I did use diuretics to make weight and to have that dry hard look on stage. I had to use them twice within a three day period to make weight twice for two different shows back to back. So when using diuretics, there's a rebound. Yeah, I was wondering how he made it into classic weight. He's a big dude. I know for myself at that point where I'm trying to decide if I want to make classic or not going into a show. I'd need to drop probably 10-15 pounds going into the show for me. It's just not worth it. I'm probably going to just stick with bodybuilding. But he is correct. When you take diuretics, you do have a water rebound post show. Sometimes it's pretty terrible. There is a water rebound effect to diuretics that can last up to three to four weeks after you discontinue them. A lot of people that become dependent upon them later on in life, people that are obese, taking blood pressure medicine. There is a condition where I don't know if you would necessarily call it a condition, but a place where people get where they just can't remove the diuretics without having this nasty rebound. And it does happen. And I've seen it happen. Even without diuretics, when you do a water cut, you have to be very careful. I've had that happen before we end up getting the cankles post show. It seems like it takes something like six to eight weeks post show just for your body to normalize and get back to some sort of homeostasis. Now, I fully intended to binge eat after the show as a reward for the hard work of six week starvation I put myself through. Now, what I had no idea about is just how much weight I would put on in the two days following the show. I'm going to stop it here for a second. This is definitely a new bodybuilder mistake. The whole thing, I deserve this meal. I deserve this reward for all the hard work I did. To me, that is a dysfunctional attitude. Not saying that bodybuilding is as dysfunctional as it is. It's borderline eating disorders, but going out and binge eating after being on a diet is just a terrible way to handle things. I've done it. I can't be the first guy to cast a stone in a glass house. I've been guilty of it myself. I remember one time I went to Costco after a show, bought a family size container of cookies and ate the entire thing. I think there was like 30 or 40 cookies in the whole damn thing. I don't know how many calories it was. Probably something like 10,000, 12,000 calories worth of cookies alone that I ate in a single setting. And I got so freaking sick. So freaking sick. It was horrible. But you got to keep it together post-show. You do all this work to get in shape, to make yourself look great. And then you can just flush it all down in the toilet in just a matter of a few days and ruin your offseason. You get to a place I've seen guys come to me who've done shows and they go on these multi-day food vendors post-show. And then you just have to diet them down again before they go into their offseason. It's terrible. It's a terrible place to be. So, believe it or not, but I weighed in just 48 hours ago at 232 pounds. As of right now, I weighed 284 pounds. Holy fuck. What? I don't even think I've consumed enough fluid and solid food to add up to 40 pounds inside of my body right now. I just don't understand where it all came from. But I'm going to try and back. Alright, so let's do some math on this. One gallon of water, retained, is roughly eight pounds. So, that alone, and let's do the math on fat. 3,500 calories of fat stored would be one pound of body fat. So there's no way that all of that is body fat. If he gained 50 pounds in body fat, I'm trying to do the math in my head. That would be like 175,000 calories or plus of fat. So clearly it's not fat. It's majority water. But even still, 50 pounds, we're talking about, let's see, 6, 7 pounds, 6 and a half gallons of water. Sorry, that your body is retaining. But let's just say it's some fat, some water. So five to six gallons of water that his body has retained in fluid. And then there's some extra fat in there as well. That is insane. Not good for your heart, not good for your health. Terrible for you. Backtrack for you guys and help you understand how I got here today. So, immediately after the show, the first thing I did is went to my favorite burger spot. Five guys. I had two bacon double cheeseburgers with a large fries. Then I went home, took a two hour break, still starving, stomach already engorged and stretching and uncomfortable, and went to Ruth Chris Steakhouse to indulge in a very nice 16 ounce ribeye steak with the side of the best Swoopa Titta mash in the world. The Swoopa Titta cast roll at Ruth Chris out of this world. Even better than the Boston Market, dare I say. Come on, Boston Market versus Ruth Chris. You can do better than that Larry, but good choices. That would be fine. Usually when I tell people to have a meal or two post-show, go out for breakfast the next day after the show and get back on track afterwards. Just get back on your diet plan afterwards. You'll thank me later when you do it. But that's not so bad. That's something typically what I will do. Sometimes I will have a burger and fries before finals, and then I'll go out to a nice steakhouse afterwards like Ruth Chris or Morton's or something like that. I think that's fine when he detailed here. That's pretty typical post-show, and I think if he got back on track after that, things would have been okay. Then I went home and I was feeling a bit peckish, so I had a Pop-Tart, a whole bag, which is about 500 calories or so. And even after that, not satisfied. Went downstairs, stomach even more stretched out than this right here, and had a couple of noodles. Went to bed on an absolutely full stomach, slept like a baby. I take that back. I was tossing and turning the whole night. Stomach and absolute knots. I was declaring war on my stomach. Yeah, that's the other thing. After you've been eating clean for that much time and you throw all that food at it, you are sick. I remember just being up all night with diarrhea. After binging after a show one time, my stomach was so unhappy with me. Gas, bloating, diarrhea, you feel awful. Good choice on the Pop-Tarts though. Larry, you're my spirit animal. Five guys, Ruth, Chris, Pop-Tarts. I don't know about the cup of noodles. I don't know where you got that one from. I'm just thinking about how much sodium there had to have been in all those meals. They're very high sodium meals. And then you pull the diuretic out and you're retaining even more sodium. Diuretics are likely going to make, depending on what he took, are going to make you excrete sodium. Yeah, you're in a really, really, really bad situation already, but it sounds like something I would do. So I feel you, Larry. Okay, at this point I was like, I've earned it. I've been told not to take it too far and after a couple of days slow down. So I'm thinking, I'm not even half a day in. So I have nothing to worry about right now. I woke up that morning about 2.60. So just from those few meals and a few glasses of water, I was already up 30 times. There's no way, it was just a few glasses of water. You would have had to have had more water to retain all that, but I just don't see how that's possible. When you eat those high sodium meals, you know, you don't pee. Like during Contest Prep, you're constantly up peeing at night. And then you're retaining all that fluid and not peeing it out. His kidneys, his heart, everything had to been screaming. But I love Larry here. I'm a fat boy at heart. So Larry's speaking my language. Then we're still under the 25 period. Then that morning I went to Denny's. I had cinnamon roll pancakes, bacon, hash browns, sunny side up eggs, walked across the street back to my hotel, still peckish, had a cinnamon roll bagel, lots of cream cheese and some arm shoes. Went back upstairs, took a little braided digest, went back downstairs after an hour, had two more cinnamon rolls with cream cheese, some orange juice. Oh, and a bowl of cereal. And that was breakfast. My question is, what kind of cereal did you have, Larry? Please tell me you're a Frosted Flakes guy. Oh my God. I love this so much because this just straight up sounds like some shit that I would have done when I was younger. Then I went to a meet and greet over at a nutrition shop nearby, where I was making a deal with White Rabbit. After the meet and greet was over, I had something called a Dragon Bacon Double Cheese Burger. It was a bit of a spicy burger. Delicious. Oh, and there are some spicy cheeseburgers in there with all the grease and the sodium and already offsets stomach. Larry's going all in here. Now I was gifted some lemon cookies that were absolutely out of this world and waited about half. I don't know a whole lot about Larry Wills, but I'm slowly falling in love with him after this video. He's like picking all the foods that I crave and love. I'm in the last week of my prep, so I love lemon drop cookies. They're one of my favorites. And Larry, you're the man. I want to give you a kiss right now. Half a pound each. Each cookie I was told was 1500 calories. I had one before the burger. But carnage continues. After that, I went to Wynie Briney Coleman's gym, had a killer collab with the king, and then shortly after the workout, and I mean immediately after, we're talking between the time I had the burger and cookie and the time I ate again about two hours, maybe three, I went to Buffalo Wildlings. And I got a fried chicken sandwich. I got six bone and wings. I got, there was one, oh, three chicken tenders. Burp and barbecue sauce. Why just three chicken tenders, Larry? Come on, man. In for a penny, in for a pound. It's delicious. I'm going to be craving it right now, even like just eight. It's terrible. Guys, post-show, watch out. It gets real. And I had two ores of fries. Didn't stop there. Ordered a chocolate cake, which was, I think, from Walmart. It wasn't very good. Walmart has some awesome pastries. Oh my God. I swear, Larry's channeling me, man. I go for the cheap Walmart pastries to post-show. Pastries and cakes. I go in there because Walmart has cheap meat, and then like going past the, you have to go past the bakery to get to the meat section in my Walmart. And I'm like, oh, that cookie, those cakes look good. And they somehow end in my cart. Oh my God. I swear, I swear, Larry must be my twin brother separated at birth. These are all straight up the things that I probably would do if I lost my fucking mind. All right, Jim Bros. I'm going to interrupt this regularly scheduled broadcast to tell you about the new Science of HGH ebook by Kurt Havens. It is available on the Anabolic Bodybuilding website for download right now. There is a link in the video description below for the ebook if you want to pick it up. It is probably the most comprehensive ebook about performance enhancement use with HGH over 100 pages of information with references. And it's awesome. Go check it out. Very, very basic cake, but at this point was delicious still. And some vanilla ice cream, which was straight out of the cart. Had that frozen ice cream taste still. Probably a parking lot binge. I would imagine that's what I do when I go to Walmart. If I'm going to have a binge, I eat the cake and the ice cream straight up in the parking lot. So whatever. We're cruising. We're looking for war on my stomach, right? After that, I believe I went to go work out. I don't know how to pull up a workout on an absolutely enormous nine-humped looking stomach. And it was a blue shin over at Ion Attics. So I got to work out in, took about a couple hours, hungry again. Went down to a pizza spot right after. Had a 14-inch pizza, margarita style. Couple garlic nuts. And a salad, I believe, which I didn't finish. It wasn't any good. We got to get the salad in to keep it healthy, bros. A 14-inch margarita pizza. This is the one player side where I would disagree with Larry here. That is a poor choice on pizza. You got to get the pizza with the meats, Larry. Let's go all in, man. Get the fat in the sodium. Get the nitrates in. Let's make the bloat rebound a full and effective one. Good. Then after that, that might have been the last meal. That may have been the last meal. So what I had today, which is a 20-40 hour period, where I gained another, since I woke up this morning until now, 15 pounds. I can't remember. I'm not going to talk about today. But I just want to talk about the first 24 hours, because that's where I had the most food. And I want to say it was close to 20,000 calories. Teakburger. Teakburger. Larry had teakburger. After the pizza? Yeah, after the pizza. That was today. Teakburger was the day after. I would say 20,000 calories is a conservative estimate. I think he topped 20,000 calories. I mean, the hell, just the large pizza alone is probably 3,000 or 4,000 calories. That was yesterday. That was so much something in the days. Yeah, so for the first 24 hours, that was all the meals that I had. I don't know how many times I've eaten, like 9 or 10 times, roughly. And lots of snacks, I got cookies. So I had those lemon cookies I told you about. I had three of them, right? All right, so he said those lemon cookies were 1,500 calories a piece. Three of them. That'S4,500 calories and just lemon cookies. That's awesome. That night, I ended up finishing them all. I had like four that I was given. And each one's half a pound. So four. So four times 1,500 calories. We're at 6,000 calories just in cookies. So yeah, that 20,000 calorie number is very conservative. Way under. Probably more like 30,000. And 1,500 calories. So I'm serious where I say I think I had about 20,000 calories in that 24 hour period. Now, I have any fluids I had. Didn't seem like much. Maybe a couple gallons of water. Nothing crazy. I mean two gallons of water, 16 pounds. So right now, you're seeing the most bloated version of Larry Wills to ever have existed in Walk This Earth. My legs, I'm going to show up these bad boys. He's got to show you the carnage that has been done. I bet you he has putting you in the right place. I'm not proud of my work. So I'll take this the wrong way. I'm not trying to glorify how much water retention I have going on right now. Just like an aspirin. I'm an aspirin now. Yep, get all that water retention there. It's all water. Two days ago, nothing to lines. Then we get the cankles. Come here, Adam, get the cankles. Oh, that's nasty. That's terrible, dude. Yeah, so I got to stop it here for a second. That's pitting a Dima. When you get pitting a Dima like that, you're in some state of congestive heart failure. Your heart can't keep up with all the fluid. Oh my gosh, yeah, that's bad. I've been there before though. A lot of people end up with the cankles supposed to show even without the binge eating, but that does happen. Look at that. That's definitely, you can see it. Cankles. It's all tight in here. I've been farting every five minutes. If you came to the meet and greet today, there's a very good chance I let off a big fart marching in your hand. The Lyra Meals wasn't me. Humbly apologize. Wait a second. That fart was out of p-dacter. So I do a couple poses for you. That stinks. Man, I can't budge. Stop it. You're telling me. You can still see some lines. I don't know how this works. Okay, you're back to the bye. Oh man. You see how his skin stretched out from the water retention? You can see all the water in his lower back. Look at that. Do a vacuum real quick. That ain't happening. The vacuum's not going to happen tonight. The vacuum's unplugged. What we're going to do now to verify my claims is go down to the hi-hat gym. All right. This is a good place to stop. Oh my God. Man, I'm in love with Larry. This is such some shit that the 20-something-year-old Paul would do. It's a mistake that a lot of new bodybuilders make. It's, you know, like I said, those in glass houses can't cast stones. I've been there before. I've done this shit myself. It's bad. It's real bad. It's not good for you. But we've all been there. I think Justin told me one time that Greenland always wins. So Justin's strategy post-show is just to keep you full on good food. Go right back into your off-season diet. I know a lot of coaches like to reverse diet to kind of ease you out of this. And I get the logic of it. I do get the logic of it, you know, slowly letting your body achieve some homeostasis and then getting back into things. But the problem is, is that you're so freaking hungry and once you start increasing calories, you just, you turn into a gremlin and you just lose control. So you might as well fill up. If you're going to lose control and eat a shit ton of food, you might as well just fill up on good food. I would do something like, you know, just go, usually run a few high days afterwards just to fill back up, keep the fats low. Have, you know, two or three meals post-show where you can have somewhat of a free meal, but don't go ape shit. I say this every year. Last year I was pretty good. I kept myself together pretty good. I think post-show last year, I went and got a slice of pizza immediately post-show. Then I went out to a steak house later that night. It was similar to Morton's and I had a steak. I think Rebi and Larry chose my choice. Rebi is the best steak. Rebi, I think I had some scallop potatoes and a piece of, I split a piece of chocolate cake with my girlfriend for dessert. And that was pretty much it. I got relatively back on track the next day. I had a, you know, maybe, I wasn't weighing and measuring food by any means, but I just got back on track for the most part. And then Monday, show of Saturday, Monday back in the gym, back on my off-season diet, weighing and measuring everything. And I had a very solid off-season where my contest prep was not brutal this year because I didn't let myself get too fat in the off-season. Remember that any of the stuff that you do, when you, if you go apeshit post-show, you're going to have to pay the price later on. And this is the problem with diuretics too. I try to avoid using diuretics when possible because the water rebounds are going to be even worse than it would be without them. You're going to have a water rebound regardless post-show. I tell guys to be careful. Post-show, I've seen guys go to apeshit with the water. It's happened to me before and they drink shit tons of water and then you end up hypo-natremic with a sodium imbalance. They clearly didn't happen to Larry. But, you know, so when you, when you stop using the diuretics, you end up having reduced sodium excretion, increased water retention, your body should not have, I know, I don't know if anybody does this, but maybe the smarter approach would be to taper off the diuretics. I don't know. I am not the expert on diuretics, but I know there isn't a diuretic withdrawal period that can last, you can look it up. I think the NIH has some studies on it, but usually it's three to four weeks before your body regulates back to normal after using diuretics. And doing a water load and a water cut is essentially the same effect of using diuretics. You're just tricking your body into flushing water out. You can hear him, you can hear him in this breathing heavy and that's the extra, he's probably retaining fluid around his lungs, his heart's probably stressed. You know, another mistake I see post-shows that guys come completely off everything. They come off all the gear. They stop taking the fat burners. They stop taking, they stop taking aromatase inhibitors and then you have just a giant estrogen rebound and a crash in your hormones. A lot of times guys aren't using testosterone towards the end or they're using test probe and they pull that out before the end. So you end up in an estrogen dominant environment where you're going to retain even more water. So probably the smarter approach would be to eat clean post-show, have a meal or two where you're allowed to have a cheat. Keep your cardio in, taper your cardio down, keep your gear in, but just dump all the toxic stuff like the trend and the orals. But you know, keep running something like test and masteron for a period of time. And if you want to go on a cruise, taper down to it over a six to eight week period of time while your body regulates to everything after the show. And don't go apeshit on the food. You can end up like literally, I've seen it happen. I've had people go in and they go on these benders post-show and six weeks post-show, they're fat as fuck and they're not ready for an offseason. And they've completely ruined an entire year worth of progress because of six weeks. That's a bad place to be. I've done it before. Don't do that. You're going to hate yourself for it later. Anyway, I thought this was a fun one. This made me laugh. Larry, you're my spirit animal. If you happen to catch this, I agree with all your food choices except for the margarita pizza. That one we can dispute. But you chose all my favorite stuff, man. I'm in envy right now, but I'm going to control myself post-show. This year, of course I say this every year, but I'm going to do my best, let's just say, to keep myself under control post-show. So I don't end up wearing Larry Wheels and gaining 50 pounds in three days. I love you, Larry. Thanks for sharing this with us. Thanks for watching, guys. Take care. If you're found to book your spot today, I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigt3rd at gmail.com.