does someone look like that at 21? Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, Jim Burroughs, Big Paul here today with a great one for you. I've got some commentary on a recent interview that Jay Cutler did with Lee Priest, specifically a segment where they talked about ped use and bodybuilding, and Lee kind of goes over what he said that he used back in the 90s when he was coming up in bodybuilding. It's a great podcast. Holy crap, it's excellent. They talk about trening volume, so many other things. And this podcast, I think you guys would enjoy, I would really strongly suggest checking it out. I watched the entire thing again. The other day. It's excellent. And I wanted to make a commentary on this section. So we'll look at this little segment together and talk about it and my thoughts on what Lee Priest has to say about his PED use back in the 90s. And we'll dig into all this in just one second. Guys, and I remember like, Ed was going on and on like this kid's unbelievable. He just turned 21 at my house. I'm saying, how the fuck does someone look like that at 21? The funny thing is, is like, like, in today's society, do we talk about what we took? And it was pretty much nothing because we'recompletely broke, right? What is the thing with even Ed said on my documentary, and thank you for being on it too. And Ed said he goes, Lee didn't hardly use anything because back then Ed was getting it for me. And I thought I said, look, when I use testosterone, highest ever went was 400 milligrams. I remember I'm Trevor from he lived here. Massive. Yeah. And one time he goes, Lee, maybe you take more, you'll get bigger. So he had me take an 800 for a while. And I felt shit, like actually felt shit. I went back to 400. I felt good. If I use dianabol, I wouldn't go over 30, 40 milligrams a day. And then I said, only if it did grow hormone once in 94, once in 96, I didn't feel like I got anything from it. So now I'm older, I'd probably use it. But that's the only time I use it. Never did insulin. And I've always told people exact amounts and oh, you're lying. You're addition. It pulled the lead for me for almost a year. Yeah, man. Well, a couple things here. Lee. Yeah, I want to unpack here. So back in the day, I remember back in the 90s, I started dabbling in some steroids back in the 90s when I was a teenager. And I remember things back then where there wasn't none of the UGLs crap that you had now at all. It all was pharmaceutical grade. I remember these 200 milligram ampules of test test of iron you would you would get these used to get the bear test of iron that I recall, I think the sustenance were 250 if I recall correctly, but the most of the guys I ran into, we had the bear ampules that were 200 milligrams, and then Deco was 100 milligrams, if I remember correctly. And then if you get your hands on some veterinary in equipoise back in the day, I think it was something like 50 or 75 milligrams per milliliter. So a lot of the stuff was really low dosed. And it was pharmaceutical grade all back then. And it was incredibly expensive, at least where I live. Like, like, I remember buying an ampule of testosterone being pretty, pretty, pretty expensive back in the day, guys used to charge an arm and a leg for this stuff. It's not like now where you can order everything. What? Like, it's fucking Amazon. So we used to get these 200 meg ampules of testosterone. And I remember if you took two or three of them a week, you were a big deal. And I remember the old dbols, the British Dragon dbols, I think they were in there. What were they five milligrams, I think there were five milligrams a piece. And so like guys would take four or five, six of those which would you know, six of them would be 30 milligrams. Now, whether or not Lee really ran that low dose of stuff throughout his whole career, only he knows, what I would say is guys now are running doses that low that is not shit. They're, they're bros just doing their first cycle running that that right now. And I've wondered often, some of it is a wonder if the gear now is lower quality than it was since it was all pharmaceutical grade back then. But we just had no idea. Back then. And then we didn't even really talk milligrams back then either. It was a different world. I remember we would talk about well, I'm taking two amps of testosterone or I'm taking three amps of testosterone. If you were taking three amps of testosterone back in the 90s. I remember in the gym, you were you were you were a big boy. That was that was crazy. That was crazy talk. And we had no idea about cycle design or any of that shit. IMean, maybe the guys in California did it where they were out there in LA and had access to the people like Dan Duchesne that knew what the fuck they were talking about. But IMean, I had no idea. IMean, you would just take whatever people will give you. It's I remember doing cycles of DECA only I remember doing cycles of dbol only I remember doing dbol and DECA I remember. And then you would run it for six, eight weeks and then come off for two or three months. IMean, we just we had no fucking clue what we were doing back then. Now, what I will say is if Lee Priests got that big on those small doses, he either had the greatest genetics in the world or he's full of crap. And he took a lot more. Now I'll leave it up to you the audience to decide which is true. Maybe the truth is somewhere in the middle. I don't know. But I will say this he is not incorrect about things being expensive. I remember gear being super expensive, very hard to come by. I'm sure you know, he was an elite level guy. But like for us at the local gym, he just took what you could get your fuckinGHands on and you made it last as long as you possibly could. So he would take less. I remember, you know, back in the 90s, getting my hands on, I think it was 20 amps of testoviral. And they came in these little boxes. I think there was five in a box. I don't remember. It's been a long, long time. And I thought I was in the big time, man. And IMade that last for two months, or I'm sorry, 10 weeks. So I took no, yeah, yeah, 10 weeks. So I took two week as what I took. And that was a spicy cycle for me. But I, you know, I track everything I took, I never took more than I think all the way up to 2005. I never took more than 5600 milligrams of testosterone. I remember I hit 300 pounds in 2005 was not a pretty 300 300 pounds. I'll post some pictures sometime. But I have all of it documented or my cycle back then I look I looked back my cycle back then was 500 tests 300 EQ and I was running 30 milligrams of dbol a day with it. I think maybe 100 or 150. Decker or something like that. I think it was 100. I think the amps of Decker were 100 milligrams. I was taking one of those a week. And then EQ, you know, we used to get the vet veterinarian EQ. I think it was Pfizer that made it. If I remember right, I don't, I don't recall exactly. But anyway, let's continue on. Yeah. And Paul would say Lee hardly used anything. Yeah. But yet people don't believe that. You know, people say, well, you done this. I'm like, I'm the one that took it. I know what I'm taking. I said, where'd you hear that from? Oh, such and such. Like, I don't even know that guy. So how would he know what I'm taking? That's what I tell people. Like, I go to England sometimes I didn't seminars there. And I asked young kids what somewhere on two to five grams. I'm like, where the fuck do you put it? They don't believe what you say, right? Well, because their mentality is I'll be sitting there if I say use 400 and they're on a thousand, they're like, well, he's bigger than me and I'm taking a thousand. He's got to be on 3000. I'm like, it doesn't work that way. And the sad thing is now no one does the foundation work because from 13 to 19, I was naturally when I won all those shows because I just had good symmetry and for the muscle mass I had, I looked a lot bigger on stage than what I was. But then like I said, after winning the shows three times and not getting that I'm like, well, if I'm going to America, I'm going to need to be bigger. So I did my first eight week cycle halfway through my 19th year, I put on 20 pounds of muscle straight away, just doing 200 milligrams. Now that's something. Yeah, I think he said he took 200 milligrams of tests. Sorry to cut that off early on his first cycle. That's when you know, and I'll see it with guys all the time. That's when you know when guys have elite genetics is if they take 200 milligrams of tests, essentially TRT, high end TRT dose and they blow up, you know that you're a hyper responder, I'll see it very rarely, I would say maybe one out of 100 people I work with are like that. I can think of a kid that I worked with that just blew up on basically nothing. You do see it on occasion, then you see the opposite in the spectrum to where guys have to, you know, run grams and nothing fuckinGHappens. Most people are in the middle somewhere. I'd say most people will do that. But I would say you look, you're an outlier. If you blow up 20 pounds of muscle on 200 milligrams of testosterone, you're, you're one in 100, maybe maybe even less than that. You're genetically a hyper responder, I bet. If he had genetic testing done, he either has some sort of, my guess would be some sort of myostatin gene inhibition, or, or maybe he has the, the CAG, you know, the, the right amount of CAG repeats for being a hyper responder to PEDs, but that would be my guess. And you can look at it like, you know, he talks about like, basically, dude did everything that guys now say is incorrect for muscle. He, he, I remember, I think he said one time that he trened, trened biceps or tren his arms every day of the week. And he's trened multiple times a day. You know, in today's world, that would be considered overtrening. IMean, he was eating fast food in the offseason. On this podcast, he talks about how he never weighed or measured any of his food. He just ate less and ate better on contest prep and he ate more in the offseason, never really did any of that. So clearly the guy is a genetic freak and can get away with stuff that the rest of us can't get away with. And God bless him, you know, fantastic for him. And why would you take more if you didn't have to, you know, assuming that he's telling the truth, but I'll leave that up to you to decide. But, you know, only he knows what the truth is, but I, you know, he seems to be genuine about it. So, but who knows? Graham's a decker a week. And you can see because there's photos of me when I'm 19, I'm in the Australian bush. And then towards the end, you can see I've gone from looking like a nice symmetrical classic guy to a mini Doreen Yates. Look, you can see the 20 pounds I put on when I used it. Yeah. And IMean, coming from Australia, it's not like you, you guys, you guys didn't breed a lot of, IMean, I remember like John Torelli was John Torelli and Sonny Smith was Sonny Smith. And then we had Luke Wood, sadly, who passed away. But no, I'm saying that was like, but in your before you came in before me, it was John Torelli before me. And it was pretty much, yeah. Sonny Smith was from New Zealand or from New, I think he's originally from like Samoa or something, but he lived in Australia. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Then like said, he won the Masters Olympian. And he was good. Yes, sadly, he passed away from cancer. You didn't have a lot of like, we IMean, people don't realize like Australia's pretty much the size of the US right? Well, they got like 27 million people. Yeah. I'm James Manuka, senior vice president of Google and Alphabet. I have the opportunity to be in conversation with my good friend for the power of Benanti. I take two. Hey, guys, if you have not heard, I've launched my own TRT clinic TRT kingdom is now live. And if you'd like to schedule on consult or get more information makes you guys go over, check it out. And let us see how we can help with your health needs. Click the link below. Sure. Click the link below. So you didn't have like that knowledge to really go and I'm sure when you walked into Gold's Venice. In 1993, I actually made me lazy because you know, back home in Australia, the most high tech gym equipment we had was a seated row let pull down and you know, as old school barbell rose number as I get the gold gym, I'm like, wow, they got a back machine for that. So I use machines for six months and I went back to free weights. Oh my gosh, I was like, I preferred the free weights. But why do you think so many people just don't believe the old school guys? Because we hear this all the time. I have to be lying. I have to be lying. Why do you know but I always tell them to I like okay, I always say to young kids, look, if you're using a huge amount, I said, really anyone who's going to benefit is to go you're buying off because you're getting richer, of course, but I'm like, okay, if you're taking 1000 of this and this and I said, do me a favor for four months, go clen, go back on but use a small amount and see what happens. You got to make the same things. But if you don't go back to your stupid large amount, you got nothing to lose here. So just try and do it. So everyone I say do it safe. Even though I only took two 400 a test if I use sustenance 250 I'll take two mil which if it's 500 or whatever, who knows but if someone said to me before, but it's not even 500. It's only these are saying I'm not a doctor or scientist. I don't go that deep into it. I found those small amounts work for me. So I didn't have to push the envelope and that but the young kids now I don't know why in tren I never used tren four times my whole life. The last time I used it wide vein, it might have been when I was getting ready for the 2000 night of champions. I was with Kathy and I was the members living in Lancaster, I put a shot in my shoulder. So I need a cough come on. I'm like, ah, but then it's like someone hit me in the chest with a baseball bat. My chest just got so tight. I'm like, fuck, I'm having a heart attack got needle hanging out my arm. I'm like, this is how it ends. I'm like, fuck, so I never used it again. That's why I'm amazed now all these young kids are like people that I knew who took tren would only take the last couple of weeks. These young kids are on it all the time. But then I read, I'm on tren. I'm irritable. I can't sleep. I can't eat. I'm like, why are you taking a drug that makes you feel that shitty? I don't get it. It's like, what's this fucking stupid? Yeah, the other thing I've noticed. Yeah, I didn't really hear guys using tren until the 2000s. I know, I heard Dorian Yates talking about using the tren that they had back in the 90s. parabolin was what they use back then. And I think that was dosed at like 78 milligrams, a milliliter or something like that. And they would run that once a week. That's what I heard. But I personally, I didn't even hear about tren or anybody running tren until the 2000s. And I was around the gym a lot in the 80s. Now granted, I was, you know, in a bumfuck gym, we didn't have a lot going on there. But it was just test deca dbol equipoise and a draw on occasion. Those are the only things I ever saw around. And then on contest prep, you'd run some windstraw. That's what guys, I remember dudes, I had a buddy of mine that just prepped on windstraw. Only that's all used for this contest prep last eight weeks on windstraw. That was it. And you know, he got pretty shredded. But we just didn't have access to information. We didn't have access to the drugs back then. And the drugs we did have, I think were high quality because they were all European pharmaceuticals. And, you know, I wouldn't be surprised if he didn't run tren. I'm not a big fan of tren. I haven't run it a whole lot in my life. You know, periodically, yeah, probably run iT4 times maybe, in my entire life, something like that. But I'm not AI'm not a big tren guy. I don't you know, it is great. It's a great tool if you can use it. But here's what I will say things have progressed quite a bit since then. And a lot of its genetics I have to wonder now too, if a lot of the gear that we take now isn't watered down. So if the doses really are what they are. I am gonna have another video coming up here shortly, but where a study took a look at a bunch of UGL gear and I think it was something like half of it was significantly underdosed. It was it was pretty crazy. But you know, keep an eye out for that one. But it was it was pretty crazy how much the UGL gear was underdosed. And I don't think we had that problem back in the day. And, you know, look, once again, who knows what he really took. I do think guys now come out of the gate too hard with stuff. But some of the old guys, you know, lecturing people, you're like, why are you taking that? I'm not going to be one of those guys. But more works. It clearly works, but more comes with more risk. We can mediate some of that risk by compound choice and managing other health factors and yada, yada, yada. But I'm not going to be the guy to lecture you and tell you that you shouldn't be the old guy. You shouldn't be taking whatever. That's your personal choice. You do what you you want. But this this is an interesting take from from Leon this stuff. When when you guys came up, you started small. And as you progressed, you took more things. Now, there's guys at the national level that are taking more shit than you two took combined at your peak. Well, I said to people, I said, a lot of MHS, I'm speaking, you probably spoken to and I'd tell him, you're taking more than the pros. No, we're not either line. I'm like, I'm not lying. We're not. And that's why I tell him this. Now that part is true. I have seen that true to a certain extent. Once again, I'm not going to insult your intelligence. There are some pros that run a lot of fucking shit. But I've also seen some cycles of top tier Olympians, like I know that are legit, and they're taking less than some guys I see competing for national shows. And usually, and I see this all the time, most of the time when guys press the gas pedal down the harness is when they're trying to get their pro card. The guys that have elite genetics, they just excel so quickly, they never really have to take that much before they get their pro card. And they just kind of skip. It's kind of like playing Monopoly. You don't, you know, you just skip go all the way around the board, and you just skip that whole first, first stage, you know, some people just, you know, when you hear somebody getting their pro card in two or three shows, their genetic freak, they probably didn't have to do a whole lot to do that. Not like the guy that's been grinding away for 10 years, chipping away gaining four or five pounds a year, running gear, that's the guy that's usually going to press the gas pedal down. And I see a lot of guys get to the point. You know, who knows, maybe I'm this dude, I don't know. But not that I've only pressed hard really wants, but that was getting my pro card. But you know, a lot, a lot of dudes, you know, guilty as charged. When you are trying to get that pro card, that's your shot, man. And you press the gas pedal down hard. And I see a lot of young dudes that do that. And then they have nothing left when they turn a pro, they've kind of their health is kind of shot. They've played every card that they can possibly play. The guys that have not had the press that hard have more runway to do more when they turn IMean, think about Phil Heath. IMean, that guy would turn pro in two or three shows. I don't remember what it was. And you hear the stories about him while they run in. You know, I think it was a couple 100 milligrams a decade. He's fucking broke. How many people could do that? You know, one in a generation. So there are those genetic anomalies out there. But keep in mind, these guys are outliers. They're not the norm. They're, they're freaks. They're, you know, and so you get guys that are genetic outliers. You know, commiserating about what they took, and they don't understand why other people, you know, it's like, it's like getting a collective meeting of seven foot tall dudes together and understanding why the five fooT4 people aren't very good at basketball. Basketball is easy, man. I don't understand why these guys that have to work so hard at this. When they're five fooT4. IMean, they should it was I didn't have to do all that. Well, no, no shit. You're seven feet tall. You you got he got gifted by the they got you know, look, I'm not trying to discount the work that these guys did. I'm sure they worked really hard. I know Jay Cutler for for worked very hard. But I think you know, when you are genetically gifted, you kind of take that for granted and don't always understand that not everybody has that same advantage. The small amount might even want to say 400 who did who knows if 400 is safe? To me, it's just seems safer than 1000. So I'm just going off that. But then I was always smart, because even because I always bulk up even back then, I was always getting my blood work done offseason contest time to see how it was. And then one time I got a cardiomyopathy just from a viral infection. And I remember Sandy was one of the head nurses, Sandy Rinaldi at the Santa Monica Hospital. And she came in, I was getting ready for the Ironman. So I had to pull out of the show. I ended up doing it, but I just did it clen because I had to get out of gear. But the funny thing was, I was with I was with Kathy in the hospital and this nurse comes in. No joke, a limonene bed and that. You look at the chart and Kathy said something to her like, Oh, how's he gonna do? He goes, Oh, he's gonna die. I'm like, I'm gonna die. And it was her. Yeah, like really? He's gonna die. So okay, then all of a sudden, they bring me in the they bring me in this food, right? And I was like chicken, the shitty hospital chicken and vegetables. There's a piece of chocolate cake. And she goes, okay, you can eat that. But she goes, try not eating the cake because we're gonna do more tests and the sugar might set it off. And I'm like, okay, fine. So she leaves. I start eating the cake. She walks in. She goes, I told you not to eat that cake. I said, but you also told me I'm gonna fucking die. So I'm gonna fucking die. I'm eating a chocolate cake. So it's hilarious. Yeah, that's hilarious. They told her he was gonna die. I wonder why they told the doctors, especially back then they seem to be more open. They used to think you would die just from taking a little bit of testosterone. It was fucking crazy back then. And like, fuck, I'm like, I'm not dying, just eating chicken and vegetables. You know, what's what's crazy about that, though, Lee, is that I sort of cut off at that point on early 2000s. I started getting my heart checked yearly after that just to keep an eye on it because you know, we get athletes heart, your heart's enlarged anyway. So ever since then, I've always just had a check. So I sort of kept along those lines the whole time I've done ever since. That's honestly surprising that he got his heart and his health checked starting out early. IMean, nobody back then was nobody was paying attention to any of that shit. And that's probably why dudes in his 50s now and he's in good shape. And in you know, if he truly did run low doses is probably why he's still pretty healthy. IMean, still looks great. Still has his health together. Yeah, this is pretty much the shit I wanted to cover on this thing. But I think you know, the thing that we can take away from from this is who knows what he really took, you know, maybe there's a little bit more. I don't know only Lee knows that maybe he's telling the truth. Only only he knows that. The one thing that I can tell you is there are genetic exceptions. There are genetic outliers on the far extreme of beinGHyper responders. There's genetic outliers on the far extreme of being non responders. But the majority of people are somewhere in the middle. You know, the rest of us are somewhere in the middle, little, little left of center, a little right of center, maybe, you know, better than average, but not as good as others. You know, it's, you know, I would say that I'm above average in response, but I'm not a hyper responder either. I've had to work work hard to put on size, but it becomes easier to me than it does to other people. And I do recognize that I see it. When I see what some of my clients go through where they have to diet harder than me, they have to take more than me to get similar response. Or maybe not even as good a response. You know, sometimes I'll grow more than some of my clients will in a full blast. You know, and I do recognize that that not all of us are created equally when it comes to the genetic response. And I understand that that's frustrating for some people. But yeah, IMean, you know, I don't know, you know, it maybe is telling the truth. Maybe he's not. He seems like a genuine guy. I don't know why he would bullshit. But who knows? You guys can let me know in the comments section below what you think is Lee telling the truth is Lee full of shit. I'm leaning towards him telling the truth. But only he knows. I will say this guy's a genetic freak. He can do stuff that the rest of us can't do or get away with clearly eating a shit ton of food, getting fat in the offseason, then getting in shape. That is not a formula that would work for 99% of people, but it worked for him. If he could get in contest shape taking 400 milligrams of testosterone, that is not something that would work for 99% of people. He said he competed clen in a show as a professional, which wouldn't work for 99% of people. I didn't weigh and measure his food. He's you know, that's further on in this video, I'm not going to get to that part. That wouldn't work for 99% of people. So we can see all the evidence here leaning towards this guy just being a complete genetic freak in my heart. I just want to let you know I'm a big fan. I love his career and I follow him religiously. It's not meant as any disrespect. Just giving my honest thoughts on this stuff. Let me know what you guys think below. I appreciate each and every one of you. I'll see you on the next episode. trenscribed by https://otter.AI