 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. WARNING, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right folks, big Paul here today, we're going to do the second leg workout of the week. I split my legs in half. The first leg workout is quads and glutes. And calf focus, this workout is more hamstrings and adductors and adductors and I split it up because last year the judges told me I needed to bring up my hamstrings. So I'm giving my hamstrings sort of their own workout. And adductors make up something like a third of your leg size. Most people neglect to train adductors so we're going to hit those, make sure we're getting some good size on our adductors and we're going to get to it in just one second. All right, so first up we got seated hamstring curls. I usually alternate between seated hamstring curls and the standing leg curls. Sometimes I'll do lying leg curls, but I feel like I get more than one second. I get more activation on the seated hamstring curls. So we start off with this one first. This is a, and what I'll do is I'll follow it up. I want one motion, one exercise where I'm doing a contraction and the other one where I do a stretched movement and the stretch movement would be some sort of stiff legged movement. Sometimes I'll do stiff legged deadlifts with a barbell or dumbbells or with cables, but that would be the next movement that we have up. So seated hamstring curls. I buckle myself in really tight so I can get a good contraction on these. The big thing I see on these is that guys use way too much damn weight. That's a recurring theme you'll see with all my stuff and they don't get a good contraction at the bottom. So with this, the most important part of the movement is the contractive part. We're going to use the stiff legged deadlifts for the stretch portion of the movement. So we start off with this. I'm going to probably do about four sets. And then we'll go from there. All right. So this one, we have the stiff legged deadlifts with the cables. Usually I get the cables lower, but the damn thing won't go lower. The machine's broken. But I like this because I can get additional range of motion on these that I cannot get with dumbbells or barbells. I do do the dumbbells or barbells sometimes. I'll flip flop between workouts, but for today we'll do it with these. And then you'll see what I mean by the range of motion here. So I like to stand a little bit in front of it, keep my ass out and pull back, pull my hips forward. As I do these, get a good stretch of my hamstrings. Kind of let my ass dip back. And you can see how it works. You can see the good stretch I get in my hamstrings. All right. Next up, we got the adduction machine. I talked about before how working your adductors is really important. A lot of people neglect their adductors. They get so focused on quads and hamstrings. It's the only thing they think about. And when the adductor actually makes up a third or more of your actual leg size, gives you that huge look here on the interior. It actually makes your quads look bigger. You can see here how my adductors pop out. And you don't get that unless you train adductors. So you got to do wide stance squats like a sumo squat or the adduction machine. I usually start off with the adduction machine and do some sort of wide stance squatting movement afterwards. So we're going to do the hip adduction machine first. All right. So the hardest part of this thing is getting in the damn thing to begin with. I always sit up and then sort of slide myself in and then I get it adjusted so I get a good stretch. And I pull it in with my hands so I don't fucking tear my groin. And I let it stretch out as wide as I can. You don't need a ton of weight on this, but you want to get a good stretch. This is great for building your adductors. I like to start off with this so I can get my adductors sort of pre-exhausted before I go to a wide stance squat. And get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this so I get off with this All right, next up we're going to do goblet squats with a dumbbell. And when I talk about doing a wide stance squat, sometimes I'll do belt squats. I really like goblet squats with a dumbbell. Another option you could do, you could do a sumo squat with a barbell or a smith machine, but you want to get your feet out wide, toes turned out like a duck, and you're going to squat like this. So that's how you would do a goblet squat for your adductors. And that's going to really work your adductors and get your adductors engaged. All right, so like I said, get a wide stance. I like holding it between my legs. I know some people bring it up top, but this way I don't get my back engaged so much. And then keep upright, keep vertical. Don't let your back get into it. Get your adductors through the work. Ready. All right, folks. That's a wrap for this one. That is my hamstring and adductor workout. It's very simple. Like I said, in the offseason, I'll do a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a volume. I'm three weeks out for my show. So we're kind of modulating the volume, pushing it down to more minimal. effective volume. Right now, I'm just trying to maintain size, not gain. I don't want to get hurt. And get off point. And that's it. We'll be right back. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.