WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today and we're going to talk about how to tren like a bodybuilder. I've made videos about this before but last week I kind of got some people dusted up with my video about how being stronger doesn't always equal being bigger. That got quite a few people upset and I also had somEQuestions like people were asking me like well then how should you tren? What should a bodybuilder tren like if you're not getting stronger? What should trening look like? And I'm going to dig into some of that today. We'll talk about that. I'm making the video with my fucked up hand that I have an infection on my finger. I can't tren so IMight as well talk about some trening. We'll get into depth but before we do that I want to remind you folks about the science of PEDs and anabolics e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together is the most comprehensive e-course out there on PEDs on the internet. There's 60 or so hours of content and over 100 modules in the course right now. You can go over to anabolic bodybuilding and pick it up. I also have the PED cheat sheet for building cycles. You can pick that up for 30 bucks. It's super cheap. Links to both are in the video description below and enough of that. Let's talk about some trening. All right before we dig into my philosophies and thoughts on trening I'm going to give you some background on a couple things that we know. We're going to establish some frameworks framework and some ground rules for trening. First of all for bodybuilding or for hypertrophy we know that mechanical tension seems to be the primary driver of hypertrophy according to studies that we see. So we do know that mechanical tension is what drives hypertrophy forward. We also know that a bigger muscle is going to be a stronger muscle. If you weigh 250 pounds now and you were 200 pounds five years ago and you've gained all that muscle not assuming that's not body fat if you put on 50 pounds of muscle you are going to be stronger. That part is undeniable. I've never disputed that. So people are like why shouldn't you just focus on progressing your weights up let's pound the logbook let's beat PRs on everything and that's fine and dandy and it does work to a certain degree and I spent a lot of my life treninGHIIT trening. I worked with Dante Trudeau when I was younger learned a lot from Dante. Dante is fantastic one of the smartest guys I've ever run into when it comes to trening. Paul Carter's another guy that's really smart when it comes to trening and you learn a lot from these guys. What I will tell you is that being stronger doesn't always mean that you've gotten bigger and we kind of sorted through some of that last week. If you're a power lifter you can put on you can put on knee wraps you can widen your stance you can on your squat you can put the bar lower on your back there's all these different things that you can do to make the squat easier. You can increase your squat by 50, 60, 70 pounds just by changinGHow your form works. That doesn't mean that you instantly gained more muscle you know if you took your squat from 350 up to 410 you didn't gain another 10% muscle just by changing your form you just got more efficient at moving the weight. So what we have to keep in mind when we're structuring our trening for bodybuilding is the intention of inducinGHypertrophy. We need to have our program structured in such a way that hypertrophy is going to be the primary focus of our program. We want to place the most amount of mechanical tension on the muscle to induce hypertrophy and yes that does mean progressing weights within the concentrates of good form. You can take a step back and look at every professional bodybuilder over the history of bodybuilding. They almost all tren the same way. Most bodybuilders tren with a certain fashion. They all did moderate to higher volume trening. Most of these guys trened somewhere between 8 to 15 reps probably 8 to 12 reps in that rep range. They all did some sort of either ppl split or bro split. I would say 99% of them and yes people are going to point to outliers. There was Dorian Yates. There was Ronnie Coleman. There was some guys that lifted some lifted almost like power lifters and were bodybuilders but they're exceptions. Those people are very very very uncommon. Now how I like to structure my trening and what I think makes the most sense when you're putting your trening together is to tren like the people that the majority of people that have had success not like the outliers not like the one person and the Dorian Yates example if you actually go back through and look at Dorian's trening Dorian's trening was actually very very very smart he probably was one of the smartest guys in bodybuilding when it came to trening over the over the years he used a very controlled form he was extremely consistent with his form and if you honestly take a look at it compared to the weights you see guys moving these days I know everybody talked about Dorian beinGHeavy and hardcore but if you go back and look at his old trening videos Dorian wasn't moving as much weight as what people remember I think people like have this fond memory of him moving crazy amounts of weight and yes he did barbell row 405 I've done 405 on rows before that doesn't make me Dorian Yates I never really saw him dead lifting more than five plates when he was dead liftinGHell there are girls now that deadlift five plates Dorian's movements were all very controlled and he was placing maximal mechanical tension on the muscle that he was trying to grow and that is the key point when you're structuring a bodybuilding program and you're picking your exercises and you're trying to perfect your form is placing maximum mechanical tension on the muscle through your technique in the movement uh there you know there are people out there you know Jordan Peters is a guy who moves a ton of weight and there are people that have gotten huge progressing in the differences like you look at Jordan's style of trening it's much like Dorian's it's all very very very controlled in perfect form now the average gym bro sees these guys moving the big weights and thinks well I need to move that big weight at all cost if I want to be Dorian Yates if I want to be Jordan Peters and they get sloppy at the movements and they just get better at cheating in pushing things they didn't actually grow my coach Justin Harris said you want to make the muscle stronger not the movement stronger that's a key point there now with that said if all of the variables are consistent like when I worked with Dante Trudeau Dante was a stickler for being consistent with your movement patterns and your forms your negatives had to be the exact same count your positives had to be done exactly the same the movement pattern had to be done exactly the same the rest times had to be exactly the same control all the variables so when you move up in the logbook you actually know that you have made some progress and moved forward I think that's the key point that a lot of guys miss out on they start futzing with technique they start changing rest times they start leaning and heaving or a lot of times it's subconscious that this is the issue that I think you run into when you get hyper focused on the logbook is that you start cheating to beat the former PR so I see it with young guys it's really a mistake I see a lot of young guys make and most of the dudes that I see arguing for this move more weight at all costs style of trening usually aren't that big most of them so I when I'm putting a program together I think that is the key point you want to make sure that you're consistent with your movement pattern you want to pick exercises that are going to reduce your risk when you're choosing exercises of injury you want to pick exercises that are going to place the maximum amount of tension on the intended muscle that you're trying to work you can use pump or feel as an indicator of whether or not you are targeting that muscle there's some debate over whether or not the pump actually causes any growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone I know the science on it says no then there are a lot of guys that will argue that I have no and no no science other than anecdote and just my personal experience when you get a pump you seem to grow now that could be just that you are getting better tension on that muscle and that you're actually feeling it I've heard and seen in studies where the pump actually seems to impede mechanical tension and progress while that may be the case on paper I think being able to feel that muscle that you're working is an indicator that you're on the right track and that you're actually getting a solid contraction and mechanical tension in that muscle that's going to drive hypertrophy so that's sort of the way I look at it maybe or maybe not it doesn't benefit it benefits in some way or doesn't benefit in some way but I think at a bare minimum we can all agree that it is an indicator of that movement targeting the muscle that you're trying to grow properly so at a bare minimum you can look at it as that cue and I do think sometimes you need to throw in some extra sets just so you can perfect that movement pattern to get maximal tension I know there's an argument that you can really you just need enough stimulus to get the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and then just move on I just have not seen that be the case in practicality and really like you know everybody likes to toss the example of Dorian Yates out but when you look at Dorian's volume he actually did several sets per body part and earlier in his treninGHe was doing top sets and back offsets which is pretty typical with what a lot of guys do the guys that are more of the power builder types do top sets and back offsets but there are plenty of dudes but there are plenty of dudes that are huge that rarely moved a lot of weight guys like Jay Cutler right now Samson Diuto IMean you watch him tren he doesn't move a ton of weight Nick Walker doesn't move a ton of weight I know people argue that he did at one point and it's like I said a bigger person that has more muscle is going to be able to move more weight but these guys have learned the kung fu of the exercise and are able to get maximum tension on the muscle with perfect form perfect technique they have moved things through with that that's how they use the movement that's how they perfect that movement so I think my goal when I'm trening is I want to provide an appropriate amount of stimulus to stimulate hypertrophy we can all debate on what that is but it does seem from modern studies that we don't have to tren to absolute failure and in fact that trening to failure or beyond failure may cause additional damage that you need to recover from it may also increase fatigue and recovery demands and that sometimes maybe trening a rep or two shorter failure might be more beneficial because it's going to allow you less fatigue and you can probably recover faster and be able to tren with more frequency thus giving yourself more opportunities to stimulate muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone now I will say this when you're a beginner lifter it's hard to know exactly where failure is and a lot of that initial trening that you do is just getting the cns connected with the muscle and learning the movement patterns and figuring out where that failure is I don't think beginner lifters should really be doing reps and reserve right off the gate I think that's sort of more of an advanced technique I would just tren failure when I'm in those beginning stages of bodybuilding figure out where that's at and move up from there and then once you have that figured out and you've perfected the movements you understand where your limits are then you can back off a little bit plus when you're using less weights and you're younger your ability to recover and push again are going to be more as you age as a bodybuilder mature and get into the advanced stages of bodybuilding there's only so far you can progress weights and a lot of times what I've ended up doing is I've hit my limit where if I go any further I'm just going to hurt myself and what I will do is actually back off the weight a little bit and rethink the movement and how can I possibly get more out of this movement with less weight and then I will start advancing those weights again with the improved and fixed form now I do think you do want to advance weights within the context of appropriate form for stimulating mechanical tension and thus hypertrophy I'm not saying that a 270 pound bodybuilder should be curling the pink dumbbells or doing presses with the pink dumbbells but maybe instead of doing the 200 pound dumbbells for presses you can take the 130s and try to get a little more out of them or use a machine that might be safer and get a little more out of them and lower your risk of injury while lowering your recovery demands and being able to tren with a little more frequency and providing stimulus just a thought this is just my bro approach and that's what you look at most advanced bodybuilders is what they do now I see three distinct phases there's the beginner which it should be beating the logbook advancing weights within the context of good form learninGHow to lift the intermediate phase a lot of times I think the intermediate phase is where we start mastering diet we start mastering our form a little bit more when you get to the advanced bodybuilder stage that's when you get into the kung fu level of progressing with bodybuilding that you start learninGHow to get the less the most out of the least and you perfect things from there all right folks that's all I've got on this one I'm sorry for the rambling I have some in the gym trening if you actually want to see how I tren I think one of the biggest things that I have mastered as I've gotten older for in bodybuilding is how to get the most out of the least protect myself from injuries and progress my weights forward progress my hypertrophy forward being intelligent about everything I think that's a big thing that you learn as your aging bodybuilder if you have thoughts on this put them in the comment section below we can debate I appreciate each and every one of you thank you for your support it means a lot to me take care for coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today I can help you with optimizinGHormones fat loss muscle gain physique athletic performance nutrition and health for more information shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com