 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today and we are going to talk about heavyweights for bodybuilding. Do you need to lift heavy for bodybuilding? Ah, this is the age-old question. There's a lot of people and a lot of bros out there. It's like more weight, more muscle, bro. We're going to talk about why it's relative and why that's not always true in bodybuilding. Sometimes it is, sometimes it's not. And I'm going to dig into all of it in just one second. Okay, so if the... Let's think about this for a second. If the old... There's an old school belief that the stronger you are, the bigger you are. Um, and there is some truth to that. I mean, you know, big dudes are fucking strong. Uh, but there are strong dudes that aren't big. So, we know that's not always the case. And I work in a gym or work out in a gym where there are a lot of elite level power lifters. And there are a lot of pro bodybuilders. And I get to see both. And I see how each train and how they're different. And I'm telling you, there are some bodybuilders that are not that strong, that are pretty fucking big. And I see, you know, pros. And I see, I see some pro power lifters or elite level power lifters that are doing just incredible amounts of weight that aren't as big as the bodybuilders. So, you would think if strength was the only measurement of improvement in hypertrophy that the power lifters would always be bigger. But that's just not the, not the case. Now, a 300 pound super heavyweight bodybuilder is going to be strong. There's just no if, ands or buts about that. He is going to be strong. He is going to be strong. But it is, it is somewhat relative though. So, let's, let's unpack that a little bit more and think about it. So, what is the goal of power lifting? What is our objective in power lifting? It is to get the weight from point A to point B in the most efficient manner possible. And it's not about placing the most load on the target muscle to induce hyper hypertrophy. We're not that concerned about that. It's not about getting a pump. We don't care about that, you know, with, you know, myoplasmic, or sarcoplasmic hypertrophy. Sorry. So, we don't care about that in power lifting. It's just to get the weight from point A to point B in the most efficient manner possible. So, and that means shorter range of motion. That means getting maximum amount of leverage. You know, so if you, for example, take a deadlift, you know, everybody fucking sumo deadlifts now. And I'm not taking anything away from it. It's, it's makes sense for power lifting. So, you essentially with sumo deadlifting, you're using a shorter range of motion. You just are. So, you're only moving the weight, you know, the bar 12 inches versus 16 inches. So, it's less range of motion and thus makes it a bit easier to get that weight up from point A to point B. Same thing on bench. You see people arching themselves up like a cat that's been scared. Um, and nothing wrong with it. It's part of the sport. But you are, when you're doing that, essentially what you're doing is creating more leverage and shortening the range of motion. Um, same thing with squats. You'll see power lifters when they squat, they get a really, really wide stance sometimes. Take a wide grip on the bar. Uh, and they're maximizing range of motion and leverage. Which is great for power lifting because the goal of the sport is to get the weight from point A to point B. I used to do some power lifting when I was younger. And I, I love power lifting. I think it's a really cool sport. But it's not body building. And I think this is where most amateur body builders or gym bros get themselves confused. They want to get bigger. And they can't make up their mind if they're a power lifter. And they can't make up their mind if they're a body builder and they sort of train like both. And then what ends up happening is they're not very good at either one of them. Um, with body building, when you think about body building, our goal with body building is to, is to place the maximum amount of stimulus on the muscle that we're trying to target for hypertrophy. So all the things that a power lifter would do to increase efficiency on a lift are not what we do in body building. In fact, we probably do the opposite in body building. We want full range of motion. We want the largest range of motion possible to stimulate the most amount of muscle fibers and get the maximum contraction out of the muscle. We want to put the muscle in the least efficient place for leverage. Uh, we, we, we, you know, so it's not like power lifting where you're trying to maximize leverage to get the weight from point A to point B. We want to decrease leverage to place the most amount of load on the muscle. Um, and that means lighter weights. So the weight is relative, you know, so you might be bench pressing 500 pounds as a power lifter, but only doing 315 as a body builder, but you're actually placing more load on the muscle with the 315 as you would with doing a power lifting style lift with, with 500. Uh, you know, so that, that is one of the key differences there. And I think a lot of gym bros just can't get that through their head. They don't understand that, that there is a difference between power lifting and body building. They just think heavier weights, you know, more muscle. More muscle. And that's not the case. And I see dudes all the time in the gym that can't, you have the ones that can't make up their mind if they're a power lifter or a body builder. And they have really short range of motion. They're heaving up weights that are too heavy for them. They're bouncing the weights. They're, they're arching. They're doing all this stuff that, that's not maximizing hypertrophy, but they're not training for a power lifting meet. They want to be bigger, but they're not, they're training like a body power lifter. They're sort of like a power lifter, sort of like a bodybuilder, not, not really either one of them. And when you don't specifically train for a goal, you end up doing nothing very well. Now, if you don't care, if you're just trying to be a little bit stronger, a little bit bigger, whatever, it doesn't matter. But I find if you want to make the most progress, you have to phase out your training. So like if you were interested in bodybuilding and power lifting, both what I would do and what I have done in the past is take blocks of training where I would train like a power lifter and just focus on that. And then that you get way better at it. You make more progress in a 10, 12 week block of training than you would in an entire year of trying to play, train like both. You know, so, so that, that would be my suggestion there. And so this comes back to the whole progressive overload thing too. I'm a Dante Trudell disciple. I started out on DC training, Dante trained me a long time ago. And, and I'm a believer in a lot of his philosophies and I followed a lot of Dante stuff. And I think one of the things that Dante taught that has sort of gotten bastardized over the years is the heavyweight mantra. And, and that's beat the log book every week and try to put more weight on the bar. The, the stronger you get, the bigger you will get. But what people miss and that what Dante taught and I learned from Dante is everything that Dante did was very controlled with the form. Extremely controlled, full range of motion. In fact, we were doing extreme stretching, like beyond full range of motion. So it was full range of motion, very controlled negatives, three second negatives on everything, which I don't see people doing in the gym. Uh, so the log book beating the log book was within those parameters of training. It, you had to have strict form. And if you modified your form to beat the log book, you didn't beat the log book. So I see guys that are constantly trying to beat previous PRs, but they're doing it by, um, they're doing it by, you know, just cheating. They, they didn't get stronger. They didn't get bigger. They just got better at cheating. So it serves no purpose. I, you know, it's like the dudes I see doing the 800 pound calf raises with, with 13 inch calves or the guys I see on the leg press, you know, piling every fucking plate in the gym on the leg press, but they got a three inch range of motion and they got twizzlers for legs. You know that, that, what are you doing? What are you doing? What are you getting out of that? Absolutely fucking nothing. Um, so I do believe that you should increase weight. I think volume plays a role in it too. That's another attribute that we can manipulate when we're doing bodybuilding training, but you increase weight in the parameters of strict form where we're placing maximum load on the target muscle within a prescribed rep. Rep range that is appropriate for hypertrophy. So that's typically somewhere depending on the exercise. Like if you're on a compound exercise, it seems like we bottom out around six reps below anything. Both six reps is really not that productive for hypertrophy. I think eight to 12 on compound movements is ideal. I tend more towards 12 now that I'm older because I reduce risk of injury that way, because I'm not putting heavy weight on the bars and putting a lot of stress on my joints. I think on compound movements somewhere in the 10 to 15 rep range, even upwards of 20 on isolation movements is probably ideal with strict form, full range of motion, placing maximum load on the muscle, not doing things to modify leverage just so I can put up more weight. And if you live within those parameters, then yes, try to increase your weight as you progress. And if you can get stronger within those parameters, absolutely, you're growing. But if you're modifying those parameters, you just got better at cheating. You didn't get bigger. All right, guys, that's all I got for you on this one. If you want to tell me how wrong I am, put it in the comments section below. I appreciate each and every one of you. I really do. Thank you for watching my channel, guys. Rock on. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.