 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. YouTube users. Some of thEQuestions include, some of thEQuestions include, some of thEQuestions include, what is a safe and responsible way to use PEDs for postmenopausal women? What is a safe and responsible way to use PEDs for postmenopausal women? Is microdosing tren 50 to 100 milligrams per week actually worth it? Are GLP ones like red or true tide replacing? Are GLP ones like red or true tide replacing? Clenbuterol on contest prep and is it safer? How should you tren as a complete beginner before trensitioning to a true bodybuilding routine? How should you tren as a complete beginner before trensitioning to a true bodybuilding routine? We'll dig into all thesEQuestions and more in just one second. All right, before we go through thesEQuestions, please like and subscribe. I get a lot of people that watch my channel and not many of you fuckers actually subscribe. If you want to support me and you want me to make more of these awesome videos, please subscribe to the channel. It helps a lot. It's the algorithm. It helps me grow my reach and improve my standing on YouTube. I appreciate the help. It would mean a lot to me. All right. First question I got up today is from Jose Baapara Guerrera. I hope I said that right, Jose. I apologize if I didn't. Jose asked, what's your go-to cycle when Masteron and Primabolin are limited in supply right now? Yeah, we are in the great Masteron and Primabolin drought of 2025. No end in sight, at least none that I know of. I really, we don't have a lot of other choices at this point. I, when I put a cycle together, if you, what I like to do is start off with a testosterone and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone base. Those are the two bioidentical hormones that probably have the least side effects. We know what the downstream metabolism of those, those two look like in the human body. So that's where we start off. And then we supplement in other things as needed to get leverage better effects, growth hormone hormone hormone, mitigate side effects, other things that come along with using those compounds. And right now our choices are very limited. If you want to know how to put a cycle together, I do have my cycle cheat sheet you can pick up on the website for 30 bucks. I'll go into detail about how to put cycles together. But my basic principle is to start with those two first. And then I branch out from there in my tiers of safety. When it comes to anabolics, I would put Primabolin and Masteron in the A tier of an adjunct to testosterone and growth hormone hormone hormone hormones. So that's usually where I like to start. But as you pointed out, those are not readily available at this point. The reason why I like Primabolin and Masteron is they both modulate and deal with estrogen side effects. As you push up testosterone, estrogen starts to become a problem. Masteron acts much like a serum where it blocks the estrogen at a receptor site, at least at the receptor site. At least that's what we understand. And Masteron seems to, IMean sorry, Primabolin seems to act like an aromatase inhibitor, lowering the conversion of testosterone to estradiol. Now, what we're left with at this point, really, the only thing that makes any sense to me to run as an adjunct to the testosterone at this point is a primary anabolic would be equipoise. And equipoise is very potent at modulating estrogen. It is very suppressive. You'll hear some guys out there, I've seen other coaches and other people say that equipoise doesn't lower estrogen. There's no studies that show that. Be that as it may, I've looked at hundreds of blood panels over the years and every single person that I see, for the most part, there might be some outliers. I would say probably 98% of the people I look at have very strong lowering of estradiol when using equipoise. Equipoise, one of the metabolites seems to, I can't remember the name, 1-6 something, dione, I can't remember the name of it off the top of my head, seems to be an aromatase inhibitor. I can't remember the metabolite, 1-something, I don't recall, you can look it up. It also, equipoise reduces to endrostenedione and further reduces to estrone and not estradiol predominantly. So some of the reduction in estradiol could be indirectly as a result of that. But regardless, the net result when we look at blood panels is E2 gets very low sometimes when running equipoise aggressively. And equipoise is a very lonGHalf-life, so we have to be cautious with how quickly and how much we push equipoise up. There's really no prescribed ratio of equipoise to testosterone, but what I've seen anecdotally is somewhere around half of your testosterone dose is sort of the sweet spot. Sometimes less for some people, sometimes a little bit more. But half will, at least with me, pulls me right in range when it comes to my estradiol. So if I'm running 500 testosterone, I will run the equipoise at 200 to 250. Maybe even less than half, 40 to 50%, I would say, somewhere in that range. Once again, this is not an exact science. This is just an anecdote. What I've seen work, there's no really prescribed ratio, but you just have to play around and see what works for you. I would start off conservative. There is some concern with equipoise when it comes to cardiovascular health and kidney health. There are some studies out there. There's an old study that was done on rabbits that showed equipoise to be directly nephrotoxic. Equipoise also seems to more aggressively raise hemoglobin, red blood cell count, and hematocrit than other. Other anabolics, in my humble opinion from what I've seen in my anecdote, it's more aggressive at raising those than anything with the exception of vanadryl. So if you're prone to high hemoglobin, red blood cell count, and hematocrit, that's something else that you have to be aware of when running equipoise. But really, equipoise is the only choice that we have left to modulate estrogen with when running a testosterone and GH base. The other option would be to throw nandrolone at it. That would be the other one that I see in the B tier. But the problem with nandrolone is nandrolone seems to do the exact opposite. It upregulates aromatase expression and just makes estradiol conversion worse. Now, what the old school bodybuilders did, and back in the early 2000s, we didn't understand things as much as we did now. Guys would run a combination of testosterone, equipoise, and a little bit of nandrolone. DECA or mute DECA back then, but now DECA and MPP. Maybe a little bit of D-ball. DECA was balancing out a little bit of the suppressive effects of the equipoise when it comes to estradiol or, you know, either or however which way you want to look at it. But they worked together synergistically to keep estradiol in range. I am not a huge fan of nandrolone at this point. It causes me all sorts of issues when it comes to anxiety, to sleep, to my mood. I get a lot of side effects. It seems to be the one thing that triggers gyno in me at this point. So I stay away from it for the most part. But really, we don't have a lot left to choose from. That's about it. You could just run testin GH and see what you can get away with. And if your estrogen gets out of control, you could run an aromatase inhibitor. You could throw equipoise at it to use as an additional antibiotic that's going to modulate estrogen when estrogen gets out of control. There's really no other choice. You know, I guess you can make an argument to run nandrolone-only cycles, but I've tried that before. That shit will just make you fucking lose your mind after a while. I don't think it's healthy for you because you do need some DHT conversion and some estrogen conversion. And synthetic progestins do really weird things in a man's body. And all these dudes that run these 19-nor-deca-only cycles, if you look at them down the road, they end up usually losing their fucking marbles. They all end up going nuts and getting paranoid and having anxiety and just cardiovascular problems and all this stuff. So I would probably stay away from that as an option. Same thing with oral-only cycles, not a viable option in my opinion. All right, next question we have up here is from the School Anabolic Bodybuilding Members Community from Papa D. If you want your question answered like Papa D on thEQ&A, join the community. It's $30 a month. Link is in the video description below. So Papa D asks, are low-calorie sweeteners like monk fruit and stevia okay to use while on a low-carb diet? Well, Papa D, I don't think they're going to affect your fat loss in any way. And if you're trying to stay in ketosis, I don't think it's going to have any profound effect on ketosis. At least not through any mechanism that I know of, assuming that you're doing a keto diet or anything like that. But here's the problem with slamming the artificial sweeteners. I see a lot of dudes get carried away with them on contest prep. And then they end up having gut issues. And they wonder why their stomach's upset, why they're farting, why they have diarrhea, why they have acid reflux. And it's from the artificial sweeteners. A lot of these artificial sweeteners can have a pretty profound effect on your gut microbiome. When fermentation in the gut, you have to be really cautious, especially with sugar alcohols. I've seen a lot of people have problems with sugar alcohols, especially in a lot of these keto-friendly foods. If you look at them, like protein bars and things like that that are keto-friendly, a lot of those things have sugar alcohols or some combination of sugar alcohol and monk fruit in them. A lot of the low-carb foods have monk fruit. Monk fruit really can mess your gut up. IMean, it really fucks my stomach up. The same thing with sugar alcohols. And it seems to be certain sugar alcohols that are worse than others. You have to look at things like some of the calorie-free sauces that dudes use. They're dumping some of the calorie-free barbecue sauce all over their food. I know a lot of the GU stuff you have to look at, I think, has sugar alcohols in it. If I recall correctly, I apologize if that's not the case. You have to pay attention to that stuff and see how it affects your stomach. Now, I think using that stuff in moderation can be okay. It can help you get through your diet. If it's something that helps keep you on track and keeps you from cheating, you know, use it in moderation. But I think a lot of guys, as they get deeper into caloric deficit, they're struggling with hunger. They start really slamming a lot of sugar-free stuff. I've been guilty of it myself in the past. The other issue with some of the sugar-free stuff is as you use it, it can kind of increase your cravings for sugar. And I've seen guys actually crack on their diets from using sugar-free stuff. They start having sugar munchies and then they end up wanting to eat high-sugar foods. And a lot of times when they come off the diet, they end up just binge eating sugar and sweets and donuts and shit like that when they come off the diet. So, another thing to consider. But, yes, you can use them. I would use them in moderation. I would pay attention to your gut health. I wouldn't go crazy with them. Limit it. Limit that stuff, you know, only as needed. And I wouldn't make it a regular part of your routine. I know some dudes are dumping shit that has, you know, sugar-free shit all over every meal. And then they end up wrecking their digestion. Just be careful with it. Be smart about it. And listen to your body. Alright, next question I have up here is from a YouTube subscriber. This one is from JW Williams. JW asks, Any thoughts on post-menopausal female cycles for aesthetics and fat loss? She's already on test, estrogen, and occasional oxandrolone. What about other options for dosing that make sense? Well, I would start off with the typical hormone replacement stuff. You know, she should probably be connected up with a good hormone replacement clinic. I will say this, that a lot of times OBGYNs, endocrinologists aren't that great with giving women what they need. Now, they recently removed the red label warning from hormone replacement for women. So maybe that stuff will be more accessible. But I would say a low-dose TRT, estrogen patch. Usually they put them on estrogen. And some sort of progesterone is typically the baseline for women. Now, as far as other drugs for physique enhancements and things that I would consider. What I would be concerned about, Virilization, hair loss, changes in voice. You know, those are things that I would be concerned about as a woman. Anything that is an anabolic androgenic steroid is going to potentially cause that. Not even the mild stuff like anolvar. I would say a low-dose anolvar periodically. I would not run it for more than six weeks at a time. I would use non-androgenic solutions as a potential, you know, as another potential physique enhancer. You know, the things that I see women do quite well with that aren't going to risk virilization. There are going to be things like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. You could also consider clenbuterol at a low-dose. GLP-1s are another option at this point. Some of the peptides we have out there for fat loss. MOTC, SLU PP332. You know, things like that that are going to help with fat loss and recomposition. And sprinkle a little anolvar in here and there. Primavolins pretty much non-existent at this point. So that's not even really an option. But I would be very cautious with anything that could cause virilization. Especially if you want to preserve looking like a woman. Some women just don't give a fuck. And want to be as big as shit. And that's fine. That's your prerogative if that's what you want to do. But if she wants to maintain her femininity, I would very cautiously limit my exposure to AASs. Stick with the stuff that's non-virilizing. Like what I said with clenbuterol. With growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. Peptides. Some of these other options that we have. Be on a baseline of HRT. And start from there. I think that would be the wise way to go about it. Alright, next question here is from the School Anabolic Bodybuilding members community from Westside. Aaron Westside asks, When trening someone who has never lifted before, what should their program look like? Exercise selection, frequency, rep range, and duration before trensitioning into a PPL or a bro split? I think a PPL is a great place to start, personally. IMean, you could do an upper-lower split. But I don't know why you wouldn't start with a PPL, to be honest with you. And this also assumes what their goals are. Are they trying to lift for strength? Are they trying to lift for physique enhancement? Are they looking to be a bodybuilder? Are they just trying to get in shape? I find PPL to be a great split for everybody. It really works well. It's my favorite splits. I've tried every fucking split known to man. I feel... I've tried upper body, upper-lower splits. I don't feel like you get enough time with specific body parts to really tren them effectively. I feel like PPL is a nice middle ground between a bro split and an upper-lower. I would say that for a beginner, usually what I would focus on is just some principles. Don't think about it so much as rep range or exercise choices or split. But I think it's mastering the basics. LearninGHow to lift. LearninGHow to get the most out of the movement. I would start with basic movements. Maybe even use compound movements to start off with. Bench, squat, deadlift, things like that. And then as you get stronger, you can progress to other things. You can move away from some of the more dangerous lifts. But really learninGHow to lift properly. Control the weight and get the most out of the weight. Lift progressively. I think at the beginning, it's very important to probably logbook. Track progression. Work on getting stronger. Make sure that your execution is solid and consistent when it comes to how the exercises work. And progress those weights up as long as you're staying within the constrents of good form. Don't cheat your form to get more weight up. Don't be so obsessed with a logbook that you're trying to cheat things to move the numbers up. But I would say some form of progressive overload is going to be very important in the beginning. And then eventually you get to a point where there's only so far you can take those lateral races up. There's only so far you can progress your bench press. And then it gets to a point like after a while, like you get so fucking strong. If you get to the advanced stage, that's some of the stuff that you progress before gets dangerous. You know, like if you're incline pressing 405 for reps, IMean, how much further are you going to take things? It starts to get risky at that point. So then you might need to modify your trening. You might need to think about bringing in some machines and other things. But I would say progressive overload. PPL is just fine. Rep ranges. IMean, probably eight to 10 reps for a beginner. Really focus on executing the exercises properly, not cheating. Logbooking, learninGHow to eat. I think that's another thing. A lot of beginners just don't really fucking. The diet is so important, man. I think so much progress is lost by not following a strict diet. That's also another thing that probably needs to be mastered at the beginning. You don't have to track and weigh and measure everything, but start eating like a bodybuilder. Meat and rice four or five times a day. And really get the basics buttoned up. And if you start there, I think you're probably going to have some great progress. All right. Next question I got up here is from YouTube subscriber Ryan Mathis. Ryan asks, is microdosing TREN 50 to 100 milligrams per week worth it? Or should I stick with the typical 300 milligram dose? IMean, TREN is extremely potent and it has some unique properties that we can't get with other compounds. How it suppresses the glucocorticoid pathway. How potent of binding affinity that it has with the androgen receptor and fat tissue and promotes lipolysis. How it affects nutrient partitioning. It's really, as far as we know, it might be the only anabolic that you can effectively grow in a deficit. It has some very unique properties that we are trying to leverage that we don't get from other compounds. And so a lot of times you can get a lot of those effects with a really low dose. You can get away with 10 milligrams a day, 60 to 70 milligrams per week, and leverage a lot of those doses without a lot of the nasty side effects that guys get. I remember back in the day, the back in the day that when the guys were running TREN hacks the parable, and I think they were 78 milligram amps, something like that. By the time you factor in the weight of the drug itself, it was probably something like 55 or 60 milligrams effectively. Guys were taking one of those a week. That was what the dudes were using, you know, back in the nineties were using them prep. So they were essentially using 60, 70 milligrams a week and getting a lot out of it. I believe Dorian Yates, when he talked about his old cycles, talking about running those doses similar to that. So you don't need to throw the sledgehammer at it. If you are getting a lot out of that, then run that. IMean, when I ran it on contest prep, I don't think I ever ran more than 20 milligrams a day. So 20 to 25. So somewhere like 140 to 175 milligrams a week was plenty for me. Plenty. And in fact, it was probably too much. I couldn't fucking sleep. I remember the one time I did go up to 300 plus milligrams when I was younger, the side effects were just intolerable. And it's extremely potent on paper. Now, keep in mind, this is a Hershberger's essay. We know these don't really trenslate to real life that effectively, but it is five times as androgenic and anabolic as testosterone. So, you know, just keep that in mind. It's extremely potent. So a little bit will go a long way. I would say start off low. See what you can get away with. If you are going to run it, I would limit your duration of exposure to it. Probably not more than six to eight weeks. Something like that. Something like that. You don't want to be on it nonstop. And you don't want it to cook your noodle. Guys end up fucking going crazy that run it all the time. You can look at the dudes on social media that were running a lot of tren. And they all end up melting their noodle and absolutely losing their fucking minds over a period of time. So I would limit exposure. Keep the dose low. Do short runs of it when you need to recomp. And keep it at that, man. See how things go from there. All right. Next question I have up here is from the School Anabolic Bodybuilding Members Community. This one is from Joshua P. Josh asks, Is clen use declining now that RETA Trutide is rising in popularity? And does RETA have a better safety profile based on the way bodybuilders dose it? Well, the short answer is we have no idea if it's safe or long term. We don't have long term use data on RETA Trutide right now. It is in phase three clinical trials. It is yet to be approved for human use by the FDA. It likely will be. It looks like it's on a fast track to getting approved in 2026. But we just don't know right now if it is safe or long term. Clint is the long term established sledgehammer that we use for fat loss and bodybuilding. It's been around and widely used in our community for 30 plus years, probably since the mid nineties, I would say. It's the first time I ever heard of it being used. It is a beta agonist. And clenbuterol is very effective. Now the downside with clenbuterol and running a bunch of stimulants on contest prep is the effect that it has on cardiovascular health. It, you know, potentially detrimental to cardiovascular health, whereas RETA Trutide seems to be beneficial. I will say this. I saw quite a few guys last year on contest prep using GLP-1s and peptides such as MOTC and SLU PP332 when they were on. It's not, you know, SLU is not a peptide, but. But you get what I'm saying. MOTC and SLU on contest prep along with a GLP-1 like RETA or Trisepetide. I will say this. When I looked at blood panels coming out of contest prep, they were much better than they were when guys were using the traditional stimulant based fat burners on contest prep, such as clenbuterol, ephedrine, caffeine, you know, him buying and whatever else the guys were using. I saw much better blood panels and overall health. I also saw guys that were resistant to fat loss losing weight like that. IMean, just just weight falling off without any really radical changes with, you know, guys that were resistant before. Now, the downside, what I've seen, and this is just anecdote and other people will say that's not true. Um, I, this is just what I saw. I contest prepped a lot of fucking people last year, 60, you know, this past year, 20, the 2025 season. I contested, contest prep close to 60 people or more over 60 people. The GLP ones do seem to make it harder to stay full. It's just specifically RETA or Trisepetide. The guys that's that ran the GLP one seem to have a harder time staying full and filling out. I, what I, what I was doing with guys that were choosing to use it on contest prep, I was yanking it out the last couple of weeks before show to help fill them out. It does seem, it does seem to have some sort of effect on glucose metabolism and glycogen synthesis where guys, I know the glucagon agonists in theory should only affect liver glycogen. Uh, but there is some other effect there. It just seems like guys have a hard time filling out. They just don't look as full when they're running it in my, my experience. Now, um, from what I understand, uh, you know, and I apologize, Nick, if this is incorrect, Nick Walker, use it on his contest prep. You know, Nick's big as fuck. And it didn't seem to affect him, but I would say if you're a high level competitor and you want to play a conservative, I would probably yank it out at least a couple of weeks before the show. Just so you can fill back out and just my two cents. If you wanted to play a conservative, but yes, I would say overall, my guess right now, we don't have long-term data on this stuff. My guess is that it's probably safer for you to use a GLP one than it is to use the traditional stimulant based fat burners as far as long-term health considerations go. Next question here is from David H from YouTube. He's a YouTube subscriber. David asks if I'm running 600 milligrams of testosterone, is there any benefit to adding 250 milligrams of EQ, 250 milligrams of Masturon, or is it better increasing just one compound? I don't like adding multiple compounds at a time. I like starting off with adding one at a time and seeinGHow it goes. And really, I don't know why you would want to double up on EQ and Masturon. Assuming you can even fucking find Masturon at this time, I probably wouldn't run both side by side. I would pick one or the other based on what your needs are. I don't know. I would think if you ran EQ and Masturon side by side, you're going to end up being too dried out, especially in an offseason. Maybe on a contest prep, I could see a compelling reason for running it that way. But I would pick one or the other. EQ is going to lower estradiol. Estradiol, probably aggressively so from what I've seen on blood panels. Masturon doesn't seem to lower estradiol. Anecdotally, it acts as a serum for what we understand as selective estrogen receptor modulator, where it blocks the estrogen at the receptor site. So if you're a guy that tends to run lower estradiol, I would say Masturon is a better choice. If you're a guy that tends to be a high aromatizer, then maybe Equipoise would be a better choice since it modulates estrogen more aggressively. So those are really your kind of choice. And then you can build your cycle up from there. If you want to know more about how to build an effective cycle, I have my cycle cheat sheet you can pick up on my website. It's super cheap. It's 30 bucks. If you want to, you know, have more detail on how to do it and mitigate side effects and build a smarter cycle. I have all that laid out there. Anyway, I would pick one or the other based on your unique physiology, how you convert estrogen, how you handle side effects and see which works best for you. One or the other, not both. All right. Next question here is from the School of Anabolic Bodybuilding members community. It's from Dave L. Dave asks, can taking phenosteroid affect testosterone levels? Well, Dave, phenosteroid is a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor. It's going to block the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. So in theory, that would leave more testosterone intact. I would think downstream it may increase estrogen conversion because of how it affects testosterone. Think of it this way. You have a bucket. You pour testosterone in the bottom. There's two holes poked in the bottom of the bucket. One of them is estrogen. The other one is DHT that are coming out the bottom. DHT, from what I understand, is static as far as conversion rate testosterone to estradiol is very unique based on the individual. Everybody converts at different rates and your body seems to self-regulate. A lot of times if you push the testosterone too high, more than what your tissue can handle as far as muscle mass goes, you just end up with more estrogen conversion. So I would say, you know, yes, could increase testosterone levels. There's also some other downstream negative effects that happen with 5-AR inhibitors. Guys end up with post-phenosteroid syndrome where they can't get fucking boners ever again. There's, I'm just not a fan of 5-AR inhibitors unless you have prostate issues or you're using it for hair loss. And even then, I don't even think it's that great for hair loss, especially if you're running other compounds. You can't run DECA with it. You can't run a 19, you know, DECA with it. It actually messes things up even worse with DECA. It blocks the conversion to DHN, which makes DECA even more potent at hair loss. It's, there's just so many potential negative downsides, lower libido. It can affect your mood. DHT is actually very important in a man's body for mood, libido, erectile function, all the things that make you a man. Aggression in the gym. All of these other things, I just, you know, unless there's some medical need for the 5-AR inhibitor, the phenosteroid, I just wouldn't run it, man. I am not a fan of it. I don't think it really benefits you in any way. DHT is very important for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone because it is what's going to drive aggression when you're lifting weights a lot of times. So, I don't know. I'm not your doctor. I'm not telling you medical advice. If your doctor says he wants you on a 5-AR inhibitor, I'm sure he has valid reasons for it. But, me personally, I would avoid 5-AR inhibitor use at all costs. That's, I just have not had good experiences with it. Alright, next question from the YouTube section here. This is from YouTube subscriber. South97NorthSouth asks, I'm 260 pounds of 24% body fat and can only tren 2-3 days per week while in nursing school. What should my calories be to cut before graduation? I can't tell you which calories are going to be, man. It really just depends on your metabolism. I've seen great variance between metabolism. What I can tell you, there are certain macros I usually start guys off with when I'm working with somebody. I would say this. The protein is going to be the base of all your nutrition. I start off with a gram to a gram and a quarter per pound of body weight with protein. That's a non-negotiable. Start there. Leave protein static as is. I would probably run some sort of caloric cycling. I would take 1-2 days a week and probably go zero carbs. You know, use those days as fat loss days. Fats, you're going to need a certain amount of fats in your diet. I would keep your protein sources as lean as you possibly can keep them. Keep, you know, keep the saturated fats out of your diet as much as you possibly can. You're going to want to supplement in some essential fatty acids, omega-3s and omega-6s. It's, you know, something like 30 to 40 grams per day. It's plenty. And on your, you know, with your carbohydrates, carbohydrates are really the major wild card here. What I have found with carbohydrates, and this is my general experience, I like to keep them stacked around the workout window. But the minimum amount of carbohydrates before you go to zero, it's kind of like 150-ish. I found once you get below 150, you might as well just go to zero because you're kind of in this nether region where you're not in ketosis, but you're not, you don't have enough glucose intake to, you know, make you not feel like a fucking zombie. So you're better off just going to zero carbohydrates if you dip below 150. But what I like to do is cycle the carbohydrates. So the days that are zero carbohydrates, I would have those on my non-workout days, just, you know, non-lifting days. I would do some cardio, light cardio, some less cardio. On my lifting days, I would never take carbohydrates out from around my workout window. So say if you were going to eat that 150 grams of carbs on your workout days, I would place it something like 75 grams of carbs pre and post-workout. Maybe you can start off a little bit higher with the carbohydrates if you want it. Maybe you could start off with 100 and 100. See how your body responds to that. That's probably where I would start. And then really, it's just a game of net negative energy expenditure. You, you know, if you want to drop one pound a week, you're going to be in a net negative energy balance of 500 calories per day. If you want to drop two pounds of fat per week, you're going to be in a net negative energy balance of 1000 calories per day. And that deficit is created through either eating less food or doing more exercise. That's really your two choices. And I don't think three days a week are going to be effective enough. I know you are in nursing school. You don't think you have more time, but you can make more time. And I promise you that you can get in the gym more than three days per week. We're talking an hour a day. There are 24 hours in a day. Just sleep an hour less or, or, you know, take, take away Netflix times or whatever. I'm sure you have an hour in a day that you're fucking off doing something else that you can make up for it. Scroll social media a little less. There, there, there are ways to, to make up for that extra time. I would say you probably want to be in the gym four or five days a week minimum. If you want to effectively lose that fat and get that fat off, that would be my, and that's going to be the easiest way to do it. It's, it was only so low. You can take the calories. If you're in school and you're trying to be functional in studying, you, you, you're probably going to need some carbohydrates in for, for, for cognitive performance. I feel, my brain is fucking mashed potatoes when I don't eat carbohydrates. I know some people say they feel great on, on, on winning ketosis. I am not one of those people. And I find that most people aren't there. In fact, there was a study done recently. I don't recall the exact numbers on it, but it was something like one in five people say they feel better on ketosis. So it's the minority that does. And I know some people say they feel great. I'm not one of those. You can experiment. If you wanted to try a keto diet, you certainly could do that. That is an option, but at the end of the day, it's, it's a net, it's a net energy balance game. You have to be in a caloric deficit and you can create that deficit through either more exercise or less food. There are drugs you can use at this point. We have GLP ones. We have fat burning aids, but they really are not going to make them as big of a difference as the energy expenditure game that you're playing with, with, with food and with exercise. All right. And last question is from the school. Anabolic bodybuilding members community from Ryan T Ryan asks, how can you tell if GH is really working? What physical changes or blood markers confirm the effectiveness, especially when comparing UGL to farmer grade HGH? I just really don't see any fake UGL, GH running around anymore. I think that's been overstated. In fact, some of the UGL GH I've run into recently, I've heard people talking about is probably overdosed. Uh, guys are having nasty side effects from it. IMean, side effects that you can look out for and not everybody gets them and side effects are not indicative of effectiveness. So don't, you know, don't let that be what, what you use as your measuring stick. But, you know, people get numb hands from the carpal tunnel, uh, water retention, sleepiness, you know, all of these things that happen from GH, but not everybody gets that. That doesn't, if you don't get those side effects, that doesn't mean that it's not real. It's not working. Uh, blood markers. I know some guys will use IGF one as an indicator, but it's really a poor one for, for, for HGH, whether or not your HGH is any, any good. And IGF one levels can be affected by many things. IMean, shit, if you're on a low carb diet, uh, that, that alone can make your IGF one. Well, if you have low estrogen, your IGF one can be low. So that doesn't mean that the HGH is ineffective. The only effective blood marker that I know that you can do is you can take your GH two to three hours before your blood work. It takes about two or three hours for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone to, to peak. And you can get your serum growth hormone hormone hormone hormone levels checked and see if those are high. Probably the simpler thing would be to just send your HGH off for lab testing and see if it's actually real, if you're concerned about that. And really HGH is a slow burn. They're, they're really, you don't really notice it when you're on it. It's a slow burn. It takes time. These there's small effects over a long period of time that happened with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. It's not like something that you just say, we wake up one day. I'm like, damn, I'm on HGH. It's not like running Trent. When you're on Trent, you fucking know your own Trent. When you run dbol, you know, you're on dbol. It's not like either one of those. There, there's no real clues that you're on HGH. It's a slow burn. It's slowly affects body composition over a period of time growth hormone hormone hormone, et cetera. Other than some of the side effects that guys have. And even those accumulate over a longer period of time. It's not like you wake up day two after taking GH with numb hands. Whereas if you take Trent, you, you, you know, you're on Trent within two days. So don't expect immediate noticeable effects from taking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. I would say if you're concerned about whether or not it's real, just send it off for testing. That's probably the easiest and simplest thing to do. There's no real blood markers that are reliable or dependable for test for testing. And it's kind of complicated to do the whole serum GH test anyway. And by the time you went through all that and spent the money on it, you probably would have cost you the same. Just send damn shit off for, for testing and see what you actually have. And that would be my suggestion, man. If you're concerned about whether or not it's real, just send it off. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. I appreciate all you motherfuckers, even the guys that hate me and say nasty things in the comments. I feel you. You didn't get hugged enough as a child. You need more hugs. I'll give you a hug. If I see you in person, we all love you. I love you. Be a better person. I'll see you guys on the next episode. Appreciate you dirty motherfuckers. Poor Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord Lord