 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today. Those of you that have been following along with me know about my experiment with doing lower dose trend on contest prep this year. Kind of the standard assumption with bodybuilding is that you need to do trend somewhere around 300 milligrams per week or higher to get any results on contest prep. And I wanted to try something different this year. And I wanted to try something different this year. Trend never agrees with me. It always makes me feel like shit. And I saw John Jewett talk about how he only runs 50 milligrams every other day. And he felt like that's all he needed to get the results from trend. And I did some research on it, thought about it, how trend works, and the effects that we're trying to leverage on contest prep. And I wanted to give it a try this year and see how it went. And I'm going to give you my thoughts on it after going through contest prep with only running a try this year. Contest prep with only running 50 milligrams of trend every other day. Essentially 150, 175 milligrams per week is all I did on contest prep this year. So we're going to talk about that in just one second. All right. In the past, I've always run trend on contest prep somewhere between 300 and 450 milligrams per week. I would run like 100 to 150 milligrams every other day was sort of what I ran on contest prep. And the issue that I have with trend is I cannot fucking sleep. I already have trouble sleeping as is. Trend also gives me anxiety. And I just sweat profusely. And after a while, I kind of get this unwell feeling like I have the flu. I hate trend. I don't know why people like trend so much. But I think people just fall in love with it because of the, the really the kind of the mythology around trend that it's some sort of great anabolic. I really don't think it is. It is probably the best steroid. I would concede that it is probably the best steroid for body composition. I don't think there really is anything better for body composition, at least in my experience. Uh, Winstrow, Anivar, PrimaVol, and none of them harden me up like trend does trend is within two weeks of starting trend. You can see a complete transformation in my physique. I start up veins popping out everywhere. My skin gets thinner, a thinner look to it. Um, and I just harden right up. Uh, so, you know, we, when we, I thought about it, you know, after listening to John Jewett talk, talk about how he ran trend at really low doses, uh, because he had a similar experience with trend. And so I wanted to give it a try myself this year. And I was thinking about the unique properties of trend that we're trying to leverage for, for contest prep. Really, the glucocorticoid suppression is one of them. Uh, but ultimately, you know, we can get that from other things like Anivar and other stuff. Uh, in all, you know, you know, PEDs to a certain, or steroids to a certain extent, suppress, um, glucocorticoids, but trend's just very good at it. Um, so, but my, my thought process is if you're not sleeping, what does it matter if you're suppressing, uh, cortisol? So it makes no fucking difference at all. So my thought process was let, let, let's bring the dose down to the minimum effective dose for the body composition aspects of it. Really, that's all I really cared about out of the contest prep, um, is I wanted to maximize the body composition effects of it to get the best look that I could for my physique without, with the minimum dose, without all the side effects, without all the nastiness that goes along with trend. So I started it this year. I think I started my trend around eight weeks out. Maybe it was, no, it was eight weeks out. I believe somewhere, somewhere in the seven to eight week out mark. I started off with 50 milligrams every other day. And I, I had a little bit of side effects with 50 milligrams, but nothing like I do on 300 to 450. It did affect my sleep a bit. Um, it did make me sweat at night a bit. Um, although that could have been the fat burners and the other things that I was taking. And I achieved the same body composition that I have in the past. It's the lowest dose trend I've ever run on contest prep. The lowest doses that I've ever run on, um, any of the, what you would consider hardening compounds too. I only ran 30 milligrams of anivar. Um, no wind straw this year. Uh, people say you can't do contest prep without wind straw. Well, I did it without wind straw this year. Um, and I ran some halo tests in the last couple of weeks, just a low dose, 10, 10 milligrams. And then last week I think I ran 20 milligrams. So I, I kept all the harsh compounds out. My, my blood markers were much better this year. I didn't feel sick at the end of prep. Like I always do. My sleep was, was vastly improved and I had the best look I've ever had on stage. And, and I get first place placings as a result of it. You know, so I, I think I kept my body fresh. I felt like, you know, usually the day of the show, I feel like I'm dying and I need a couple of weeks to recover. I was ready to get right back in the gym. I felt great as far as contest prep goes. Um, so, and I think most of that was attributed to limiting the harsh compounds. Um, especially the trend. I, I, I think a lot of times that I'll see it with guys that I work with. They don't realize how hard trend is on your body. I'll see it all the time with guys that'll have, um, elevated creatinine levels in, in their eGFR will be not so good when they've been running trend, especially in the offseason. So I think you're nuts if you're running trend year round, I would not do it. I would say we're for contest prep only. Um, it, it is, it is way harsher than people realize. And I think it is the most abused anabolic steroid in, in incorrectly used anabolic steroid in, um, in the bodybuilding world. I, I, bodybuilding physique enhancement world. I, I, there are better options. I think you could run higher doses of milder compounds and get equal amounts of results in the offseason. Ultimately our goal in the offseason, when you think about it, it's just to put on muscle tissue. Okay. And trend is not especially great at muscle protein synthesis. It's not any better than any other thing out there. So why run a harsh compound like, like trend in the offseason? If it's not really any better at it, there's just no reason for it. Reason we run it during contest prep is because it is without a doubt, in my opinion, the best compound for body composition. I, I, I have found nothing that improves body composition like trend does, but anyway, moving forward, I am running low dose trend on contest prep from here on out. I may go up to 75 milligrams every other day, but although I don't know if there's any benefit to it. So I think probably next year, um, I'm going to stick with 50. Um, most of my clients that I'm working with, I'm recommending 50 every other day. And it seems like they're getting great results running 50 every other day without all the detrimental effects that trend has and better blood work, um, better sleep, less side effects in essentially getting the same results. So if you can run less and get the same results and have a safer, uh, uh, safer environment, why wouldn't you do that? I don't make sense to me. Anyway, that's all I got for you guys. I thought I would share my final thoughts on the low dose trend. I guess I shouldn't say low dose, lower dose. And somebody is going to call me out on that lower dose trend experiment for contest prep this year. Thanks for watching guys. I appreciate you for coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at big P3RD at gmail.com.