warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right. What's up, Jim bros. It's big Paul here today with you. We're going to talk about methylene blue. It seems to be the hot topic right now. Everybody is on the methylene blue bandwagon. So I figured we'd go through and do a technical breakdown of it. I went through and did some research, put together a drug profile like I have done on many other compounds that interests us in the performance enhancement and biohacking world. I have a ton of stuff up on the science of anabolics and PEDs e-course that is on my anabolic bodybuilding website that Kurt Havens and I have put together. There is over 60 hours of video content and 100 plus lessons up there, including peptides, PEDs, side effect mitigation, how to structure cycles, technical and scientific information on these compounds and how they're applied to our world. If you want to check it out, there is a link in the video description below. There's also a free preview. Go over to the anabolic bodybuilding website and check it out. All right, enough of that. We are going to dig into methylene blue and go through all the nuts and bolts of it in just one second. All right, methylene blue. She is the hot topic. Every bro is talking about right now. Even good old RFK jr was spotted dousinGHis coffee or whatever it was on there with methylene blue. You can find the picture on the internet. Dude was putting quite a bit in his drink, whatever he was drinking. So everybody is on the methylene blue kick. Now I tried it out a month or so ago and I've been using it periodically. I'll give you my thoughts on it at the end. I have mixed feelings about it. It does provide some really unique benefits and I did seem to get a very big kick from it. It is an interesting compound that I never really messed with before recently until I heard Dr. Dean talking about it. But anyway, let's dig into methylene blue a little bit. So history and properties of methylene blue. It was first synthesized in 18 six 1876 by German chemist Heinrich Karo. The chemical structure is a thiazine dye. It was mostly from what I understand it was used in lab experiments in to use to stain stain samples for microscopic inspection. The color and solubility is a deep blue crystalline powder, soluble in water and ethanol. Early in use use it was initially used as a textile dye and later used as synthetic drug for malaria. It seems to have antiviral and antimicrobial properties. Talk about that in a second. Medical adoption. It was adopted in the 1890s for treating methemoglobinemia later studied for psychiatric and neuroprotective effects. Uh, the effects of the drug. There are many. It does some many interesting and cool things. Neurological. It enhances mitochondrial function and may improve memory and cognitive function. I can tell you from when I have tried it, I have a little bit of ADHD, so I don't know if that is the reason why it has such a profound effect on me. It is very potent with me. And then I've heard people say, it doesn't do shit for them at all. I had a very strong effect with it. It was, it helped me focus and dial in and be very productive with my work. Uh, maybe I have some sort of disordered mitochondrial function because of my metabolic disorder, diabetes. I am a type one B diabetic. It has an antioxidant effect, actually anti-oxidant effect that I've never heard of before. Anti-oxidant effect acts as a redox agent cycling between oxidized and reduced forms, which contributes to its neuroprotective effects. Um, it increases mitochondrial function, which is fascinatinGHow it works. It acts as an alternate electron carrier, bypassing damaged or inefficient complexes supporting ATP production. So if you do have mitochondrial dysfunction, mitochondrial damage, it seems that it can bypass that and improve mitochondrial function. And like I said earlier, that potentially, I'm just speculatinGHere. Maybe that's why I have seen such a profound effect from it because potentially I have something going on there because of the metabolic disorder that I do have. Uh, it increases cellular ATP production by keeping the ETC running smoothly. It might stimulate mitochondrial biogenesis through genomic improvement. So in theory it could regrow, um, or improve mitochondrial, um, health through, uh, genomic effects, which is really fascinating. It in theory could potentially repair dysfunctional mitochondria. It is antimicrobial exhibits antibacterial antifungal and antiviral properties. As mentioned earlier, it was originally used for malaria treatments. There are better treatments now, but it does have some antiviral function. Um, I recently had COVID and I used it as part of my protocol to get over COVID a long with other things such as antioxidants, um, and some other tools that I use during that time. Mood and cognition. Some research supports that it has potential antidepressants in a memory enhancing effects, supports neuronal mitochondrial, mitochondrial function by maintaining the mitochondrial membrane potential. Safety. There has been some debate and discussion. I've seen on social media, uh, some people that are getting very heated about its potential risk or safety with all things, anything that you're putting in your body is likely going to carry, uh, some negative effects and some benefits. Some outweigh the other, you know, it's the same thing with PEDs. You know, we're all taking a little bit of a risk to, to seek out a certain type of benefit. All in all, it seems to be relatively safe, but there are not a lot of longterm studies on this. So we don't know for sure. Uh, common side effects that are experienced with methylene blue nausea, potential vomiting, abdominal pain, dizziness, headache. I did get a bit of headache and dizziness from it when I, when I took it. Uh, no upset stomach. Although I took a very low dose when I took it, I took five milligrams. Uh, it can cause you to have the blue tongue, the blue pee, green pee. Um, it if you take enough of it, especially at high doses, it can actually turn your fricking skin blue. Um, serotonin syndrome risk. It should not be combined with an SSRI SNRI or MAO inhibitors. It can cause an excessive serotoninogenic activity in the central nervous system leading to overstimulation of 5HT, the serotonin receptor. Uh, so if you're on an SSRI for things like anxiety, depression, et cetera, probably shouldn't take it. I did notice when I took it that I had a bit of a crash afterwards where I kind of felt a little blah. I don't know if it was that effect, but I seem to be very sensitive to shit more so than most people. Uh, toxicity at high doses. It can cause hemolytic anemia in six G6 PD deficient individuals. Um, if you're pregnant or lactating, which I hope most of you bros aren't pregnant or lactating, you never know with enough, uh, dbol, you might be, those titties might be big enough to where you're leaking milk. So bros, if you're lactating, don't take, don't take methylene blue. I kid. This is not medical advice. I'm not your medical doctor. Who knows in today's world, maybe, maybe, maybe it's cool to, to, uh, lactate as a boy. Uh, not a known carcinogen. Um, this, there's been a bunch of debate about this. I've seen some people on social media saying, don't take it. It could cause cancer. Uh, there's no direct evidence that it is a carcinogen. Now with that said, in theory it could cause genomic mutations at very high concentrations. Um, it can insert itself between the DNA pairs. Um, it, it, because it is a plantar aromatic molecule. Sorry if I can say this correctly. I'm looking for my notes. Uh, so that is something to consider. So I would suggest if you look at studies and whatnot, it seems to be an effect of longterm high dose, really high dose use in animal studies that causes problems. If you're running just five to 10 milligrams a few days a week, probably the risk is very low or non-existent I would assume. But once again, we don't have longterm studies on this, so we really just don't know. So proceed with caution. Uh, in vitro studies have shown that methylene blue can actually inhibit tumor cell growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Um, uh, glioblastoma, melanoma, colon cancer. It seems to actually have some anti-cancer properties, which is interesting. Um, it induces apoptosis programmed cell death and disrupts mitochondrial function of cancer cells. So it actually may have some anti-cancer properties, which is interesting for the crowd who says that it actually might cause cancer. But bottom line, we don't know. There are not a lot of longterm studies or data on this. Uses, what the uses of it are in our realm, in our world, cognitive enhancement. Um, you know, the things I read, it says it may improve attention, memory, recall, mental clarity, and low doses. I noticed a pretty profound effect when I used it. Although some people say it doesn't do shit for them. That's what I've heard from some people I know that have used it. Mitochondrial support. It increases ATP, enhances ATP production, possibly aiding in endurance and cellular energy metabolism. Mental alertness, anecdotal reports and limited studies suggest that it increases mental sharpness at micro dosing. Once again, you know, three to 10 milligrams, five to 10 milligrams, something in that range. Um, it is a U urinary tract antiseptic formerly used as a multi-agent formulation for UTIs. So if you have trouble with UTIs, a lot of guys that end up with, um, BPH for benign prostate hyperplasia, often get UTIs. I used to have issues with UTIs when I was younger before I had a prostate procedure done. Um, so that could potentially help with UTIs or prevent UTIs. Uh, photodynamic therapy. It has been investigated for use in antimicrobial and anti-cancer applications when activated by light. And Alzheimer's disease. Research is ongoing that it may inhibit tau protein aggregation. Uh, so a lot of benefits there that could potentially help with cognitive and mitochondrial health, potentially improving your, your metabolism and preventing issues with long term cognitive decline. Potentially. Once again, not a lot of long-term data on this. Pharmacokinetics of the compound absorption is rapidly absorbed orally. Also in clinical settings can be administered intravenously. Bros don't get any ideas. Don't go inject to the shit intravenously. Distribution widely distributed throughout the body, including the central nervous system. It is noted that it can make parts of your body turn bluish green. That's people who've taken high doses. I've seen a metabolism. It's primarily hepatic reduced to, um, leuko methylene blue in vivo excretion. It is excreted renally. It's you'll guys that take it. We'll get the blue green pee. Um, and discolorization, discolor discoloration is commonly noted in your pee. Half-life is I, I couldn't find good information on the half-life of silver ranges from five to 24 hours, um, based on individual metabolism. I'll tell you this for my anecdotal experience, it seemed like it was, I don't know, half the day. I felt it pretty strongly. And then, you know, I took it in the morning about mid to late afternoon. It was kind of faded off. It did seem to disrupt my sleep at night. So I don't know. Uh, dosing five to 10 milligrams seems to be the agreed upon dosing for the cognitive and mitochondrial benefits. That's what I see most bros are doing right now. Keep in mind that if you have any sort of renal impairment, you may want to stay away from it. So bros with bad eGFR, probably not a good, not good idea to put methylene blue in the mix since it's excreted through the kidneys. Um, I sort of loosely mentioned some of my experience. I have taken it. I, let's see, I started about two months ago. I'd say I've taken it probably a dozen times over that two months. The very first time that I took it, Holy shit. It was like somebody lit me on fire. I think I took three milligrams. It was a very, very low dose. And I felt an incredibly profound effect from it. I was very energized. I had a lot of focus, had a lot of clarity. I was able to get a ton of work done. It really, really, really, really just lit me on fire. Now I didn't, it seems that as I progressed a few days over it that that sort of leveled off and I pushed the dose up to five milligrams and then I tried 10 and it didn't seem to be a strong, but it seems like five milligrams seems to be a good spot for me. I know some guys say they don't feel shit. Um, my trening partner said he took 10 milligrams. He said he, I think he took 20 actually. He said he didn't feel a damn thing. 10. Yeah, he took 10. He said he didn't feel anything from it. Didn't do anything for him, which is interesting that some people don't. And I've heard other people say that, that they don't notice anything from it. It did give me a bit of insomnia. I had a hard time sleeping on it, but my sleep gets disrupted super easily. I have tons of problems sleeping as is and any little disruption or anything that goes on with my body can fuck my sleep up. So I don't know if it's really that profound. Uh, it did seem that I sort of had a crash when I came off of it. Um, I've run it, I think I ran it the most five days straight. And then when I stopped, I kind of felt for lack of a better word, pun intended a little blue when IMake myself laugh. I'm so stupid. When I came off of it, I felt just a little blah. Um, I, I don't know. I took it again after that and it didn't seem to happen to me again. So potentially it was something else going on. I also had to run a true tide in the mix at the time. Uh, so who knows? Um, anyway, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. If you want to learn more about methylene blue, I have links and information over at my website. You can go over there and check it out. I'll publish everything over there. And if you're on my mailing list, I'll give you all the inside information on it. I'll be posting an article up about it with my notes from the conversation that we had today about methylene blue. This will also be added to the anabolic Z course. Once again, if you haven't picked the anabolic Z course up, go check it out. It's well worth it. Really awesome value. Curt and I put a lot of work into that course. All right, folks, I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. You rock. Take care. bodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at big P three Rd at gmail.com.