warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, Big Paul here with another anabolic Q and A. I've got some awesomEQuestions on deck this week. We have a question about metformin. If I still feel strongly about metformin in a bodybuilding regimen for increasing insulin sensitivity, or are there better options now? We'll talk about gaining muscle while blasting over 60 if that is even possible. When to start orals on contest prep and how to catch a huge rebound to gain a crap ton of muscle post show or post diet phase. What are the principles that I think are important for that post show rebound? Folks, all thEQuestions from this Q and A are from my team, anabolic bodybuilding member site. If you want to become a member, you can go over to the link below in the video description. It is a great community. We have over a hundred members over there right now. It's super cheap. It's about 30 bucks a month and I answer questions personally over there. I check it daily and follow up with people that havEQuestions and people that are members get priority questions on the anabolic Q and A that I put up on YouTube. I also grabbed a couple of user questions this week from just YouTube comments. We'll have those up as well to give you guys a fair run to. I also do the livEQ and A on Saturdays or Sundays. Sorry on the weekends with the AB live podcast. We get somEQuestions in from the audience on that one as well. If you want to tune into that. Anyway, folks, if you want to join, link is in the video description. Enough of that crap. Let's get into thesEQuestions in just one second. All right. First question I have here is from Scott Brinkman, a member of the team anabolic bodybuilding members site over at school. Scott asked as competition day approaches, how many weeks out would you employ orals like Winstrel, halo testing and Anolvar and how far out would you stop the injectables like test Masteron and Serostem? I have some general rules of thumb, but I don't usually do a one size fits all protocol. I think some of it depends on your tolerance of some of these drugs. Age plays a factor into it. Injury history, et cetera. You might ask why injury history. If you're a guy with creaky joints, someone who's pretty banged up an old dude like me, you probably don't want to start running Winstrel early on. Winstrel really dries out your joints and makes your joints feel like hell. So I do like the cosmetic effect that Winstrel has, but I will save it for the last 14 days, 10 to 14 days and then run it hard. If I need an oral before that, I'll just run a little bit of Anolvar pre-workout something like 50 milligrams on workout days, only two to three hours before a workout. I'll sometimes start that five to six weeks out. Last year, IMostly just waited until the end and ran the Winstrel at the end. The problem I find with the orals is if you hit them too hard and too fast and too early, what ends up happening is you'll feel great for a week or two and then shit just starts to go downhill. You're already under a lot of stress and I'll see liver enzymes creep up and dudes start to feel like dog shit. I learned this hard and fast approach with the Winstrel towards the end from AJ Sims and it seems to work really well. I can tolerate the high dose of Winstrel for the last 10 days or so without much of a problem and it's not like you're treninGHard then anyway. So that is an option. I do know bodybuilders professionally that do not run orals at all. I talk frequently with with Roman Fritz and he does not run orals at all on contest prep. There's no rule saying that you have to run orals on contest prep. Now they do bring some unique benefits. One of the things I do like is you can yank the injectables out early and lean on the orals. That's why I run the Winstrel high the last two weeks or so going into the show so I can yank the injectables. The issue with the injectables and I see this a lot at national shows when I've been at national shows, there was a dude last year when I was at North Americans, I'm sorry bro if I'm upsetting or offending you, you probably know who I'm talking about, but that was just covered in lumps. His shoulders were just covered in lumps. You do not want to come into a show looking like that and part of the pulling the injectables early is to get rid of that inflammation from the injections. We don't want lumps on stage. It is just not a good look on stage. I don't think the judges like it. At least I wouldn't find it appealing if I were a judge. Also you have risk of having an abscess so I would be very, very careful with that. I know a lot of guys like to run injectable Winstrel, but I've seen injectable Winstrel cause abscesses in problems. So I'm very leery of running injectable Winstrel going into the end. Uh, the pulling the GH really just depends on how you're looking. If you need a little more fullness, if you're a guy that that tends to stay dry and fullness is more important than I would run the GH in closer to the show. If you're a guy that's having a hard time drying out, then maybe yank the GH a couple of weeks out and dry out. It really just depends on how the body looks. And it's the same thing with the PED choices going into the show. It's about what you tolerate, what you respond well to, what you're looking like going into the show. But general rule of thumb is I like to pull the injectable seven to 10 days out from the show, crank up the orals going into the show and usually the GH I'll wait till a little later to pull like three to four days out from the show. I tend to flatten out so I will leave it in up until like maybe three days out from the show and then I yank it and drop a bunch of water, water flushes up. But that's sort of my approach. Jeremy Fox asked, it would be cool to hear your opinion on aggressive rebounds versus other routes. I know you have a few videos up on your past rebounds, but it'd be cool to hear your view for someone like me that plans on hitting a national stage in 14 months to blast their face off and try to get a pro card. I have a different opinion on that post show face than I would say 99% of coaches. I know a lot of guys do this slow reverse out of the show, which I get the logic behind it. It's to keep people from getting fat. There is potential for people to get fat post show, but I think there's some things you can do to prevent that and get a good rebound. So guys will slowly taper up the calories over a six to eight week period of time to give people a time to acclimate. The problem with that, that I run into every fricking time is Graylin always wins. You, you, you like, let's say you come out of a show and you say, well, we're just going to slowly reverse you out of the show. Inevitably that dude's going to go hit the buffet, eat pizza, slam some ice cream and just lose his goddamn mind. I am very strong mentally when it comes to diet. I can go an entire contest prep without having aromasingle cheat and not, not, not doesn't faze me. But I get in that post show period. I lose my goddamn mind sometimes. I remember going to Costco and buying a jumbo family pack of chocolate chip cookies post show. I don't know why Costco was the first place. I wanted to go push out, but I wanted to slice a pizza from Costco and some of their chocolate chip cookies. I ate that entire goddamn carton of chocolate chip cookies. I think there were two, three, I think actually, I think there were three dozen cookies in there. IMust've had 20,000 calories and cookies in one setting. My stomach was annihilated. You know, I can't tell you how many stories we've heard of guys going on post show vendors. Even the most well intentioned person, Raylan demon just jumps on your shoulder and you lose your shit. So my thought process is guys are going to be hungry post show. Gastric emptying is going to be high. insulin sensitivity is going to be high. MTOR or AMPK is going to be low. MTOR is going to be potentially high. If you increase food, myostatin is going to be low. It's just the perfect environment for growing. So why not? Let's just eat a shit ton of really healthy, clen, low fat food. You're probably going to be glycogen depleted now now as well in that post show period. So you have the ability to synthesize a bunch of glycogen. So let's just push the carbs up, keep the fats low and most guys are going to be satiated. Usually I'll just tell guys to eat whatever the hell they want for a day after the show and then we get back locked in and I get aggressive with the food. Now there are situations where we have to be a little more cautious. Sometimes people have this issue post show where their blood sugar will shoot through the roof. It seems to be from hyponatremia electrolyte imbalances that happens. And if we get in a situation where blood sugar is shooting up to like two, 300 post show, then we might need to be a little more conservative with the carbohydrates and keep things lower. If we have a situation where there's a really bad water rebound, some guys have bad water rebounds. We might need to be a little more conservative with the food post show. So this is one of those things that we need to play by ear. But I would say probably 75% of the time post show post hard diet, we can get aggressive with the food and in that six to eight week period post show, I've seen guys gain 30, 40 pounds with minimal fat gain. I know all the science nuts are out there are going to say that that's impossible. You can't do that. That you're not possibly gaining that much tissue. I've talked about it before. I get that it's probably, you know, it's likely not contractile tissue. It's sarcoplasm. It's, it's, you know, water retention. It's a, it's a bunch of other, you know, water mineral retention, glycogen synthesis, all these other things that are going on. But that seems to lay the framework down for a productive offseason. And I can show you over and over and over and over again. You can see my history of my rebound. I've had clients that I've brought out that you can look at my Instagram. I have my client Reese who we did dudes up like 40 pounds post show and he still has lines in his glutes. So for the science gurus out there that say that's impossible, how do you explain a 40 pound wig post show and you still have lines in your glutes when you clearly are still probably 10% body fat or maybe even less? I don't know. All I can say is it works most of the time. There are exceptions just like everything else. But if you're aggressive, if you keep your diet clen, another important thing is, and I think this is another place where guys screw up. They feel like they got to come off all the drugs immediately post show. They drop all the fat burners. They drop all the gear. I've heard a lot of guys say, let's clen out. Let's, let's pull everything. Let's yank even testosterone. And what happens when you do that? You have a hormonal crash. You lose all those androgens that were keeping you lean. You crash your metabolism because you yank the fat burners, cold Turkey and you end up in a situation where you're in an estrogen dominant environment. Graylin is through the fucking roof. Uh, and, and you get in a situation where you can set people up with rapid fat gain. So I think a lot of times the rapid fat gain post show is not because of the food. It's because of the crappy hormonal environment that people have created. So what's a better option is to, let's just drop all the orals. We'll lower the AAS is down, maybe like half what you were doing on contest prep with the added food. It's going to be plenty to maintain. And then we taper off the fat burners over maybe like a three week or four week period of time, or even maybe employ some retrotide post show to suppress appetite a little bit in to keep you more metabolically healthy. That is another option that I would consider at this point to keep guys from going on benders and allowing for better body composition over that rebound period. So, but I, I, I think most people are too conservative and what I see is the guys that are conservative, they never take leaps forward in their physique. They end up just looking the same on stage every year. They come in at one 85 this year, they're one 86 next year, they're one 87 the following year. They don't make these huge weight class leaps. If you want to make the leap from heavyweight to super heavyweight or from light heavyweight to heavyweight, you got to get aggressive with the food to a certain degree. Now that's not an excuse to get fat. It's not an excuse to go out and eat pizza and ice cream. It's not an excuse to house an entire family size thing of cookies from Costco like I did. You still have to be intelligent with things. My good friend Amy Killian asked, how's the recovery going? I would love to hear about how you're feeling. PT, peptides, everything. The shoulder recovery, I'm still in the sling. Hopefully I can get out of it next week. The PT said I should be able to get out of it next week. We'll see. It'd be for four weeks post-surgery, which is early. Usually they have you wear it for six weeks, but all in all the shoulders feeling fantastic. The biceps a little sore, biceps still inflamed from where they reinserted the bicep tendon. But I would say overall, I've been pleasantly surprised with how minimal the pain has been. Definitely not even on the same spectrum as when I had my ACL repaired. Not even fucking close. There's no comparison between the two. The ACL was way worse. The recovery sucked way worse. Now we'll see long-term where I'm at, but right now it feels great. If I were an idiot, a younger idiot, I'd probably be back in the gym trying to do exercises with it. But I know that that graft, that that bicep tendon graft is not fully healed. It's going to take several months to heal, probably four to five months to heal before I can, even with GH, peptides, et cetera, before I can put a full load on it. But yeah, I am running a peptide protocol right now. Primarily BPC-157, TB-500, GH, some other stuff I have got sprinkled in there as well. I am also running just TRT right now, just 200 milligrams of testosterone. I don't see any reason to do anything other than that. When I can start putting some weight on it and doing some actual trening, which they said probably here in the next week or two, we're going to start doing, you know, probably just like band work and things like that. Then maybe I'll throw in some Anolvar. That is a potential thing that's going to be added. But so far so good. Everything is rolling perfectly. I am happy with where I'm at right now. All right. Next question is from Sean Dean. Do you still recommend Metformin for insulin sensitivity? There's been a walk back by others saying that it messes up with muscle building or something like that. Peter Atia who I'm somewhat skeptical of is also another guy I'm thinking of. Yeah. I know Dr. Atia yanked it. He said he, if I recall correctly, he said he noticed that he saw performance decreases in the gym, which there's multitude of reasons for that. But I'd say buckle up for this one. I'm going to go into kind of a deep dive on Metformin and yeah, I've kind of come full circle on it as well. I still, you know, a few years ago it was the best option that we had. Now with all of the new GLP ones, especially with Retitrutide it may make Metformin completely obsolete to be honest with you. It addresses all of the issues that Metformin did and probably better and doesn't have all of the potential downsides that Metformin has with muscle building. Now I will say this, you know, so with Metformin, you're going to have lower mTOR increased AMPK which is, you know, counter regulatory for muscle building. Retitrutide doesn't not have that effect on it. You also have lowered IGF-1 with Metformin. You're not going to have that effect probably with, with, with something like Retitrutide. So those are some things that you do have to worry about. Now I will say this, I have tested my IGF-1 when running Metformin. I have not noticed any decline in it. I ran it when I had that great rebound and when I gained all that weight over the last few years and went from like 180 on stage up to 250 on stage, I was running a thousand milligrams of Metformin the entire time. So you tell me, did it impact my muscle gains? I don't know. Maybe they could be better. I do notice a small drop in strength when I run Metformin versus Metformin. Versus when I come off of it in the gym and that's probably related to how it affects ATP production, which it does limit ATP production. It suppresses gluconeogenesis and some other things. It affects the liver's metabolism of glucose and increases insulin sensitivity. Although I've seen some arguments that it's not even that great at increasing muscle cell insulin sensitivity. Something like a PPA or a Y agonist would be a better option for increasing muscle insulin sensitivity. Although PPA or Y agonist come with their own set of problems. Some people report increased fat gain with the PPA or Y agonist. Probably the simplest thing to do is just do some damn cardio, lift some weights, take some Berberine. That's probably where I would start people off at just to just as a basic baseline. But on paper, we keep in mind we're still early on. So the benefits from retrotrutide are all, all that we get with Metformin plus other benefits as well from the GLP-1, the GIP, the glucagon agonist. It's a triple agonist that just does basically, it seems like it fixes fucking everything. I did a video yesterday about how my lipids are the best they've ever been on one milligram, one milligram. I am a full blown retrotrutide fanboy and I have a feeling that retrotrutide when it gets approved by the FDA, it's going to replace a multitude of drugs like with for my, for my diabetes treatment that I'm on right now, I, my doctor has switched me to Menjaro, which I don't think has been effective as the retrotrutide was. I am on Metformin a thousand milligrams per day and 20 units of Atlantis per day. That is my treatment for my type 1B diabetes. And I don't notice a significant of a difference as I did with the retrotrutide. And I also noticed no drop off in strength in the gym with the retrotrutide. It is not going to lower mTOR and increase AMPK like you would and potentially IGF-1. I don't know about that for sure, but that would, that would in theory would probably be true. But I will say this, the studies that were done on Metformin showing this lower IGF-1 and lowered mTOR and increased AMPK were done on like 60 year old dudes that were natties and diabetics, probably not the best representatianavar cohort. I, what I have seen is if you're blasting a bunch of gear, taking insulin and taking GH, it has zero impact on muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. I, I, like I said, I put on 70 pounds of stage weight in three years while taking a thousand milligrams of Metformin per day. So, but I do think that we are progressing to new therapies that are likely going to replace it. And Metformin is probably going to be obsolete at some point very soon. All right, next question here is from a school member and one of my coaching clients, Paul Robinson. Paul asked a couple of years ago, I focused my diet and trening in and currently in a fat loss phase doing PPL six times a week. My legs lag my upper body by a good margin. If I only have three build phases to my next goal over the nexT3 years in, in my fifties, how would you use them? Focus on legs and get the proportions right without sacrificing some upper body trening volume or to continue to bring things up and see how everything is over time. I had the same issue and I still do. My legs are still a bit behind my upper body, but I've been really workinGHard to bring my legs up. Legs are an issue as you get older. It seems like that's the first place guys struggle with putting size on. I think a lot of it has to do with knee injuries, maybe spine. Guys can't load squats like they could before, or maybe don't have the neurological connection with their legs like they once did because of, you know, degradation of spine, spinal health over, over years of abuse. But here's what I did. I split my leg trening and I think you're probably doing the same Paul if you're running my program. I split my leg trening up over two days. I completely dropped it doing barbell squats. I found that barbell squats were very unproductive for my leg growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and it was a multitude of things that I came to a conclusion with the squats that they are highly fatiguing. They are, you know, you're placing a huge amount of axial loading, taking a risk with your spine, which I think is something that I really want to avoid as I get older, that I want to protect my spine as much as I possibly can protect my knees as much as I possibly can. And they just aren't that great of a stimulus for quads, especially if you're tall like me. Now they're going to be the guys in the comment section that are going to be arguing and say, well, look at Tom Platz. Tom Platz swatted blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Yeah. Tom Platz was like five fooT3 and short legs. Guys with short legs do really well with squats. Tall guys like me with long femurs, not so great. It ends up just being a lower back exercise. So some of this is unique to your physiology, but I will say this. If you look at most pro bodybuilders now, how they tren legs, it's mostly hack squats, leg presses, leg extensions, maybe some split squats or something like that. I think most guys now have wised up and realized that you can't tren your entire legs in aromasingle day. There's such large and fatiguing muscle groups. You need to break it up. So I like to focus on quads on an A leg day. And then on my B leg day, it's more adductors, hamstrings, and glutes. So you can split that up. I do tren hamstrings twice a week. What I find is that most guys have decent quad size because they really only tren their quads where they're lacking and where you can add more size to your legs is bringing up your hamstrings, bringing up your adductors. Most people completely neglect their adductors and the adductors can be up to 30 to 40% of your entire girth of your, your thigh. So most people arecompletely missing that. And if you look at bodybuilding shows on the amateur level, where is the area on legs that guys are deficient? It's almost always adductors. You can see dudes on stage with huge thigh gaps there and it drives me nuts. Like guys, you can tell they never tren their adductors because their thighs do not touch. They got like a six inch gap in their thighs when they're on stage and it makes your legs look really small. If you want to fill your legs out, grow your adductors, grow your hamstrings. You want your, if you want your legs to look dense from the side, get your hamstrings bigger. Those are the areas that I focused on to really improve and bring my legs up and it made the overall appearance of my legs look bigger. And really that's what it's about for bodybuilding. It's what you look like on stage. I think guys get hung up on quads thinking it's all quads. I would definitely put a huge focus on bringing up adductors. Adductors are going to make a huge difference in how your legs appear on stage. All right. Next question is from my friend at the Rise 41 podcast. What are the limiting factors for lean muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone? Does it change or accelerate with higher doses of PEDs? And if so, is there a minimum effective dose for PEDs? Well, I will say this more works. It definitely works. And I will say, I don't think that most guys, and this is going to be a controversial take, don't push hard enough to really get any significant growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Now it's not a prescription to go out and just be reckless and do whatever you want and get, you know, just do stupid things with the PEDs. You got to have your diet buttoned up. You got to have your trening buttoned up and it is progressive. It's not like you would go out and blast two grams of gear right out of the gate and expect to get more result. It doesn't work that way. It would be like trying to eat 6,000 calories to supercharge your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone versus where your BMR is already at 30 or 3000 calories. You're just going to get fat. If you do that, if you go straight to the two grams of gear without taking incremental steps up to it, you're just going to make yourself sick and probably have a bunch of side effects and not actually grow. Any more than you would have if you just use a little less. Now the minimum effective dose is what works for you. I will say this, what I have found that when we get into super physiological dosing of testosterone, it's north of 300 milligrams up to 300 milligrams is really just high in TRT. I don't find guys get a lot of muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone outside of maybe some initial gains by pushing, you know, by, by keeping it under 300 milligrams, it's really hard to put on. And you're going to need to add a secondary anabolic in there with that as well. Likely some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So you're hitting the, that pathway as well. The IGF one pathway as guys progressing it further down the road than insulin sometimes fits into that mix as well for nutrient uptake. But I would say most guys like kind of the bare minimum level for super physiological bodybuilding for hypertrophy is probably something like 300 milligrams of testosterone in 200 milligrams of whatever anabolic you're running. I would say really testosterone doesn't really start to shine until you hit 500 milligrams and get north of that. That's kind of like beginner cycle. I would say, you know, and that range in kind of intermediate cycle would be 500 to 750 milligrams of testosterone as a base. And then something like 400 to 600 milligrams of an anabolic and then like advanced, like pro level bodybuilders are usually north of a gram or around a gram or, or more with testosterone. And then even I've seen guys take up to three grams GH, you know, up to five units is sort of a replacement dose, but it's a progressive thing. You progress over a period of time. And I would say if you're growing on a lower dose, then leave it there. Don't push up until you need to save it for when you need to. So I usually would suggest starting with diet and trening optimization first. And then once diet and trening optimization has been tapped out, then you can look at upping the doses of PEDs or adding other compounds. As for the limiting factors for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. IMean, some of it, the big part of it's just genetics, your ability to digest food and to uptake food. Some guys just can't handle the food volume necessary to grow. Some dudes just have a genetic limit on how big they can get. Like it, I've seen guys, it doesn't matter how many, how many PEDs they take. They just don't get big. You know, probably, you know, somebody that's like a pro bodybuilder. Like if you look back, like at Ronnie Coleman, starting point was better than what most people are on steroids. It's sort of like playing basketball when you're seven feet tall. It's a lot easier to play basketball when you're starting point is at seven feet tall. You know, genetics play are a limiting factor, your ability to tolerate pain in the gym. As far as, you know, trening, a lot of guys can't tren to failure. A lot of guys can't you know, they don't have the joint intended integrity to be able to progress their loads enough to get big enough. There's a multitude of factors having the frame to actually be effective. Your tolerance of the PEDs. I've seen some guys have incredibly wrecked blood work just running TRT. And then there's other dudes that can run grams and everything looks perfect. I'm somewhere in the middle. I think it also responds to the PEDs. I tend to be a good responder. I don't have to run high doses to get, get a response to the PEDs. Some guys can run super high amounts and not have much of a response. Some guys get sick. So there are a multitude of genetic factors that come into play and it's not just your ability to grow muscle. You have to be able to tolerate the drugs. You have to be able to eat and to be able to process the food that you're eating. You have to be able to withstand the loads that are necessary and the type of trening that's necessary to grow, have joint tendon and muscle structure that can tolerate that and look good on stage. So there's all these other factors that play into it as well. It's not just a steroid game. All right. The last question here is from Bernard Vance, nine Oh four one. This is a good one. I am 62 year old, 62 years old. I am currently 230 pounds at 10% body fat. Um, everybody says they're 10% body fat, not, not trying to slight you Bernard, but I hear a lot of people tell me they're 10% body fat when they're really 20.  will it be possible for me to step on stage at 240 pounds in three years? I'm currently on one gram test, 700 milligrams of Primo six units of Sarah stem, 100 milligrams of NPP and I would prefer to avoid cruising if possible on the permanent blast to Mars where we're riding the rocket ship with the Mars at 60 couple of years old. I, you know, look when you get older, it's not impossible to grow muscle, but it does become more difficult. I've had some of my guys that are masters competitors over 60 that have made some pretty significant progress. And let's do some math here. Let's say that you are truly 230 pounds at 10% body fat. You're going to be five on stage and then there's going to be some water involved in there as well. So we're probably talking about 15 to 20 pounds that you would need to lose to be in stage shape. So, so realistically, I would say stage shape is probably 210 pounds at your current weight. If we're talking about stepping on stage at two 40, that is 30 pounds of real contractile tissue, not fat, not water retention, real contractile tissue in 36 months. We're, we are, you know, so we were talking about a, somewhere roughly around a pound of muscle per month. Now we can, I've talked about this a million times. We can look at the upper limit of what is possible. I think big Rami and Nick Walker are good examples of that. Ideal situations, both young guys, great genetics, ability to lift, process food. As we talked about in the previous question, those dudes, if you look at it and these are the best in the world, put on about a hundred pounds of muscle over a 10 year stretch of time. So on average about 10 pounds per year, that's about the best case scenario. 10 pounds of real stage weight in a year. Now you'll, you'll see it. Like I had that blow up where I put on, I don't know, 70 pounds in three years. And that's a bit misleading because it was over dieted for the first show. And I was big in my twenties. I was up to as high as 300 pounds out. Granted, it was a power lifter. Look, it wasn't really a bodybuilder look, but I was a big dude. So some of that was just reclaiming my old gains and muscle. Muscle memory. I would say in an, you know, for a guy your age, if you can put on four, five pounds of real contractile tissue stage weight in a year, that is an incredible amount of progress. And you're going to look completely different. If you were just on stage at two 20, I don't know what your height is in the over 60 division. You're probably one in a pro card there. Last year when I was at masters nationals, I do not, maybe I'm wrong. I do not recall there being any super heavyweights that were in shape. There may have been one or two that were super heavyweights that weren't in shape and the over 60 division, they just don't exist. Or if they do, they're extremely uncommon. So it would be, you would be an outlier. You'd be like one in several million. One of the only people in the world that would be a super heavyweight competitor at over 60. So I would say don't, that those, not, I'm not trying to tell you to sell yourself short. I encourage everybody to follow their goals, their dreams, make the most of everything they have. But I would say that is a bit of a long shot that we know what the established best case scenario is when you're young, you have a good tolerance for the PEDs. You can handle the trening, all that stuff. And I would say at 62 years old, that's probably not going to happen. Like I said, if you could put on five pounds in a year, that is incredible. So I would say, you know, if you could set a goal in three years to be 220 on stage, 225 on stage, that's probably more realistic. You would be 65 years old at that point. I would say that that is the best case scenario. And even that, that's going to be aggressive. Now, when it comes to the cruise, I would say a cruise is going to be especially important for you at your age. You're going to have to take probably extended periods of time and pull down the TRT. I would say probably four or five, six months a year. I would not want to be blasting straight like that at 60 some years old, because after a while, your body just taps out. You get sick. I, I try to spend abouT4 to five months a year on just TRT. And I am 51. I find that my body actually responds better. When I go back on blast, I actually have more gains when I do it that way. I'm letting my body have a break. I'm letting my health recover, letting fatigue wash off. I just don't think it's going to be productive to be pushing year round, especially at your age. Even, even for a young guy, it might not make a whole lot of sense. You can get away with a lot more when you're younger. Keep that in mind. You know, when I was 22 years old, I could go out and drink Jager bombs, smoke weed, stay up until three in the morning, get up at five and go to work and then tren in the evening and still make gains. If I did that now, I would be in a hospital bed. All right, folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. You mean the world to me. I really thank you for following my channel and supporting me. I'll see you on the next episode for coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.