 This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, folks, big Paul here today with Kurt Havens. What's going on, Kurt? What's up, Paul? I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one. I'm on this one Yeah. Clean out. I had some dude the other day tell me that I probably needed to come off. You notice that I've been cycling for a long time. He said, my androgen receptors are probably dirty. I'm like, what does that even mean? Yeah. There's no dirt floating inside yourself. Androgen receptors, more likely than not. I hate to say definites with this stuff, but they appear to upregulate in the presence of androgens. So the more androgens that are present, the more they upregulate. So they're constantly sensing what is out there and then they respond to that. And they can't get dirty per se. So you become sensitized to things over time. It becomes your homeostasis. If you ran 600 milligrams of testosterone for six months, that becomes like a TRT amount at some point. You're not going to continue to grow from that. There's other regulating factors that will downregulate those processes as well. Whether that's myostatin or something else, no one's a hundred percent sure what's causing that, but that doesn't mean anything is dirty or you need to come off. And honestly, once you're past a middle age, I would highly recommend that you don't come off. You would be much wiser to go on TRT in between and do like a blast and cruise type situation. Yeah. It never made any sense to me. Like if you want to maintain your gains, why would you crash everything and come off for six, eight weeks or 12 weeks, whatever these guys would do. And then given the answers of these things, like I heard, yeah. Yeah. I heard Jay Cutler talking about how he was running for three weeks. Yeah. He would, he would run EQ in the offseason, but then he would come off for three or four weeks. And I'm like, like, dude, you're, you're still on 72 days to clear. Yeah. Yeah. It takes months. Yeah. So he wasn't off. Yeah. I mean, I would say that for, for anyone over, you know, I hate to put an age on it, but if you're over 35, you know, at that point you're running gear, you probably should just be on TRT at that point anyway. And it would just go back to TRT for a period of time until you're the point that, you know, outside of having children, the point of that is just to get your blood markers normal. Right. And to get a response again out of gear. Right. Because the only way to continue to make progress on amount of gears, you either have to raise the food or you have to raise the gear and you generally go back and forth, but you're going to hit a wall, right? You'll either start getting fat or you'll start running into major side effects depending on the person. Right. Yeah. Those are the two thresholds. And that's what you and I both do with stuff, right? With clients. That's how you manage that. You go up one at a time. Yep. You know, I usually try to push the food first. Yeah. Food is always going to drive that. The whole thing too. And it's always a little bit perplexing to me. Like a lot of guys would run these PCT drugs for eight weeks off, but you're not even going to recover during that time. And there, and there's some indication now, I don't know if you've seen the Harlem study where, where they went through and did a, I think it was a six or eight month analysis on a PCT group and it doesn't do anything. No, I don't remember the name of the study, but yeah, there was a couple with the Harlem study. Literally did nothing. The end outcome is the same. Yep. You know, I think mentally guys feel better if they have a stack of pills that they can take when they come off other pills. Most of that crap, like clomiphene and stuff, makes you feel worse. Yeah. It's a wretched drug. And you end up losing all your gains and it just, it just makes, makes zero sense to me. So bros coming off to clean out your androgen receptors doesn't make any sense. And there's been countless studies. I was reading the one, the actual, the one study I was reading the, I believe the researchers were actually expecting to see some sort of down regulation in androgen receptors. And they saw the opposite. And they saw the opposite. So they ran it again just to, just to confirm the results. And they were shocked to see that it actually caused up regulation. So. Yeah. Well, I mean, that happens all the time in studies, right? You go in looking for some outcome and the other thing, the opposite happens sometimes. So. Yeah. That's why we have this thing called science and the scientific method, but yeah, it's, it's interesting. So I don't know where guys got this from and probably where, where it came from. It's just toxicity, as you mentioned, build up over time or myostatin, whatever, whatever the case may be. And just coming down to a baseline, probably let your body get back into a healthier state. If you're blasting a bunch of orals and shit and your liver's all stressed out, you probably don't want to leave it like that, but you probably do need a break just to let things get back to a baseline to be able to progress again. If your liver is sick, you're not going to be able to absorb the food you're eating. Or burn any fat. Burn any fat. Yeah. That too. So that's bro myth number one, cleaning your androgen receptors out. All right. Bro myth number two I have here is that DECA causes high prolactin and you got to take CABR to prevent high prolactin while on DECA. Absolutely. Right. I mean, this is like, how many times a week do you get this? I get this often. It's, it's many times a week, almost daily. And it's, it's always without labs, right? It's guy that wants to play doctor. I had one the other day, a guy from another country was freaking out about this. And he was insisting, he was very concerned about dihydronandrolone, right? Cause this is the common thing that everyone thinks that DHN is somehow doing all this stuff and blocking androgen receptors and breaking your member. Uh, and it took me five minutes. You look at his labs and his estrogen was elevated. Yeah. There's your issue right there. So it's, I always find that it's, it's most likely either estrogen is too high or too low, right? If you took DECA alone, you're going to crash your estrogen, your thing's not going to work and your mood's going to be in the toilet. And if you take, for most guys, if you took too much test with it, right? The progesterone is from Nandrolone is going to magnify the estrogen and make it even worse. Right. And then you go, you swing the other direction. Right. Yeah. Correct. Always estrogen. I almost never see proactin out of like maybe a little bit out of whack, but it's not like a huge. Yeah. I, I'll tell you that I have in pro probably look at hundreds of blood panels annually, maybe even more than hundreds, but I almost never see high prolactin. If I do, it might be a couple points over like two, three points. I have seen some situations where guys will have pituitary tumor and that can be causing issues, but that's very uncommon and rare, but I have seen it. I have seen it a couple of times. And if you're to the point where prolactin is causing your erectile dysfunction, it's going to be higher than two or three points over. You're going to, you're probably going to be lactating. Yeah. In the case of a tumor, there's other markers too that we don't need to get into, but there's other markers are elevated with that. And prolactin is very high. So it's not, it's not something that they're not worried about their, their penis at that point. And correct me if I'm wrong, but DACA also upregulates aromatase expression as well. Correct? Yeah. That's what I meant by it messes with estrogen. So it's just making the receptor more receptive. And it's also going to, it's going to speed that process of conversion up. Yeah. So you actually more of your testosterone will convert to it. Yeah. And you'll see it with people who run DACA only cycles. Not that I'm recommending DACA only cycles, but they generally do not have erectile dysfunction issues. They may have sex drive issues. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You have no sex drive, but they generally do not have, uh, you know, erectile dysfunction issues, but you're right though. Usually it's either estrogen too high or too low is the cause of your sex drive issues. And CABR is not the answer. And also you don't want to be messing with a drunk dopamine agonist. You can look up dopamine agonist withdrawal syndrome and see how bad that is. I I've had, I literally talked to a guy yesterday that was going through a chronic bout of depression from, from running CABR. Yeah, not, and it has cardiac problems associated with it. It's just not a great drug to be using. I think the point I would drive home is just get labs done. And if for some reason a drug is causing you to have hyperlactin, maybe just reduce that drug. Yeah. Or don't use it. Right. There's a million possibilities out there. Don't use it. All right, folks, that was myth number two. You need to take CABR with DACA. All right. Next one, we're going to talk about Kurt and this one drives me nuts. And we just made our carbohydrate video, but the whole thing that carbs in insulin make you fat. Yep. Well, by definition, insulin doesn't have any calories, right? So insulin is just a, is it just a carrier protein? It's not doing anything on its own. It's not getting stored. And we talked about this adenolism in that other video, but I mean, liponeogenesis, the process of creating body fat from glucose is like not a preferred process. And it's less than 1% of carbohydrates are ever going to get turned into that. What was the, you, you brought up a study before about the women. Yeah. There was a guy who reached out to me who was, I don't think it was completed yet or published, but he was working on a study at a university where they, they fed women. Like it was, it was something crazy, like a thousand grams of carbs per day over, over multiple days. And there, there was almost no, it took several days of eating that sort of excess and carbohydrates before there was any adipose stored. Yeah. So, I mean, on a, on a really simple level, right? So insulin is not, insulin is an anabolic hormone and technically storing fat can be considered anabolism in the pure sense of the word, right? Cause it's building tissue, but bodybuilders wouldn't inject insulin if it made them fat, not really the way that's used. And carbohydrates are your body's primary source of energy and they're stored in your liver and in your muscles. That's where they're stored. It's glycogen. Yeah. Glycogen. Sorry. And the right and dietary fat is already in the form to get stored when it enters circulation. So it's really not that confusing what I would minimize and what I would worry about. And I always get guys come to me while I lost 10 pounds on the first week of my keto diet that weight, you lost water glycogen glycogen. You lost glycogen, right? You lost weight or muscle through gluconeogenesis, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean the body needs glucose. It needs the average person. You and I would be above this amount, but the average person needs about 140 grams of glucose a day just to maintain your nervous system. And your brain is going to need that fuel. So it's going to make glucose if you don't give it glucose and it's going to get it by destroying amino acids. Starts with alanine, takes it to liver, makes glucose out of it. And once it pulls the alanine out, that muscle cells destroyed. That's to make glucose from dietary fat, you'd have to cleave off the skeleton. And that's not an efficient process. It's very long. It's not occurring during exercise. You'll see it at bodybuilding shows. Any guy who's run a very low carb diet for a long period of time, they come in looking stringy. Yep. All right. Next bro myth, we'll stick with nutrition for this one, is the whole two grams of protein per pound of body weight for muscle growth. I don't know where this one came from. And this has been around since the nineties. And I still hear guys talking about it, that you have to eat two grams of protein per pound of body weight to grow muscle. I mean, there's not a single study that shows it causes anabolism after 1.6 grams per kilogram. So that's way over what would actually have an antibiotic effect. Now it doesn't mean any protein's getting wasted, but it becomes expensive carbohydrates at that point. Yeah. We talked about the whole gluconeogenesis. It's probably just getting converted to carbohydrates at that point. You're probably not hurting anything, eating the excess protein. Probably not. We don't know for sure, but it's at the end of the day, it's going to affect digestion and you're just eating very expensive carbs at that point. So you might as well just cut out the middleman and just eat some extra carbs. Yeah. It's, I feel like that was a big thing in the nineties though. The guys were eating huge amounts. Yeah. And you still, you'll see some people bring it up today. Like there's still some guys that push that whole two grams of protein per pound of body weight. And I think maybe like when I see it as on contest prep, when carbs are getting low. Yeah. Because you're planning on it, getting oxidized for energy. Right. But it's just not efficient in order to make, so if you go, we go back to the last thing, just to use as an example, if you took no carbohydrates and then you needed 140 grams of glucose just to live, it would take 520 grams of protein just to make 140 grams of glucose. So that whole 500 grams of protein is basically useless now for muscle building. It's all getting destroyed. Right. That's not a very efficient way to build muscle. Yeah. And on, on contest prep, there is a thermic effect to it too. So, you know, maybe there is some benefit there or it's just, if for nothing else, just to keep you satiated while you're, while you're dieting, but they're in the offseason, like what I have found, carbohydrates are protein sparing. So if you're eating more carbs, you don't need to eat as much protein. We may need a little bit more than the baseline. What I, you know, I think. Gram per pound. Yeah. Gram to a gram. One quarter per pound is somewhere where I run my diets and I found that to be more than adequate, but you can do the math on it. Um, if you want, I mean, you know, so there's what, 2.2 pounds in a kilogram. Right. And we know that muscle of fully loaded muscle is only about 30% actual protein structures. Right. I mean, I think, I think I read if it was completely dehydrated, it would be about 70% Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so yeah, we're, we're, we're talking about a third of 2.2 pounds. What is that? A half a pound, three quarters of a pound, something like that. 220 grams of protein to make one pound of muscle, but because only 10% protein goes toward muscle would actually take 200, 2,200 grams of protein technically to make a pound because you're only getting 10% usage toward animalism, right? The other 90% goes to what your body considers more important than muscle. It's protein turnover. Everything in your body. Yep. Yeah. So it's really, it really doesn't take much if you want to get down to it. And to go back it, cause it kind of links back to the last one. So we, you said percentage of muscles, the most of muscles, 70% of muscle is water and water. How do we get water in our muscles? It's with carbohydrates. Yeah. Like the word carbohydrate. So when you cut your carbs, you've now lost the muscle, the water that's in there. Otherwise known as being flat for you bros out there. All right. Here's another one, Kurt. That's, you know, this one's a little bit controversial and and honestly, I'm sort of up in the air on this one, but the whole fasted cardio burns more fat. I know a lot of guys on contest prep and system doing fasted cardio. I've done it in the past. I've not done it in the past. I didn't do any last year and I got just to shred it. I haven't been doing it this year and I've been losing body fat just fine, but the whole fasted cardio burns more fat thing. Well, I think it's, it's a nuanced statement, right? There's studies to show both ways. I think to start, if someone is natural, I really wouldn't recommend fasted cardio outside of possibly walking. I think the theory behind it is kind of odd, right? Because as a bodybuilder, you spend your whole day eating every three hours. Now you've gone eight hours of sleep and now you're going to go even longer and exercise with an empty stomach. That never made any sense. The logic behind it doesn't make any sense. The substrate used during exercise. So with it burning more fat, doing it fasted, the fat usage and the rest of the day is less. So you're really just, you're just paying it up front, but you're, you're not earning any more down the road, right? The substrate used during exercise is usually the opposite of what your body uses the rest of the day. It's why a sprinter tends to be leaner than a marathon runner, right? They're not actually burning any fat at all while they're, they're running a hundred meters. It's what the body's doing when it's recovering for the other 23 hours. I mean, if people choose to do faster cardio by all means, I would not recommend it. Like I said, for natural athletes, I, you probably should have something in there to protect nitrogen. Yep. You know, but I, I don't think the results, I mean, and you might feel better with faster cardio, right? Cause you get the stress response, the cortisol elevation kind of is a mood elevator. It's nature's way of convincing you to go find some food. The study I was reading, you know, they were talking about proportionally during the exercise, it's more fat burn during, during fasted cardio, but it's also proportionally more muscle. Yeah. That's like a natural, doesn't make any sense. Yeah. So I mean, if we're, you know, a lot of times what I'll do when I've done it in the past is I'll just take some growth hormone and, you know, run my fat burners a little bit beforehand. And if you have anabolics in place, you might protect it. But at the end of the day, it's about net energy balance. So if you're putting more in than you're taking out, out, you're, you're not going to lose fat anyway. Yeah. I mean, I would say the smartest way to do it for most people is if you're really concerned about the, we could do a whole video just on the difference between fat loss and fat burning. Cause they're not the same thing either. If someone's really interested in fat burning for some reason, they could always do it in like the, what you call the post-absorbitive state, which is several hours after you've eaten your last meal. That way you have topped off glycogen, right? You're not fully fasted, but your insulin levels are low and your body's more prone to burning fat. But again, it goes back to the insulin thing. That's not necessarily what's in the way of you losing body fat. I mean, at the end of the day, I tell people, it's just, it's like a bank account or a credit card. Let's think about it as a credit card. If you're charging more on the credit card, then you're, you're paying on it. You're going to increase your balance. That's the way that storage works. And it's the same way with taking it off. It doesn't matter if you pay it in the morning or pay it in the evening. It's all the same. Yeah. It just, yeah, it's calories in and calories out. Thermodynamics at the end of the day. It's just math. So we have to have a net negative energy balance for the day. However, you create that net negative energy balance, if you want to burn fat. And I also would argue that we probably want to protect muscle burn or go through a catabolic state of burning muscle tissue for, for glucose. So. Well, it's much easier for your body to tap into glucose, into muscle than it is to get to a pound of fat, right? 600 calories to destroy a pound of muscle versus, you know, 3,500 to get to a pound of fat. Yeah. Yeah. So a lot, a lot easier there. All right. Another one I hear frequently, and this one is just drives me nuts too. Kurt is, you know, guys are pretty, pretty dumb, but there's the, the whole trend bros right now, guys that love trend. And there's this thing I hear people say all the time, the trend builds five times the amount of muscle of any other steroid, which is just not true. No, no. The, I'm confused where the five comes from. I'm guessing it comes from original studies that showed it buying to the androgen receptor three to five times as firmly as testosterone. Yeah. It's in the three, it matches DHT pretty much. It's the anabolic reference guy where it says it has an anabolic androgenic rating of 500 and 500. Yeah. And again, you and I did the video a long time ago on this, I think, but those ratings, those, um, Hirschberger assays were done a long time ago and they are based on rats and roosters and not humans. And so they don't always apply to us and they're not, they're just a vague starting point. They don't really mean anything. I would say trend is a, people might disagree. I would say trend is a fairly miserable muscle builder, right? It actually doesn't increase protein synthesis at all. It just prevents it from breaking down. The only time you see protein synthesis go up from trend is when you take a dose that's really high and it's not a dose that any normal person I know your kidneys would probably shut down before you were able to successfully use that. I'm not going to give that number on a video because I don't want someone copying that amount. Not to mention the effect it's going to have on your brain. Yeah. Well, just, I mean, it would destroy your body just to get, when you could just leverage something like prune ball, that's much safer, right? I, I would say trend is most steroids are equal on a milligram basis to testosterone roughly. I would say trend is stronger at a milligram basis, but not because it's building tissue. Just think the other effects, the androgenic effects and all those other things are much more magnified than testosterone, right? You wouldn't take an equal milligram amount of trend is at least a sane person wouldn't, you wouldn't match that to testosterone. Right. You wouldn't want to take a gram of trend for no reason. And it's not, I I've never found it to be like a great muscle builder. I would say Nandrolone would build more tissue over time, right? The guys that run trend all the time seem to be leaner, but they don't ever seem to get big. No, that's what I've noticed too. Nandphysic guys like to run trend all the time. Yep. And they're stuck at 200 pounds forever. Yeah. They never get bigger. No. You look at the guys that are the open class pros, they're all running test, pre-mo or EQ and GH and insulin. That's pretty much what they run. That's what I was going to say. I was going to say my understanding is that no current offseason, no current offseason cycle of any larger pro bodybuilder involves trend at all anymore. No, not that I used to. 90s maybe. Yeah. I don't even think you guys then were running it just on contest prep. It's a great contest prep drug. Yeah. I'm not against, and I'm not, I'm not poo-pooing trend. I think it has a place in a cycle during the year, but I don't think it's a mass drug per se. And I think the health, the possibility of health effects, negative health effects are probably not worth using it in the offseason for no reason. Right? So trend bros is a terrible offseason drug for muscle building. There's better choices. All right. This is another one that drives me nuts is guys. I'll see it all the time. Say they're not going to touch GH and insulin because it makes your gut big. And people are going to have these gigantic guts from running GH and insulin. It's ironic because I just posted an interview today with JP Fuchs. And he talked about how he got accused of having the big GH gut. And he said he barely ever took GH because he couldn't. It's from like Taco Bell probably. Yeah. And he said it was from eating buffets. So he said, Yeah. I mean, there's just no, there's no real science backing that up. That's not, it's not causing at any sane amount. It's not causing organ growth. I think there's a misconception. They use it medically for what they call short bowel syndrome. And that's when someone's intestines aren't the proper length or they're not absorbed. The transient time of food, the amount of time food spends in the intestines is not enough in these people. And they're given growth hormone and it doesn't cause the bowel to grow. It causes you to absorb more nutrients. So I think doctors say this all the time too. So I think it's really misunderstood what's causing it. It's generally not an insulin issue either. What's causing the distended stomach. Most of the time I would say it's when guys get to, you know, 280, 290, 300 pounds, the amount of food they have to eat day in and day out is going to cause their stomach, everything grows. You can't be 300 pounds on a 27 inch waist. You'd fold in half. Right. And I think they just, they eat and the stomach gets distended from that. I think on top of it before a contest, at least back in the day, they used to cut the salt. So then the glucose doesn't leave the blood. It sits in your, like the carbs sit in your intestines. And then on top of them, they take a diuretic. They get rid of more sodium. They cut water. Now, now you got this food festering in your stomach. That's pushing your stomach out on stage. There's no way that has anything to the growth hormone. Yeah. Same with me. I have a very tight waist and you don't see it with most of the modern pros. They don't have the big guts anymore because guys understand that now. I also have to wonder too, if it doesn't have to do a little bit with insulin resistance too, if guys end up, end up with accumulation of visceral fat, if that's an issue, or also if it's just not gut inflammation from all the, from all the food. Yeah. Yeah. And, and orals. Orals. Yep. I mean, you know, I know Tom talked about that. It costs the liver basically to back up. Yeah. If your liver is the size of a football. Yeah. I mean, I just, it's, it's not related to growth hormone. I don't, people shouldn't avoid it for that reason. There's other reasons people might want to avoid it. That's a personal choice, but I would never be concerned with making my stomach grow. If anything, it's going to make your stomach smaller. And if it truly were growth of your intestines and organs, you would, it wouldn't go away after you retired from bodybuilding. Most of these guys, it goes away. They all, they're all their, all their guts shrink out. No. And the, and the HIV patients are given an entire bottle of Sarastem seven days a week, and they're not growing in any sort of abnormal way. If anything, they lose, it causes them to lose the awkward body fat pattern that they develop from HIV. Yeah. They're running 18 units a day. Every day is the standard protocol for an HIV patient. All right, folks, I think that's all we got for a bro miss today. Appreciate you watching. If you want to check out Kurt's ebook, he's got it up on your site. What is it? Atomic life? Atomic life, coaching.com. Atomic life coaching. If you want to get a hold of Kurt for coaching also, or consultations, you can go over there, check it out. Kurt, thank you for being on. Thanks, Paul. Thank you.