 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, big Paul here today. I'm going to talk about my 2023 contest prep cycle in preparation. And I. I have a program of an astrozole every other day, which I am not doing right now. And I have a program of an astrolo-based neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticularст neuroparticular Masteron in. My logic behind doing so is Masteron seems to harden me up a bit more. It's a bit more androgenic than in theory. If you believe in the Hirschberg, I don't remember, essays. I don't know how accurate they are, but in my experience, I have found that Masteron is a bit more androgenic than PrimaVol and PrimaVol is a bit more anabolic and you get a harder look with Masteron. So I will start swapping that out around week 12. At week 10, I will probably sprinkle in some TRAN. I had on here 25 milligrams every other day. That's probably not what I will do. I will do 20 milligrams every day. I do everyday injections for more stable blood levels. So there'd be 140 milligrams of TRAN per week. They're going to be the TRAN boys that say I'm full of shit. I got absolutely shredded last year. I was a super heavyweight in weight class. So I was 235, 237, something like that on stage. I don't remember exactly, but in the mid 230s, maybe a little bit heavier. I don't know. At my weigh-in, I think it was 235 at my weigh-in. 234.9. I don't know. Somewhere around there. I expect that I'll be a bit heavier this year. Who knows? I kind of had a crappy offseason, but maybe around 240, low 240s on stage. We'll see. But I found like with TRAN, I don't need a ton of it. And it's sort of, I've run high doses of TRAN before, just so before people get angry and call me a liar. I have run as much as 700 milligrams of TRAN before. And I felt absolutely like dog shit on it. I felt awful running that high of a dose. And then I backed down to 300 before, still did not feel well. My thought process is any anti-catabolic benefits that I'm getting from the TRAN, any benefits I am getting from glucocorticoid suppression and the enhanced look with the physique are going to be washed out by not being able to sleep and being wound up all the damn time. That's my problem with TRAN is I get horrible insomnia. If I take any amount of TRAN, I found that 20 milligrams a day, 25 milligrams a day, somewhere around there is perfectly fine for me. And I get probably, I would say 90% of the benefits that I would get physique wise out of that dose that I would if I just ran it higher. So I would rather lean into higher doses of Masteron and Prima Bolan and keep the TRAN lower. Keep toxicity lower. If you look like crap, or if you feel like crap at the end, you're going to look like crap. That's just been my experience, especially as you get older. When you're young, you can get away with more stuff. It's like going out and drinking a bottle of tequila on a Friday night when you're 21. You do that crap when you're 49, you're going to be in the hospital. So fat burners will come in to play around 12 weeks out. I run a simple ephedrine, caffeine, you'll have to buy in stack. You see why stack. And usually I start off with just one in the morning and then I'll switch to twice a day. I do pre more faster cardio and then early afternoon, if I take it too late in the day, then I can't sleep at night. And then somewhere around seven, eight weeks out, something like that will start adding in a little bit of clean. So you can see here as we progress along at week six, I'm going to lower my testosterone and bump the Masteron up again, just for a physique effect. I kept my testosterone higher last year. I know a lot of people like to drop their testosterone at the end to get more of a dry look. I have found that I actually look fuller and better when I run higher doses of testosterone through my prep. I just do. At somewhere around seven weeks out, we'll move the Anastrozole up to a half a milligram every day. At two weeks out, the last two weeks before the show, I'll push it up to one milligram every day. I have Tamoxifen in here. Tamoxifen is a catch 22 because it does increase risk of clotting. So that is a concern when you're depleted, dehydrated at the end of prep. But I have just a tiny, even though I've had gyno surgery, I have a tiny bit of gyno on my right side, right pack. And that seems to tighten it up at the end of prep. This is probably unnecessary for 90% of people. I may or may not use it. If I can get away without it, I will not use it. And I'll just have to see how my physique looks at the end. Orals come in about six weeks out. I start off, I have on here either Anivar or Windstraw. I have grown more of the Anivar route recently. As I've gotten older, Windstraw makes my joints feel horrific. I don't like the way Windstraw makes me feel. And also, for whatever reason, Windstraw absolutely nukes my liver values. Probably worse than Anadrol. I don't know why. I don't know why that is. But Windstraw, my body just, Windstraw does not agree with my body. I feel like shit on Windstraw. My joints hurt. I can't train hard. So in my mind, why take it? So I like Anivar. Anivar, I do not feel bad on Anivar. My liver values do not go through the roof. I usually start off with 50 milligrams and I may taper up to 100. I may not. I may stay at 50. 50 might be fine. I'll just have to see how my physique is shaping up. I use Proviron. I don't know if Proviron is necessary or not. Some people say it is. Some people say it's not. It's another androgen that will help harden you up. And then a little bit of Halo at the end. And people think that Halo is for aesthetic reasons. I don't find that it really makes much of a difference aesthetically. What I do find with Halo, those last three weeks or so when you're trying to get through your workouts that are really hard, you're tired, you're depleted, you're drained, that the Halo really helps you push through those workouts. I get extra neural drive. For me, I know people talk about Halo making them moody. It's the exact opposite for me. I feel euphoric when I take Halo. I feel reinvigorated. My workouts are better. My mood is better when I take Halo. I don't know why that is. With the Climbuterol, usually I work, I'll just slowly taper up to about 100 micrograms. Once again, this is based on how my body responds. If I'm already lean 15 and I'm on track to make it to my stage weight and stage body composition or running 40 micrograms, then I'll just stay at 40 micrograms. But I max out at 100. That's as high as I go. Metformin, I may or may not add that in as well. I'm not taking any right now. I use metformin purely for appetite suppression. It also seems to help with glycogen retention as well because it suppresses glucagon. I think it's glucagon. Correct me if I'm wrong about that. But it does seem to help with glycogen retention on on prep as well. That's just been my my experience. All the injectable compounds get dropped the last week before the show. And then we just run orals up to the day of the show. Coming out of the show, what I'll do, a lot of people just come off everything cold turkey and either go down to TRT or completely come off. And in my opinion, that is absolutely the worst thing to do. You create a hormonal crash. Your metabolism is going to drop or you're you're just going to what's going to happen is you're going to your estrogen is going to go through the roof. Your metabolism is going to be and you're just going to get fat. You're going to eat a bunch of crap food. You're going to get fat. So usually what I do coming out, I push a rebound. I'll keep my food. I'll put my food back basically up to offseason levels of food. I'll keep a moderate amount of gear in. So something like 500 to 750 tests and 600, 500 primo and run that for six to eight weeks, slowly tapering down into a cruise and slowly tapering down my anti-estrogens and the fat burners. And what that does is you catch a rebound. Then your body is in its most anabolic state. Your gastric density is high. Your insulin sensitivity is high. So why not take advantage of that period of time to put on a bunch of new muscle? It's when I made my best gains. It's when most of my people that I coach make their best gains is post cut. So dropping things cold turkey and the whole reverse diet out of a show thing just doesn't make sense to me for most people. There are exceptions. This is not a universal rule, but I largely I have found that that makes zero sense. That's what I found. And that's pretty much it. That's pretty much the formula that I use. And I keep in mind, nothing's set in stone here. We'll see how my body responds. We'll see how my body reacts. And I'll adjust on the fly if necessary. I may use less. I may use more. I know this seems like a lot of gear, but this is what this is what contest prep looks like for a guy that's a national competitor. Some people's heads are going to explode saying it's not much. Some people's heads are going to explode saying it's too much. I've been around this for a while. What I've seen people I've talked to, this is pretty common. All right, folks, I appreciate you watching. If you have any questions, please leave them in the comment section below. Take care.