 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey guys, Big Paul here today and we are going to talk about my experiences with Anivar Oxandrolone, the favorite oral steroid of the women's bikini division. I have used it and used it quite a bit. I'm going to tell you about my experiences with it and what I think about it in just one second. Second. Second. So my experience was with Anivar. I never used Anivar when I was younger. I did a lot of oral only cycles when I was in my 20s. Well, I wouldn't say a lot. I did a few. Uh, because I was afraid of injectables. I dabbled when I was in college and in my early 20s. And I think the first time I did a oral only cycle, I used Anivar and then I fucked around with D-ball quite a bit. And, uh, at least I think it was Anivar. Who knows? It was some stuff somebody gave me and told me to try it out when I was in college. I didn't know what the fuck I was doing. And Anivar, I didn't even know about Anivar. Everybody knew about Anadrol and D-ball back then. Uh, I didn't even know what Anivar was in my 20s. I always heard it was weak and I had this assumption that it was weak and a waste of time to use. So I didn't fuck with it. And I didn't use it until my mid 40s when I kind of started getting back into this again. And the way I used it, Anivar, primarily, I remember the first year or so I got back into the gym, I used it as my anabolic. I stacked it with testosterone. And I would use Anivar, something like 20 to 30 milligrams, not a big dose. And I used it pre-workout. Um, and I didn't use it every day. And I ran it pretty much year round. Had no problems with liver. None of that stuff. People think you can't run orals nonstop like that. If you're intelligent about it, you can with the right oral. I did it with Anivar. I ran it for probably an entire year, like four or five days a week. Um, I used it, um, sublingually, uh, put it below my tongue. That's a little tip for you. If you don't know about that, you can miss the, well, in theory, it misses the first pill. It's a little bit faster than the past of the liver. So it's easier on the liver. And you get actually more of the, uh, compound in your system, uh, that way as well. And it also hits faster. So it's a way to take off some liver toxicity and, uh, get more effectiveness out of the compound. So I used it pre-workout mainly for neural drive. Uh, it also helped with some hardness and that's how I use it. Now here recently, I haven't been running orals at all in offseason. They crush my stomach. They make my stomach upset. They cause all sorts of problems with my appetite. I lose my appetite. So I don't typically take orals in the offseason. Maybe if I need something to get me over the hump for a week or two, I will do them sometimes. Now I exclusively use Anovar only, uh, on pre-contest phase. That's it. And I'll use it like the last five, six weeks, um, somewhere in the 30 to 50 milligram, uh, dose, uh, for hardness and also mainly for strength. When anybody's done contest prep before knows that when you get towards the end of contest prep, your strength goes to shit. So that's how I have used Anovar in, in the recent years. I don't use it in the offseason anymore. So side effects with Anovar, what, what I have experienced as far as side effects go. Anovar is very mild. Uh, you really don't notice much of anything. I, it has caused me to have some upset stomach, as I mentioned. Um, and in the offseason, it can really kill my appetite. Orals do kill my appetite. I have found that if I run 30 milligrams or less, um, that it doesn't seem to affect my liver enzymes negatively in the offseason. The contest prep, it seems to be, you know, when you're stacking it with other things and then that's differently. But I have found that it doesn't really affect my liver enzymes. And there are some studies. I don't remember the exact one, but if you have the anabolic reference guide by Bill Llewellyn, you can look up Oxandrolone in there. And there's a study, I think it was 20 milligrams or less. Maybe it was 30. I don't recall, but they did this study. I think it was like a period of eight weeks. Show that, um, Anovar did not elevate liver enzymes, um, to any significant degree. So if you use small amounts of it, if you use it sublingually, like I was doing, um, and you're not using it seven days a week, you can get by with using it for a longer period of time and not cause, um, elevated liver enzymes. Uh, now I will say what I did notice with Anovar and I've seen it with my clients and I've seen it in my own blood work. Anovar crushes HDL. Anovar, all orals seem to destroy HDL. I don't have that issue as big of, as much as, you know, it's not a big of a problem for me as it is for some clients, but I've seen people who have run relatively mild doses of Anovar, you know, 30, 40 milligrams end up with single digit HDL numbers. Now I think if you take it orally or sublingually and you limit it to just a few days a week, those problems will not be as dramatic, but I have seen that and I've seen that in quite a few people. So Anovar is not completely benign. Like everybody thinks it is. It is the safest oral. Um, so there is that aspect of it, but it is not without risk. Um, so, you know, that's just something to keep in mind when you're running Anovar. You need to pay attention to your lipids. Thinking back on it. Now, when I did Hannah draw on dbol only cycles, when I was younger, Anovar would have been a good first cycle option. Uh, I have another video up where I talk about, and you can search it out if you want. Talk about Dr. Mike Israel tell suggestion that, uh, Anovar would be a good option for a first cycle. And I agree with that. I agree with that. I, I see his points on that. I typically prefer test as a first cycle. I think start with a base male hormone and see where you go from there. But if you have a fear of needles and you're just dipping your toe into the anabolics, uh, pool and you want to find out how they affect you. An Anovar only cycle is a good option. And the thing with the Anovar only cycle, Anovar doesn't really shut down HTPA that hard. It seems to be one of the milder steroids as far as shutting down HTPA. So if you did an eight to 10 week run of it, you probably wouldn't need to do any sort of PCT. You guys know, I'm not a big fan of PCT and find it kind of useless in most instances, but there is a time and place for it. But with Anovar only cycle, you probably don't need PCT. You're not going to shut your natural testosterone levels down completely. That's not to say that it won't shut them down some, but you won't shut them down completely. Um, and also you don't have to worry about shitty things like aromatization and other side effects that you have from things like D-ball. Uh, so Anovar is very mild. It's not going to be that negative on your liver. An eight week run of it at 20 to 30 milligrams. It's not going to be that hard, um, on your lipids, your HDL. So that could be a viable option. I'm just thinking back if I was in my twenties, if I went, went back in time and told the 21 year old Paul, what he should try for his first cycle when he was afraid of needles, I probably would have said Anovar. So that is a viable option. Um, as far as orals go, I do like Anovar probably the best. It's the best balance of low side effects and benefits that you get from it. What I've seen from it, it does harden you up and it does increase strength. It's mild. Don't, don't expect a ton out of it. It's not like taking anadrol or D-ball where you know, you're on them immediately. You know, D-ball, you're going to blow up like a marshmallow. It's like stay puffed, marshmallow, man. You're going to look like a balloon when you're on D-ball. Anadrol, you're going to get strong as fuck immediately. Uh, probably break out in a bunch of acne. Uh, but you know, you're on it. Anovar is a, is a bit more mild. Uh, another thing too, to keep in mind, I, I've seen a lot of fake Anovar over the years. And this always makes me laugh. I'll get clients that'll reach out to me and say, bro, I can't stand this Anovar. It's giving me horrible back pumps and I'm getting acne and I'm all bloated up. And I'm like, well, that's because it's probably not Anovar. It's fucking D-ball. And most fake Anovar that I have seen from UGLs has been in fact D-ball. And it's because D-ball is the dirt cheapest steroid to make. And so why not sub it out for Anovar and increase your profits if you're a UGL. That's something to think about. Uh, and another thing too, uh, I have found is it seems to be the higher dose Anovars are the ones that are most frequently counterfeited. So the 50 and 25 milligrams, the five and 10 milligram Anovars don't seem to be counterfeited that frequently. And I suspect this is just me speculating that it's because that's what women take. And these dudes do have some sense of morality or maybe they just don't want to fuck women up. Uh, so they, women are primarily going to take those dosages. So they make those legit. That's just what I've seen. And I'm not saying all UGL Anovar is fake, but there is a lot of fake stuff out there. I've seen it over the years. All right, guys, that's all I got on this one. Let me know what your thoughts are in the comments section about Anovar. And I want to hear your experiences. Thank you for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back.