 warning, warning, warning, warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Verse Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright gym bros, it's Big Paul and it's contest prep time. I am 16 weeks out from the Masters USA's and I'm gonna go through my diet today. This is the initial diet that Justin Harris has started me off with for contest prep and I'm gonna dig into all that in just one second. All right. The. 100%. I'm probably like the 90% compliant in the offseason. I might have been, if anything, like it's not that I deviate so much with cheap meals and eating crap. I probably miss meals. I'm probably short on my food more than I am anything. I have a terrible appetite. My appetite sucks. And, you know, so when I get on contest prep, I get 120% locked in. I don't miss meals. I don't deviate. I am, I think my entire contest prep last year, I, I, I didn't mess up once on the diet, not once. Everything was exactly according to the plan. And I've been pretty rock solid this year in the offseason. I've had some stomach issues that have, I struggle with IBS that have caused me to, uh, have, have to improvise and change things around a little bit more so than I would have planned. Um, I don't know, two weeks ago, I had a really bad IBS flare up and I had to cut my food down to like three meals a day for a couple of days just to get my stomach cleared up. And then, and then I let things reset and then I pushed the food back up. But I'm transitioning into the contest prep, uh, phase now with the diet and, uh, essentially what Justin has done, he, he gives me macros and this is sort of what I do with my clients too. And these prescribed macros and then I create the diet myself. I like that. It's an, if it fits your macros diet within the, uh, constraints of an approved foods list. And then I pick the foods that I like to eat. I eat pretty fricking bland guys. Like people make fun of me because I literally, the only thing I season my food with is salt. I don't put anything else on my food. Usually I may use some mustard on my chicken once in a while, but I don't use salt seasoning. It's like salt soy sauce on my rice once in a while. And that's pretty much it. I don't use hot sauce. I don't use sauces. I don't use all these crazy seasonings, maybe at the end of prep when I'm absolutely starving and I need something to keep, keep my mind off of eating really shitty bland food. But my diet is very, very, very bland. And I have to do that because of my, my stomach issues. If I start getting creative with spices, like adding garlic, even garlic will, will absolutely wreck me. So I can't even do things like garlic or onions or onion powder. So I keep things very bland. I have to be very careful with vegetables too. Vegetables can really screw up my stomach. So those of you that get very upset when I don't eat vegetables. That's why I do have some, I'll mix in like some spinach, uh, with my rice sometimes. And I'll, uh, do a greens powder usually once a day, but it's nothing insane. So mostly it's just fruits, rice, chicken, beef. Uh, and that's pretty much it. That's pretty much olive oil for my fats, guacamole, um, nuts. That's pretty much what my diet consists of. Now I do, people are always very concerned about my micronutrients. I do take tons of vitamins to fill in the gaps with the micronutrients. So I think I'm pretty, pretty well covered with the micronutrients and I do a daily greens powder too. So right now we're starting off. I was running three high days a week, uh, towards the end of the offseason. And it really, about the only thing that Justin changed on my diet going in from prep to offseason is cutting me down from three high days to one high day a week. And my high days are around 7,000 calories, 7,100. I estimate right now is where my, my high days are. That's not counting any of the trace fats that would be in the chicken that I'm eating that day. So it's probably, I don't know, maybe a hundred calories. It's within a hundred to 200 calories. It's so statistically insignificant to count those things that it's not even worth tracking. People get very upset when I don't track trace fats. I just try to eat my proteins as lean as I possibly can. And there's no point in tracing, tracking those trace fats because every piece of meat is going to have a different fat content. Even if it says 96, there's, it's not like they're making this crap in the lab. And I tell people all the time that there is, people don't know this, that on US, the USDA labeling system for food labels, they allow for up to 20% margin of error, 20%. So the only thing that you can really be consistent with is your measurement methodology. So if your measurements are the same and let's say you're reducing your, your food by your food measurement by 10%, there's going to be a corresponding, um, drop or increase if you are increasing in your net energy, uh, balance. So really the measurement methodology being consistent is what matters more. Don't get too hung up on trace, trace, um, um, trace fat. So even with the chicken, like, so let's say I might be getting, you know, out of six meals, let's say I'm getting four grams or five grams of fat per, per meal, um, with the chicken breast. I know that already. So, I mean, it's like, you know, 20, 30 grams of fat per day. And when I'm eating 7,000 calories, that 180 calories from, from the fats in the chicken or 200 calories, whatever, is insignificant. It's not even worth tracking. And I've gotten ripped this way over and over and over again. I know people's heads explode when, you know, they get caught up on minutiae. And so you don't need to track, trace calories, trace mac, macronutrients, macronutrients. So starting for prep, I'm doing four 12 minute HIIT cardio sessions. I'll probably transition that to LIS at some point. Justin is a big fan of, of HIIT, but my knees and my hips are all screwed up. I'm just old. And I feel like my legs just get too beat up from doing HIIT. Once it gets up past 20 minutes, it's just not worth doing for me, uh, because of the beating my legs take. So I usually just walk on the treadmill or do the elliptical or walk outdoors. So that's usually what I do for cardio. So right now we're starting off with four 12 minute cardio sessions. My, uh, medium days, which would be training days that are a non-high day. I'm doing one high day per week. And that is on my quad focused leg day. I'm doing one low day, which is, I only take off the gym one day a week. So I train six days a week. That's a, you know, I push, pull legs, push, pull legs. So I'm in the gym six days a week. So it's, it's, it's going to be five medium days, one high day, one low day. And right now my, my total macros for the medium day, which are going to be the majority of my day is 380 grams of protein, 575 grams of carbs, 28 grams of added fat. If you wanted to count the trace fats and the meats, it's probably more like 50 grams, 60 grams of fat for those of you that care. And that's a total somewhere between 4,000 and 4,200 calories, somewhere in that ballpark on my medium days. My food choices on here, you'll see, uh, it's probably going to be really small for you to see, especially if you're watching on the phone, but I, you know, I'm eating one serving of beef and every other meals, chicken pre-workout. I'll do half chicken, half protein powder. I, people hear me talk about protein powder. Oh, I'm not a fan of protein powder. I do use one scoop of protein powder pre and post-workout. Main reason I do that right now is because my appetite sucks. And as contest prep progresses and I start getting hungry, I'll transition at the solid food. I just can't get all of it down. I have a hard time eating all that meat, um, during the day. So it's, it's, it's, it's quite a bit to get down. So, and I just want something that's going to be light and digest easy during my workout. So, you know, example here on the medium day, my meal one is chicken, cream of rice, blueberries, almonds for my added fat meal two. Uh, this is where I have my super greens here. You can see that on here. I'll do a 96% ground beef, rice, and guacamole. Uh, meal three, I'll do chicken, rice, a green apple, and some olive oil on the chicken rice. Uh, meal four, chicken, grapes, rice, and olive oil on the rice. Again, my pre-workout meal is, uh, chicken breast, a little bit of protein powder mixed with orange juice. I know it sounds gross, but that's what I do. Um, I usually don't use a pre-workout for those of you that are curious. And then rice, my intro workout is field rations from, uh, first attachment nutrition. I do two servings of that. So that is 20, roughly 20 BCAAs, uh, and, uh, or EAAs. Um, I think it's BCAAs. I don't know. In, in, in hydro, highly branched cyclic dextrin. So there's 50 grams of that. My post-workout meal is chicken, protein powder, rice, and a banana. That's it. Really simple, really clean, easy for the day. My high day, I do one high day per week. As I said, it's my quad focused leg day. Uh, pretty similar stuff. Half my carbs on the high day can come from sugary sources. That's the way Justin does it. So I'm eating almost a thousand grams of carbs on my high day, which if we did it all from rice would be 20 cups of rice. There is no damn way that I could eat 20 cups of rice in a day. I just couldn't do it. My stomach would explode. So half of my carbs come from, from a sugary source. So meal one would be chicken, cream of rice with jam on it. Meal two would be chicken, rice with a glass of a big glass, 15 ounces of OJ. Meal three would be chicken, rice, and I usually have some sort of dry cereal with it. I, I, I've been doing, um, um, crispics lately. Sometimes it's cinnamon checks. Sometimes it's, uh, Captain Crunch. You guys will see me post Captain Crunch up. For those of you who say that you can't diet on Captain Crunch, I literally was carving up on Captain Crunch two days before my show last year. So there you go. Uh, the next meal is rice, chicken, and apple pie filling. I put the apple pie filling on the rice. I know that sounds gross too, but it works for me. Tastes really good. Uh, pre-workout meals, chicken, protein powder, cream of rice, and jam. And I'll just mix the protein powder, the vanilla flavor coaching powder in with the cream of rice. And my post-workout is a cheat meal. We'll do, we'll do cheat meals all the way up until about two, three weeks off from the show. And then we'll just repeat the pre-workout meal. So for the cheat meal, it's up to 1500 calories. Uh, I usually just get like a burger and fries or kebabs or some Thai food or, or my, my go-to lately has been Texas Roadhouse. I'll go there and get a steak, potato, and like a Caesar salad or something, eat a couple of the rolls. So roughly we're going to say 50 grams of protein, 200 grams of carbs at that meal, 50 grams of fat. More than likely, it's probably more fat than that. Uh, the total for the day, as I mentioned before is, uh, 320 grams of protein. You don't need as much protein when you're jamming down all the carbs because carbs are protein sparing. 950 grams of carbs and roughly 50 grams of fat from the cheat meal, something like that. We're just estimating that cheat meal is unmeasured. We just ballpark it. It is the one unmeasured meal for the week. Sometimes I'll save it for a date night with my girlfriend, but I try to eat a clean ish cheat. Like there's productive cheats. There's unproductive cheats. Don't go out and eat a bucket of ice cream and donuts and a bunch of hot dogs and expect to get results. I have a quality protein source and, you know, in some, some sort of either fried potatoes or, or rice with it, maybe fried rice. It's just a little, it's essentially the same type of food that I'm eating during the day, but maybe the meat source is a little fattier and then the carb source might be fried or we have a salad with a salad dressing on it. So it's, it's still clean ish food. I don't, I stay away from crap like pizza, ice cream, donuts, uh, stuff like that. Um, those aren't productive for physique goals. I don't think I get people that want to go out and hammer a whole pizza. I would not do that on contest prep. In my low day is one low day per week, which is my off day from the gym. I'll usually do some cardio on that day. Low day. Um, first meal is chicken, oats, blueberries, almonds. I mix the blueberries and almonds all together in with the oatmeal. Uh, second meal is 96% ground beef, rice and oil, or sometimes I'll use guacamole, probably guacamole. Um, the third meal is chicken, sweet potato, uh, green apple and almonds. Fourth meal is chicken, rice, grapes, and olive oil. Fifth meal is chicken, rice, uh, a rice cake with some almond butter on it. And the, uh, sixth meal for the day. Uh, I have an almost five on here, but it's actually six. The sixth meal on the day is chicken, rice, grapes with some olive oil. Super generic. Total for that day is 360 grams of protein, 300 grams of carbs, and 60 grams of added fat. So really probably the total fat it takes something like 80 or 90. With a total of calories somewhere like between 3,100 and 3,300. I generally start losing weight when I get below 4,000, 4,500 calories. But you know, I just do. So we'll, we'll see. I'm sure Justin will be pulling the food down in the coming weeks, but this is week one. We start off slow. Really? It was just scaling back to high days and see what happens. Tighten up the diet. All right, folks. That's all I got for you on my Contest Prep Diet. If you got questions, put them in the comment section below. And if you want to support me, please support my sponsor, First Detachment. They are quality supplements formulated for bodybuilders by the man himself, Justin Harris. Discount code is AB10 and check out for 10% off. Thank you for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.