WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right folks, today I've got one for you. I'm going to talk about over dieting fails. My over dieting fail. I've been guilty of this. I've seen other people get guilty of this sometimes. Most of the time, I'd say when it comes to dieting, most people don't diet hard enough, but occasionally I do see guys that go after it too hard. They go chasing a body fat percentage or a certain look, and then they end up just losing a bunch of muscle. I've been guilty of it. I'm going to talk about one I completely screwed up lost a ton of muscle, and I guess in the long term, it may or may not have benefited me. I had that crazy rebound afterwards, but we're going to talk about my over dieting fail in just one second. So, all right, before we get started, I want to make a quick reminder that I have launched the Team Antibiotic Bodybuilding Members site. There is an introductory sale. It's 40% off. If you join today, I am going to be raising the prices soon. The Team Antibiotic Bodybuilding site will have exclusive content. I am also doing weekly privatEQ&As for members only that are uncensored. There will be also lessons that I will be doing and access to some coursework on PEDs, how to grow insulin, things like that. I am also going to be doing group coaching calls where we go through and fix people's programs. We can talk about that. And enough of that, let's dig into my over dieting fail. My first show back, it was post COVID. I started to diet for a bodybuilding show during COVID, and then my show got canceled. The rest is history. I had to delay a year before I started contest prep again. And I was on a mission for that show. I had made up my mind after letting myself get embarrassingly out of shape during my 30s. I was a bodybuilder, power bodybuilder, gym goer, whatever, during my 20s. And I let myself go. I was really embarrassed about where I was at. I remember going back to, I think it was my 25th class reunion. And this was sort of the catalyst for getting me back in shape. And I saw a girl I went to high school with, a girl I used to have a crush on, kind of a crush on when I was younger. And she says to me, didn't you used to be a bodybuilder? And that was a stab right to the heart. I'd also was going through my divorce at the time. And I wanted to make a statement that I was on the path to being a better man. And I wanted to prove something that I could get absolutely freaking shredded. I'll have to tell Skipp Hill this one. This is a funny one. I remember Skip making some smart ass comment to me. I love Skip. Skip and I are friends. I've known Skip forever. But I posted something up on Facebook about people eating, can't be trusted eating nut butter. And Skip asked me in the comment section, Paul, have you ever truly been ripped? So I had all of these things in the back of my head. Right here, I was going to prove all these people wrong. I'm going to prove him wrong. I'm going to prove the ex-wife wrong. I'm going to prove the girl at my class reunion wrong. I was going to make a statement and come out and be the most shredded I've ever been in my life. I was going to get sub five percent on stage and just go out there and blow everybody out of the water with how shredded I was. And man, was it an epic failure. It was a brutal epic failure. You can see the picture up here. I've got the picture up of what I looked like and it was not good. I dieted down from I think 260 down to 185 pounds. That was ridiculous. I think it was 260 something like that. So I lost 75 pounds in a 16-week contest prep. I have a fast metabolism and in Justin Harris's defense, I don't think he was aware of how fast my metabolism is and how quickly I lose weight. So I give him a pass on that one. But I was guilty. Me, not Justin. When he told me to eat 50 grams of carbs, I was eating 35. When he told me to do 30 minutes of cardio, I was doing 40. He said take 50 micrograms of this, I was taking 70 or 75. I was pushing everything a little harder than what he said. I told myself I'm going to outwork everybody and I'm going to show all these motherfuckers how much better I am than them. I got in my own head and I just made an epic error of judgment and I lost so much muscle on that contest prep. I'll tell you what, I did get lean. My DEXA scan I think one week out read aT4 and threEQuarters. This just goes to show you, you can't go chasing numbers sometimes. In my head at that time when I saw thaT4 and threEQuarters on there, I was like god damn it man, I am ripped. I'm just going to beat everybody up and I went out there and got fifth out of six in my first show back at the Jay Cutler Classic. I got fifth out of six and I just won my pro card whaT3 weeks ago, four weeks four weeks ago. I just won my pro card so that just goes to show you that you can't chase the numbers and my body fat percentage one week out from my show when I had my DEXA scan done this year was six and a quarter. That was almost a full percent and a half higher at this show but looked way better. It's ultimately about what you look like in the mirror, not what the scale says and I will tell you this, when you get deep into a cut contest prep, whatever the case may be, your mind starts playing crazy ass tricks on you. What I saw in the mirror, what I saw in my pictures was not what the reality was. You take a step back from it and look back at it six months later and you're like oh my god, holy shit, what the fuck was I thinking at that time? What in the world was I thinking? And it goes both ways. This is why I tell guys on contest prep and when they're doing cuts with me that they just have to unplug and trust me. I'm an objective eye. I don't have anything emotionally invested in this other than seeing you be the most successful that you can be. So I'm probably going to make a better decision about when to push and when not to push than you are. And it's the same thing with me. This year I just said screw it. I'm going to step back. I'm going to let my coach handle it. There were many times where I started second guessing myself. There at the end, I almost pulled out of my show. I wasn't feeling good. I thought I, well my look I thought had gone downhill from two weeks out from the show to the show. I almost said screw it and I wasn't going to do the show. Pack it in and just do North Americans and try it there. Thank god I didn't do that. The better judgment jumped on my shoulder from past experiences from where I've screwed up in the past and I thought to myself, Paul, you just got to follow your own advice. Just step back. Trust that the right decision is being made and if it fucks up, there's always another chance to go back and do it again. And thank god I did. The result spoke for itself. I got my pro card. I won the overhaul. Everything worked out even though I thought I looked like shit. This is why you can't trust your own judgment when you're deep into it. It's almost impossible to be objective about yourself. It is really, really difficult. There's only been a few bodybuilders in the history of bodybuilding that didn't have somebody that they can lean on to be an objective eye to assess things and I think Dorian Yates might be the only ones that did it successfully. IMean, even before coaches were a thing, people still had guys keeping an eye on Joe Weider, kept an eye on Arnold and told him when he was looking better. I think Franco helped him out. I think they helped each other out. I will also say sometimes the worst person to take advice from too, this is another one, a lot of people will take advice from friends and significant others. They are the worst people to be taking advice from. They're living with you. They have an emotional investment in things that are going on too. You can't take good advice from people that have an emotional investment into you. They're just going to give you bad advice. The intentions are good. The intentions are well, but the advice is going to be bad and that's how you end up in a situation where you either over diet or you don't diet hard enough. I've had the opposite. I've seen the opposite with guys. I'm usually one that works too hard. It's funny because I put up a video or a reel today on Instagram about not workinGHard enough. I say most people don't work hard enough, like 90% of people just don't work hard enough, but there are the exceptions. There are people that overwork. I'm one of them. I've been guilty of overworking and doing too much and pushing things too hard. This contest prep, IMade an effort to moderate my workload and come in fresh to the show. Don't get me wrong, I still worked hard. I was in the gym six days a week for an hour and a half and then doing 30 minutes of posing and 30 minutes of cardio. IMean, it was still two, two and a half hours a day worth of work six days a week. There was still plenty of effort there, but it was dialed back a notch from what I would normally do. I'm a workaholic and sometimes being a workaholic and a perfectionist can be a detriment. You really, really, really, really have to have a good eye, somebody that you can trust and lean on that's going to give you good advice so you don't fuck it up like I did. I royally fucked up that prep. Now I will say this, the caveat here is I was so depleted. I was so run down. I was such a mess after that show that I set myself up for a crazy rebound and maybe in hindsight that was worth it that I pushed so hard that I over dieted. I don't know. I'm not suggesting that you go out and try that, but I had this super compensation effect afterwards where my body just exploded. I did keep it together. I didn't go ape shit on the diet. I think if I binge eat, if I'd been binge eating, if I had been doing, making stupid decisions post-show, I actually stepped back and listened to Justin then and trusted what he had to say. It's not that I didn't trust what he had to say during the contest prep. I definitely did, but I just told him, I just like, if he said, you know, work 100%, I was going to work 110%. I have always gotten ahead in life by workinGHarder than everybody else. That's been my superpower. If I have one superpower, it's an ability to suffer. It's an ability to outwork everybody else. Be consistently consistent at outworking and outpacing other people. I can just grind away at something forever until I end up winning. That's my superpower and sometimes it can be a detriment. On this contest prep, it was a detriment. I over dieted, made myself look like a flattened dog turd that had been run over twice. It was a horrible, horrible, horrible result and a mistake that I will not make again. I'm trying to save you guys out there. If any of you are on contest prep right now, if any of you are dieting right now, listen to your coach. If your coach sucks and the end result stinks, then get a new coach, I guess. Most of the time, I would say the coach is going to be right. It's going to be more right than you are. I am very experienced at this. I've been doing this off and on for 30 years. I know this stuff inside and out. I think I'm not saying I'm the best out there, but I think I know it better than most and I can't trust myself to make good decisions, if that tells you anything. I don't know how the hell somebody who's never prepped anybody else before is going to make a good solid decision about themselves. You might feel like you know yourself better than other people, but trust me, you talk to your coach about it, but trust me, that is a detriment. You're going to make bad mistakes. You're going to make bad choices. You're going to screw it up. You're going to fuck it up royally. All right, folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. The lesson is here, you can't be objective about yourself. Don't over diet. I've also seen dudes that don't diet hard enough and come in, shows fat, thinking that they're going flat, thinking that they're getting small. That's another thing we can talk about another day. That's never been my issue. I'm always worried about being too fat. Anyway, folks, I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. Go check out the Team Antibiotic Bodybuilding websites. I have the first livEQ&A this Tuesday. If you jump in now, you'll get on that first livEQ&A. It's going to be a small group of people, so you will have a chance to get all your questions in and get them answered by me. It's a super great opportunity. Take care, people.