 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here. Today we are going to talk about my favorite cycle for putting on muscle tissue. I'm not talking about gaining weight, I'm talking about putting on real muscle tissue. This is not the fake gains that you get from your D-ball cycle where you put on 20 pounds in two weeks and you lose all of it when you come off. And you look like a Stay Puft Marshmallow Man. This is real contractile tissue, real gains that you're going to keep a lot of. And I think most dudes don't understand how to do that, how to properly construct the cycle to do that. And we are going to dig into that today. All right, before we dig into this, one thing I want to clear up and I argue with guys all the time about this one. I don't know why dudes insist on arguing with me about this. And people swear that they're right and I'm wrong, but just because the scale moves up doesn't mean you actually gained any muscle tissue. And I see these guys all the time arguing for things like, you know, your D-ball only cycle or your anadrol cycle or any of these shitty bro cycles where you put on a ton of bloat weight and then you lose it all when you come off. That is not real muscle tissue. That is just a bunch of fucking bloat, a bunch of fake weight. It's not real muscle. I'm sorry to break the news to you. It's not real muscle. So we're going to talk about putting on real muscle tissue. And, you know, real muscle tissue takes time to put on. It takes hard work to put on. And a lot of things have to go right. And you have to have a logically constructed cycle along with proper nutrition and a training program that promotes hypertrophy. And you have to have rest and recovery in there, too. That's another thing that drives me nuts, too. I get guys that reach out to me all the time that seem to be afraid to eat. You know, last week, my God, I had so many people reach out to me. I think I don't know what I put up or if it was just because it's summertime. But I have multiple dudes reach out to me last week about cycles to gain muscle while in a deficit. Now, let me ask you a question. If you're in a deficit, how much weight do you really think you're going to gain? I don't know why people think they can put on a whole bunch of muscle in a deficit. I have people argue with me in the comments section about it and stuff. I'm like, fine, if you want to keep doing it, you're wasting your time. You know, if everything goes perfectly, you might gain a pound or two. But who the fuck wants to gain a pound or two? Why are you taking on these drugs just to gain a pound or two? I don't know. It seems dumb to me. I am, when it comes to building cycles and doing phases with training, especially with people that I train, I think it makes the most sense to go all in on one thing. So, if I'm putting on size, I'm going all in on putting on size. If I am cutting, I'm going all in on cutting. And then I have rest and recovery phases. Those are the three phases that I run. You know, maybe a rebound phase if you want to count that as a phase. But that's pretty much it. So, so we need to construct our cycles to fit those various phases of our training. So, this is why you see a lot of dudes in the gym that just look the same year after year after year. They make no perceivable progress. And then I get people, oh my God, how much, how did you make so much progress last year? Because I committed to one fucking thing. You know, part of it was, you know, I did get lucky. You know, everything clicked. I didn't get hurt. I had a full offseason and I followed the plan. You know, there is that factored into it too. But a big part of it is just being committed to one thing or the other. When you're wishy-washy, I'll get guys that get into the middle of a cycle. You know, they'll get three or four weeks into a cut cycle. And they're like, I'm not seeing any progress. Let's switch gears. Or same thing in a mass phase. They'll get six, eight weeks in and they're like, I'm not making any progress. I don't look good. I don't look like I did last year. Or I'm getting too fat. I'm like, dude, that's not long enough to make an assessment. So, I just want to get that out of the way. Before we talk about the cycle and how to put a sensible cycle together for mass. Okay? So, if you're going to put on mass, commit to putting on mass. If you're going to cut, commit to cutting. Don't do anything in between. If you do a halfway of both, you're going to have shitty progress. And you're going to just be like everybody else in the gym. And look the same last year. Same this year that you did last year. You just are. Alright. So, when I'm building a cycle for whatever the purpose is. I'm thinking about what I'm trying to accomplish when I'm choosing compounds. So, in a hypertrophy phase, our purpose is to promote muscle protein synthesis. First and foremost, that is it. So, we are going to choose compounds that meet that need. And when we're doing it, we want to choose the safest compounds with the longest track record of human use. And that's typically what I do. And I want to keep the side effects to a minimum. And the positive effects high. So, I don't know why people pick stupid things when they're doing an off-season side cycle. Like, I see dudes running tons of TREN. TREN is not that great at building muscle. And it has a ton of shitty side effects. It's no better at building muscle than taking Dandrolone would be. Which is considerably safer. Way less side effects. And you can run higher doses. So, for me, TREN has no place in the off-season. Dudes love to pound orals in the off-season. Orals just bloat you up. They get blood pressure through the roof. They make you look like shit. They get you bloated. And then they put a stress on your liver. They make you feel like you don't want to eat. You know, and I'm not saying they can't have a limited use in the off-season. You know, if you need to blow past a plateau, maybe you could convince me then. But I generally stay away from orals. There's no need for them in the off-season. There's nothing that we can't do with an injectable that's safer. It has less side effects that, you know, an oral would give us. So, there's really no advantage to using orals in a hypertrophy phase, in my opinion. Okay. Another aspect that I try to do when I'm in the off-season is hitting all of the growth pathways. So, I usually like to choose, you know, maybe I'm overthinking it, but I like to choose an anabolic from each compound from the test, DHT, and the nandrolone column. So, that way we're hitting the androgen receptor in three different ways. I also like to hit human growth hormone. I like to manage nutrient transport with insulin. And insulin sensitivity with something like metformin or berberine. Okay. So, that way we're maximizing our ability to uptake nutrients. We are maximizing our ability to transport those nutrients to the cell. So, we are hitting growth factors with human growth hormone, which will also push our IGF-1 levels up. And we are hitting the androgen receptor in three different ways with DHT, a nandrolone or 19-nor, and a testosterone derivative. Okay. You know, so that's kind of my sense of this. So, I usually run tests as high as I can without using an anti-estrogen. Now, there are some dudes that are heavy estrogen converters and need to run an anti-estrogen or an aromatase inhibitor. You know, some people, I used to be that way as I've gotten older. I don't seem to convert as heavily as I used to. I think that's probably because I stay leaner year-round. So, tend to be heavier, convert heavier. You know, when you're fatter, you convert more of the testosterone to estrogen. So, you know, so if you got somebody that's fat, probably should get leaned up first before you do a mass phase. Anyway, that's usually what I do when I have guys that come to me that their body composition is not an ideal spot. We try to get them leaned up before we start pushing size. I like Nandrolone. I run Nandrolone with my cycles. I run it at 60% or half, half to 60% of whatever testosterone level I'm running. So, you know, so for example, I can run tests at about 750 milligrams without an AI. I would probably run my Nandrolone somewhere around 500. Okay. That's about two thirds of what my tests are, slightly more than 60%. But not everyone can tolerate Nandrolone. I run into people that get really anxious. They get gyno. They have all sorts of issues with Nandrolone. So, Equipoise would probably be my second choice there. It seems to be that either people tolerate Equipoise well or they tolerate Nandrolone well. They don't tolerate both well. It's just been my general experience. To me, Nandrolone, out of everything I've tried, is the best size promoter. And more specifically, I like using NPP and not DECA. It's not that there's any difference in the fundamental action of the compound, the hormone in Nandrolone's Nandrolone regardless. But what NPP allows us is it has a very short half-life. I think it's something like 48 hours. So, if we get into trouble on Nandrolone, if you start having really bad anxiety, you start having, you know, gyno issues or you have issues with erectile dysfunction or whatever, some of the other issues that people have when Nandrolone, we can get off of it fast. You know, it takes five half-lives worth to clear your system. So, we're talking about 10 days to clear. DECA, I don't remember the exact half-life. I think it's something like 12 days or 13 days, something like that. So, with DECA, you're talking about, you know, so you do five half-lives, you're talking about 60 plus days. So, you're talking about two months to get DECA out of your system if you get yourself in trouble. So, if you have experience with Nandrolone's DECA, I'm okay with DECA. I'll run DECA sometimes, but just keep in mind that you're going to be stuck with it for a while if you get in trouble. PrimoBollin. PrimoBollin is what I use from the DHT column. PrimoBollin is expensive as fuck. PrimoBollin is often faked. So, that is a disadvantage with PrimoBollin. If you can't afford PrimoBollin, you know, there are other alternatives. Masteron's sort of poor man's PrimoBollin. You could, in theory, run Masteron instead. I like PrimoBollin way better than Masteron. But, Primo, the thing that's nice with Primo, there seems to be an upper limit to test that you can run before you get into nasty side effects. There seems to be an upper limit to Nandrolone that you can run before you get into nasty side effects. PrimoBollin doesn't seem to have an upper limit, not that I have found. You can run PrimoBollin at really, really high doses without much negative effect. I just, you know, PrimoBollin. I think that's why a lot of times people think PrimoBollin is weak. Because there's really almost, like, it's, you almost don't know you're on it. It's so smooth. You don't really get the side effects that you do with other things. And, you know, I think for some reason when people are on Trin and you have all the nasty side effects with Trin, they just assume that that means it's great. And I'm not saying Trin doesn't have its place. Trin is a great body-compositive drug. I think it's the best for body composition. So I like Primo because you can run, like, so for example, let's say if I, you know, for somebody, let's say if I was running test at 500, Nandrolone at 300, we can fill it, you know, we want it to get up to something like 2 grams of gear. We could run 1200 milligrams of Primo without much problem. Primo is relatively safe too. You know, so I'm just using that as an example. No Orals. I steer guys away from Orals in the offseason. It's funny because I've always been this way with Orals and then I started working with Justin and Justin said no Orals. And I'm like, thank God I'm not the only one. Like, I know dudes love to run Anadrol in the offseason. And Anadrol will fill you out. But I have seen Anadrol and D-ball cause so many problems. If I had a choice between the two, I would definitely take Anadrol over D-ball. D-ball is absolute fucking trash. People are gonna love it when I talk about D-ball cause I always shit all over D-ball. But D-ball is just absolute garbage. And I don't think has any place in a bodybuilding protocol. A modern bodybuilding protocol. Now everybody likes to talk about Arnold took D-ball. Arnold took D-ball early in his career. And you can see when he switched. When he was later in his career, it was Prima-Bowlin and Anavar that Arnold took from people I've talked to. And you can see when his physique changed from that puffy, stay puffed marshmallow look to a hard chiseled look. And that's when he went to Prima-Bowlin and Anavar. Anyway, side rant. But yeah, no, orals are just terrible on your appetite. They're terrible for liver stress. They make your blood pressure go up. They really provide no advantage for muscle protein synthesis in the offseason. You could argue that something like Anadrol is good for force production. You know, so I could, or same thing with Anavar. Anavar is good for force production. So you could use it in spots. If I were to use an oral, usually I like to use it towards the tail end of a cycle. And only as a pre-workout. So, you know, like the last four weeks or something. These guys that like to frontload orals, it really serves no purpose in my opinion. And the reason why they think it's serving a purpose is because you're just getting bloated up from the orals and it's fake gains. Those go away. I mean, you just end up causing your blood pressure to go through the roof and blowing yourself out before you can, you know, actually get through a whole cycle. Cycle length too. I forgot to mention that. I like to run size cycles in 16 to 20 week, you know, lengths, you know, and I usually what I'll do is break it up into blocks. So I have my training blocks. So if I do a five or six week training block and then do a deload, I will start off at a lower dose on the first block and I'll increase the dose on the second block and I'll increase it again on the third block. And then I do a cruise afterwards. HGH. With HGH, you need to find the sweet spot that works for you. Um, I, you want to push it high enough to where you get the benefit from it, but not so high that you're blowing your insulin sensitivity out and having hand numbness and causing all the other side effects that go along with HGH. Um, depending on the person, I found that to be somewhere between six to 10 units. Some people can handle 10 units. I can't. I've tried 10 units before and my hands got so fucking numb. I couldn't type and I'm on the computer all day long and I have to be able to type. Um, uh, so six to eight units is kind of like the sweet spot for me and I found to be for most people. insulin. This is a controversial one. Uh, people say insulin is not safe and whatnot, but it insulin. It has a long track record of safe human use. It's been, you know, I don't know what a hundred years now we've been using insulin. Um, you just have to be intelligent with it. I would say go. I have some videos up. You can search up my insulin playlist on how my insulin protocols work. I'm not going to go into it today, but people always ask me what's the best glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent. And I say insulin. You know, so if you're going to be pushing food hard, if you're a young guy, you're going to be pushing food. Um, as you get older, as you use more HDH, um, insulin becomes something somewhat of a necessary evil. Um, and also when you see guys pushing carbs really high, when you're pushing a thousand plus grams of carbs, um, you know, you're not your body, unless you're, you know, 19 years old, um, your body can't handle, um, producing enough insulin to handle that, that type of, uh, that type of carb load. Um, metformin, managing our insulin sensitivity is important as well. Um, I'll get people argue that metformin crushes your IGF-1. Um, I, here's the thing. When you're running insulin and HDH on top of it, uh, it has no effect. I've seen, I've seen blood work after blood work, after blood work, because they're running insulin and HDH. They're, they're, they're, uh, IGF-1 levels are just fine, even with running metformin. And I know people like to cite the study where, where, um, the, uh, IGF-1 levels were crushed using metformin. But that, that study was done, if I recall correctly, on, um, natties that were old, you know, old dudes that were natties. Of course, it's going to fucking crush their IGF-1. Um, you know, and that's probably what makes metformin have the anti-cancer properties that it does is because it does, um, um, push natural IGF-1 production down. But if you're hammering yourself with HDH and insulin, I don't think you have to worry about it. Um, but anyway, so those are all the pathways that I like to hit with my cycle. Test, Nandrolone, Premo, no orals, HDH, insulin, and metformin. That's personally what I do. I'm not saying that's what you should do. Um, I try to hit every pathway. I run my cycle 16 to 20 weeks, tapering up. Um, and this will put real size on, not fake bloat size. Um, and not, you know, you get that artificial size from, from orals and from other things that you do. This, this should be, give you real contractile tissue at the end of the cycle if you do everything right. And I remind you, you gotta eat. You gotta eat. You gotta rest. You gotta train correctly. All of those things need to be in place. If you're not doing those things, it doesn't matter what you take. All right, guys, I hope you enjoyed this one. I hope you found it helpful. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you.