 Asstresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresresres Just one second. All right. So week three in the books. Fasted weight this week was 269. So I'm up. Um, Jesus Christ, seven pounds in three weeks. Something like that. I was holding a lot of water. I don't know. I think this, my blood pressure has been sort of all over the place and my water weight's been all over the place. Um, I'm running test, uh, primobolin in equipoise, which in theory should be dry. Maybe it's the GH. I don't know. But, um, or the food is probably the food and insulin to be honest with you. But my water weight has been all over the place and my blood pressure has been up higher than what I would like. 139 over 82. I mean, it's not ridiculous, but I would like to see it lower than that. Um, everybody always asks me how tall I am. So I just post this every week. I'm like right around six to, um, but, uh, fast weight is 269. Daytime weight is 276. I weigh myself as soon as I get up in the morning. That's probably the most accurate weight of the day as far as comparing relative weight gain from one day to the other. Because you're fairly dehydrated in the morning and that's sort of your dry weight. And that's the best indicator of which way you're trending. Um, the daytime weight doesn't mean a whole lot, you know, after you're full of food. And, um, you know, as far as accuracy of measurement, I mean, it is what you weigh. You know, if I was weighing in a bodybuilding show, it's going to be my daytime weight. But the, uh, fasted weight is the most accurate for comparison's sake for the tracking. Fasted glucose has been hovering around 98. I feel okay. My allergies have been shitty, but they always are this time of the year. Uh, stuffy nose and whatnot. Sometimes I think I've read some stuff about GH making your nose stuffy. Uh, I did up my GH doses. So maybe it might be related to that. I don't know. I, I, I've, I need to look into that more. So if anybody knows anything about that or has experienced that, just put it in the comment section below. Be curious to find out if anybody else has had stuffy nose issues with, with GH. I've, I've, I've seen it mentioned in forums, but I don't know the, any science or anything behind it. Um, it could be just seasonal allergies. This time of the year sucks here in the DC area. It's rainy and moldy and leaves are falling off the trees. I always kind of fucking feel like shit this time of the year. All right. Uh, progress picks. This was after a high day. I was pretty fucking bloated, man. I came back down. It was really weird. I came back down the day after. Uh, but I still see the outline of my abs. Uh, you can see from the side shot, I'm pretty bloated. Um, and you can see the outline of my abs and my serratus. My, it still has some separation in my legs. Um, I don't know. I don't want to get my body fat much higher than this. It's probably about as much as I'd like to get the body fat up. Um, you know, and then just increase size as we go. Uh, the rear picks here. Um, I need to shave my hairy ass back. I have one of those back blades. I don't know if you've seen those things. It's kind of like a self-service back trimmer. Um, it's almost, it's kind of like a giant razor blade on the end of a stick and you can shave your back with it. Um, but I'm so big and bloated right now. I can't get my arms twisted around far enough to use it. I tried trimming my back up the other day and got like halfway through it and couldn't finish it off. So, uh, I'm going to need a volunteer to finish my back for me. Um, current off-season diet. Uh, no changes from last week. Justin said to just keep going with what we're doing. Once you get in a groove, which you kind of, and this is something that I do with my clients. Like the first couple of weeks of a phase, usually you're sort of figuring things out, figuring out where the body is. But once you get in a groove and things start moving, you just kind of lock in on the diet for a while. Um, everybody's different. I'll tell you that, you know, people, I've had some people when they reach out to me, ask me about, you know, how much of a surplus should I be in or which of my calories be, be at. It really varies from person to person quite, quite significantly in all honesty. And I really don't have a prescribed formula anymore. I used to, I used to, I used to, when I write diets up for people, I would have a factor that I use, but it's just so unpredictable. The more muscle you have clear, the more calories you burn, the less muscular you are, usually the slower the metabolism is. So that does play a factor into it, but it's hard to quantify exactly. Um, protein is pretty static, you know, somewhere around one to one and a quarter grams of protein per pound of body weight is usually what we end up at. Um, you know, so you'll, you'll see here, uh, load A right now is, uh, 360 grams of protein, um, 360 grams of carbs, 60 grams of added fat. Um, uh, reiterate, I do every week that we do not count the fat in the protein because it's so all over the place. Literally when a butcher makes the hamburger or cuts up the chicken, they just look at it and say, eh, you know, if you buy the 93% ground beef, there is no scientific method for measuring out the fat in it. And they're just, they, it's just the butcher looking at it and like, yeah, this looks like 93% and they throw it in the fucking grinder and put it on the shelf. Um, every grocery store I go to, like, I'll notice like, like I, for whatever reason, the Walmart ground beef is the leanest that I have found there 95%. That shit is no, there's no fat in it. There's no residual fat on the pan. I can't wipe any grease off the pan after I cook it. Whereas if I go to my grocery store here, that's close by my house, Harris Teeter, I get the same, uh, 95% lean ground beef. There, there is definitely some fat in the pan afterwards. So clearly the butcher is not doing the same eyeball method as they are at Walmart. All right. So that tells me, and that tells us that there's no point in counting something there. You can't, you shouldn't spend time trying to quantify the unquantifiable. It's just a waste of time. Uh, you get it as close as you can and then, and then, and then just don't worry about it. Uh, medium days, uh, right now, 340 grams of protein, 600 grams of carb, 40 grams of added fat. High days are 290 grams of carbs in a thought or 290 grams of protein, a thousand grams of carbs and zero added fat. I haven't really been cheating. I did have my first cheat. Let's see. We were three weeks into the diet. I had my first like real cheat this week. Um, and I had, uh, I went to Texas roadhouse and I had a 11 ounce sirloin, a baked potato and I got a cup of their, their Texas chili and dumped it on the potato. I mean, it's pretty clean sheet. Um, current PEDs. Nothing has changed other than the growth hormone. I think that might be why my water is kind of all over the place. Um, we were going to titrate up the PEDs this week, but my blood pressure is still a little wacky. I don't want to push up the doses until I get my blood pressure settled down. Usually what I've seen with blood pressure, you know, at least with my clients, it usually settles down once your body acclimates to the PEDs, but there's no sense of pushing up the doses and making things worse. I'm also progressing. So I, I'm kind of of the mindset if I'm progressing, why do I need to push the doses up? Um, so right now it's 500 tests, 300 EQ, 400 Primo. So 1.2 grams total. Um, I increased the, uh, the GH to eight units of generic blue top, but who knows if that's really eight units. I've had these, I've been getting these blue tops for years now, like probably four years, something like that. And I've had batches that are crazy strong where four units will make it. So I can't even fucking feel my hands. And then I've had other batches that don't seem that strong. So my, my speculation is it comes out of the factory the same, that it just gets ruined in shipping sometimes. Um, you know, because it's come, coming across from China and a hot container ship. Um, actually I, I, I forgot to note this, but I did up my berberine to 1500 milligrams per day. I've been reading a lot about berberine and there's a lot of doctors that say, I mean, uh, metformin, sorry, I up my metformin to 1500 milligrams a day. I've been reading a lot of doctors say that metformin doesn't really do shit until you get up to 1500 milligrams. That's where it starts to shine. So I opted so far so good. No problems with my stomach or anything. Uh, metformin can upset your stomach when you first get on it. So that's just something to be aware of. Usually when people start metformin, they, they start somewhere around 500 milligrams. Uh, you're going to get the metformin gas and maybe some diarrhea the first couple of weeks until your stomach settles in. And then once everything gets locked in, you're fine. Uh, 1500 milligrams of berberine a day, uh, 80 milligrams of telmosardin. I, the last couple of days I swapped that out for the amlodepine, which is Valsartin and, um, or not amlodepine, I'm sorry. Uh, uh, uh, Xforge, which is amlodepine, which is a calcium channel blocker and Valsartin, which is an ARB. So it has both in it. Um, when my, when telmosartin doesn't get my blood pressure down by itself, that usually gets the job done. You have a long one, the high days, 25 units Atlantis pre-bed. That hasn't changed. Um, current training split. Everybody I think knows my training split. I have a free copy of my training program on my website. If you want to download it, all you got to do is put in your email address. I promise not to spam you too much. Um, just using it for announcements and stuff when things come out. Uh, but, uh, all you got to do is give up an email address. You can have a free copy of my training program. I also have, uh, uh, DC, uh, training ebook up there too, for free, um, at anabolicbodybuilding.com. Uh, current splits, push legs, pull, push legs, pull offs. I lift six days a week, hit everybody part twice a week. Nothing to failure. Um, 10 to 12 reps on compounds right now. I actually have been going a little lower, maybe down to like nine on some, some compound movements, not much 15 to 21 isolations. Um, everybody asked me how many reps in reserve I use. I don't know. I'll be honest with you. I don't know how you quantify reps in reserve. I mean, what some people's definition of failure is, is not my definition of failure. I mean, for me, failure is just balls out. I can't do anything else. Some people are, are for lack of a better term are pussies and it can't go to true failure. Um, so it's all relative. I, I would say, you know, I'm like a rep or two short of failure on everything. I get to the point where I feel like my mechanical form is starting to break down or I would have to like compromise form or rep tempo to eke out another rep. So that's sort of where I stop. Cardio 15 minutes to hit three times per week. Uh, plans and thoughts. Like I said, diet was perfect this week with the Texas Roadhouse. Uh, cheat. My strength really shot up this week. It went up pretty significantly. Usually I see that with cycles. Like week three, especially if you're using longer acting esters, is kind of when things kick in. Um, I, I've been using a lot of machines lately. A lot of hammer strength machines and stuff like that. I may have to go back to some dumbbells and plate loaded shit and Smith machine and shit because I am pretty much using the whole fucking stack on every machine in the gym at this point for 12 to 15 reps on stuff. So, you know, I, I, I think I've kind of tapped out the machines. I guess that's a good problem to have. Um, you know, I mentioned I added the X-Forge for blood pressure. I'm waiting for my blood pressure to get under control before escalating the ducts anymore. Coach's feedback. He said, great work. No changes. He told me we want to get up to 285, 290, which where I'm at currently shouldn't be a problem. All right, guys, that's all I got for this week's check-in. Thank you for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.