 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today and I am going to talk about my experiences with primabolin, methanolone and anthetes. I really didn't use primabolin until the last couple years. And I'm going to tell you why it's slowly becoming my favorite and go-to anabolic. We are going to dig into all that in just one second. All right, so, Primo. What do I think about Primo? We' I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I,!, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I,! I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, think, bro's mistake, lack of side effects for, uh, compound being weak. Primal For the most part, side effect free. It's very smooth. You don't really notice that you're on it. The only thing that I have noticed when I do run primobolin is that it does make my blood pressure creep up a tad. All DHT derivatives seem to do that to me. They seem to make my blood pressure creep up. But it's not significant. Usually it settles down after a few weeks. But primobolin when I was younger and didn't know better about anabolics. Had this reputation for just being weak and a waste of time. You know, guys were like, don't waste your time with that shit. So I didn't. And it was expensive. And why would I waste my money on something that's expensive and weak? That was sort of my philosophy when I was younger. And that was before I knew any better. And like I said, bros, mistakes, side effects, four effects. So they automatically say TRIN is better because you can feel TRIN. But when you actually look at the numbers on stuff, most compounds, antibody compounds, accrete muscle protein synthesis, new muscle tissue at relatively similar rates. So that's not to say that they don't have secondary attributes that are important as well. Such as force motivation and body effects on body composition and other things. You know, I'm not discounting those other effects. But in the off-season when we're purely looking at size, now that I've gotten older, my philosophy has evolved to why not run the stuff that has the least amount of side effects and will generate new muscle tissue. You know, accrete muscle protein. Or generate muscle protein synthesis. So why would we waste our time with something like TRIN that's pretty harsh in the off-season when we don't have to? There's no specific advantage for running TRIN in the off-season, I don't think, over running other safer compounds. Now, with Prima Bolin, a constant worry, and I will tell you it is a valid concern, is fake Prima Bolin. There is a lot of fake Prima Bolin from UGLs. Now, generally, fake Prima Bolin, at least the stuff that I have seen, or at least from what I've heard, is typically Masteron. Because most people can't tell the difference between Masteron and Prima Bolin. And they are very similar. They are cousins. If you look at the anabolic tree, they are very similar in characteristics. They both are DHT derivatives. If you look at them molecularly, they're not that much different. Although, it does seem to be that Prima Bolin is a bit stronger. It's just been my experience. I love Prima Bolin. I now think that I would probably place Prima Bolin as my favorite anabolic. It used to be Nandrolone. And I've had some issues with Nandrolone lately, where Nandrolone has caused me to get some anxiety. I still like Nandrolone for size, strength. It makes you puffy. But the thing with Prima Bolin is you get nice, slow, steady, fat-free, water-free, bloat-free gains. And I'm a heavy estrogen converter. And I have found that people that are heavy estrogen converters tend to do better as their second compound being a DHT derivative versus running a 19-nor. Guys that tend to be skinny dudes, ectomorphs seem to do better with 19-nor as their secondary compound choice. That's just what I've seen. I don't have any science to back that up, but that's just what I've seen. So Prima Bolin does have some effects on suppressing estrogen. You'll see people say that studies show that it... And I've even talked about it in the past where you can't really find any good information that says that it does. But when you look at blood work, it's clear when you look at blood work when people are running Prima Bolin that it does suppress estrogen. So even though there's not really a lot of clinical data that backs that up, at least not that I've seen, if somebody can point me to a study that shows that, feel free to do so. I would love to see it. But in the real world, speaking, seeing blood work and what happens, Prima Bolin definitely lowers estrogen. Now when it comes to getting real Prima Bolin, I have run UGL Prima Bolin and I have run the Bear Prima. Now it's real Prima Bolin, I think it is the brand name. But I have run the real Reema Bolin. I did it on my contest prep this year. And it could be just in my head, but I definitely noticed a difference running the real Reema Bolin. It is expensive as fuck. I will forewarn you, it is expensive as fuck. Now that difference could be just dosing. You know, the compound is either real or it's not. It's binary. It's a thing that always drives me nuts when people talk about UGL gear versus Pharma gear. Now that's not to say that the oil that they put it in or the solvents they use is better. Usually the main difference that's going to be between UGL gear and a pharma grade is going to be a higher quality carrier oil. So they use, typically use, a lot of UGLs use a lot more solvents in their gear to keep them from crashing. So they hurt like fuck. And also the dosing. You know that they have the equipment in the factory to measure and make sure the dosing is accurate. Whereas in the UGL, they're probably just eyeballing shit. You know, you don't know what you're getting. So the dosing is going to be more accurate. So who really knows if that 200 milligram Premi Bolin that you get from your UGL is really 200 milligrams. It might be 100 milligrams. It might be 50. It might be even Masteron. So how do you know if Premi Bolin is real? You can get a ROID test kit and test it. I will say I've used these ROID test kits and the fucking colors on them are almost impossible to tell sometimes. You can buy real bare Remi Bolin. You could do that. But one of the things, one of the signs, and this is not 100% certainty, but one of the signs that I've noticed with real Premi. Real Premi kicks like a motherfucker as far as post-injection pain goes. It hurts like fuck. Real Premi Bolin hurts. It's because it is a giant molecule. The molecular weight of Premi Bolin, I think, is like two, two and a half times that of testosterone. So that's why it's typically dosed at 100 milligrams per milliliter. So to keep it from crashing and to cut down on injection pain. At least I assume that's why they dose it that way. But I do love Premi Bolin. Premi Bolin is probably my favorite anabolic. And honestly, kind of my ideal growth cycle, if you can tolerate it, is test Premi Bolin and a little bit of Nandrolone together. If you run all three of those together and you can't get big, something seriously is fucking wrong. So your diet's fucked up or you just have shitty genetics or you got bunk gear. So that's my ultimate size stack. Like I said, though, I'm staying away from the Nandrolone this offseason because I did have some anxiety and had a couple panic attacks with it in my post-contest rebounds. But I don't know. You know, it could have just been a thing. I never had issues before, but this year I did. So I don't know if it was something else going on or what the deal was. But I'm staying away from it moving forward. But anyway, Premi Bolin, I would say, is right there at the top. It's probably my favorite anabolic right now. It's smooth, easy on you, especially for an old guy who's looking to protect your health. You can run Premi Bolin at fairly high doses without much of a health consequence. There's always a cost. There's a cost versus benefit ratio with every gear that you take. You know, something like Anadrol would be a high cost, high benefit. Trend would be a high cost, high benefit, you know, as far as health cost versus benefit. But so things like that you want to run in limited runs. There's low health cost, moderate benefit, which would be something like Premi Bolin. So you can get away with more. So by the fact that you can probably run higher doses than you could the other more dangerous compounds and have less health risk, you'd probably get more out of it. But that's my two cents on it. Anyway, if you have your thoughts, your experiences with Premi Bolin, and you would like to share them, put them in the comment section below. I'll do my best to respond to each and every one of you. Thanks for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. We'll see you next time.