WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today and I've got an update for you about my offseason and why I'm eating my words about dbol. I am using dbol again. I'm going to explain to you why I have not used dbol in 20 years, something like that. It's been a long time since my, probably since my 20s, would be my guess, but there is a reason why I'm using dbol and I'm going to explain it to you. I know I have said many times that dbol is probably the trashiest of trashy steroids and I still think that is true in most situations, but I don't like to speak in absolutes about things and there are exceptions to every rule. And I'm going to tell you why in just a second, why I am using dbol currently in my offseason. Also, before we get started, the Black Friday sale for the Anabolics eCourse is still going on today. I guess technically it's Cyber Monday. So if you want to pick up the Anabolics eCourse, it is still 30% off. Sale ends tomorrow. On Tuesday, it's done. That's the only time in the next 12 months that it's going to be 30% off. So if you wanted to pick it up, now's the time to pick it up. It's going to be the cheapest it's been all year long. There's over 100 modules in the eCourse and 60 or so hours of content. Kurt and I do a Q&A for the members where we give the members priority questions once a month. We add new content up as relative to things that change in the world of PEDs. And I think you're going to enjoy the course Enough of that now. Let's get into why I'm taking dbol and an update on my current offseason in just one second. ♫ All right, I have not done a formal update on my progress since my Pro Card winning show. Since, you know, I guess when it was July 18th, I think. So it has been four months now. I don't know, 16, 20 weeks. Probably getting closer to 20 weeks post-show. Really hasn't been much to talk about. I took a big break after the show. I've been in the gym consistently in the... give me one second, the dbol will tie in here. So I know you're probably asking yourself right now, Paul, I thought you were going to talk about dbol, but I've got to give you some context to where I'm at right now and how the dbol fits in the equation and I'll I'll get to it in just a minute. But yeah, after my show July 18th, I came off everything completely and I have not done that in probably seven or eight years. I was off everything completely from age 32 until about 43, 42. I don't remember exactly. And then I kind of just went back on TRT. I had no aspirations of getting back into bodybuilding. And then the bug bit me again. I was, I guess, a gym bro bodybuilder in my 20s and early 30s. More of a power builder, I guess. I got pretty big, but I never took it seriously. I never really competed at a serious level or did anything serious. It was more of a just a gym bro bodybuilder. But anyway, I've been on non-stop blasting and cruising, sometimes TRT, sometimes up in really high doses. I ran I think three grams total on my contest prep this year, which is the most I've ever run by far. I have a video up recently where I talked about my pro card winning cycles over the last two years if you want to check it out and see exactly what I have done. But after my show, I came off completely. I went six weeks or so completely off of everything. And you know how the esters are. Stuff was still probably present in my system up until then. But I started really feeling like dog shit about six weeks post-show. And I went and got my blood work done. My test levels were pretty low at that point. And my estrogen, to my surprise, generally post-show, you're going to have an estrogen rebound. And when I had my blood panels done, I found out that my estradiol was still in the single digits, which surprised me that it would still be that low. I've always had issues with high estradiol conversion. I've always been a high converter of estrogen. Now, I stayed pretty lean post-show. Honestly, my weight, as of right now, I'm within a couple pounds of where I was at my show, if not exactly the same weight. I weighed in at 249 and some change at my show, and I'm still 249 and some change. Now, body composition's not the same, that's for sure. But I'm still within a few pounds of probably stage weight. It wouldn't take me long to get back in shape. But anyway, I was surprised that my estrogen was so low, so I threw some tasks back in. I think I was around 300, 400 milligrams. Bodybuilding TRT, I know that's not true TRT, but above what a normal person would take. And I went back, went nine units of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And I tested again in another six weeks. Still crashed. Still completely crashed. So then I started my proper off-season cycle. I started off, I believe, at 900 milligrams of test and 600 milligrams of EQ. I tried something different this fall. I went outside of my formula of Test Primo or Test and Masteron and went with something a little bit different. The reason why I chose Equipoise is because I struggle with my diet. I have a hard time with my appetite. I have a hard time eating all the food. I'm probably the only person that comes out of a show and loses weight or eats less. I just get tired of eating. I get tired of eating six times a day. And I'll go back to eating like three or four times a day. And some of those meals just being whatever the fuck I want to eat. Now most of the time my food is pretty clen. I post my food up on Instagram. You guys see what I eat. But I squeeze some McDonald's in here and there. I'll go out to dinner here and there. I'm not living like a monk like I do on Contest Prep. Once I'm locked in, and I'm locked in for a show, I don't deviate. Everything is 120%. I stay locked in. I don't deviate. And to be honest with you, the last five years, four years when I've been seriously competing, I've treated my offseasons like a Contest Prep. I had a good four solid years or so where I didn't deviate from anything. Really. Like I was 95% in the offseason. On Contest Prep, I'm 100%. Every grain of rice gets weighed. So back to the whole cycle thing. Start off with 900 tests, 600 EQ, and 18 units of GH. My joints felt terrible. My joints have been achy and creaky since my show. My muscles have been achy and creaky since the show. I just have not had a rebound. I have not felt. My joints just have not felt good. So I went and got my estrogen checked again about two weeks ago. It's still in the single digit. So my guess is that the EQ is crushing it. I even pushed the test up even higher. I went up to 1800 tests to see if I could bring it up. I did that about a month ago. I don't know how far I am into my, well, my offseason cycle. I started the first week in October. So yeah, I'm about eight weeks into my offseason cycle, something like that, seven weeks. So I pulled the EQ down, pushed the test up. I'm down to just 200 milligrams of EQ. And I put some Masteron back in. Still, estrogen still crushed and joints hurt. So this led me to the D-ball situation. I discourage most people from using D-ball because D-ball probably has the worst side effects if you have issues with it out of any steroid that I, at least in my experience, you get bloating, you get acne, you get gyno, you get high blood pressure if you're a high estrogen converter. Big if there. If you're a low estrogen converter, which is exceptionally rare, I would say something like one in 20 people I encounter have below normal estradiol levels without an aromatase inhibitor. Big caveat there. Very rarely do I run into dudes that have low estrogen levels. And I speculate, this is what I speculate, you hear a lot of guys say that D-ball is the greatest thing that they've ever taken. And then there are tons of dudes, way more dudes that say D-ball sucks, D-ball just bloated me up, D-ball made me get zits, D-ball made my blood pressure go through the roof, D-ball made me moody, D-ball made me feel like crap. And I would speculate that those guys are the guys that tend to carry more body fat and have a higher estradiol conversion. The methyl estradiol that D-ball converts to is very potent. And if you have any issues with estrogenic side effects, swollen prostate, acne, high blood pressure, water retention, gynecomastia, you are going to have serious issues with D-ball. Like I said, there is an exception to every rule. And what I found is that dudes that don't have high estradiol conversion, dudes that maybe have crushed estrogen, that D-ball can be the best thing since sliced bread for them. So I am an open-minded guy. I said, I'm going to experiment. I talked to Kurt Havens about it a little bit. I said, I'm going to throw in some D-ball and see what happens. I've tried some other stuff. I've been just sort of experimenting this fall, playing around with things, gotten away from my normal tried and true formula and tried some new things. And I tossed a little bit of D-ball in to see if that would help with the estrogenic side effects. And I'm telling you within two to three days, my joint aches and pains were gone. My issues with gaining weight were gone. My issues with being able to push myself in the gym were gone. I felt immediately better. And this is just on a low dose of D-ball. I'm running 25 milligrams a day, nothing crazy. And now my hope is, is that I can get my estrogen back to normal by pulling the equipoise down and going with a higher dose of testosterone, having the D-ball in and I can drop the D-ball in like three to four weeks. I'm just going to keep a low dose in for right now. I pulled the GH down as well. I was running 18 units of generic GH and my joints were screaming. I don't know if it was the low estradiol, the mannitol, maybe it was the mannitol in the GH drying me out. I had really just stiff and achy muscles and stiff and achy joints. I think it was a combination of both the generic GH with the mannitol and the low estrogen that caused my problems. So I put pharma GH back in. I'm just running nine units of pharma GH right now. I pulled the generic GH out for the time being. Nine units of pharma GH, put the D-ball in, 1800 milligrams a test and I pulled that EQ down to almost nothing, 200 milligrams. IMay even just take it out completely at this point. I couldn't get my estrogen back up as is. I think the EQ nuked it even further and part of me is wondering if I should just stuck with my normal formula of test in primo. I seem to respond well to that. But I will tell you this, after years of working with people and experimenting on myself, the body is always in flux. What worked last year doesn't always work this year. That's why you can't take a formulaic approach. You can have a framework and an idea. There's certain principles that do work, but you have to be willing to adapt to how the body responds, what is going on with the body at a given period of time. And right now, my body was not responding to what I was doing. It was way too dry. I had way too low estrogen. My estrogen felt, it felt awful on crushed estrogen. I know people hear me talk about keeping estrogen in range. That doesn't mean to absolutely nuke the estrogen. That means to keep it in a range where you feel your best. And for me in the offseason, that's somewhere towards the top end of the normal levels or maybe slightly above. Now, I can tell you when your estrogen gets up as high as an ovulating female, you don't feel good there either. You get impotence, you have all sorts of other issues going on, bloating, water retention, high blood pressure. There's a bunch of other issues that happen. That's not a good feeling either. So that is less than ideal too, going with super high estrogen towards the end of your offseason. I know some dudes talk about there's a benefit to it and that it might cause more hypertrophy. I don't give a fuck. I need my dick to work. If your dick doesn't work, it doesn't matter how much your gains are. I need to not cry at the commercials with puppies in them. I need to not have blood pressure that's 150 over 100. I need to not be broken out in acne all over. So I don't give a fuck if, you know, having three times the reference range of estrogen gives you a little more growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. I don't really think it does. I think it just turns you into a bloated emotional mess that can't get a boner. I think that's about the only benefit from it. Now, that's not to say you want to crush. Believe me, having a crush is not good either. I don't feel the best when my estrogen is crushed. You want to keep it in range. Ideally for health, there's benefits to having estrogen at the top end of reference range, cardiovascular health, it's renal protective, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, better lipids. There's all sorts of advantages. Anyway, folks, that's why I am back on dbol. I'm not saying it's for everybody. I think there are certain applications and situations where it makes sense. It's an uncommon situation, but that's why I'm back on dbol. Just wanted to be trensparent with everybody, let you know where I'm at. Let me know what you think in the comments section about dbol and your experiences with dbol. I want to hear what you have to say about it. Put them in the comment section below. Go pick up the e-course while it's still on sale if you're interested in it. I also have the Building Effective Cycles cheat sheet on sale as well. It's half off. It's 30 bucks. It's super cheap. If you want to pick it up, that is up there as well. If you buy the e-course, I think you can get it even further discounted for 15 bucks. You can throw it in with the e-course. Anyway, folks, I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.