warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. So James, man, tell us about your, your long acting gh experiment. Man, we're gonna we're gonna get a frowny face from Kurt. No, no, I'm not no frowny face. We just don't know. Chase is probably the only one the world is ever. IMean, it's it was IMean, like, well, IMean, the big thing is, it definitely worked. But IMean, I was using a shitload of it, you know. But like, so I started off with one pen, which a general pen is, if you actually like measure out all the all the liquid in it, it's 1.5 milliliters, they have it dosed at it says it's, the concentration is like 60 I use per 1.2 mils or something like that. And or it's 72. Yeah, 72 I use per 1.2 mils, and there's 1.5 mils in a pen. So you pull that out, and it's 90 I use. And so week one, I injected the whole pen on Sunday, and was like hoping that, you know, I'd get blood work on Friday and see if it's still, you know, showing in my system, because it's supposed to be a week long thing. And so then, you know, I got blood work Friday, and didn't see a damn thing. It looked like I was completely natural. Like my growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone level was like a two. And yeah, it was it was nothing, nothing was shown. So I was like, Okay, well, apparently it doesn't last even five days. So the next week, I was like, Okay, I'm gonna get blood work on Wednesday. And so then I did two pens on Sunday. And because technically, like if it's gonna spread it out across a week, you got to divide however many I use you're injecting and and do that. But then also on Pfizer's website, they talk about how there's a conversion between the I use of in general to like genitropin. And according to the website, it's like, for every one I you have genitropin is 2.77 I use of general is what they used on the kids to make them grow. So I was like, Okay, so that's I was going off of that conversion. That's why I was injecting so much because it's technically supposed to be 2.77 times higher than that. And I was working my way towards doing 16 I use a day equivalent of genitropin. So I was on half that eight I use, technically, according to their thing did to add two pens of that. And then when I went in to go get blood work on on Wednesday, my lab core was the whole system was blood work. I was like, shit. So so then I was like, Okay, well, screw this. Let's just go. Let's just go all in on it and do a pen every other day. Since I don't even know, like, just so we can be sure and see if if growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone even shows up on, you know, blood work. And so so at that point, I just started doing a pen every other day, which which would be equivalent to like 16 to 18 I use of genitropin a day. And did that for a week and a half. Got blood work on Friday, Mike, my last pen whole pen injection was Thursday morning. No, no, no. Thursday. Yes. Thursday morning. Got. Yeah, got blood work Friday morning. And my IGF or my gh serum number came back at 155. Which should, like if you inject 10 I use, and you get a test done two and a half hours later, it'll probably show up around like 25. So I was like, okay, I got 155. That's gonna be like equivalent to like 60 I use or something like that I did 24 hours before, and my levels were still like super raised. But also in that time period where I was doing a pen every other day, my weight was just flying up and just water getting pushed into the muscle. And I posted a picture on my Instagram of like, where I was when I started the thing. I was like 236 or 37 when I started the experiment. And at that point, when I got that 155 serum score back, I was 255. And that was four weeks later. And like it at that dose, because like the first week, I was kind of like, I don't know if I really noticed anything. But my weight was like, trickling up. And I wasn't eating anything different. Like I went up like two, two or three pounds. And then the chase. Yeah, yeah, that's, that's the difference. So like, things just kind of like filled out and got a lot wider. My waist got a little bit water as well. Yeah, yeah, things got harder. And IMean, yeah, that's 20 pounds, basically, of a difference there. But like the first week, yeah, I went up a few pounds. The second week, I went up a few more pounds. And then that last week and a half is when things like I just couldn't, I couldn't even control. Like I would, I would eat a super low day, my weight would still go up just just like if I was going on a vial of serostim a day. And but the problem is that I was doing a pen every other day. And those pens are like, depending on who you get it from, it can be on average, like $200 a pen. So when you like go with the cost comparison there, it's like $700 a week, versus, you know, depending on where you get your serostim, it could be 300 to $600 a week doing that. But so from that point, I was like, okay, either like I'm doing way more than, you know, 16 or 20 I use a day, according to that serum number. So I was like, let's back off and do half a pen every other day. And see what the numbers look like with that. And then got blood work, don't have the results from that yet. And then after I did that, I backed off again to a third of a pen every day to see what that comes back at. And I'm waiting on that blood work to show up. And then I from those all those different blood works, I feel like I can like, kind of get a grasp on, you know, what the what, what how much you can take to get a certain gh number. But then at the same time, I'm kind of like, at the at the third of a pen dose, every day, is that going to give the same result as a vial a day of serostim? Because like, I'm thinking a third of a pen a day is going to give me like A-50 on a gh serum score, which would be like 20 I use of serostim a day. But if it doesn't give the physical result, then that's, that's where it's kind of like, okay, you got to find a happy medium there. So I just took my last shot of it yesterday. And I'm going to take like four to six weeks off from it. And then so that it's like cleared out of my system. And I go from nothing to injecting a third of a pen a day. And see if I get see if it feels like I'm starting up serostim again. So I have a feeling it's not going to go that way. I have a feeling it's going to be closer to be like, you got to spend five to $600 a week on in general, to equal 500 to $600 a week on serostim. And it'll kind of equal out in that sense. But as far as the I use it, there's something definitely with that long acting bit in there, it definitely changes things. And I don't know, it's, it's like, the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is floating in there. But because it's like attached to the HCG or whatever, it's not letting it go. So maybe you're not getting the actual full 155 serum score that it was. And it's just, I don't know, it's very strenge, but it worked. But it was a lot of a lot of money to figure it out. So yeah, that's interesting. You're your pictures. IMean, you can definitely see a difference. Yeah, it was pretty crazy. Yeah. What are your thoughts on it? Kurt? I know you mentioned that it's a lot different. What's different. So like Chase said, it has 38 amino acids from HCG bound to it. So you can't, unlike a steroid, you can't attach an ester to it to slow it down. They took 38 amino acids from HCG and attach it and create a new chemical. So it's called somatrogen, not somatropin. If you look at the I sent you the molecules, Paul, I don't know if you still have them in your text. Yeah, probably somewhere. The thought behind the thought behind it was, initially, it was for comfort, right? Little kids don't like injections daily. So that was kind of the original thing. But also, what they're concerned with is, you don't want IGF too high in, in children. So it's supposed to be like children under 12 that have delayed growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, you what you want is to mimic the placental GH secretion for bone growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So you don't get the IGF one, you get IGF two, which doesn't have any effect in adults. So it's, it's going to interact with the liver in a different way than like a serostim would. And that's why they're all different products like serostim is specifically for wasting. And the trope in the dosing is for like, origin is for delayed growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So they're all kind of designed different. It doesn't mean it doesn't work. It just, I've seen in pediatric patients that are older, like 17 and 18, when you look at their labs, they don't look like it's doing much. So then they switch them back to genitropin. Because the negligella wasn't, I don't know how to say. I don't know. I was never busting your chops about it. Not work. I just don't know. Yeah, it's weird. So the children, it seems safe. The side effects were like the same across the board between the two. Yeah. I was I was also checking my fasting insulin every single time to make sure that that wasn't climbing because, you know, it's like you would think it almost be like MK six, seven, seven, where like your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is just like high constantly. And you become diabetic, but like my number, my fasting insulin never got over six. So like when I was off, when I was off everything, when I was 237 pounds, my fasting insulin was like a 3.6. And then yeah, I went on that it went up to like a five, five, and I was like, Okay, well, this isn't a thing. So IMean, that would be my biggest concern with it is what you're about the blood sugars, right? So growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone supposed to be pulsatile, with the biggest decrease in that night, women have a different, I'm more specifically talking about men, women have a different effect from it. But you would, my concern would if a bodybuilder is usinGHuge amounts for prolonged period of time, and it's constantly elevated, like what happens to their blood sugar, because they can't use glucose, now your body's just running on fat acids. And then on top of it, they're eating a ton of chicken or rice, they're not able to use it. And what like what's the effect of that and what like, what's the long term, I don't know if it'll ever be looked at, because it wasn't designed for that. Yeah. Yeah. That's why I think we use serostim at night, like, you know, I kind of switched my opinion about that. I feel like the whole dose of GH should just be given at night, not splitting it up. So they worry bodybuilders to will do the same thing, they'll split their GH in four doses, right? And then to, and then they add insulin on top of it, which so you're now you're not even getting a gh effect. Now you're only getting an IGF one effect. So it kind of defeats the purpose to me of even using gh, right? At that point, just use Incolux. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah, I never considered that. That's an interesting thought. Yeah, IMean, that's my thought is like, the whole thing where it's like, okay, the blood work is is detecting that there's lots of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone floating through here, but you can't access it is my thought. And it's like slowly trickling somehow. That's my guess. With the generic stuff, too. IMean, I'm just speculating, but you want to chase you and I've talked about a bunch of times when a palm I've talked about a bunch of times, I feel like that's the difference between the generics and the pharma stuff is the fillers, they must prolong the release of it because the effects not the same. Yeah, like if you shoot a bottle of a known generic that's tested, and you shoot a bottle of the pharma, great, not the same, even if they test out as pure, look, no dimmer, right? Like we've all done that. It just doesn't do the same thing. Like the GH, the form of stuff is pretty dramatic, like right away. Yeah, your weight was the first day. Yeah, you know, if anything, my weight dropped on generics from diuretics. And that's exactly what I got from it to like, and then I went off your muscles. Well, I went from when I tested a good generic. This last year, I went from I went from 18 I use a serostim switch the 20 I use a generic a day, immediately my weight started dropping. And I was like, like, I lost like 10 pounds. And I was like, Am I even like I couldn't even tell I was on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. I was like, is this is it? Am I on anything? What is happening? And I was like, having to bump up my food. So I because I didn't want to just lose a bunch of weight. There's the molecules. Yeah, big difference. Yeah, it's Kurt here. I got the pictures you sent me. Yeah, so that's just the two diffs. So you can see, IMean, you don't have to be a chemist to see that they're just different things. They're not the same chemical. It doesn't mean it doesn't work. That wasn't my point. We just don't know. And I'm always hesitant to tell people to try something that's not been right, you know, studied on that group, because we just don't know. And I just worry that the diabetes thing would become a real issue. It could. IMean, so that's the other thing is like, I've constantly been like, I haven't been trying to bulk, because for for that reason. So it's like, like everything that I've been doing this whole last, like, six months, it's been dieting to prevent side effects more than anything, you know, because like, IMean, shit, I've been on six grams of test for the last however many weeks, but I've been like dieting to prevent six grams of test, you know, kind of an interesting, it was probably hurt, but you could do. So sometimes we use potassium levels as a measurement of muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So like when you inject growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, it's going to cause phosphorus, sodium, nitrogen retention, and potassium retention. The nitrogen retention immediately doesn't mean muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, right? Like if you just if you come from a normal American diet, and you eat a big steak, and you test your nitrogen the next day, it's going to be elevated, that doesn't mean you grew tissue per se, if it's constantly held up, you're going to grow, most likely. But what we found is potassium levels in the muscle dictate actual new tissue, because your potassium storage capacity is limited by the amount of muscle you have. sodium doesn't mean anything sodium retention from steroids or from growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is outside of the cell. Right that again, that's a sodium potassium pump that everyone gets backwards. sodium doesn't go in the cell pulls it out of the cell. So you don't want to measure that amount. Like that's why we need to go through when you obtain water. Yeah. But if your potassium level like a baseline went up, it means that tissue is actually gained and not just right because when you start searching, you're not tissue immediately. That's nitrogen, sodium, like you can't grow tissue in a day. Yeah, or noticeable about. Yeah. It's interesting. Kind of cool. I'm not telling you to go get a biopsy, though.