 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by VERS DETACHMENT NUTRITION, battle-tested, expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, we are back with part 2 of Guy Sesternino and Nick Walker's talk on steroids. I had a lot of people in the comments section. I had a lot of people in the comments section ask me about their doses. They didn't mention it in their podcast. So we are going to play a hypothetical game and try to infer what we can and speculate on what they are taking. This will be a fun little exercise. I'm not saying this is what they do. This is what I'm guessing they do. So we'll have fun with this one and we'll dig into it all in just one second. I never found a need ever to go past 750 MIGs of test. Yes. Like my off-season was always like, it was usually Sust Anadrol and then maybe it was like EQ or it was NPP. So for me, I think my favorite is for the off-season. I don't do Oros in the off-season. I don't like Oros in the off-season. My version of an off-season, obviously we're going to touch shit, but it's almost to stay healthy in a healthy range. Because we all know when you get in a prep, shit goes hard a little bit. Yeah. So for me, I like to do test, EQ with a little NPP. But the dosages always stay very moderate. I don't like to push too high. And then depending on the timeframe, it might just go right into the prep. Yeah. Or we'll take a good little break in between and then start prep. Even the older you get, you find yourself being able to get away with doing less. A hundred percent. You still get in the shape as if you were doing double when you were younger. But if you're not eating enough, you're, you're, you know, you're fucking. I know. All right. So I played around with some ideas on what I thought they were doing from what I've seen other people do and what I've heard other people do. And from working with people and in their talk, they mentioned what they take. They both seem to like the test, EQ, Nandrolone, NPP, more specifically, combo in the offseason. That is what I've seen a lot of pros do. It's either test, EQ, and Nandrolone or test, Primo, and Nandrolone. The EQ and Primo are sort of interchangeable. I've seen guys use Primo. I've seen guys use EQ. The problem with Primo is finding real Primo. But I've heard a lot of guys run that test, EQ, Nandrolone combo in the offseason. The more old school dudes run Anadrol with that. The newer guys don't run Orals in the offseason. It seems like people now are staying away from Tran in the offseason. So when you hear him talk about moderate, safe, or whatever moderate, I don't think he means doses. I think he's probably talking about being moderate as in staying away from toxic compounds like Orals. And staying away from crap like Tran in the offseason. And maybe keeping the load a little bit lighter. And what's moderate to a pro is not moderate to the average gym bro. So moderate to a pro might be 2 to 3 grams. Who knows? You know, I'm just saying. I've seen some pro contest cycles that are upwards of 5 grams. You can take a look at the pro contest cycle that I had up that came from a pro coach. I have a video up about that. You can take a look at that. And it was a real cycle. And it peaked out at 5 grams at the end. It wasn't 5 grams through the whole thing. But that's where it maxed out. And Nick even acknowledged during the podcast that things get wacky on contest prep. So Guy said he likes to run 750 tests in the offseason. And he's pushed up higher before, but he didn't like it. He didn't feel good from it. That's been my experience too. And I get a lot of people telling me, oh, he's full of crap. That he's not running 750 tests in the offseason. You've got to remember, it's not just tests that he's running. I found that the pro doses that I've seen, and I said in my other video, about what pro offseason cycles look like are somewhere between 750 and 1.5 grams on the test. I've seen guys run up to as high as 1.5. Not that many. But somewhere in the 750 to a gram range seems to be sort of the normal operating range. I've heard Milo Sarchev talk about 750 is where he likes to run guys. It's been my experience. When you run much higher than that, you get a ton of DHT and estrogen conversion, and you just feel like crap. So that's when you layer in other stuff. Like he talked about EQ. He talked about adding an MPP on top of that. I'm sure there's some GH and maybe some insulin in there as well. So I kind of did the rough math. So the typical cycle I would see if he's really running 750 tests would be something like 600 EQ, 300 MPP, and then he's probably running 50 milligrams a day of Anadrol. He mentioned he liked running Anadrol. This was a guy I'm talking about. So you have a total there of about 2 grams per week. Now my guess is, and I hear a lot of pros say this, they'll say 750 milligrams per week. It's not really 750 milligrams per week. They're taking 1 cc a test, which is generally dosed at 250 every other day. So it's probably more like 875 a week if we want to split hairs. What they consider 750 a week is the 250 every other day. And the same thing with the EQ. It's probably more like 700. So still, it's like somewhere around 2, 2.2 grams per week total that he's taking. With growth hormone, guys, an old school dude, growth hormone is expensive. A lot of people think that these dudes have unlimited budget to run stuff and they don't. And I've just found that when you push growth hormone doses too high, that you end up with secondary side effects like numbness in your hand. You, uh, your insulin sensitivity goes to crap. And if your hands are numb, you can't, you can't grip the bar. And if you can't grip the bar, you can't lift weights. So it seems like the sweet spot that I've seen is somewhere in the six to eight units, maybe up to 10 units, but I generally do not see guys running more than 10 units. So my guess is probably guys running his, what he calls 750 test, 600 EQ, probably 300 MPP. And he's 50 milligrams of A-bombs per day in the offseason. And then running, you know, probably something like five, six units of GH with it. Uh, generic GH, you know, if they're, if, if he's using something like that is usually the kits are 10 units per vial. So probably five units a day. Let's just make it nice and even. That would be what I would guess that guy was running. I'm just speculating. I'm not saying this is what you should do. I'm not recommending that's what you should do. But inferring from what he said, if we kind of reverse engineer this from the 750 milligrams of tests per week, that's what I guess he would be doing. Now on the flip side of the equation, we have got Nick. Now let's take a guess at what Nick is doing. Nick didn't jump on the bandwagon with guy and saying, yeah, I'm running 750 tests a week. So I would say it's safe to assume that Nick is not doing that. He's probably running more. Uh, that would be, that would be my, my guess. Now, most of the modern pros that I see are running somewhere around a gram to a gram and a half of tests per week. And Nick said he's being more conservative with it now. So let's, let's make an assumption that he's running, um, the half a CC of 300 milligram dose tests per day. So let's just say a half a CC, which is 150 milligrams, which works out to be a thousand fifty per week. So we'll just say roughly a gram of tests per week. Um, he mentioned EQ as well. EQ, most of the modern EQ is dosed at 300 milligrams. So we'll say 150 milligrams of EQ every day, which would be a gram of EQ per week. And he said, uh, you know, and some, some MPP in there as well. So MPP is usually, I see it does somewhere between 100 and 150 milligrams per milliliter, but let's just go with a hundred and say that he's taking one CC of that per day. So we're talking about, uh, 100 milligrams per day, which would be 700 milligrams per week. All right. This is just me speculating. So we're talking about 2.8 grams of anabolics. AAS is per week for Nick in the offseason. That's just my guess. Um, I've heard that the guys that Matt Jansen works with run higher, uh, HGH, you know, so I don't know if that's true or not, but you know, that's just what I've heard people say. So let's just say that Nick is on the higher end of the spectrum and running somewhere around eight to 10 units of HGH per day. And I can almost 100% guarantee that there's been some insulin in there at some point too, as well with his, the way his physique looks guy might not be running insulin. He's not as big as Nick is. And, uh, it's almost always a guarantee when you see guys eating shit, tons of carbs, when they're pounding large amounts of carbs, like thousand grams per day, there has to be insulin in there to be able to deal with all those carbs. It's just, it's just the way it is. I, you're, you're not going to be eating that kind of a carbohydrate intake and not have insulin in the mix. So my, you know, I'm not even going to speculate about insulin doses. insulin doses really are whatever's appropriate to deal with the amount of carbs that you're eating. So I, my guess would be is that Nick is running insulin. Nick is running HGH. He said he likes to keep things safe in the offseason. He said he stays away from orals, which is what I see with a lot of modern pros. They don't run orals. So somewhere around 2.8 grams that, that thousand milligrams of tests, thousand milligrams of EQ, six, 700 milligrams of NPP per week. That would be my guess at what he's running in the offseason. That is what is considered a, a safer cycle in the pro ranks. I'm not saying that you should do that. You know, I see skinny dudes all the time that take lots of gear and don't get big. So in Nick even mentioned this, he talked about without the food, you're fucked. That's exactly what he said. Those are exactly his words. Without the food, you are screwed. So if you're not eating, it doesn't matter what you take. And, you know, keep in mind, this is something that they have progressed to over a long period of time. If you take that much out of the gate, it's not going to do anything for you. But guys, this is just my guess. This is your, just my thoughts. Let me know what you think in the comment section below about my guess on what these guys are taking. This is purely hypothetical. I apologize to them if I'm way off on this, but I bet you I'm pretty close. Let me know what you guys think and thank you for your support. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.