 warning, warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by, first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey guys, Big Paul here today and we are going to take a trip down memory lane back to the good old 90's and talk about 90's bodybuilding and steroid cycles. I was in my 20's and the 90's, I'm dating myself here for you young guys. You don't know how good you have it now, you live in the golden age of PED information. We couldn't find anything back then and it was crazy, it was like whispers in the gym, you know, stuff that you heard about. You'd have to know somebody to know somebody who knew how to do things and that's how it worked back in the 90's. There was no internet, there was no Instagram, there was no YouTube, there was no message boards. It was a very, very different world. And I'm going to talk about all this in just one second. So you young guys, you have no idea how lucky you have it right now. There's so much information available. Some of it is absolute trash information. I will say that that is one big issue that there is now. There's a lot of garbage information out there, but at least you have access to good stuff. Hopefully I put good stuff out there. But things back in the 90's, we didn't have access to that information and we had to talk to somebody who knew somebody, who knew something about something and the stuff was like whispers in the locker room. Like you didn't even want to bring it up, you know. It was very taboo. Steroids were very taboo in the 90's, at least when I first got into the gym. I think I started lifting, trying to think I was, I don't know, 17, 16. So I'm trying to think that would have been, I'm really dating myself here, 1990. And I definitely knew about steroids. I was aware of them after I'd been lifting for a couple of years. I recall remembering Arnold Schwarzenegger's Encyclopedia of Bodybuilding. And I followed Arnold's program for like six months and I didn't gain a damn pound and I didn't get stronger. I followed his diet. The part that was missing from the book was his D-ball and DECA cycle. He didn't mention that. So stuff was very much hidden back then. And the only source of information that we had for bodybuilding back in the 90's was the bodybuilding magazines. And according to the bodybuilding magazines, things like Flex and Muscle Mag, everybody was natty. They never talked about steroids. It was all about the fake supplements that they were taking back then. I remember the Cybergenics steroid replacement system. Steroid replacement system. Any of you guys that were around back then, you remember that one. What a crock of BS. And it was super expensive. And no, I didn't get big from taking steroids. I took Cybergenics. And this is the type of crap that bodybuilders were spewing back then. I see guys now get upset when dudes lie about their doses. Guys back then didn't even admit that they were taking anything. It was all Cybergenics and chicken breasts. Anyway, I remember later on down the road, I talked to a guy in the gym who introduced me to D-ball. D-ball. He told me about D-ball. D-ball is what makes you huge. And that's what made Arnold Schwarzenegger huge. I also remember later on finding some of these different books that people made about steroids in the back of the magazines. They had like these classified ads in the back of magazines for wild stuff. I remember there was a book I bought called The Steroid Bible. I still have it upstairs in my house somewhere locked away. I see them online, sold it for a couple hundred bucks, but it had all these steroid cycles outlined in it. And what different cycles were. It was a spiral bound book and I remember it was expensive and waiting for it to come in the mail. And I felt like I was doing something wrong by ordering it and receiving it. And I was reading like the secrets to the universe and looking back on it. A lot of the information that was in there was just terrible and wrong. The other one was Dante Trudell. I think this was in the later nineties. He put out a newsletter called Hardcore Muscle. I remember picking that up and reading that and they would talk about stuff in there as well. And Dan Duchesne had his underground steroid handbook that I also picked up at some point. All of the information back then was very rudimentary to what you have available to you now. But, you know, looking back on it fondly, I remember the excitement of getting that package in the mail and reading about this stuff. So in the nineties, we had limited options for gear. There wasn't a lot of stuff available. It was basically what some bro at the gym had left over in his gym bag. And you would maybe pick it up from him if you befriended somebody. There wasn't like some source that you could go to to get stuff. It was just all very hush hush in the back of the locker room. You had to know somebody to know somebody who was willing to share a little bit of dbol or whatever with you. One of the things that I that's really wild to think back about that there was no estrogen management really back in the nineties. There were no AIs. Tamoxifen was available back then, but nobody I knew of even talked about it or used it. Probably on the pro level, it was being used. You know, so really at the at the gym, it was just whatever we could get our hands on. And it wasn't a lot of stuff that was available. It was mostly things like Deka, dbol, and a draw, maybe some wind strong. Mostly what I saw going around was test Deka and dbol. That was really, really it. It's a manager all here and there. GH, I didn't even know about GH until the two thousands. You know, I know pros were running it at the time and very limited doses because it was incredibly expensive at that time. But we didn't know about it at the local amateur level at the gym. Nobody knew anything about GH. Same thing with insulin. insulin was not, not around. I know the pros were also running Parabolin, which is Trembalon. Nobody knew about Trembalon. I never heard of Tran until the early two thousands. And same thing with insulin. I know Milos had some guys running insulin, but I think that was only at the pro level. And that information wasn't shared down the ranks. I didn't know of anybody or hear of anybody running insulin back then. It just wasn't even a thing. Cycles were very, very, very simple back then. I remember one friend I had would take a trip down to Mexico once a year to stock up and then he would come back and you know, he would have his stock for the year. And it was usually just very simple stuff like running test and dbol. Nothing crazy. The one thing though that was kind of nice back then is there was not all these, this bathtub gear, the, the underground labs and stuff that you have now. Everything was pharmaceutical grade, at least that I saw back then. It was all real pharmaceutical grade steroids. Everything was, you know, from a lab made, made by a pharmaceutical company. I don't recall seeing anything that was, was made by UGL. I don't, I don't recall seeing anything like that. So doses back then, what doses looked like in the nineties, most gym bros were running really, really, really, really low doses. We had no idea what, what dosing should look like. Like, I mean, I typical cycle, like I remember guys running like something like 25 milligrams of dbol. That was five dbol pills. You know, we thought that was a lot. I know, I, I know guys were starting off with just one five milligram pill of dbol per day. And then probably some DECA deck. I heard of a lot of guys running DECA and dbol back then. And the DECA back then was dosed at 200 milligrams per milliliter. So it was something like 200 milligrams of DECA per week with 25 milligrams of dbol. And that was considered a spicy cycle or maybe anadrol with it instead. But it was usually something like DECA and a oral, whether that was anadrol or dbol. Uh, and then when you go to contest prep, guys would drop that stuff and then just shift the wind straw. I know plenty of guys back then that would get ready for a bodybuilding contest, just running something like wind straw at 50 milligrams for seven or eight weeks. And that was all they did to get ready for a contest prep because nothing else was available. So there were no AIs available during the nineties. So you had really no choice with estrogen management. The only way that you could get dry was to use a DHT compound. We didn't understand the mechanisms of why the DHT dried you out. We just knew that wind straw was dry. DECA and test and dbol were wet and anadrol was for strength. That's, that's how rudimentary things were. And those were really our options that we had at the gym bro level. Now the pros were doing a lot of different stuff. We know what the pros back then were running in. It was just whispers at that time. Nobody actually knew, but we know now because the guys talk about it. I've heard Dorian talk about his cycles. I think, you know, I heard him say on some podcast that he was running like a gram and a half, something like 750 milligrams of test and 600 milligrams of DECA with some dbol on top of it. That was like Dorian's offseason cycle from what I recall. So like a gram and a half or maybe a little bit more than a gram and a half. When you think about it, it makes sense because sustenine came dosed in the 250 milligrams per milliliter ampules. So he would take three of them a week, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, or every other day. I don't know. So we'd end up being a little bit more, but that's how guys did things back then. I took three of this and two of that. We weren't measuring things out in grams like guys do now. So it was, I took three sustenines. I took three DECAs. I took five D balls, you know, so that's the way guys talked about doses back then. It was none of this. I was taking a gram and a half or whatever, but that from what I remember, that's how guys talked about dosing. We know now that pros were running growth hormone back then. It was mostly during contest prep only. Growth hormone was incredibly expensive and incredibly difficult to find back then. We know that some pros were running insulin. Probably that's why it's size shot up. And that was from Milo Sarchev. As far as I know, he was the first guy to really bring insulin to the game. I think he was the one that pioneered it. I could be wrong about that, but that's what I recall hearing. But none of us at the local gym bro level knew anything about that during the 90s. Cycle lengths. Now, everybody I knew back then would cycle on and off. There was this dogma that you had to take off as long as you were on. And nobody knew anything about PCT. None of that was done in the 90s from what I recall. There was no AI to control estrogen rebound. So you would cycle. A typical cycle back then would be 12 weeks on, 12 weeks off. That's what I heard. That was the typical way that people ran things. I'm going on for 12 weeks. I'm taking off for 12 weeks. And then you would completely crash and lose everything. Feel like shit. We didn't know why. But now we know that that is not the optimal way to do things. But that was the sort of gym bro philosophy back then. I never heard of anybody. You were crazy if you ran more than 12 weeks. I never heard of anybody running more than, you know, maybe. I never heard of anybody running more than like 750 milligrams of gear in a week. So it might be something like 250 milligrams of test. 200 milligrams of DECA. Or if you're really crazy, 500 milligrams of test. 200 milligrams of DECA. And like 25 milligrams of D-Ball a day. Or at most 50 milligrams of D-Ball a day. So something like a gram. That was like the upper limit. You were a badass if you were running a cycle like that in the 90s. That was a high end cycle for a local gym bro back in the 90s. I don't recall anybody running more than that back then. And you would do it your 12 weeks on your 12 weeks off. And that was it. That was really basic how dudes did it back then. Things have changed a lot now. So I hope you guys enjoyed this trip down memory lane. I want to give a quick shout out to my sponsor First Detachment Nutrition. Their information is in my video description. If you want to support me, you can support First Detachment. Head over there. Check out their awesome supplements formulated by the man himself, Justin Harris. Use the discount code AB10 for 10% off at checkout. Rock on guys. Thank you for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.