 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, used discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. and a bunch of other questions today. We're going to dig into all these in just one second. All right. First question of the day is from KoosJr4388. He says, you're a beautiful man, Paul. I don't know that I'm beautiful, but I'm glad you think so. Are 10-minute walks after every meal a true answer to insulin sensitivity problems? I think it was Stan Efferding was the person who advocated for the 10-minute walks. I know this might be a shock, but the more you move, the better your insulin sensitivity is going to be. That's just the simple truth of it. If you eat a meal and you go sit down and you're a fat ass, your insulin sensitivity is probably going to be worse. I think Stan's system, what he had people doing, if I recall correctly, he suggested doing 10-minute walks pre-meal to help with your insulin sensitivity before meals. It also helps with hunger. However, I tell myself a million times that I'm going to do them, and then I just get caught up with my day and I get so busy I never end up doing them. But yes, certainly being active, doing more exercise is going to improve insulin sensitivity. There's a million other ways you can do it too, just by eating less, exercising, losing fat. Probably the simplest and easiest thing that you can do to improve insulin sensitivity is just to lose weight. As your body fat drops, your insulin sensitivity generally improves unless you have something seriously going on. I'll notice like with people that I tren that I'll have them measure their blood glucose as part of their check-ins, and we will see that insulin sensitivity starts to decline towards the end of off-season as you push, especially with pushing carbohydrates. And then you get on contest prep, you start losing weight, and as you lose weight, insulin sensitivity improves. Sometimes I'll notice on contest prep that I'll start goinGHypo even without using insulin towards the end, that my insulin sensitivity has gotten so high at that point. So seriously, just lifting weights. Lifting weights is another thing that's going to improve insulin sensitivity. Doing cardio is going to improve it, but the single biggest thing that you can do is just lose some weight if you want to improve insulin sensitivity. There's other tools that you can deploy as well. Well, berberine seems to have an effect on insulin sensitivity. There's metformin, there's some other things. But really, just getting fit, losing weight, it's probably going to be the single biggest thing that you can do to improve insulin sensitivity. CballGetBall937 asks, What is your take on taking amino acids, supplementing them? Well, in theory, if you're eating enough high-quality protein, probably from animal sources, I'm not trying to discount vegans. There are ways that you can get high-quality protein as a vegan. You're going to have to vary your protein sources. But if you're eatinGHigh-quality animal protein, you are going to have amino acid needs mostly covered. I don't see a situation where you wouldn't have it covered. Now, with that said, I do use EAAs. There is some evidence that taking EAAs intra-workout does seem to improve recovery and help with muscle protein synthesis. How much it does, I really don't know. But if you're eating quality protein throughout the day, you're going to get all the essential amino acids in that you need. I know back in the day before there was high-quality amino acid supplements that you could take intra-workout, we would just put a little whey protein with our dextrose, I think is what we used at that time, or waxy maize. I think it was waxy maize that we would use 20, 30 years ago in our intra-workout shakes. Talk about a sludge shake to drink while you're working out. It would upset your stomach. But that was the way that we kept protein and essential amino acids high while we worked out. And got some intra-workout carbs in. This was 20, 30 years ago. Now you can find pre-mixed intra-workout drinks. First Detachment has their field rations that already has EAAs and a highly branched cyclic dextrin in it if you want to go that route. But if you're eating enough protein throughout the day, gettinGHigh-quality protein sources in, you're going to have that covered. There's likely not going to be a situation where you're not going to have that. Now sometimes I will do fasted cardio and contest prep and I will sip on some EAAs. Then that is a situation where IMight use it. Or if I'm on the road, I'll have some EAAs with me IMight sip on. I've heard a bodybuilder sipping on them between meals. It's likely unnecessary. It's one of those things that's probably going to make almost no difference at all. And I would say focus on getting your diet structured before worrying about supplementing EAAs. That is going to be the single biggest thing that you can do to improve your results in the gym. If you have a structured diet that you're following where you're getting plenty of protein and you have all your bases covered, then you probably don't need to worry about the EAAs. All right. Aggie Fitness asks, How to prevent hair loss on Masteron and Primo. Some people shed hair like crazy on it. And I've heard that phenosteroid doesn't help as it's not DHT related hair loss. Okay. So a couple things to unpack here. Primo and Masteron do not reduce. First, phenosteroid is a 5AR inhibitor and it's going to stop the reduction of testosterone to DHT. Primo and Masteron are already reduced. So there's no reduction that is going on. So thus, phenosteroid is going to do nothing. Now, all synthetic androgens, from what I understand, we don't fully understand the mechanisms of hair loss. If we did, we would have it cured right now. But for androgenic alopecia, in theory, mine, this is in theory, all androgens can cause a certain degree of hair loss. Some bind more strongly to the AR and the hair follicle and cause gene trenscription with us hair loss. If you're, this is the important thinGHere. If you're genetically prone to hair loss, really all you can do is delay it to a certain degree, but it's going to catch up with you at some point. All my hair fell out in my late 30s, early 40s. I think I ended up shaving my head around when I was 40 years old. I had a pretty full hair, full head of hair through my 20s. And in my late 20s, I noticed I started shedding. I did some things to slow it down, like using topical minoxidil. And I tried phenosteroid for a while. And then eventually I just gave up and said, screw it, I'm going to be bald. Eventually, I'd rather be jacked anyway. So if you are genetically predisposed to baldness, it doesn't really matter what you take. You're going to be bald eventually. Now you can slow it down. There are some compounds that seem to be more aggressive at causinGHair loss than others. DHT is likely going to be the most guilty culprit of causing rapid hair loss. If you're taking testosterone, blocking DHT with a phenosteroid is probably going to be helpful. But phenosteroid comes with its own set of problems. I know some people that use topical phenosteroid with microneedling and all that stuff. But most of those people end up either and end up getting a hair trensplant at some point. There's only so long you can stave it off. You're not going to reverse it. It just eventually catches up with you. So if you're worried about going bald, probably don't take steroids. All right, next question is from Josh Bohaksic. I hope I'm saying that correctly. I have a CPAP machine, but I have not been able to sleep with it on throughout the night. Any other options besides CPAP or suggestions? But man, Josh, I've had the same issue. I sometimes wear my CPAP. I sometimes don't. I have a Apple Watch, the new one, the Ultra that has the blood oxygen meter. And my blood oxygen levels are terrible at night when I don't wear my CPAP. I've seen times where they'll get down at the low 90s, which is not good. And when I wear the CPAP, it's 97, 98. So it definitely has an impact. And I noticed that when I don't wear it, I will also be tired during the day. My blood pressure rises. I rip the damn thing off in the middle of the night sometimes in a panic or I just take it off and I don't even realize that I take it off. There are surgical procedures. I can't remember the name of the one. There is a surgical procedure now that they have where they can go in and they have this device that they implant and you push a button and it opens up your air pathway when you sleep. There's also dental options. There's these things that will keep your, supposedly keep your air pathway open, but I don't know how well they work. Probably the easiest and simplest solution is just to try your best to get used to the CPAP. I still have a hard time with it. I'm better than what I used to be. I remember before I could not use it for more than an hour or two. And my doctor told me, if I can at least wear it for half the night, that is way better than not wearing it at all. So I would try that. That surgical procedure I talked about, I remember seeing it, it's something like 20 grand. I just remember the name of it. It's called Inspire is the name of the surgery where they put the implant in. And you can look that up if you want to check it out. I don't know a whole lot about it. I did briefly look at it, but it is incredibly expensive. I don't know that insurance is going to cover it, but that is an option. So you could always try one of the dental products. They're these things you put in your mouth, keep your mouth open, that maybe or maybe not would help, but you can always see and see what happens. But I would just try to get used to the CPAP if you can. It is going to have some benefits. I know it sucks, but do your best with it. All right, baby boomer fit ask, what is the school of thought between fasted cardio early morning versus cardio after the workout and cardio before the workout? Is one better than the other or is it just a myth? All right, so here's the thing with fasted cardio and post-workout cardio and pre-workout cardio. At the end of the day, losing fat is about net energy balance. You are going to need to burn more than you are taking in to lose fat. Now, studies have shown when you do fasted cardio that proportionally the amount of energy burn when doing that cardio is more from fat stores than it would be if it were not fasted. I like doing fasted cardio, but I would argue if you're looking to preserve muscle that maybe fasted cardio is not the best idea. I like doing it. I like just getting it over with in the morning. That way I don't have to think about it the rest of the day. It sets me up for the day. I have more energy. As far as post-workout or pre-workout cardio, my thought process here, I don't think there's really any benefit as far as fat burning goes, but I want to be able to put my 100% into my workout when I am on a contest prep. And how well are you going to be able to lift if you do your cardio for 30 minutes before you actually tren? So I would save it for afterwards. I want to maximize the amount of energy that I have to put into my trening. So if I do my cardio beforehand, I am tapping into those reserves and probably making my workout worse. So when you do your cardio, it doesn't really matter. I think last year, about halfway through my contest prep, I ended up just switching to doing it in the middle of the day. You know, I had a break for lunch from work. I would just do it then. And at the beginning of prep, I was doing it post-workout and then sometimes fasted. But I got to the point where I just was putting it in in the middle of the day and I still got shredded. So when you do it, probably doesn't matter. Do whatever fits your schedule best. I would stay away from pre-workout, like I said, because it's probably going to impact your lifting. And then otherwise, just do it whenever it's convenient for you. All right, folks, I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, The Scientific Principles of Anabolics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. All right, this one is from Mark Enzone. This is a tough question. How much do you know about the risk of running GH if you've had a history of cancer? I battled stage four 22 years ago. I've done most compounds since my bodybuilding career, 10 years and counting, but I don't have any info or know of any bodybuilders that have run GH or even peptides like BPC-157 or TB-500. I cannot find enough solid information to understand if it's safe for cancer survivors. Well, Mark, I've had cancer. I'm taking GH. I'm probably stupid. Here's the thing. From what I understand, don't quote me on this. I'm not a medical doctor. I'm not giving you medical advice. But from what I understand, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone does not cause cancer, but will accelerate the growth hormone hormone hormone of existing cancers. So if there's cells in your body that are cancerous, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone is going to speed up the growth hormone hormone hormone of those. Honestly, everything that we do for bodybuilding probably puts you at greater risk if you're a cancer survivor. Anything that's going to promote tissue growth hormone hormone hormone is probably the wrong thing that we want for cancer. We want to limit tissue growth hormone hormone hormone if you are a former cancer survivor. Now, with that said, this is not my advice to you, but this is how I think. I want to live my life and I want to live it to the fullest. And sometimes that involves taking chances. I know I'm taking chances by doing the things that I'm doing. And at some point I'll pull back. Hopefully it doesn't come back to bite me in the ass. But that's what I am doing. But my general advice would be if you've had cancer before, I would probably stay away from GH. But that's a personal decision that you're going to have to make. It's a very touchy one. I would stay away from GH. Probably not the smartest thing to do if you've had cancer previously. They steer away from it. All right, next question from Dr. Deca. Can you run Proviron year-round? I'm on TRT plus Primo. And should Proviron be cycled on or off? I used to run Proviron at the end of contest prep. It is very expensive and doesn't do a whole lot, to be honest with you. If you're already taking PrimoBolin, I can't think of a compelling reason why you would want to take Proviron on top of PrimoBolin. All the benefits that you're going to leverage from Proviron, you're going to get likely from the PrimoBolin. It's not to mention you're going to be crushing your SHBG, which some people would argue is a bad thing. I don't know of a compelling reason. Now, if you were just running TRT, then maybe you could package Proviron with it. But I, you know, my advice would be just to stay away from it. Save your money. Just run the PrimoBolin with the testosterone and call it a day. All right, next question from Russo911. He asked, which is better for bodybuilding, metformin or ozempic? I am assuming that you are talking about fat loss. I have a controversial take here, and I'm probably the only one in this camp. You can look it up yourself. There are many, many studies, and I need to do a video on it, showing where metformin has a similar effect on hunger hormone signaling, maybe even better than a semi-glutide without all the damn side effects that you have from semi-glutide. I, my argument would be, for me, semi-glutide ozempic doesn't really have much of a place in bodybuilding, in my opinion. Really, the only benefit that you're reaping from it as far as bodybuilding goes is the hunger suppression. Hunger hormone signaling is improved with semi-glutide. I can't think of a compelling reason why a bodybuilder would need that. Most of us are very good at controlling our hunger and fighting through hunger. ozempic or something like that really is better for people that have disordered hunger hormone signaling. I'm not anti-ozempic, but I think that there is a use case for it for obese people, maybe that have disordered hunger hormone signaling, or somebody that has absolutely zero willpower and can't control themselves. Maybe in that situation, taking something like ozempic semi-glutide is a better option than being obese. But for us that have done shows that know how to cut, I can't think of a compelling reason to take it. And also there's some potential downsides, such as gastroparesis, and it seems that it slows gastric emptying. There is some anecdotal evidence out there that it may permanently slow that. So when we shift into an off-season, we want gastric emptying to be high. We don't want it to be low because that's going to impact our ability to eat in the off-season. And for me, if this is a permanent result, it's probably a negative side effect. Now with metformin, metformin has been around for 100 years or so. I'm not sure how long it's been in use. It's close to 100 years. We know all the potential downsides in metformin, which is mostly just gut distress. Semiglutide hasn't been around that long. We don't know what the long-term effects of it are. So I would lean towards metformin if you need help in that area. Metformin also seems to have some other added benefits with bodybuilding that I have seen as far as improved insulin sensitivity. Not that ozempic can't do that as well, but it also, it seems to improve insulin sensitivity. It seems to improve muscle fullness. It seems to help with, I could be wrong about this, but I vaguely recall that it has an impact on glute forward trensport. So I, for me, if I were going to choose one, it would probably be metformin. I don't use metformin that frequently anymore, maybe on contest prep. But if you need one, I would use probably metformin over ozempic for bodybuilding. Otherwise, you probably don't need either. All right. Next one is from Mo Abdelit. I think that's right. I don't know. It could be slaughtered. He said, can you take insulin while cutting when you're using four units of Pharma GH? I don't use insulin while I'm cutting. You, if your calories are low, your insulin sensitivity is going to be improving. You're in a calorie deficit. You're going to be doing cardio. There's no need for insulin. You don't need it. Your body's going to make more than enough to handle whatever carbohydrates that you're eating. Your insulin sensitivity is going to be high. Your risk of havinGHypoglycemic event is even higher when you're on a contest prep. Once in a blue moon, I will run it on my high carb days. I ran it last year on my carb loading day going into the show. But I found that as I get deeper into the show, when I have used insulin, I just end up goinGHypo. And then you have to eat more. And then you don't lose weight because you've gone hypo. And you have to eat more food. So I don't find it to be a productive tool to use on cutting. It's more of an off-season tool. When you're pushing food and you're probably pushing more food than what your body can handle, then insulin can be a useful tool. But for the off-season, I would likely just, or for the, sorry, for the contest prep or fat loss phase, I would just steer away from it. All right, last question here from DD Total Fitness. He asked, how does the off-season cycle differ from contest prep? Or is it just more of a dietary change thing? Well, it's very different on contest prep. Typically, in the off-season, you're going to see bodybuilders run testosterone, an anabolic, and HGH. Sometimes two anabolics. But typically, that's how an off-season cycle is structured. There's going to be, for advanced bodybuilders, potentially some insulin in the mix. And when you shift into contest prep, typically what you'll see is you ride the off-season cycle into the contest prep. You're going to use the same compounds probably at the beginning of your contest prep. And then you're going to slowly tilt the scale the other way. You're going to lower your testosterone, and you're going to increase the DHT compounds to dry you out. tren is often going to be added in in the last six to eight weeks of contest prep to add, to give you an additional physique enhancement to harden you up. Orals sometimes are used at the end of contest prep. I shouldn't say sometimes. Most often used at the end of contest prep. And testosterone continually drops as you go through contest prep because testosterone tends to make you hold water and keeps your estrogen higher. So you want to get a harder, more chiseled look towards the end of contest prep. You have to pull that down. Also, fat burners are going to be thrown in as you get deeper into contest prep. Things like clenbuterol and thyroid hormone are often used on contest prep as well. So it's completely different than the off-season. Off-season, we want to keep the toxic compounds as low as possible. We generally want to stay away from orals because they affect your appetite. They seem to lower your appetite. All orals, everybody I've talked to that's a pro bodybuilder, all orals seem to lower their appetite and they generally steer away from them as they get advanced and you save the toxic shit for like tren when you're on contest prep. It doesn't matter if your appetite gets buried a little bit at the end of contest prep because you're already in a state where you probably don't want to eat anyway and you want to lose additional fat so that can be somewhat of a benefit but in the off-season we want to maximize appetite and using toxic compounds like tren and orals is not a good fit for the off-season because it tends to affect that. You also want to have your sleep to be great in the off-season tren affects that as well. So off-season is basic, safe, easy to use compounds, well tolerated. Contest prep, there are some reasons to use the more toxic compounds because of the because of the cosmetic benefit but we want to limit that window to like the last six or eight weeks. All right folks, that's all I've got for you on this one. I hope you enjoyed this. Thank you for watching. Take care. For coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name my name