 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. So, I may cut it short for whatever, I may cut it short for 20 weeks. If everything goes perfectly, then we'll extend it out to 20 weeks. A lot of this is just reactive to how your body responds. But I usually like to lay out a roadmap at the beginning to see sort of where I'm going. And then if we need to make adjustments along the way, we make adjustments along the way. You don't try to force it. It's like, I think my trainer Justin Harris said, it's like surfing. You gotta kinda ride the wave and see where the wave takes you. Anyway, we'll dig into all of it in just one second. All right, vitals for this week. My fasted weight is up to 274. My weight keeps going up. I'm definitely getting paranoid about getting fat. I don't like the offseason, I'll be honest with you. I'm probably the guy that would be a perma- I talk about perma-bulkers. I was a perma-bulker in my 20s. Like, I never wanted to cut because I never thought I was big enough. And then like, my brain has shifted. Like, I don't like carrying any excess body fat now. I feel like a turd. I feel like a turd. What I do. So, if I had a proclivity for any sort of thinking now, it would be a perma-cutter. And if I wasn't competing, I'd probably just try to stay lean year-round. Probably in that, you know, 10-12% body fat range. Um, and keep fit and look lean year-round. Um, I don't like bulking. I don't like shoving down food. I don't like feeling big. I don't like getting out of breath, tying my shoes. Ha! Ha! Putting on socks is a chore. Uh, anybody who's gotten up over 250 before will know what I'm talking about. It's-it's-it's very uncomfortable. Sleeping sucks. Um, everything fucking sucks when you start getting up near 300 pounds. Uh, I've been up to 300 once before. It was not a pretty 300. It was a power lifter 300. Ha! Um, you know, I don't know where I'll end up at this time around. But, um, you know, we-we may get up to 300. Who knows? My-my daytime weight is 283, 284 right now. I actually made this presentation yesterday, but I-when I was at the gym tonight, I'll wait to get myself, I was almost 284. So, a couple more high days, uh, I may be up there. Um, uh, everybody always asks me how tall I am. I'll say it again. I am s-just probably a hair under 6'2". Um, I don't know. I used to be taller when I was younger. I think my spine is compressed as I've gotten older. That really is a thing. Um, but, yeah, I'm like 6'1 and 3 quarters. So, you know, if you want to be technical, round up, I'm probably 6'2". If I was competing in, uh, classic physique, I would probably be in that 6'1 to 6'2 bracket. Or whatever it is, 6'2". I don't remember how they-they size it. I'm too big for classic. I don't fit in the weight classes anymore. I'm hoping to be 250 on stage. Uh, or, you know, mid, you know, 245, 250 on stage next year. So, definitely not making the classic cutoff. Uh, my fasting, uh, blood pressure this week is 128 over 80. I remember I was telling you guys, uh, it kind of got high there at the beginning. Um, that always happens to me at the beginning of cycles. Uh, and Prima Bolin seems to bring my blood pressure up for whatever reason. Um, usually orals will. I'm not doing a ton of cardio and I'm eating a bunch of food. Um, although my food is pretty clean at this point. But I've always struggled with blood pressure medicine, or blood pressure. I've been on blood pressure meds since I was in college. So, if that gives you any indication. I was 170 some pounds in college and my blood pressure would get high. So, it's a genetic thing. It runs in my family. Um, everybody in my family is diabetic and who's on blood pressure medicine. But for whatever reason, they all live to be, you know, 90 years old. I don't know how that works. But, who the fuck knows. Uh, fasting glucose. Astrophic glucose is in the high 90s. That's just sort of where I hang out. Um, health. Uh, I feel okay. Uh, I've been, I've been okay this week. Strength is, you know, strength is really fucking good right now. I'll be honest with you. I'm strong as fuck on everything. Ha! I, a couple years ago. I guess a year and a half ago. I dropped using free weights. I stopped doing free weight squats. Barbell bench presses. Dead lips. All that shit. And went to more machines and dumbbells. Because, um, I don't know. I was just worried about risk of injury. And, and like, if the risk of injury was worth taking to do those sorts of exercises. And I went back to machines and dumbbells. I've like, maxed out all the machines and dumbbells. I'm like doing 12 to 15 reps on fucking everything right now. You know, I can rep out the 150 pound dumbbells on, on, on presses and stuff. So, I don't know what I'm going to do. I, I, I, I might have to go back to using some barbell movements or just throw more sets at it, I guess. I don't know. We'll, we'll, we'll see. But, I don't know. I'm not really doing a ton of gear right now. I guess it's the, the strength is related to my weight going up. I don't know. I, I'm not one of these people that thinks there's a one to one correlation between, you know, the, the, between strength and muscle size. There are some people that, that have that philosophy that the stronger you are, the bigger you are. I don't necessarily buy into that all the time. You know, and there, there is sort of a relation, but I see a lot of power lifters that aren't that big, that are really fucking strong. Um, and I see some really big bodybuilders that aren't strong. So, I don't know. Um, you know, it's not to say that you don't progress. I do try to progress my weights. I do try to progress my, um, volume. People think because I do high volume training that I'm not still progressing. I do make every attempt to progress. If I, if I can cleanly move up my weights, keep my form tight, um, and stay within the parameters of my weight. In the parameters of my rep scheme and set scheme, I will 100% be aggressive with advancing weights. I, I still do believe in progressive overload to a certain extent. Um, I, I've been feeling a little bit fatigued over the last week or so. I don't, I did up my GH to eight units. Maybe that's it. A lot of times when I've tried it before, when I get my GH up high, I'm just fucking tired all the time. GH definitely makes you tired. Um, so I don't know. Maybe, maybe it's that. I don't know. Um, it could be just I'm due for a deload. Usually I take a deload at six weeks. Um, on my, after six weeks in the way I break up my training. Um, and I'm coming up on the six week mark. And I find that usually I'm pretty beat up at the end of six weeks of doing the high volume training. Uh, progress picks right now. This is where I'm at. Um, yeah, I mean, I'm pretty big right now. You can see I'm a big bloated fucker. Ha, ha, ha. I'm pretty bloated up. Um, but you know, you can still see separation in my legs and veins in my legs. And I can still see the outline of my abs. That is sort of my hard and fast rule. I can't see the outline of my abs. I've gotten too fat. That's the time to pull back. You should be able to see the outline of your abs. Um, I don't know, but right now, this is probably about as high as I'd like to let my body fat get. Um, you can see here, I'm definitely carrying some fat on my lower back. I actually shaved my back for those of you that care. Um, so you can see what's going on. I can still see some separation of my hamstrings. I don't know. I'm just a little mushy up front. I need to shave off the fucking hair so I can see what's going on there. But, but you can still, you know, you can still see some abs. You can still see some separation in my shoulders and my legs. Um, so I, everybody asks me what I, what my body fat is. I have no fucking clue. I don't know. Don't care. Um, I just focus on the pictures. I think people get overly consumed with body fat percentages and nobody's asking you when you get on stage, what your body fat percentage is. Only other bros ask you what your body fat percentage is. The judges don't care. Uh, no, nobody's asking you how much you bench. Nobody's asking you how much your dad left. Nobody's asking what your body fat percentage is. When you get on stage, they judge you on how your physique looks. So if you want to be a competitor, you need to focus on what your physique looks like. That makes sense, right? Um, offseason diet, nothing's changed since the last week. We're just, you kind of get in this point where you just get in a groove with your diet, where you just keep rolling with it. Um, I see that with my clients. You know, it takes a while to sort of figure out where the metabolism is and it's dynamic. It changes from time to time. This is, uh, this is why I like people that want me to write them one off diets. I just tell them like I can, but I don't know how much it's going to help you because your metabolism is always in flux. Uh, your energy demand is always in flux and nothing is static when it comes to this. You, you have at least the good coaches that I've seen in the past. They, they watch how your body is responding. They evaluate the pictures and see what your physique looks like. And they make adjustments based on that from week to week. Sometimes you don't need to make adjustments. Sometimes you do. So pre-canned formulas and pre-canned, um, diets in my experience are suboptimal. I'm not saying they, they aren't helpful. It's better than having nothing. But if you really want to dial things in, you almost need to make week by week assessments and adjustments to your diet. Hell, I, you know, I have a friend of mine that's working with Chris Sosito for a contest prep. And from what I understand, Chris is like, like changing things almost daily. Um, you know, that's how detailed he gets with stuff. So in, you know, I'm not saying that that's necessary for 99% of you, but, um, that's sort of what it takes to be at that top level. I'm not going to go into the macros. I, you know, I, I, I did that last week. You know, I'm eating somewhere around a thousand grams of carbs on high days. Um, go back here. Uh, 360 on low days and 600 on medium days. My protein is roughly, it stays between 300 and 350 grams of protein. Um, you know, somewhere like in that one to one and a quarter grams of protein per pound of body weight, depending on the day on high carb days, we eat less protein because carbs tend to be a protein sparing. And it also makes it easier to get down all those carbs. When you cut the protein back. Anytime I eat a shit ton of protein, my appetite goes to crap. I actually have better appetite on my high carb days, which are higher calorie days than I do on my medium days, which are higher protein, higher fat than what the, the high days are. So I, I have more appetite, um, on the high days. It seems counterintuitive, but I believe it's from the lower protein. Protein is very satiating. Uh, current PVs. Nothing's changed since last week. 500 tests, 300 EQ, 400 Primo. Eight units of generic GH. This is two weeks on the eight units of generic GH. I have tried to push up to eight or even 10 units before, and I can never do it for a sustained period of time because I end up with numb hands and my glucose goes, like glucose levels go through the roof. So two weeks into the eight units, I said last week that everything was going fine. I, now my hands, I'm starting to have some numbness in my hands. Uh, mostly at night. I can tolerate it if it's at night. I may split my GH up into three daily doses. Um, I typically try to do two doses, but half the fucking time I forget to take it in the morning. And I'm taking the whole eight at night. I know that's suboptimal. Um, so that may help if I break it up, but, um, my hands are going numb and I'm just using cheap blue top generic, uh, Chinese GH. So for those of you that say that shit's fake, I can promise you it is not. I have had my blood work done on it and my IGF one levels go through the roof with the generic blue top GH. Um, and I'll say this and I say it again every week that it's with GH, it's either real or it's not. There's no shitty, shittier or shitty GH. It's either real or it's not. It's either 191 amino acids or it's not. So it's, it's an either or it's binary. Now you can argue the strength of it. Some of it might be stronger. Um, you know, the, the pharmaceutical grade may be dosed more accurately. Uh, but it's either GH or it's not. Um, um, I need to adjust this on the sheet, but I'm actually taking 1500 milligrams of metformin per day, 1500 milligrams of berberine. I've had multiple people ask me why metformin and berberine, they work through different pathways. To lower, uh, um, insulin resistance, uh, to keep insulin resistance in check. Um, 80 milligrams of Telmosartan. Um, I ran out of the Axe Forge. I was using that. I need to get some more. Um, so I'm back over to the Telmosartan. Um, but it's my blood pressure seems to be back under control. Um, and I am running, uh, hemo log on the high days. I don't give a prescribed amount. I just, guys always do insulin the wrong way. I, what I do is watch how my glucose levels are. Um, and I adjust my dose based on my body's response and how my glucose levels are. That makes sense. Um, and I run 25 units of Lantus pre-bed daily. And that's mainly just to take, uh, pressure off my pancreas. It's sort of a prophylactic, um, use of insulin. Um, you know, to provide a baseline basal insulin throughout the day. Um, trading. This is week five of the six week block. I told you that I'm going to take a deload after the six weeks. Um, I, I'm, I haven't pushed the volume as high as I have in the past. I feel like I am sort of at optimal range right now. I'm somewhere in the 18 to 20 sets per body part range ish right now. Um, per week that's per week. That's split between, um, uh, I guess 16 to 20, you know, some body parts, you know, some, some body parts I'm doing eight sets per workout. Um, so, you know, if you follow the RP system, it's somewhere between eight and 10, eight and 12. I don't know sets per body part per workout. Um, and I hit everything twice a week. Uh, cardio is 15 minutes a hit three times per week when I do it. Um, I'm not the best about doing my cardio. I need to get better. I know I do. Justin, I apologize if you're listening. Uh, plans and thoughts, diet adherence this week. Um, I had one plan sheet. I had a steak and a potato. Um, I had a little bit sloppier than what I normally would do. I got these, I got a, uh, not a rib eye, but a filet, but I got a, uh, a blue cheese, uh, cheese peppercorn topping on it. So a little more fat than I usually eat on my cheat meal. Um, the potato was plain. Um, I did have two missed meals this past Saturday. I went to a fair with my girlfriend. They were there for a lot longer than I anticipated. And all the food they had there was just trash fried food, funnel cakes, that type of shit. So I ended up missing meals. I didn't pack. I didn't want to be an asshole and be carrying around my chicken and rice with me at a, at a fair. So I just kind of made a sacrifice and missed two meals that day. I know it's not ideal, but my weight was still up. So whatever, maybe burn a little bit of fat. I, I usually, I'm so OCD about my food. I usually don't like doing this, but I'm trying to be a little more flexible in my life too. So I can live my life. Uh, strength is way up this week. I am definitely ready for that D load. I talked about, I'm feeling beat up. Um, so one more week of this program and then I'll do my D load. And then I am going to push my doses up. Um, probably, I think I'm a little over one gram right now. I'm trying to see 500 or 400, 300 is here. So 1.2 grams right now is where I'm at. I'm probably going to push up closer to two grams and I'll probably just hang there until the end of the 20 weeks. Um, I may do another push at some point, but I, I don't think I've ever pushed up. Last year, I think I maxed out like 1.3, 1.4 grams in my offseason. Um, I know a lot of guys go a lot higher than that. I may, I may push it over two grams this year. Um, I've never done that before in the offseason. Well, contest prep, like the last month or so, I'll be up around two grams of total gear, but I've never pushed it that high before. I mean, a pro level cycle is going to be somewhere between two and three grams. That's typically what you see most pros running. Um, and if I want to make a run at a pro card, I don't know that I'm pro card worthy, but I am going to be competing in a national competition. So I'm going to be on stage with other people that are vying for a pro card. I don't want to look fully should embarrass myself. So, um, probably somewhere two grams to two and a half grams is probably going to be necessary at some point. That's just the reality of it. You can say that's too much gear. If people tell me that I know it's a lot. And I, it's probably unwise to be pushing that hard at my age. I also realize that, um, I am rolling the dice. Uh, but every time some guy that likes to ride motorcycles, right? Harley Davison's, for example, I love motorcycles, not disparaging it at all. I've ridden for years. I, but I don't right now. Um, but every time you get on that Harley and go on the road, you're taking a chance and bodybuildings, no different. Um, it's, you know, to live your life. To live your life, sometimes you have to take some risks. Um, and to do great things. Sometimes you have to roll the dice. And that's just how it goes. Um, I'd be lying to you if I told you otherwise. Um, so coach's feedback. He's a great week. No changes. I mean, really, we're just kind of riding, riding the wave right now. All right, guys, that's all I got for you tonight. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. 8884LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL