 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, battle-tested, expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey guys, it's Big Paul and I'm back with an off-season bodybuilding vlog check-in. It, Holi, Bertrand.!! Bert Bert Bert Bert Bert So I went to the urgent care and it turned out that I had pneumonia and that's why I couldn't breathe. Now I know why my leg workout sucked. So that's where I've been. I haven't trained in almost two weeks, a little bit, just kind of getting back into it. But anyway, we're going to dig into all that. I'll go over everything in just one second. Okay, so let's get into it. So yeah, I had pneumonia. I've never had it before. This is a first for me in my life. I think this is probably the sickest I've been in a long time. I don't know. Maybe I was sicker when I had the C word two years ago in round one of it. Um, but I don't know. This was pretty close. I was pretty fucked up. My daughter had it and then I got it and I probably pushed myself back into the gym too soon as I typically do. Cause I'm a dunderhead like that. I just keep pushing through shit and I did a workout and I couldn't catch my breath. Got to the doctor. The doctor's like, you're not having a heart attack. Um, and, but she said, I think there's something going on with your lungs. I don't think you'd have pneumonia. You wouldn't be working out if you had pneumonia. How little she knew me. I, I, I literally walked around with a completely ruptured ACL and MCL for two fucking months and kept working out, kept lifting and I felt my knee felt squarely, but I wasn't a hundred percent sure what was going on. And finally went into the doctor and he told me, there's no way you'd be working out on it. If you had a tour in ACL and MCL and he did an MRI and he couldn't believe it, but that's just how I am. I was an athlete when I was younger and you learn how to push yourself through stuff. And I have a pretty high pain tolerance for better or for worse. I think this is why bodybuilders a lot of times end up killing themselves in the gym because they have shit like heart attacks and stuff like that happen. And they don't realize that they're going on because they're so used to pushing through pain. Anybody that's been in sports or any, any kind of athletic activity for a long time, you learn how to just push through injuries and you kind of become numb to pain. And especially if you're a lifter, bodybuilding style lifter, where you're doing high reps, high volume and that, especially if you're trained to failure or beyond failure, you get used to pushing through pain thresholds and it just becomes normal for you. You don't have a tolerance to pain like the normal mortals do. And it can get us in trouble sometimes. So you have to pay attention to your body. I've gotten better with it. I've torn muscles, I've torn ligaments. I, you know, another one, another one for you, you know, to tell you, tell you how the kind of pain tolerance that I have, I ruptured my UCL in my elbow. I don't know when, but I've had elbow pain for years. I must've done it 10, 15 years ago. I think I did it in a motorcycle wreck actually in my thirties, but I was having trouble with my elbow and I went into the doctor and my elbow kept getting inflamed and it was hurting, felt like it was sort of popping out of socket. And they did an MRI and she was like, dude, you don't have a, uh, uh, UCL ligament in your elbow. It's completely calcified because that means that if you ruptured it, you did it a long time ago, like decades ago. It was completely calcified at this point. So that's the type of dunderhead I am and shit that I deal with. Um, while I was sick, my appetite got completely crushed. I think it may have, they put me on doxycycline. Uh, I don't know why they would use that for pneumonia, but I, I, they started me off on something else. I think it was a Z pack or whatever, and that didn't work. So they switched me over to doxycycline, which seemed to get rid of it. Uh, but man, antibiotics destroyed my stomach and made me feel sick. And I just did not want to eat. So I barely ate while I was sick and I was also worried about inflammation. So I stayed away from carbs. I dropped the GH. Um, I dropped the insulin and I just mostly ate meat and vegetables and a little bit of fat while I was sick. And I wasn't getting all six meals in per day because I was sleeping a ton, super fucking tired. And I lost, well, at one point I was down almost 20 pounds. I've gotten some of the weight back up. It's crazy how fast the weight falls off of me. I have a really hard time hanging on to weight. I'm one of these people that I just have to fight, scrape and claw to get every pound on me that I can. I, I, I was like 170 pounds when I was in college, you know, and I was up to over 280 and man, I dropped my fasted weight one at the, the day that I came back to the gym was 259. Holy crap. You know, that was an insane drop. So my fasted weight was 262 today. And I was 274 before I got sick was my fasted weight. And my daytime weight was 269 today. My daytime weight before I got sick was 283, I believe. So man, it beat the fuck out of me. I dropped some serious weight. Um, I always put my height in here cause people ask me how tall I am all the fucking time. I'm 6'2". Just a hair under 6'2", I think. 6'2"-ish. I don't know. 6'2"-ish. Um, when I was at the hospital or I'm sorry, urgent care. And let me make sure I choose my words correctly. They said my BP was 118 over 78, which is actually lower than the readings I've been getting here at home with my wrist cuff. So I was happy about that. Um, fasted glucose is in the nineties. Um, they ran all my blood panels when I was, uh, went into the, into the urgent care. I almost said hospital again. When I went to the urgent care, they, they did a blood panel on me just to make sure everything was all right. Um, because I did tell them I was using PEDs. And of course I got the fucking PED lecture. This doctor wasn't so bad. She gave me a little bit of lecture. She mainly was concerned about my weight. She told me, um, my BM, my, uh, BMI was too high, which I know it's too high technically when you look at it, but it's kind of funny that a fat doctor with 40% body fat is telling me my BMI is too high when I can see my abs. Anyway, I digress, but blood work actually was okay. You know, everything looked okay on the blood work. So, you know, not, not bad. Uh, you know, so my strength, actually, when I went back into the gym, I was surprised that my strength, uh, held, I look here, I misspelled held, healed, but my, my strength held up pretty well. I like, I'm using the same weights that I was before I got sick, which kind of surprised me. Um, but I, my endurance is gone. I, I, I haven't been able to do the type of volume that I was doing. I'm still pretty fatigued. I get a little bit of shortness of breath. The doctor told me that might take a couple of weeks to get back to normal. Um, so my progress picks, let's take a look at these and see what we got going on here. Um, I mean, you can see, I definitely, my legs look flat. Um, I definitely lost some, some size. Uh, I, I dropped some body fat too. It's funny cause I can see like cut the separation of my glute coming back out and separation of my legs. I'm super fucking hairy right now. So you can't see, but I definitely got leaner. My pants fit looser. Everything is looser on me. So I, I lost some body fat. I guess that's a positive. Um, you can see here from behind, um, you know, I still see some separation in my hamstrings and my back and you know, I, I overall I'm fine with where I'm at. I still have the fat head though. That never goes away. Uh, diet as of right now, no changes to diet. I might pop in an extra high day and do three high days until I get the weight back up. Um, I think that's going to be necessary to get things moving forward again. Um, current PEDs. Uh, people ask me if I dropped the PEDs while I was sick. I did drop the GH and I did drop the insulin because those are things that are quick in, quick out, but the test EQ and Primo, there's no point in dropping them. Uh, and, and because if you think about the half-lives, it takes five half-lives for it to eliminate from your system. So if I panicked and pulled the plug on my EQ and it's got a 15 day half-life, I, it's something like that. I don't remember the exact half-life. You'll see it all over the place. I'm sure somebody's going to want to correct me on that, but let's just use 15 for nice, even numbers. That's a 75 day elimination time with five half-lives. Um, test is a Nathate. Primo is a Nathate. It's an eight day half-life roughly. It's varies from person to person. So that's 40 day elimination time. If I'm going to be sick for a week or two weeks, what's the point in coming off? It's not out of my system. I'm not doing anything. If anything, I'm probably creating sort of some sorts of hormonal decline that may affect me negatively. I pulled the, the insulin and the GH out just for inflammation and fluid retention. I did not want to have to deal with that. Um, while I had the, had the flu and had, uh, pneumonia, I didn't want to do anything to promote pulmonary edema. Uh, so I, out of an extra bit of caution, I kept my diet tighter and pulled those portions out. But the actual anabolics, I did not, I didn't see any point. I don't think it would have made any fucking difference. Yeah. If anything, it would have made things worse. So that was my logic. You can tell me I'm wrong and explain why I'm wrong. If you want, uh, current health supplements. This is a slide I added here. People have been nagging me about what health supplements are you using? And I never go over it. They want to know my health supplement stack. So this is what I'm doing right now for my health supplement. Um, I haven't broken up into buckets here. I have glucose management. I'm doing 1500 milligrams of berberine a day for, uh, glucose management. I use a suppressor from first detachment nutrition, which is berberine and some other shit in it. Um, uh, I have a affiliate code with first detachment. If you want to pick it up, it's a really good product. Uh, my discount code is AB 10 for 10% off. If you want to head over to first detachment nutrition, you can pick it up there. General health. Uh, I take a whole food vitamin. Um, I used to get Dr. Todd Lee's vitamin, but he doesn't make it anymore. Uh, I use vitamin C and I use 5,000. I use a vitamin D per day for cardiovascular health. I have a stack that I use for cardiovascular health, which includes 3000 milligrams of fish oil, CoQ10, niacin, citrus bergamot, and baby aspirin. And all of these things are to keep, uh, the, the, the niacin and citrus bergamot are for cholesterol to keep the lipids in check. Um, CoQ10 for heart health. Uh, the fish oil also aids with, uh, um, vascular health and, uh, keeping lipids in check. And baby aspirin is also for vascular health for viscosity of blood viscosity to keep you from throwing a clot and dying of a heart attack. Uh, for liver, I use a combo of tukka, milk thistle, and NAC. I used to buy those individually and spend a bunch of money. Milk thistle in NAC, specifically NAC is super effective at lowering, um, liver enzymes. It's, it's crazy. This, this year, last year on contest prep, I ran oral, everybody runs orals, then the contest prep, my liver values, my ALT and AST were above 200, both of them after contest prep, after pounding orals and being depleted. It was, they were pretty nasty. It felt like shit this year running the same orals. In fact, I used halotestin, which is supposed to be one of the harshest orals. I ran QRF from First Detachment Nutrition, which has tukka, milk thistle, and NAC in it. They are all high quality ingredients. I used that in my, my blood work. It came back with my ALT and AST, I think in the high 20s, low 30s. Um, I can find it for you guys if you want to see it, but it was crazy with running orals that it was that low. So this shit definitely works. It's a, it's a pharmaceutical grade supplement. Once again, if you want to pick it up, you can head over to First Detachment Nutrition. Um, and my code is disc, discount code is AB10. I have it all in the, uh, video description. And my kidney, I have kidney support last on here and I use a strong, uh, astragalus in, uh, it's a mix of other stuff. It's also a First Detachment, um, supplement called renal assist. They have a really cool line of supplements. I think it's PCMS series supplements. They call it that are actually designed for gear users. It's really fucking cool. They actually built a supplement line to help mitigate health issues. The gear users have. So it's really, really cool. Uh, training. I, yeah, training. So fuck, I was moving along great with my training and this really, I, it just so happened that the first week that I was sick was supposed to be a deload week. So that worked out fine. I'm just like, I'll just take off. And then I was supposed to get back and start pushing my weights, my volume back up. And then fuck, I got pneumonia and set me back probably a month. Um, I'm guessing it's probably going to take me several weeks to get back to where I was, uh, back up to 280 and back up to where I was. So this is probably going to put me behind a month, at least maybe six weeks, whatever. I mean, shit happens. You just adapt and move on. But I don't know really what I'm doing with my training block. Now I blew up my fucking training blocks. I was planning on doing three training blocks, um, three, six week training blocks during this blast. And I had to take basically two weeks off from the gym. And then now I'm sort of easing myself back in. I'm not going to go back in at full volume, full blast because that's a good way to get hurt. So I'm sort of easing myself back into the gym. Now I did my third workout today. I did a leg workout today. Um, but anyway, my splits for those of you that are interested as a push legs, pull, push legs, pull off. It's a, really a Renaissance periodization style program style. I say it's not exactly an RP program, but it's one that I made based off of the Renaissance periodization principles. Um, if you, I'd say pick up Dr. Mike's book, um, I, what is it? The fundamental principles of hypertrophy or something like that. I forget it. You can, you can find it on their website, but it is an excellent book that really changed my mind on training. Like I really, really made me think about some stuff in training that I never really thought about before. So that's the style of workout I do for my compound movements. I do 10 to 12 reps on compounds and isolations. It's sort of 15 to 20 rep-ish on that range. I don't take anything to absolute failure. Although my reps, my stuff goes pretty close to fucking failure. I, people, it's funny. I get the hit guys attacking me. You can train hit if you want. I really don't care. I used to train, I trained hit for a decade. I love training that way. I just got to a point where I got old enough where hit style training did not work for me anymore. And it just got me hurt. I did, wasn't making progress. And then also with the high volume training, it pairs really well with high carbohydrate diet, which I run. And it also pairs very well with insulin. I don't think hit training pairs very well with the high carbohydrate diet and insulin. I hear a lot of guys say that they just get fat. Well, you're, I don't think you're doing enough volume to really cause any sort of adapt metabolic adaptation or, um, psychoplasmic growth. That's the issue. You know, you probably get more myerfibral growth. I'm just speculating here. I don't, I don't have any science on this from hit style training, but for the way I eat at my age and yada, yada, this seems to be more sustainable. If I was in my twenties, I love lifting heavy. I love lifting hard. I love Doreen Yates. I trained with Dante Trudel for years, all of these, I know hit inside and out. So the guys that get upset with me think I'm slamming hit. Believe me, I'm not slamming hit. I, I trained that way for a long time and I loved it. I miss it. I just can't do it anymore. It doesn't work for me at this point in my, my bodybuilding journey. I'm too old. I'm too beat up my joints, my connective tissue can't handle it. I can't do it anymore. And I found that I've grown better doing this style of training with the diet and insulin that I'm using right now. So it's easier on my joints and I'm getting better results. So at this current time, I, maybe I would have never gotten these sort of results if I hadn't built the base with hit training first. Anyway, that's sort of my rant on that cardio. I'm supposed to be doing 15 minutes of hit cardio three times per week. I obviously wasn't doing that when I was out sick. I need, I need to be better about doing that. So plan and thoughts, uh, diet adherence. I, like I said, I really wasn't on the diet when I was sick. I was just eating what I could and it wasn't enough. That's why I lost a bunch of weight. I'm usually one of these guys that if I get off plan, it's not binging. I get off plan. I just don't eat enough. That's my issue. Uh, some guys go pound pizza and donuts and do stupid shit like that. Me, I just lose my appetite. I don't want to eat. Um, hopefully I'll be fully back from the pneumonia here in the next week. I'm easing back into training. Um, uh, doses of my anabolics were supposed to increase this week. I was supposed to go up to close to two grams, but I don't see the point now. I'm sort of back at ground zero and I don't see any point in pushing up higher when I'm not training super fucking hard. So I'm going to take another week or two, get myself back, try to push my volume up and then I'll reevaluate. And I may push my gear up at that point. I just don't see the point right now while I'm still recovering from the pneumonia. It doesn't make any sense to push right now. Uh, coaches feedback, not a much, much from Justin. He was just like, just, just get healthy, healthy. We talked about running a third high day to get my weight back up. I may run in three high days in the meantime to get my weight back up. I had somebody asked me about the third high day, um, when to run it. And you know, so my take on the third high day is most people can't get away with it. They just get fat. So most of the time with carb cycling, most people are running two high days. Now, if you're, uh, somebody who just can't get fat, there are those people out there, then the third high day may work for you. Uh, I'm not one of those people. All right, guys, that's all I got for you. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.