 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey guys, Big Paul here today with another check-in. This is week 10 of the offseason for 2022. 2022. I'm going to apologize in advance. I'm going to apologize in advance. I've had issues with my video recording with my stupid software and camera that I can't get straightened out for whatever reason. Um, so the video portion of this did not show up. I'm going to be looking for a new piece of software to do screen recordings with. Um, also I did not do a check-in last week guys. I was still sick with pneumonia was a hundred percent. So there was really nothing to report. Back in the gym this week. We're going to dig into all that in just one second. All right. So, yeah, I was sick still a little bit like my lungs were just a mess. Uh, the doctor did tell me it would take up to a month to get better from the pneumonia. I, I, man, most of my clients or not most, but a lot of my clients have had the flu. I've had a couple that have had pneumonia. I've had some that have had some really nasty respiratory infections. There's been some shit going around. Um, a lot of people have been sick with the flu. It seems like, uh, but anyway, I, I basically was pretty much down for three weeks. I trained a little bit, nothing crazy. I, I definitely, this is definitely fucked up my offseason, but whatever. Uh, you know, I think all in all, I've held up pretty well. I've tried to keep the diet together for the most part. Uh, I had people ask me what I do for food when I'm sick and it just, you just run the low days. Uh, like when I was super sick, the week that I first had pneumonia, I wasn't getting all my meals in. I just didn't feel like eating. I was sleeping a bunch. Um, and I figured sleep was more important than getting my meals in at that point in time. So, uh, I just got to sleep in, but when I'm not lifting, I just do low days. Uh, so I'm probably a bit, um, um, in a calorie deficit. Uh, weight has stayed the same. 262 is my fasted weight, which is down from my high. Before I got six, I was up to 273 for a fasted weight. So, um, and my daytime weights, 269, my, I was up to 282. So I've dropped like 10 to 12 pounds, um, down from my high weight, uh, before I got sick, uh, which is frustrating. Uh, although I, I feel like when I, you'll see it in a second, when you look at my pictures, I feel like I've leaned up. Uh, I haven't lost any strength. I am in the gym and I'm still pushing the same weights. I was pushing before, uh, people ask me all the time how tall I am. I'm six to, uh, blood pressure has been nice and low. I probably from cutting the food back and dropping some water, to be honest with you. It was probably a productive thing. So 115 over 75. Um, I was using X-Forge. So I just kind of went back to the, uh, went back to the Telma Sardin X-Forge, just sort of when I break out when the blood pressure gets way too high, uh, or, um, like pushing gear and stuff. It has a calcium channel blocker in it and on top of the ARB, but, uh, just went back to Telma Sardin since it's, it's just the ARB. Uh, fasted glucose is 96. People are always telling me, you know, why isn't it lower? I'm, I'm like, everybody in my family is diabetic. That's over 40 pretty much. Um, I don't know. I mean, 90, mine just doesn't get any lower than the nineties. I've been checking my glucose levels off and on since I was in my thirties, 10, 15 years. And they just have always run in the nineties. That's about as low as I can get them, uh, for fasted glucose, uh, health. I am recovering from the flu and pneumonia. Uh, you can hear now I'm congested, but that's just how I am in the fall. It's pretty much I'm congested from October until Christmas every fucking year. I just have horrible allergies and shit, but I feel like the pneumonia for the most part is cleared up. I still have a little bit of congestion in my lungs. Nothing crazy. Um, but I finally, you know, the last few workouts, I'm finally feeling back to normal. Uh, you can see the progress pics here. It's hard to see through the pelt of fur that I have on what I actually look at like, but my, I'm pretty lean right now. I don't know. I don't know where my body fat's at. I hate, I hate playing the body fat guessing game. I hate people all the time sending me their fucking pics and say, what asking me what body fat I'm at. I'm like, what does it matter? It's just a number. Um, how you look in the mirror is what matters. Uh, the, the, nobody cares if you're 10% body fat and you look like shit. So it's how you look in the mirror. I don't know if I were to guess, I probably in the 10 to 12% range. I maybe, maybe higher. I don't know. Who knows? But anyway, I, my rule of thumb for the offseason is if I can see the outline of my abs and, um, some, some splits in my quads, I'm in a good spot. But if I lose those thing, then I'm probably getting too fat. If I can't see the outline of my abs, I'm getting too fat, but you can see my abs. Um, you know, they aren't like contest shape, but you can definitely see my abs. I've maintained my fullness pretty well, despite losing the weight. So I don't know. Um, you can see here from the side, I like, like you could still see some, some cuts in my glutes over here, like some separation. I wouldn't say cuts. It's not really striations, but, um, all in all, I've, I've maintained pretty decent leanness, um, diet. Uh, actually there is some slight changes this week so that, that the no changes thing is wrong, but Justin did, uh, bought my low day carbs up a tad. Um, and bought my protein up a tad. So I'm 60 grams of protein per meal and 60 grams of carbs. So 360 grams of protein, 360 grams of carbs and 84 grams of added fat on my low days. Um, medium day, nothing's changed there. I am doing, um, 75 on my regular meals of carbs, 55 grams of protein. So the total macros for the day, you know, when we look at it, 340 grams of protein, 600 grams of carbs, um, 40 grams of added fat. Um, a lot of them, you know, and I do the same for my clients. A lot of, a lot of people ask me, you know, why doesn't he just give you a prescribed diet? It is sort of an, if it fits your macros diet within reason. Um, there's a improved foods list that you choose from and it's really all clean foods. Uh, sometimes when I get in a pinch, I'll substitute something out. Like, you know, I'll find like a fast food or gas station food that closely approximates my, my macros. If, if I'm on the road, when I'm in the offseason, it doesn't matter as much. When I'm on contest prep, uh, I, I, everything is down to the exact gram. I don't deviate at all, but now season, I give myself a little more leeway. I'd say I'm 90 to 95% compliant with the diet. There's some times I get off track with it in the offseason. I'm not as, you know, meticulous with it as I am just being transparent during the contest prep phase. But, um, I get my meals in and I, I, I try to, I'm actually the opposite. Like some people fucking cheat and why not? But the thing I struggle with is getting all my food down sometimes. It's not a, it's not an issue with me of, um, eating too much. It's an issue with me not eating enough. Um, that's, that's what I have a problem with. I just have a hard time with my appetite. When I was younger, I had a pretty good appetite, but as I've gotten older, I just don't want to fucking eat. I get tired of it sometimes. Uh, high day. I'm doing two. I did three high days last week and I didn't get a fucking pound, which is crazy to me. So the high days are a thousand grams of carbs, 290 grams of protein and zero added fat. There's an optional cheat meal at meal six. Um, sometimes I take it. Sometimes I don't. Usually if I do take it, um, pretty much my go to cheat meals, a double whopper. I'll just get a double whopper and that's it. Double whopper. I just get it plain with cheese on it. Nothing else on it. I don't like all the mayonnaise and all that bullshit. Uh, so that'll be my cheat meal. It's like a thousand calories. I think in a double whopper or something, something like that. Um, that, that's sort of been my go to cheat meal. Sometimes I'll get kebabs and rice. Sometimes I'll go to, uh, have a Texas roadhouse right by me. I'll go there and get a steak and a potato. Um, maybe one of those roles they have that are really good. Um, anyway, so, uh, current PEDs, 500 milligrams of test, 300 milligrams of VQ, 400 primo, eight units of generic blue top HGH every day. Um, 80 milligrams of Telmosartan. I switched back to the Telmosartan from the X-Forge. I didn't feel like I didn't need it anymore. Um, humalog on the high days and in 25 units of Lantus pre-bed every day. People ask me about the Lantus. The Lantus is more of a prophylactic. The, I mean, it's, here's the thing. As you get older, I, this is just my theory. Uh, I don't, I don't have any evidence of this other than just anecdotal information I've seen from clients. A lot of times as guys get over 40, the, I see the reason why a lot of them don't gain weight is because they just don't seem to make enough insulin or have the right insulin sensitivity to uptake nutrients properly. So older guys, I don't know if they like, I don't know if my body makes enough insulin to keep up with eating a thousand grams of carbs. So I have to supplement in some insulin to deal with that. So the insulin is so I can eat more food and process that food correctly. I think people miss the point of taking the insulin. Um, and then it's the same thing, you know, so we, I supplement insulin cause my, it take pressure off my body from making its own to keep up with it, sort of supercharge things and maintain my insulin sensitivity through things like berberine and, um, metformin to keep that high. So if you're pumping in exogenous insulin, you're going to be blending insulin sensitivity. So you have to sort of balance the two out. Same thing with HGH is going to blunt insulin sensitivity. Current health supplements, uh, for glucose management, I am using 1500 milligrams of berberine per day. I use a suppressor from first detachment nutrition. Um, it is berberine, but it also has the fenugreek in it. If I recall correctly to help with actually absorbing the, uh, berberine because if I don't put me on all of this, but I, from what I recall, berberine is not that bio available through oral administration. So you need the fenugreek to help with that. Um, if you want to pick some up from first detachment nutrition, it's great product. Um, discount code is in the video description. Um, it's AB 10, uh, for general health. I use a whole food multivitamin, vitamin C, 5,000 units of vitamin D. Just back it up a second on the suppressor. People ask me how I break up the berberine too. Um, I don't know if this is the right way to do it. But this is how I do it. Uh, my thought process is the berberine's in and out of your system pretty quick, but I'll take 500 milligrams with meal one, 500 milligrams with meal two or meal three, and then meal six. I'll do so. It doesn't break down exactly. Cause I think seven pills, if I recall correctly is the serving size for the, uh, uh, suppressor. So I'll do, um, I'll do, let's see three in the morning at meal one, then two at meal three and two at meal five. Uh, cardiovascular health. I am taking, uh, 3000 milligrams of fish oil, um, CoQ10. I don't remember the dose on it. I just take one pill, whatever that works out to be. I think it's 500 milligrams of niacin, uh, 2000 milligrams of citrus bergamot and a baby Aspart every day. Um, for liver health, I take tucca, milk thistle and NAC that gets your liver enzymes in line. Um, everybody who takes PEDs and lifts weights has high liver enzymes. Everybody, every single blood panel. I look at ALT and AST is elevated. Um, and this is the only thing I have ever used that gets me back down into normal ranges. And I've seen it with my clients too. Um, I use QRF from first detachment nutrition that has the tucca, milk thistle and NAC all in one pill. So you don't have to buy three bottles of shit to get the one thing. Um, it works really well. I've had good luck with it so far. Um, um, so save you some money and get all three in one pill. Uh, for the, uh, kidney support, I use astragalus and some other stuff. I use renal assist from first detachment nutrition to cover that. Uh, prescription meds. I'm currently on, uh, I was using 1500 milligrams of metformin per day. I backed that off to 1000 because my appetite was shitty. Um, that is one cool thing with, well, cool and not cool thing with metformin. It will suppress your appetite. So if you're in a dieting phase, um, metformin can really be a strong appetite suppressant. Um, you know, season that kind of sucks cause you want to get food down. So I backed it back down to a thousand, uh, from the 1500 milligrams, which seemed to get my appetite going again. Um, I dropped the ax words. I was, as I mentioned, I am using, um, listen, a pro again, 80 milligrams per day. And I take pantoprazole for acid reflux. I get all these assholes that reach out to me and say, you shouldn't take that stuff. It's horrible for you. I have seen two people, not one, two people die from, uh, esophageal cancer from acid reflux. I promise you nothing that the pantoprazole is going to do to you is worse than having fucking esophageal cancer. Um, so, uh, you, you, you roll the dice with the pantoprazole. Almost everybody that body builds and has been power shoving food for any period of time ends up with some sort of form of acid reflux. My acid reflux is caused by, um, a hiatal hernia, which I probably should get fixed at some point. That's another thing that a lot of gym bros have and don't realize they have. It's where you, there's a, if I recall correctly, there's a small tendon or ligament, I think, that attaches your stomach to the diaphragm. Correct. Somebody correct me if I'm wrong about that, but I believe that's how it works. And that a lot of times gets broken, uh, from doing deadlifts and squats and lifting heavy shit. And, and then what happens is your stomach just sort of sloshes around and you'll, you'll burp it up into your esophagus. You'll feel it feels like you're hip hiccuping your stomach up into your throat. Um, and that's, uh, that's from the hiatal hernia. And a lot of dudes that lift weights have hiatal hernias and don't realize they have them. So if you're having that issue, you probably have a hiatal hernia. Hiatal hernia, the pantapraisal helps. It's a proton pump inhibitor and it lowers acid in the stomach. So you're not sloshing acid up into your esophagus and burning a hole in your esophagus, which eventually turns into cancer or can current turn into cancer. So, uh, that's how we treat it. Uh, training. I'm still sort of ramping up. I tried to ramp up a little bit, but then I stopped, uh, because I, um, wasn't a hundred percent. So I'm probably at somewhere between a minimum effective volume and, um, maximum recoverable volume right now. So somewhere in between the two plans and thoughts. Uh, like I said, I didn't get all my food in when I was sick. Uh, I did run through the three consecutive high days. I was supposed to escalate my PD doses at week eight. I did not do that because I was sick. Guys asked me, Hey, why didn't you drop your doses while you were sick to give your body a break? Well, when you're taking equipoise and anathate esters and things like that, it's going to be weeks before that has any effect of lowering, you know, equipoise is going to take weeks. So there's no point. And not to mention, I think it can even wreck your immune system even more if you lower your hormones or fuck with your hormones while you're sick. So my thought process is leave everything alone unless there's some medical need to lower things. Um, Justin just told me to, I said coaches feedback now, but really just told me to eat. He wants to get me back up to in the two seventies. All right, guys, that's all I got for you. Thanks for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Tip one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one,