 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today. It's week four of my offseason. I'm doing my check in with you. Things are progressing really well. I'm in week, you know, week four now. I really can feel the gear kicking in. It was a kick ass week. I really had a great week of training progress. Everything was great this week. And we'll dig into all of it in just one second. All right. So my vitals for the week. My facet weight topped out at 271, which was up two pounds from last week. Last week. Uh, after my high day, I tipped in at 280 post-workout. I have never been 280 with abs before. This is a first for me. At 48 years old. I had one of my, well, it wasn't one of my clients, but somebody reached out to me on Instagram this week, said a coach told them that you can't progress after 40. So you know what I say to that coach? Fuck you. You have no idea what you're talking about. I've made the best progress of my life in my mid to late forties. So that is utter and complete bullshit. So whoever told that guy that can go fuck themselves. Uh, just not sure. Uh, so if you're an older guy and you want to compete and you don't think you can make progress, don't listen to that bullshit. Now, whether or not it's the healthiest thing to do at our age, I don't know. Probably not, but YOLO. Um, so yeah, I was 280. My, my peak weight this week, uh, daytime weight, uh, six, my height, six, two. I always put that in there cause people, I get a million fucking people that ask me how tall I am. I'm six, two right around six, two. I don't know what I measured in. Um, you know, my show, cause I thought about doing classic. I was just a hair under six, two. So technically six, one, um, my blood pressure this week. I switched to the, uh, X forge last week, which is the calcium channel blocker and the ARB combined. It dropped my blood pressure a tad. Uh, I was one 30 over 79, which is better. It was like one 40 over 80 something last week. So that's more where I would like, I would like it to be like one 20 over 70, you know, on a full blast. It's probably about the best I can hope for. Um, but I imagine it would be pretty high, uh, if I wasn't running, um, a blood pressure medicine right now. And you know, that's the way people talk about, uh, primobolin not having any side effects. Uh, primobolin is the most mild anabolic there is, which I generally agree with. But for whatever reason, when I run primobolin, my, uh, blood pressure shoots up. I've noticed that. And usually it settles down after a bit of being on it. Um, but it's initially, it does shoot up. Um, fasted glucose was fine. It was in the nineties this week. Uh, health. I felt, I felt great this week. No, nothing to complain about. Sleep's been pretty solid. But, um, you know, sleep apnea settled down. Uh, my strength was going through the roof this week. I had been using, I stopped using a lot of free weights a couple of years ago. So I've been using mostly machines and dumbbells, but I've pretty much maxed out all the fucking machines in my gym. I've been using the full stack for like 15 reps on everything now. So I am probably going to have to go back to some free weight exercises and some shit, especially like, uh, pressing movements and stuff. Like I've just maxed out what even, even some of the plate load stuff can do. I, there's just no room left on it. Uh, my appetite kind of has been shitty. Uh, I always struggle with my appetites, probably because I bumped the metformin up to 1500 milligrams. Um, that's the game you play with the metformin. Metformin will help your glucose sensitivity, but then you don't want to fucking eat. So, uh, which is one of the reasons why I leverage it on contest prep sometimes for the appetite suppressing qualities of it. But, um, we push it up higher because I had some issues. My A1c was high on my last blood work. It wasn't crazy high. It was like 6.1. Uh, but I did kind of get shitty with my diet on my cruise and I stopped. using Lantus on my cruise. Um, I, I don't know. I just wanted to give myself a break from the insulin and, and actually made my A1c get worse. So, uh, obviously the Lantus is probably necessary for me at this point to keep my glucose levels in control. So, I'm going to get blood work done again in a couple of weeks. I did about a month ago. Uh, see where I'm at. Uh, the only things that were, were out of range on my last blood panel, hematocrit was a little high. It's always fucking high. Everybody that does steroids has high hematocrit. That's just fucking normal. Uh, my, surprisingly my HDL was, was great. It, my LDL was a little high. It was in like high one forties. Uh, but that is mostly from eating too much saturated fats, which I was a little slight. Like I said, I got sloppy with my diet on my cruise. I'll admit it. Uh, I wasn't a hundred percent compliant with the diet and I was eating some shitty food. I went on a, uh, uh, double Whopper binge during my, my post contest, um, phase. I, I don't know why I, every year I seem like I get some crazy food craving. Usually it's sweets this year. I didn't really, I didn't really eat that many sweets. I barely had touched the sweets at all, but God damn it. I, I, I love a double Whopper. I get a double Whopper and cheese. So I was eating two double Whoppers with cheese like three or four times a week. So that probably did not help my cholesterol. Cause it's a ton of saturated fat and double Whoppers with mayonnaise and all that shit. I, I should know better. Uh, but my diet has been clean. I, I, I, four weeks in I've only, I have had zero dirty cheat meals. So, um, so far, you know, the cheap, you know, when I have a cheat meal now, it's a clean cheat meal. It's, it's a low, lower fat, you know, like this week. I had kebabs and I chicken kebabs with basmati rice. I mean, how much, how bad is that? Um, anyway, uh, so progress picks. Uh, this is where I'm at this week. You can still see separation of my quads. So I got some veins in my quads. It's hard to see where I'm at cause of all the fucking hair. Everybody loves to give me shit about the hair. You know what? I don't fucking care. People are like, why don't you shave the hair off? Uh, because it's a fucking lot of work and I'm lazy. That's why I don't shave the hair off. And I don't care about impressing anybody right now. I'm not getting judged. I'm not on stage. So I don't give a fuck. I am a hairy gorilla and we'll, we'll leave it at that. I may shave the back just cause back area is fucking disgusting. But, um, you can still see outlines of my abs. I'm definitely bloated and holding some water. Um, you can see separation between my quads and my hamstrings. Um, so, you know, I'm fairly, I don't know what my body fat is. People always ask me what my body fat is. I don't know. I don't fucking care. I use the mirror as my judge. Uh, as long as I can see the outline of my abs, that's, that's sort of like the, that's sort of like the threshold for me. If I get past where I can't see an outline of my abs, then I've gotten too fat. I've gone too far. Um, here's my back. You can see my hairy ass back. Um, you can still see some separation of my hamstrings. Here's me prompting an impromptu ab, ab pose just to show you that there's still some abs there. Um, it's not the greatest lighting. Um, but anyway, I, I, I like taking my progress picks in the shittiest light possible, to be honest with you. And the reason I do that is so I actually look better in person. Um, offseason diet, uh, Justin didn't change anything this week. We've, we've been riding the same thing for three weeks. Honestly, when you get in the offseason, it's pretty boring. Really? You might have small tweaks, but as long as the weight's going up, you just ride the diet. Uh, you know, I think he described it one time to me is like surfing. Uh, if you caught a good wave, you just ride the wave. You don't try to force it one way or the other, or you're going to end up playing it on your face. So you just hang on, you ride that wave and you ride that wave as long as you can. And that's sort of where I'm at right now. So low day right now, I have one low day per week. Um, I train six days a week. So if I were to take an unscheduled off day, it would be an additional low day. So right now I'm doing 360 grams of protein, 360 grams of carbs and 60 grams of added fat. That's not fat in the diet. That's added fat. We're not counting fat in the meat. All my meats come from super lean sources, 95% lean ground beef, chicken breasts, not chicken thighs, dudes. I can't tell you how many people I get on fucking diets and they're not losing weight or their body composition is getting worse and I can't figure out what the hell is going on. And I said, you know, I said, what are you eating? No, I'm eating chicken and rice. Like what kind of chicken? Well, chicken thighs. I'm like, yeah, okay. Hey, you know, how much fatter and fucking chicken thighs? Dude, you can't eat chicken thighs and look like a bodybuilder. I know they taste good, but having abs tastes better. You can't look like a bodybuilder eating all that fat. You just can't. Fat and carbs. I mean, if you're a low carb diet, you can get away with it. So, you know, you're looking at total calories at, you know, so what is that? 2,900, 34, like 3,500, 3,600. You know, really, if you're counting the fat in the protein source, it's probably like 3,700, 3,800 on my low days. Medium days, which is any training day that's not a high day. So, I do two high days a week, four medium days, one low day. So, my medium day right now, I'm doing 340 grams of protein, 600 grams of carbs, 40 grams of added fat. Not counting the fat and the protein. I'm going to reiterate that. So, we're looking at here, 36, let's see, 2,700, you know, so that's like 4,000 calories. Right? 4,200, 4,300 for real. And then, I have two high days per week. 290 grams of protein, 1,000 grams of carbs, and zero added fat. Right now, with the high days, you can have a cheat meal at the end of the high day under Justin's plan. I have not been doing it. I've been, you know, I will do, like I said, a clean cheat. I've done only two of them so far. And I have not done any dirty cheats in the four weeks. It's because I'm trying to get my HDL back, or LDL, sorry, back down in check. I want to get that in line. So, right now, we're talking about 1,160, we're talking about 5,200, 5,300 on a high day. If I throw in a cheat meal, it's probably more like 6,000 calories on a high day, is what I would be eating right now. So, current PEDs, 500 milligrams of test, 300 milligrams of EQ, 400 milligrams of Primo. People ask me, why test, EQ, and Primo? Why not Nangelone? Well, I had planned on using Nangelone, and I did use Nangelone post-contest, and I had a couple panic attacks. I've never had that issue with Nangelone before. I know a lot of people get really bad anxiety from Nangelone. I don't know if it was from the Nangelone, or if maybe it was coming down from contest prep, coming off all the stimulants. That is a possibility. But all I know is I had panic attacks, and I had some pretty fucking bad anxiety. You know, the way I can describe it, it's like that feeling like you lost your wallet, and you can't find your wallet. You feel like that 24-7. It was not a fun feeling, so I decided to go, and some people say Equipoise because of them anxiety. I've never had that issue with Equipoise. Equipoise, I feel great on. So, I went with 500 milligrams of test, 300 milligrams of EQ. And another thing about EQ, I tend to be a heavy estrogen converter, and this is another thing with Nangelone. Nangelone up-regulates aromatase expression, which makes tests more heavily convert to estrogen, and it does seem to antagonize the estrogen receptor to a certain bit as well. So, a lot of times when people run, people that are prone to gyno, when they run tests in Nangelone together, they end up with gyno. I've had the gyno surgery, but twice on my left pack, once on my right pack. The first dumbass surgeon that did my surgery didn't get all the gland out, so some of it grew back on my right pack. That's why my right nipple looks weird. And people all the time like to point out, why is your nipple pointing on your right side? Well, it's because I've got a fucking gyno under it. There's a marble-sized piece of gyno under it. And it gets worse when I run Nangelone as well. So, I just decided to use EQ. EQ is also good for collagen production. I did a Q&A with Dr. Todd yesterday. If you want to check it out, he talks about that. That it's actually better for collagen production than Nangelone is. A lot of people don't realize that. So, I used some Equipoise for that. 400 milligrams of Primo. The Primo is... I love Primo. Primo helps with estrogen conversion with the testosterone. It sort of works like an AI. Eight units of generic blue top GH. I bumped it up from six. Every time I have gone up to eight units before, I get a few weeks in and then I can't fucking feel my hands. So, I have to back it back down to six. I'm trying eight again and see how it goes. So far, so good. You know, but I'm only one week in. A thousand... Or actually, the metformin is 1,500 milligrams. We moved it up to that to keep my insulin sensitivity in check because I'm so fucking big. 1,500 milligrams of berberine. The Talbacirin was actually substituted out for Xforged this week. Or not X... Yeah, Xforged. I'm going to have to get some more of it. But, humalog on my high days, 25 units of Atlantis every day pre-bed. I'm training right now. I'm a week four of the six-week block. And then, if anybody knows my training program, I do a six-week block and then deload. If you want to grab my training program, I have a free copy of it up on my website at www.anabolicbodybuilding.com. You can go there and get it for free. Just need to leave an email address. You can download the spreadsheet with my workout if you want to try it. It's essentially a Renaissance periodization style workout. It's sort of RP style workout. I don't do anything to failure. I know you get these numb nuts that come to me and say you have to train to failure. No, you don't. I'm progressing. As long as you're within that four to five rep range of failure. Now, closer to failure, you do get more. But, the way I look at it, I'm usually probably one rep short of failure when I'm training hard. And, that extra one rep might give me another five percent of gains, but it increases my risk of injury exponentially. So, my thought process, it increases fatigue and recovery demands and all that. So, I am progressing without going to failure. Why would I go to failure and cause additional stress to my body, especially being 48 years old? If I was in my 20s, I trained everything, balls to the wall, to failure, past failure all the time. Can't get away without a 48. You just break. Rep scheme is 10 to 12 on compound movements, 15 on isolations. Cardio is 15 minutes ahead three times a week. You know, some notes for this week. Diet adherence. I had one planned cheat. I had chicken kebabs with basmati rice. That's about as clean of a cheat as you can get. Did that on my first high day. I did miss one meal. I got another one to get in today. I'm going to do my best to get it in. My appetite has been shitty. I'm having to choke the food down. The X-Forge is definitely helping the blood pressure. My strength went way the fuck up this week. I guess everything is starting to kick in at week four. Probably the equipoise. I'm starting to feel the equipoise a bit. I thought about pushing these doses up higher right now. But I'm just going to ride them until the next block. I'm making progress. So why I push the doses up if I'm making progress? There's no point. Coach's feedback. It was a great week. No changes to the diet. No changes to training. Nothing. And originally he said he wanted me to push up to 285 for weight. But shit, I'm already almost there. So he was saying, fuck, we might make it to 300. So we'll see. I've never been 300 lean before. I've been a sloppy 300. Power lifter 300. Sorry guys. You guys that are power lifters. But I've been a sloppy strong 300 before. But I've never been a bodybuilder 300 before. We'll see. And for those, I'm getting more of these dudes that are calling me out on my weight. Saying that there's no way I weigh that much. I don't know what to tell you guys. I've weighed myself. Recorded it. Put it up on YouTube so you can see how much I fucking weigh. I don't know why dudes don't believe me. Maybe because they're insecure about their own shortcomings. And they don't believe that I could possibly weigh that much. So a big fat fuck you to all of you. They don't believe me. That's fine. Whatever. I am tall. So it doesn't look like, you know, you get these five foot three bodybuilders that look bigger than what they are. You can see them in person and they're midgets. I'm not a midget. I'm a big dude. Everybody that meets me in person are like, holy shit, you're bigger than I thought you were. So if you don't believe me, you can find me. I'm at the gym every night. I shop gym in Aspern, Virginia every night from 630 till like 830. You can find me there if you don't believe me and you want to walk into the bathroom with me. We can step on the scale together. You can see how much I weigh and see how big I am in person. And, you know, a lot of guys, you know, say that the training program I am, you know, is weak, whatever. I can say is download it and try it yourself. And you make it to week one is easy. Week two is not so bad. You make it to week three, week four. You let me know how easy it is not training the failure. I bet you'll change your mind. All right, guys, that's all I got for you. Thank you for watching. If you have any comments or questions, put them in the comment section below. Take care.