 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today with Dr. Todd Lee. What's up, Todd? What's up, Todd? How you doing? I'm good, man. So we're going to talk about the Olympia. Sounds like a plan. Sounds like a plan. Sounds like a plan. Went down at the Olympia. The everything that, everybody's been reaching out to me, what the fuck happened to Big Rami? I posted a video up about it and I think hurt some feelings with some people. They got mad at me, said I was too hard on him. But I like Rami. Rami's my favorite, well, was one of my favorite bodybuilders and I had predicted him to win. And it looked like from a week out when I saw the stuff that Dennis James posted that he was well on his way to winning again. But then something fell apart at the end. Yeah, it sure did. So I watched it on the live stream. I sat through all of that just to see open prejudging, which was two in the morning where I live, right? Two in the morning where you live. And the first person comes out is Hottie, shredded glutes. And nobody else was pretty much shredded. Yeah, Hottie was the only one in shape, I thought. I thought, is there something wrong with the live feed? What's going on? Like I could not figure out what the fuck was going on. And Derek came out. Derek was pretty shredded. And that was about it. And then the next day, you know, I'm jumping around a little bit. The next day they had the classic prejudging and they were shredded. About 50% of them were shredded. So I thought maybe it was just the lighting was bad on the main Zappo Theater. And you couldn't see anything. And I messaged one of my friends. And he said that the stage is soft. So they're not able to squeeze their glutes. Now, that could account for a lot of stuff. But I noticed that like the lower backs look completely soft. I saw no Christmas trees. I started to get concerned like, Jesus, I've never not had a Christmas tree in 13 years. What the fuck's going on? Maybe I shouldn't remove deadlifts from my routine. Because maybe every one of them stopped doing deadlifts. And that's why they don't have lower backs anymore. And their glutes were pretty soft, too. So I was like, what's going on with this? Well, Chris, Hadi, Derek are all coached by Hani Rambod. And they all have shredded glutes. Yep. So if all three of the people with one coach have shredded glutes, if the only two people in open have shredded glutes, then, and they're the coach by the same guy, then it's not the lighting. It has to be the coaching. So, you know, a lot of people are saying, well, they're sitting backstage till 2am. They can't hold their look all day. If this was a 9am prejudging, it would have looked totally different than 2am prejudging. Personally, I've experienced that myself where I'll wake up at 5am and I'll look shredded. I'll be shredded all the way up until noon. But by the time I'm on stage at 3pm for prejudging, my glutes are gone. So that's obviously a water and sodium mismanagement. But Rami, he seemed to have extra soft glutes, especially the upper glute. And I think somebody, I think it was you, pointed out there's a big knot in the upper left glute. Yeah, he definitely had a knot. Mm-hmm. He definitely had a knot. It looked like maybe an abscess or something. A few people commented that the way he was posing his back, his rear double biceps, he was pinching his scapula together too hard. And his, it was basically, there was no lat activation. There's no lats, no lumbar muscles. His back was just a wreck. Whether it was from posing or not. Fouad pointed out that he had no triceps. I think he was with Dennis James and looked amazing. And the implication from Dennis's subtext was he wasn't with Rami in Vegas. The last he saw of Rami was the week before the show, which I think would be weird. Like, why would you have someone come stay with you for six weeks before the show and then let them loose the week before the show to peak on their own without supervision in Vegas. We haven't seen or heard from Chad Nichols before or after the show. That's very strange too. There was a picture, I don't know when the picture was taken, but I know when the picture was posted of Rami eating pizza. And the implication was that he was eating pizza two days before the show. What I know about Chad's diet strategies at least 10 years ago, were that you over diet for six days, and then you overload on junk food the seventh day, which is my understanding of how Palumbo does his diets as well. This is not how honey Rambam does his diets. So I wonder whether he was given a carb up, maybe a preload a Monday or Tuesday pizza meal. Because I believe George Fair has the rock eating seven pizzas. And in my opinion, the rocks never been in shape in the lower abs, but that's just me. He's an actor, not a bodybuilder to much, much, much lower standard for them. But I think what happened was Rami ate pizza on Monday or Tuesday, didn't stop eating like shit all the way up until the show. That he just didn't have someone there to control his food intake. Now, my understanding was eight or nine years ago, back when he was at oxygen, he needed to have someone who followed him around and slapped food out of his hands. Yeah, that was a lot of attention. And he needed a whole village to carry Rami across the finish line. He wasn't an independent person. Maybe he's matured since then. I hope he doesn't hear this and think that I'm putting him down. I'm merely repeating what I've heard, was that he needed, and I've been in the situations before where I was really bad about my diet and having people around me to keep me on track was helpful. And I've had preps where I needed no help. You know, it's just some years were different from others. I feel this late into my career, I don't really need to be controlled as to what I eat. But I will, I'm not a 100 percenter, like sometimes I'll end up overeating on the rice or the chicken or I'll under eat on other things. Certainly in the offseason, I under eat. I think just that alone, the lack of 100 percent adherence, both offseason and contest prep is the only thing that has held me back from being a greater this whole time. So I could see that this being either a lack of discipline or an emotional breakdown on Rami's part and either comforting himself with food or just not resisting temptation due to not having the proper people in place to keep him on track and carry him across the finish line. There he has the resources to afford people to do that. So to me, if I was Dennis James, I would simply charge Rami more money and then see it through that last week. Now, maybe I'm wrong. Maybe Dennis James and Chad Nichols were sitting there with Rami the entire time, the entire time he's in Vegas. He never had pizza. He never did anything wrong. And just for no reason at all, he has a lump in his glute, holes in his quads, no lower back. He's posing incorrectly. Everything was just random. But I find that to be hard to believe because of how good he looked for months leading into the show. I want to share my screen with you, but Dennis James recently posted pictures of him one week out and he looked great. Now, the lower, can you see my screen? I can sort of. The thing is, is because of the way that my setup is. And no worries, but I think it's for the audience. But you can see like one week out. I mean, he looks, this was one week out. He looked great. I mean, he looked full. He looked, he looked in shape. I mean, there's cuts in his glutes. I mean, you can see, you can see the cuts in his glutes. Triceps look okay. So I don't, I don't, I mean, that's really odd that everything like, like here, look, you can see, you can see his glutes are glutes are in one week out. Lower back looks okay. So something happened. Yeah. I've looked at those pictures. I, um, I, I, it isn't just Rami. That's the confusing part is it was everyone except for honey, Rambod's clients. Well, Chris, Chris, the Cito said he had, uh, it was hard to understand what Rami was saying, but, uh, Chris, the Cito had Rami on a live, uh, live broadcast on Instagram. I think it was yesterday. And I listened to it and Chris, the Cito talked about how there was a bunch of people there that had COVID. There was a, I, so I don't know if that had anything to do with it. And Rami, Rami said that he had a bit of a sniffle. Um, you know, the story I'd heard, I don't know how true it is, but from some people that were there is kind of, kind of lines up with what you were saying is that Rami kind of went apeshit with the food. And then they tried to clean it up with diuretics at the end. And when you overdo it and then you try to clean it up with diuretics, then you get that flat and soft look. So who knows, but something, something seriously went wrong in that last week. And the whole load lower back thing is weird too. I, uh, heard people talking to speculating that he had nerve damage, but you, it doesn't look that way from the picks one week out. Everyone can't have nerve damage in just one body part. Yeah. It's, I think it's just the fact that because on paper, hip hinges don't make any sense for bodybuilding. No one's doing them. And Jordan Peters leaves them in because he says, regardless of what the science is, Mike, what I've seen is the people who have from the floor deadlifts have lats that go all the way down. Into the glutes. And that what I've, what he said, and that. I used to always have really, really detailed Christmas tree, but I always left in deadlifts. Deadlifts was one of the staple movements, squat, incline bench and deadlifts. I mean, I'd have bent rows. I'd have Romanian deadlifts. And I'd have from the floor deadlifts. Like I was heavy focus on that. And so I've always have an overdeveloped lower back and glutes relative to everything else. I've since taken them out. I wouldn't be surprised if this year I don't have a Christmas tree or at least it's diminished, which would make me think that since nobody does even Romanian deadlifts anymore. Like deadlifts have been eradicated from everyone's routines. I mean, Ian and Chris were doing them like crazy. It was not this most recent offseason, but the offseason before that. Ian dropped them because his glutes were getting too big relative to the rest of him. And all the experts are saying that deadlifts are a great glute exercise. They are a poor hamstring exercise and they're even worse for back. But it wouldn't surprise me if the lower back it's because people also phased out the bent rows, the non supported bent rows that losing the deadlifts and losing the bent rows is going to have a drastic effect on the look of the Christmas tree, the lower back. Yeah, possibly. The other explanation that for the Barry DeMay post, the reason why no one has good lower backs is because that's where everyone holds their fat, especially when they inject insulin. So they never actually lose the fat there. That the reason why that they don't have shredded glutes and they don't have a Christmas tree is they're simply not lean enough because the two 12 guys had shredded glutes and they had Christmas trees. The classic physique guys had shredded glutes and they had Christmas trees. So it would indicate it may not be a deadlift thing. It could be a conditioning thing that it's just, he said that their lower backs were disproportionately soft for the rest of them. I don't know if that was true. I thought that the, the lower back is one of the last things to come in. The very last thing on me to come in isn't even the cut glutes as much as it is having the Chinese fan lats where you have striations in your lats when you contract your lats. When you wind up for the rear lats spread, having two Chinese fans growing out of the Christmas tree. That's that's that happens after my glutes come in. So glutes for me would be like an eight conditioning out of 10 would be Christmas tree. Shredded glutes would be a nine out of 10 conditioning. And when I have shredded lats in the contracted position, full Chinese fan effect, like Molina from we call it mortal combat. That would be a 10 out of 10 conditioning for me. Now, maybe I'll get even more conditioned in the future and I'll have a new setting and everything will get phased down one. But that's how I judge whether I'm ready or not is what is my back shots look like. That's why you need a coach is you can't see your own back shot. Yep. Last place it comes off for me is my lower back. My glutes will come in before my lower back. So that supports my theory that it wasn't the discipline. It wasn't the disproportionate at all. Barry DeMason was disproportionate. And what was weird is people were angry at him and he wasn't shit talking and he was being super respectful. He was saying, I'm this is a legitimate question. Why is it that nowadays people don't have shredded lower backs? And nobody postulated it's a lack of lower back training. Everybody just said he was shooting on people. Even Phil Heath was nice. I saw where somebody posted up a picture of hotties lower back compared to Dorian's. Um, uh, when he was Mr. Olympian, Dorian's was blew his out of the water. But Dorian didn't do from the floor deadlifts, did he? I don't think he did. I think he just did stiff legged deadlifts. He did Romanian deadlifts. He did Romanian deadlifts, but he picked it up from the floor. Oh. He did, he did bent rows, but he picked it up from the floor. So he did a deadlift and then he would row that weight. Gotcha. Yeah. Yeah. I don't recall him ever doing any heavy deadlifts. Like I watched his training video. I mean, I never saw him do any, even with the Romanians, he was never doing more than 405. Most humans would consider that heavy. Yeah. I mean, it's heavier than nothing. Yeah. And if someone's doing nothing, like maybe 200 pounds is all you need to do with the bent rows. You have to get that good solid isometric contraction through the lumbars. But if all your rows go from bent rows and T bar rows and dumbbell rows to chest supported machine rows on prime and hammer strength, and you went from doing deadlifts and Romanian deadlifts to nothing, maybe glute bridges, you take all lower back, you go from a very lower back heavy training style to no lower back at all. I would expect there to be some atrophy of the lower back. Yeah, you're probably right. I didn't consider that. I tell you what, Chris Bumstead, he was dialed in. He was, he was, he was very dialed in. Honey always brings people in. What do you think? I mean, what do you think that hottie is doing different? What do I think that honey does with his abs? Sorry. Yeah, honey. Sorry. That honey was a natural bodybuilder. And all the shit that I started with all the hardcore old school stuff. He still does. That the drugs are supplements to hard training and hard dieting. That everything's the hardest way possible. So that's just good old fashioned hard work. Yeah. He did the shit that they did in the nineties is what they're doing when you're in the camp. Eva Jim. Yeah. I don't even know. I like it. It blows my mind that Bumstead. Bumstead can make weight too. I mean, literally he's on the stage at the same way that I do not look like Chris Bumstead. I mean, it just, it blows my mind. It was two, two 37.4. Yeah. Yeah. We're the exact same height. And I was two 37 on stage. You're six, one and a half. Yep. For some reason, I thought you were six, four. Nope. Nope. We're exact same height. I don't look like Chris Bumstead. That is weird. He must be dropping a ton of weight, like right at the end. Like it just blows me away that he can squeeze in. Well, last year he was dieting on 1600 calories. Yeah. I saw that. That's insane to me. Yeah. He has to really suffer to get down there. To make weight. He has to feel like shit. Well, maybe what just happened with Derek will happen with Chris. Go to the open. I mean, he, they asked him that as soon as he stepped on stage, like, when are you going to upgrade to open? And he's like, I still have room left to make it into classic. I only was two 37. And he was like, I have to work really, really hard. Like, it's not easy for me. I don't know if I'd be able to put on 10 or 20 pounds more muscle. Well, he also has that autoimmune disorder, right? That he has to be careful with. Well, my understanding is that him and Ian since 2018 have properly educated themselves about this. And that whereas they believe they're a nephrologist in the past, I wouldn't be surprised if Chris and Ian knew more about that disease than anyone else on the planet, at least insofar as the nutritional limits of someone with that disease. Whereas before in 2019, he was eating like 100 to 200 grams of protein a day tops. I think that they figured out that that was bullshit and they were holding it back and that he could have eaten a lot more. That whereas he used to use 200 milligrams of test. I know that this most recent offseason, he used 500. That he's never used any GH. People aren't going to believe that. People think that's horseshit and it's fun. I don't think it's horseshit. Why even give a number? Yeah, I know. He didn't have to give a number. So why even do it? He finally came out and admitted he doesn't take 200 in the offseason. He takes 500. And that he said he used to use a lot more. Yeah. So when he was coming up, he used more. And then since then they've realized they didn't need it. So they don't use more than they need to. Well, it doesn't take much to maintain. And my guess is that he probably has to go on the conservative end just to stay in the weight range that he needs to compete. So let's say we were to approach Chris's cycle the way Ian would approach Ian cycle and he's running 750 test plus a secondary agent. Like if he did 750 test and like 300 masteron that's still only a gram. I mean, he's still coming in at a 60% of a upper safe limit mark. He could easily, I think, shoot up to 280. It just like before with Derek. And then if they bring him in at even 245 or 255. Seven to 17 pounds. If they brought him in as shredded. I think Chris would make the top. She would make the top time and open and top. I think. Eighth and open is the same money he makes first and classic. Well, he's the most popular bodybuilder. I'm sure he's making time. The, the prize money is probably irrelevant. Irrelevant. But that's kind of my point though is classic is popular because of Chris Bumstead. If it wasn't for Chris Bumstead classic would be as unpopular as 212. If so facto 212 was popular when flex Lewis was in it. IE. If Chris did open bodybuilding, open bodybuilding would be even more popular. Talking about the 212 Sean Clarita looked amazing. Yeah. He was came in at 185. 185. I know that's crazy. Isn't it? Well, he was 174 when he won it last time. Yeah. I mean, he's just, uh, he's amazing for, he's the best small bodybuilder of all time. Well, yeah, but how do you put on nine pounds? And he, so Legion, he was 174 and beat Sergio and, uh, Regan who were the two eighties. Right. And then he puts on 11 pounds of muscle in 13 months, including the contest prep. I don't know how anyone at that age, how old is Sean Clarita? Can you look that up? I think he's 40. He's gotta be. Well, I mean, maybe he is. Uh, he's gotta, I would think he's, I think he's in his thirties. Isn't he? I thought he was 40. I thought he had 20 years of competitive history so far. Oh no, he's 40. You're right. Right on the money. Right. So he's only three years younger than me. And he just put on nine or 11 pounds a year. Well, Matt Jansen seems to have cracked the code of getting guys huge. He's, he's the guy that's bringing in all the big dudes. Now. Who? Wasn't he working with Lunsford? No, honey was with Lunsford. Oh yeah. That's right. You're right. Yeah. First and second and open and first in classic and first and figure are all honey. Honey guy. Honey got three more Olympias. Once Dr. Sonny Andrews starts winning wellness. And Andrew, do you, or whatever his name is, starts winning physique. Honey will have five divisions locked down. Is it that he's doing something great or is he just picked a good people? I think he's, he's always been like that and they've always been consistent and they always come in the same. He doesn't fuck up. This isn't even the first time he's had number one and number two in 2009, 10 and 11. He had one and two. Yeah. That he had a Nicole Wilkins who had a reign of about three or four years with honey. That he's just the best at every division, except for bikini women's physique and women's bodybuilding, but all the male divisions he had. He had, um, blend dia. So he had one of the classic Olympian, one of the open, what's it called? Men's physique Olympians. Yeah. That dude for like, for years to Jeremy Bundia. Yeah. Jeremy always looked great. So there's never a point in which Haney Rambod doesn't have one or two people walking away with an Olympia trophy every single year. He had Jay Cutler and Phil Heath. That's nine years in a row. And then he didn't have Sean Roden, didn't have Brandon Curry and didn't have big round. But then he comes back with, but during that time period, Haney was third or second. And Derek was winning first, you know? Well, whatever he's doing, these guys look great. I mean, I mean, Bumstead looked the best. I think he's ever looked this year. Yep. Yep. For sure. Derek looked the best. Hattie looked the best. Bumstead looked the best. I wouldn't, I'm not a, I've been following Sydney Gillen, but I think she probably looked her best. What did you think about Hattie Choupon? I thought Hattie's waist came in. That I think Hattie finally had a more symmetrical look. I thought symmetry was Hattie's only flaw. If you looked at like things like the most muscular, Hattie was as big as Brandon Curry. Hattie looked big. When he's in his poses, he looked big. His quads looked enormous. They're like as big as Rami's. They're as big as Nick Walker. Hattie was as big as Nick Walker on the stage. How much does he weigh? I think he's 230 right now. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I just like 231 is what he weighed in at. So, and he's 5'6". Yeah. I think Derek was 234. Nick was 255. Brandon was, I think, 258. Rami was, I think, 296. Samson was, I think, in the 304 or something like that. Yeah. Samson's huge. And that was Milos that's working with him, right? This past year blew him up. Yeah. Milos is doing great job lately. Yeah. He seems to be the one that's packing size on people. Yes. Because it's the, his, this is a protocol that I used to think was kind of dangerous. And then Karina pointed out that it was what we were doing ourselves. We just didn't need the insulin. And it's just the, she likes to, mine's a little slightly different, but it's the pre-workout normal stuff with some leucine and some glutamine and some fast acting carbs. And then the intra is pretty much the standard intra stuff. These EAAs, including leucine with some glutamine and carbs. And the post-workout is the leucine and the carbs and the EAAs. And it's a little bit more complicated than that, but there, his is surprisingly identical. That is, intra and his post are almost the same. It's like everything's five grams leucine, five grams creatine, five grams glutamine. And on the, for all three with, and then the pre has the arginine, the citrulline, the beta-alanine, the betaine. And then you've got, psychically branch chain, psychodextrin. And then you normally do, Humalog pre during and post with Lantus in the morning. And you're using GH first thing on an empty and you're using GH before bed. So four units of GH, 10 units of Lantus and four units of GH before bed. And then pre-workout it's the five, five, five with the other pre-workout stuff. And when I say five, five, five, I mean five creatine, five glutamine, and then five leucine. And then your normal pre-workout stuff. And then you've got the liquid carbs and he does giant sets. And I think that the giant set training requires the carbohydrates and the insulin. Likewise, using carbohydrates and insulin with Dorian style training is a waste. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I found to be true. That the insulin and the carbs work better with a higher volume style. So I don't know whether Milos is programming is as good as Israel's, but the concept of the giant sets, I don't know if Israel would agree with or not. But when it comes to honey, honey has a lot of form execution stuff and exercise selection stuff. The modern day Joe Bennett approach or the Ben Pukulski approach wouldn't necessarily agree with. But I think where honey's strengths are is the idea that you do absolutely everything fucking possible and you do it as hard as you fucking can. And his style of training is four sets of 10 to 12 where the last two sets are work sets. So really it's two work sets in the 10 to 12 range. And then he has an FST seven set, which is usually the last set. That's an isolation set. That's a pump upset. Yeah. Honey's formulas with his Evo gin line, which he designed are not dissimilar to Milos. One of the big differences is honey does not believe in insulin. And I, of course, there's probably instances where honey does use insulin, but he, I don't think, whereas Milos was kind of like the pioneer of insulin and essential amino acids intra-workout. He started that shit. He started the intra-workout drink. He started using insulin. I think that honey stays away from insulin as a general rule. He doesn't like it. And he is about intra-workout carbs, but he uses the training style for volume training. So both of them are pump focused volume trainers. Both of them believe in a heavy work set of six to 10 on your first compound lift. You know, just like you or I would do a pump up exercise to activate the chest and get the chest rolling. Then you go do a set of a work set of like eight to 10. And then he would have another work set Milos of four to six for chest with drop sets and set extenders. And then he would go into his hypertrophy pump volume training. This is almost identical to the way honey Rambot would do it. Honey liked sets of five to seven. I believe you'd have one work set of five to seven. And he also liked Dorian's approach to have three forced negatives and then five partial reps. Those are in his normal building style. So honey and Milos have almost identical training styles. They focus on volume on pump, but you always have one good heavy set, approximately six reps at the first. Compound lift with intensity modifiers and set extenders. And the biggest difference is honey invented glyco jet, which is his glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent, not dissimilar to my battle meat. And that you would take that with the workout instead of injecting insulin. He also does EVP liquid, which is basically glycerol. I put glycerol in a powdered form in my intro workout. So whereas he would have you use glyco jet and have you use EVP the liquid version. I have the Fenris Fury pre-workout and the battle meat intro workout. Melos hand makes his from the raw ingredients. Now, Melos did get signed with G8JYM. And I don't know what JYM has. I know that Jim Sapani is an exercise physiologist. He is not a biochemist. And from what I know, he couldn't even explain his own pre-workout. He had to hire a biochemist to explain this pre-workout in a video because he can't seem to talk on camera. But I wouldn't imagine that Melos is actually using the GYM stuff. I think he just accepts the endorsement. And he probably endorses the pre-workout or the EAAs or the glutamine. But I think he takes the JYM raws and then makes his own concoction for the intro and the post. And then physically trains people like Regan or physically trains people like Samson. Yeah, I've heard he's there with them. That's the important part of it. Making sure they're not going hypo and making sure they're training properly. And I know he shoves the insulin pretty hard. I've seen some of the doses. My understanding is that what he does is as much as 10 Humalog. I've heard more, but I don't know if that's true or not. Well, was it 10 pre, 10 during, 10 post? Yeah. Right. But that's with 100 grams of carbs pre, 100 grams of carbs during, 100 grams of carbs post. And that's a two hour workout. So we're really talking about 100 grams of carbs and 10 insulin every hour. Yeah. So only one every six minutes. And that's something that I had said before is Milos's protocols are extreme and they sound dangerous. And I wouldn't do them unless I had Milos standing right there. Yeah. So like, I don't think I need the insulin because I might, I'm so insulin sensitive as is, but I wouldn't want to even fuck around with that unless I had someone as responsible as Karina or you training with me. And then you want it to be the same person for every workout all the time. You wouldn't want to have a good solid training partner on one body part, but she was insulin on the other days. The, or nor would you want to use insulin that extreme 30 units of insulin on one body part and no other day, because then your body's going to be super sensitive to it that day. And it's going to be overkill. Yeah. Well, his stuff is his approach is interesting. That's for sure. Maybe, maybe because honey doesn't use it. Maybe that's why his guys come in tighter. Yeah. It's big picture is the goal is to win the Olympia, not to be the biggest, most muscular person. Yeah. I mean, and I w I wonder if this guys are running in the offseason though, and they just drop it during prep. My understanding is they don't use it. Ever. Ever. Okay. Now I wouldn't be surprised if the amount of GH required them to use Lantus, but knowing honey, I would think if they're using so much GH that they need Lantus, he'd have them use more glycogen instead. Yeah, possibly. I mean, what, what, what is a typical, I mean, I don't, I wonder what, I mean, typical GH dose for those types of guys. I, I, people have these crazy ideas of what people are running. I don't think anybody. And I mean, anybody uses more than eight units. And I think universally six units is a sweet spot. Yeah. Yeah. And I think that to stay under the insulin resistance threshold, most people need to cap it at four or five. I remember I talked to Seth Ferose. It 2011, when he was working with honey and his GH was, I told him I was having issues with my GH. How much do you use? And he was like, what are you at? I'm like six. He's like, go back down, go down to five. Five's where I like to be. And that's worked perfect for me. So hearing it from Seth Ferose, that it implied, and I'm not putting words in his mouth and I'm not pointing fingers at honey. It sounded to me like honey had Seth Ferose at five units, GH and the Seth was competing in the two Oh two class at that time. I always laugh when these gym bros think that guys are taking 20 units of GH. I'm like, I'm like, one, who the fuck could afford that? I don't, I mean, pro bodybuilders aren't making enough money to perform, afford running that much GH. And then the insulin resistance. And I, I, I've played around. I've, I've experimented with going up to as high as 10 before. If I go, if I go past, if I go up to eight, I can't feel my hands, my hands in my, in my, uh, fasted glucose levels will get up in the one 20, one thirties. I remember there's one time I took a, I was just using dbol. IGF one desk. At the same time. And I couldn't, I got a pump so extreme in my arms. I couldn't hold the dumbbell. So I had, I had a debilitating pump. I remember coming off. Coming off. Coming off a contest for prep rebounding, getting these insane calf pumps where I would just, even just walking. My calves would get so pumped. I couldn't, I couldn't even, I couldn't even walk. And then middle of the offseason, even when my insulin sensitivity is good, it's like really exciting to get a pump because it's pretty hard to get one now. Yeah. The off it's, it goes away in the offseason, but it's, it's. Yeah. I, I, I, I, I imagine that probably has to do with your insulin sensitivity declining. I don't know. You tell me. That's the weird part is that my insulin sensitivity is fine. I think it's just like your kidneys are so efficient at filtering sodium and you're always so bloated and stretched out that there's no real relative change. The best, the best pumps I ever get are right after coming off contest prep. Or after a deload week. I find that the week back from a deload, I get the most insane. My muscle connection, the most insane pumps. That's something I haven't done in a while. The deload. Hold on. I, I, I wasn't training that hard after being sick for, with the pneumonia and stuff. So I, I don't know. I, I need to get back to my routine. I just been kind of coasting. Yeah. Yeah. I hate coasting. Coasting is the most depressing thing ever. You're just wasting time. Yeah, it is. This, this week I hit it hard there this past week. I finally been able to hit it hard again. I know you were talking about kind of feeling back to normal now. Yeah. I finally started feeling back to normal. My last three workouts were incredible workouts. I've got legs today and I really don't feel like going in because it's a snowstorm. But then the gyms closed down until Monday because of Christmas. So it's like, I either take, go in the third day in a row and push my luck or I take three days off. All right, dude. Um, I'm going to put your contact information down on the, uh, video description guys. If you want to get in contact with Todd for coaching supplements, consultations, I assume you still do consultations, right? Yep. Consultations, coaching, lifestyle and competition coaching. Me and Karina Dodson work together on all the coaching clients. And, uh, I also own the supplement company Valhalla Labs and designed all the products. And, uh, that, I think that covers it. Yeah. I'll have everything in the video description. If you want to get in contact with Todd. All right, guys, take care. See you later, buddy. See you later, buddy. See you later, buddy.