 warning, warning, warning, warning, warning, warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by, first, detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, use discount code, AB10 at checkout for 10% off. What's up guys, what going on this week? What up? What up? Nick Crivelli got banned from YouTube. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. Nick Crivelli got banned from Treyfus. ill on their on their youtube youtube channel but i mean yeah i mean that's that's it's in that sense it's pretty awful because like i couldn't imagine if i woke up and my channel was gone like that would that would definitely be a huge hit you know what happened to todd before you had a pretty good channel going man and you got nuked yeah it was 100 of my income was gone overnight brutal and you know i never built it back up but um i was banned from ever using youtube as long as i live so i couldn't even watch it i had to create a new identity just to watch youtube you never do anything in half measures todd right i mean it was overachiever like dylan gemelli and tony huge were back on the next day after the purge but i was gone for life i don't understand how that works but you must have really pissed somebody off yeah i guess so and uh so like with the nick tregilio thing he had just released a video that was completely erroneous about martin because i immediately messaged martin like dude i didn't know you're homeless he's like i'm not homeless don't listen to anything that says i was like okay um because i know for a fact he was completely wrong about sunny andrews on almost every count that i don't know whether she cheated in her residency but everything he was saying how she's not a doctor he actually disproves himself because you couldn't be in a residency if you weren't a doctor you don't get to go to residency if you're not a doctor that you have to graduate from medical school you get a diploma that says doctor of medicine on it you're always a doctor period that's completely no one can take that away then if you cheat in residency that doesn't really make sense i think what he was trying to say is that she cheated on her usmle step three because there's no test in residency it's just that in order to go to get to complete a residency and be a specialist at one point during the internship or residency you have to do usmle step three at that point if she cheated then she would never get to be licensed and that might be true she might not have a license but you're still a doctor if you don't have a license you just practice under someone else's license all the doctors at the hospital are practicing under the hospital's license while they're in residency so that completely disproves everything he said so it's like okay he's grossly wrong about this and i made a comment and sent him a message and he ignored it and continued to post incorrect information so it's like so out of the two stories that i followed on his channel both were completely wrong so he probably is he's like paul revere screaming the english are coming and there's no english that in fact there is an earthquake and england sank into the goddamn ocean that is the worst journalist in history so i can understand why they would take him off because he's constantly slandering people on almost a daily basis i mean you could pick and choose the people he pissed off it was it was a ton of people i mean he went hard on a lot of people yeah yeah he definitely went hard on derrick for more plates more days yeah i mean that that like derrick's almost got two million subs now it's like yeah i don't think you want to mess with that you know i don't know if you want to pick a fight with derrick that's probably not a smart smart and he was like posting the private dms they had with each other up on his channel so that that's what i was thinking was like part of it probably has to do with him showing like private messages you know without people's consent surely you know like there might be something that plays a role in there that that should be illegal even if it isn't illegal yeah yeah that was pretty nuts you gotta have a big set of balls to do something like that that's that's it's not or or just not smart yeah i'm leaning towards the latter oh man but i you know i don't wish ill on the guy and i i i'm i'm sure he's in a full-blown panic today losing all his income but he sort of asked it asked for it to be honest with you sometimes one makes one's bed he's been banned you know his channel's been canceled three separate times yeah i mean it's not like he's just whatever lesson he's supposed to learn he isn't learning well i've heard once you're on the naughty list you're there forever even when you bring up a new channel yeah that's it yeah you bring up a new channel they're gonna be watching you you know well i don't know i don't know what to say but that was not a smart not a smart decision for coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today i can help you with optimizing hormones fat loss muscle gain physique athletic performance nutrition and help for more information shoot me an email at big p3rd at gmail.com you