 This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, big Paul here today with Paul Bexendale. How's it going Paul? Very well, thank you sir. It's a pleasure to be here. Pleasure to be here. Pleasure to be thought to be here. Thanks for talking with you. Folks, folks, folks, folks, if you don't follow Paul on Instagram, he's got one of the best pages on Instagram from, he has a bunch of stuff up from 80s and 90s UK bodybuilding. There's things up there about Doreen Yates and other, other stuff, but it's, I stumbled into your page last year and you just, you have some really fantastic stuff up there. Thank you very much. 90s bodybuilding is really my favorite time period. I think people are our age. It's just, I don't know, a lot of people still reminisce about it, but it was just an amazing time for bodybuilding with Dorian and Flex and, you know, all these guys that were, were at the top during that time period. It was, it was amazing. It's interesting because I think it was a golden era. You know, I have to admit, I think the physiques that the 90s, you know, generated were just some of the best we've ever seen. But I do realize that I'm biased with, with the fact that I was competing myself in the 90s and that, you know, that was the decade where I really gave it my all. So I am biased and, you know, I, I try and keep an open mind, you know, when I'm looking at the competitions today and the physiques that are on stage today, you know, I, I try and not look through the rose tinted spectacles of the past, which is easy to do. So I try not to do that. Yeah. IMean, I sort of feel like it was a, you know, pinnacle body, but IMean, although IMean the early 2000s, even now there's some, there's some great guys right now. There's some interesting young guys on the scene right now that I enjoy watching. I just went to the Arnold Classic a couple of weeks ago and it was a fantastic competition, but man, I think guys from the 90s just brought that gnarly combination of size and conditioning that you just don't see on the stage that often now. No, no, I, I would, I would say the size, um, in some ways the guys are bigger. Yeah, they are. They are somewhat bigger, but I just don't see the conditioning. It's the conditioning. There's no question. You know, I've, I've, I've seen the guys today and, you know, what I remember of the conditioning of the 90s, it, it doesn't compare. It just literally doesn't compare. And, you know, it's, it's a question people ask, ask me a lot, you know, why do I think that is? And, and, and it's interesting to, to think about what the reasons may be, what the reasons may, may be for that. Um, but I, I think that's the biggest difference. And I, and I, and I think, um, that also plays into the, the actual shape of the bodybuilders themselves too. You know, the, the guys in the nineties, um, you know, the, the average guy in the gym, you want, you would, you would have loved to have looked like that today. Maybe the average guy in the gym, they're looking at the men's category and I'm not sure that it's that same. Oh, I'd love to look like that feeling about it or, you know? Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's wild going to bodybuilding shows now and there's not as many bodybuilders. It's, it's, I don't know if it's like that in the UK, but I go to shows here in, in the US. I tren people. There'll be 10 bodybuilders and 500 men's physique. Wow. Yeah. IMean, I, I exaggerate a bit, but the ratio is very skewed. The industry has changed, you know, to the point where I, I hardly recognize it, to be honest with you. Um, but everything changes, you know, everythinGHas its season and, and, you know, all things change and, and some things have changed for the better. You know, it's very easy to glorify that period of the nineties, but there was certain stuff going on in the nineties that wasn't all that positive or, or great. And, and, and it's easy to overlook all of that too, you know? So, you know, in some ways, um, the industry is perhaps more trensparent today than it was in the era where you only had magazines and you only had, if you were lucky enough, you had the big guys in the gym to talk to. Yeah. Yeah. I remember that's a big thing that I talked to young guys about that's changed. Um, in the nineties, nobody talked about the drugs, steroids that were involved in the sport. That was all hidden behind the scenes and you had to earn the trust of somebody in the gym to even find out about it. It was, you know, they didn't talk about it in the magazines. It was, it was very hidden. And, and it was an exclusive club. I remember like being in the gym and the guys had to know you, they had to trust you. They had to see that you were serious before you can even talk about that. Which I think is quite a good setup to have. IMean, it was informal kind of a set of rules, but it was kind of one that everybody knew and stuck to like. I've witnessed today, you know, like young, young teenagers getting access to, um, to performance enhancing drugs. And like that would not have happened back in the eighties or nineties. Not. And in fact, if that had happened and somebody had found out that somebody had given someone that age, there would have been trouble, you know, because it just was not done. You had to earn the right to get into that small, very small group of what would be called big guys or, you know, and, and you had to, you know, put your foundation, uh, and, and that building of a natural foundation. I think is part of the, the reason that, you know, guys, you know, my age now nearly, nearly 60, um, you know, we're still holding a little bit of muscle. Like I don't tren as a bodybuilder anymore. Um, but my body's still got a little bit of muscle on it. And, you know, I'm, I'm quite happy with that and come out of it healthy as well. You know, which is a blessing, you know, you know, not all of us guys did. Yeah. IMean, I know that there were some people that, you know, IMean, you know, there's, you know, some guys that didn't make it NASA and some of those, some of those guys, but generally I found, and I don't think people believe me that, that guys back then didn't seem to run as much stuff as guys do now. You guys now seem to press the gas pedal down a lot harder than, than, um, I heard, I know, you know, Dorian, but I heard him recently on a podcast. IMade a video about it, but him talking about what he would run in the offseason. And it was just a fraction of what, what guys do now. Like people, I don't think people believe him. They, they don't generally, they absolutely do not believe Dorian when he tells them exactly what he did take. And, and, and look, you know, I w I was in temple. I was trening with him. Um, the, um, you know, I was trening with Dorian with a guy called Kenny Brown, who sadly passed last year. And, you know, obviously after trening, we spoke about everything, you know, we knew what we were all doing. And, you know, I, I didn't know exactly, you know, what, what Dorian was doing, but, you know, he was, he was pretty open about, you know, what he did. And he didn't, I absolutely know the numbers he was, he gives out today. That's what he was doing. IMean, he absolutely had no reason to, um, to lie to myself or Kenny. And like, it was pretty, it was open, honest, and we, we knew what we were all doing. And there are times I actually look back and think, what if I had pushed it just a little bit more? Cause I think about the dosages that, that I took and it was, you know, almost ridiculously small compared to today. Yeah. Almost ridiculously small. And, you know, part of me thinks, oh, what if I had pushed it? Look, I, I never took growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. No. IMean, it was very expensive and hard to, hard to acquire back then. IMean, I could get it, but we had this kind of unwritten saying that if you couldn't get your pro card without growth hormone hormone hormone hormone, you didn't have the genetics. I remember that. Don't worry. Don't bother. Take up golf, take up badminton, you know, but don't put you all into this bodybuilding business. Cause if you, if you need growth hormone hormone hormone to get your pro card, you ain't good enough, you know? And, uh, today, you got, you got first timers using growth hormone hormone hormone hormone for shows. Well, there's cheap and easy access to it. That's part of it. Um, how did you meet Dorian the first time? I had just competed in the NABBA British finals. And my girlfriend at the time, her parent, her mom, her mom lived about half an hour from Birmingham. And so after the final, we stayed with her mom for a couple of days. And I thought, well, I've got to use this opportunity to go down to Temple Gym. You know, Dorian had just become Mr. Olympia, you know, 90, 92. And I just got to, just got to go there, you know, just got to see this gym and, you know, hopefully he'll be in, you know, I didn't expect he would be. And so I just drove down one morning and, um, you know, I didn't know the, the times that the gym was open. Then the Temple Gym was only open from midday onwards, but I didn't know that at the time. But IMust have rolled up about 1130 or something like that, walked down the stairs. And, and I just remember seeing this back facing me, you know, and it was Dorian, you know, bending over the counter. I just saw his back and I just, oh my God, it was unbelievable. And so, you know, I went, I went to the counter and his ex-wife Debbie was, was working the counter then. And I asked, you know, if I could work out and she said yes, which was, you know, very good of her. Cause normally if you, if you're down there before 12, you don't get in, but you know, I was allowed to tren and, um, started to tren. I think I was trening shoulders and triceps and Dorian was still trening with, with Kenny. So they, they hadn't finished at the time. And this is one of the real humbling moments of my bodybuilding life. So I just competed. And so I was feeling, you know, I'm in good shape here. You know, I'm like, I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm ripped. I'm feeling good. And, um, uh, shoulders and triceps was always a kind of strong body part for me. I always grew quite easy. And for some bizarre reason, I decided to take off my t-shirt and get into a, you know, and down to my vest. Which I don't know what was going through my mind when that happened. But anyway, I was doing tricep push downs and, um, you know, I always had this nice feathering on, on my triceps. And I, and I remember Dorian and Kenny were kind of just, just walking past me and we kind of caught eyes and kind of nodded. Oh, hello. I said, oh, it's great to meet you. And he just said to me, good condition, lad. You just need some muscle to go with it. And so, so from that point, IMade it, IMade a decision that I would tren at Temple a minimum of three times a week, even though it was close to two hour journey. So a four hour round trip for me. So I did that for abouT3 to three to four months until one morning I was just about to tren legs. I just done my second warmup on the leg extension machine when Dorian turned around and he said, oh, it's a shame you're not trening legs tomorrow, Paul. You could have joined us. So I said, are you serious? He said, yeah, of course I'm serious. I said, okay, I'll stop right now. I'll come back tomorrow. And that was it. And that was it. That's, that's how it started. I turned up the next day, same time, absolutely destroyed me, but IMust have done enough for him to say shoulders, shoulders and triceps on Tuesday. So that was kind of how, how, how we started. And, um, over the next couple of years, there were times Kenny wasn't around. Kenny had to work and I trened with Dorian on my own. And, but normally it was, it was the three of us, you know, it was Dorian, Kenny and myself. So, you know, I just had a wonderful, wonderful period of time where I was trening with the best in the world. Um, and a great mentor as well. Anybody who knows Dorian knows he's, he's got, you know, he's got the biggest heart, you know, it's like, um, back, back then he was completely tunnel, tunnel focused, completely tunnel focused. Like he had no idea and he couldn't have cared less that I drove two hours to get there. All he cared about was I was waiting for him when he turned up. And that was it. And, and that was it. And, and to just have the opportunity to, you know, to tren with, and then afterwards to chat with, you know, somebody with that level of not just discipline, but. You know, there's still something very special about the man. He's constantly learning. He's constantly reading books, learning, you know, everything, you know, health, longevity, spirituality, history, you know, you name it. And that's what we talk most about today. IMean, we don't even talk about bodybuilding today, you know? Yeah. Yeah. It's incredible to think like now, like I, this is, I think probably the most incredible thing about him. At least what I admired is that it seemed like he figured all this out on his own for the most part. Like he, everybody has a coach for a mentor now. And I think, I think that's why I remember gettinGHis blood and guts book. I think it was in the early nineties and it was, it was a revelation. To me when I read that book, because it was the first time I had read a bodybuilding book where somebody had actually put some thought into everything. It seemed like this was like this, like he thought critically about everything and tore everything apart and distilled it down to what worked and what didn't. And that, that was just what I admired about him. And I think the, I think the, a lot of people gravitated to him and like myself, IMean, he, my favorite bodybuilder of all time. I won't make any, make any, any illusion about it, but he, I think what I admired so much was just the singular focus, the drive, and then the, the, the critical thinking part of it. Yeah. Yeah, it certainly was. And, you know, he, he did. I, I, I think he said like, even before he started bodybuilding properly, IMean, like he'd mess around with weights and stuff, but before he decided to start bodybuilding, he got out books by Mensah and Jones. And, and he, you know, he was reading these different philosophies. So even from day one, he kind of had an idea of exactly what he was going to do. And he wasn't following what everybody else more or less was doing. You know, the six days a week, a lot, a lot of the top pros would, you know, trening twice a day, you know, six days a week. My first mentor was Johnny Fuller, you know, ex Olympian, wonderful, wonderful bodybuilder. But we were trening six days a week and we were trening each exercise could be more than 30 sets, could be more than 30 sets. So I, I, I went from mega high volume to literally one working set. When I started trening with Don, he just dropped down from two working sets to the one working set. And I think that'd come from, it had been his decision again, you know, you know, he'd had this conversation with Mike over in California in goals. And I think they discussed, Mike had said he thought he was, Dorian was still over trening. And he'd put him through a few sessions and Dorian liked, you know, the results. And, but it was Dorian, you know, he went back and he thought about it. He, you know, as, as you say, the, the, the critical analysis of, of it all down, you know, he was the one who, who thought it all through and made the decision to actually drop it down to one working set. So when I started with him, I went from literally 20 to 30 sets per exercise down to one. So that's a dramatic, pretty dramatic, dramatic change. And did your physique improve? Within the first 30 days, I put on close to 30 pounds. Holy crap. Yeah. Yeah. People, people could not believe the growth hormone hormone hormone that I was experienced. IMean, I like that, the rumors that were going around my town of what I was taking, what I was doing, because I was now trening with Dorian in Temple. I was, I was getting all these IV drips hooked up and all this. No, I was just not over trening anymore. It was simple as that. IMean, the intensity was through the roof. It was, the intensity was just insane. IMean, I, I, I, when I try and explain it to people. And, and, and, and it kind of, it might sound a little bit bad. There was anger in there. There was aggression. There was rage. And there was a bit of violence in there too. Like, it was that extreme. It was literally like, this workout we're doing this morning is the last time we're ever going to do this workout. So that's how we have to make it. You know, we, we cannot make one mistake. So like you would, you would rehearse the workout like the night before. Literally go through every exercise you were going to be doing the next morning. So when you came to it, like, you know, you'd already done it in your head. So all you had to do was complete it physically. And, and together with that and the atmosphere and the energy within Temple Gym, like that combination. Man, I tell you, that was just unreal. There was, there was, you know, you know, Dorian's genetics are, you know, you know, they're, they're, they're, you know, they are exceptional. You know, you know, I know he said, you know, he has not the best genetics and, and he didn't have the best genetics. You know, he certainly didn't. There were, there were other top pro bodybuilders who had better genetics than he did, but nobody had better mental genetics. And, you know, I, it was, it was, it was an absolute, you know, privilege for me to be part of that. Um, it certainly helped me, you know, right the way through my life. Like there's never been any situation I've come up with where I've ever thought, no, I can't do this. Never because I've been to places in my head. No one else has been to, and I know that I'm like, I know you've never been to where I've been in my head. So it's like, there's nothing that can stop me doing this. So, you know, it spills out in, in, in, into more than just your trening. It's supposed to enter life too. It's a great thing. I think that's the beautiful thing about bodybuilding is it's a metaphor for life. Once you learn how to master that mindset of what it takes to be successful in bodybuilding, you can apply that to academics. You can apply it to business. You can apply it to pretty much anything in life. If you have that sort of discipline and drive and, and really you can be successful at anything you do. If you, if you just take that same mindset, you can, and it's a shame that that specific message isn't given more to everybody who trens, like literally the, the, the discipline and the mindset that you're putting into your trening, you know, whether it be bodybuilding or, you know, whatever, you know, category your trening falls into, if you applied that to every aspect of your life, just imagine what your life would be like. And, you know, and it goes back to, you know, the, the basics of look genetically, there's a handful of guys and women in the world who are going to make that top. Now, IMean, how many top bodybuilders or, you know, athletes make money from their sport and nothing else, but their sport? No, it's a handful. It's a handful of people. So unless you have those genetics, then, you know, keep bodybuilding where it should be. Don't make it the be all and end all, end all, all of your life, because you can put those same disciplines to work, you know, whether it be business or, you know, you know, your relationships or, you know, charitable life or whatever it is that you want to do, you know, and you'll be mega successful just with those same disciplines, you know. And that's a lesson I try to impart on young men I coach and work with, you know, it's sports, whatever, whatever your chosen path is, it's learning that, learninGHow to push yourself. If you can push yourself through a contest prep and get on stage, you can do pretty much anything in life, what I have seen. And that, to me, is the true value of bodybuilding and why I love it so much, because it's all in here. Yeah. It's all in here. It's all in your head. It is. And it's great. The fact that you understand all of this already, and you're in the position of being a coach. So you now have the opportunity, you know, to kind of teach all of these things to your clients. They think they're coming to you for bodybuilding advice, but actually you're just giving them so much more, which is great because I don't coach athletes anymore. I've considered, I've considered going back into coaching, but again, how I would coach, I would want to coach holistically. Like I'm not particularly interested in just how you look on stage. You know, I want you to get on stage in the healthiest way possible with a long-term view of your life where you've got every part of your life in order, whether it's, you know, your relationships, you know, your business, you know, whether you're an entrepreneur or, you know, whether you're spirituality, the whole thing, because that's how we grow. That's how we grow. And IMean, look, I know what it's like, you know, when you're young and, you know, your head's just so tunnel visioned on bodybuilding. IMean, I've been there. You know, I've, I've been the guy who took his Tupperware everywhere and like would never miss a meal. I wouldn't want to be even 15 minutes out, you know, with, with my meal timings, you know, I, like I've been that person, you know, for years and, and, and it's like, I didn't realize the havoc I was causing in the rest of my life in doing that, you know, but now, now I look back and I can see what damage I was causing for the sake of, you know, I won a few trophies, you know, and yeah, I had, you know, I had some great experiences with, with bodybuilding. I traveled the world, you know, I was at FIBO a few times and, you know, I had some great times, but you know, I, I could have done it in a, in a much more balanced way for sure. So yeah, for sure. Yeah. IMean, you always have to go through that though. I think the game, it's the road. It's a young man's journey. It's part of discovering who you are and then figuring that out. Yeah. I definitely went through that myself. For me, it was business in my twenties. I put my primary focus in business and had some success and some failures in business and sacrifice some areas of my personal life because of it. But I, so many people don't get that experience though. I, I, I remember distinctly growing up, I grew up very poor and didn't feel like I had a lot of control over my life. And I remember reading, I think, God, I couldn't have been more than 13 or 14 years old. And I read Arnold Schwarzenegger's encyclopedia of bodybuilding. And the thing that stuck out to me more in that book than anything else in that is when he talked about, there was a section where he talked about the mindset of visualizing your goals in, and then working towards making those happen. And I never felt like I had control over my life. And that was the first time that I thought maybe I can control things in my life and the outcome through hard work and through discipline. And, and then you see, you start working out in the gym and then you see the changes in your body and you, you realize that you can manifest those things. And that's once again, that's like why I came to admire Dorian so much because he embodied that philosophy, I think more than just about any other human being I've ever encountered, just manifesting things through hard work and discipline. Sure. Sure. And, you know, it, it, taking control, can you take, I would say can take you, I think it almost always does lead you to a point of almost OCD. Yes. And it almost has to, it has to. Yeah. And, and I, and I think the secret, if there is a secret, if there's something that I've learned with that kind of almost addictive type behavior is you have to recognize it and you have to say to yourself, look, I have these addictivEQualities, you know, like I want to be in control all the time. And I have to do this and I'm doing this all the time. So make sure that you get OCD and addicted to the positive things in life. Right. And not the negative ones, because you know, like if you choose a negative one, you're going to go down. Yeah. It's going to take you right down. So if you get rid of that, stick to the positive thing in life, then if it's addictive or not, it's still a positive thing and it's going to take you in the right direction. You know, so I, I think, yes, you know, it's a great lesson to learn to be in control of everything in life. Now stuff happens in life. We, you know, we, we've all had stuff happen that wasn't our fault. It was not our responsibility. You know, stuff happens to us and there's nothing we can do about it, except we can always have control about the reactions that we have to whatever's happened. And that's the one thing we've always got control of. And I think that's a really powerful thing. Again, that, that I learned, you know, maybe I was quite a bit older to actually finally learn that lesson, that the stuff that happens, I've got no control of, I can still control my reactions to it. Yes. Yeah. That's a powerful, that's a powerful thing to learn. And sometimes it takes life kicking you in the ass to do that. I've had a couple of those moments, you know, I've had, you know, I lost a business for no fault of my own. It was, it was just the financial crisis happened and it was just in the wrong place at the wrong time. And then I went through a round of cancer. You know, it's one of those things where it just, you know, there's nothing you can do about it. You just have to accept it and, and keep a positive mindset and move, move forward. So, IMean, some of these things, life is fragile, it's precious. And, you know, it's, it's a shame that you don't realize it until you get a little older, but it's, it's making the most of every day and getting the most out of it for me, at least. Yeah, it is. And, and I, I do see our almost responsibility now, you know, as kind of people who've, well, you know, you're still in the midst of it and I've, and I've got to compliment you on, on your physique, Paul, you know, it's like really tremendous work, you know, the last few years, really sensational. Um, IMean, in some ways I would love to be able to do that myself. I don't know how smart it is at my age, but. No, you know, it's like, but that's your choice. No, you know, that's your choice. IMean, in some, in some ways I had stuff thrown at me too. You know, I, I had a life changing accident. I had a set of stairs collapse underneath me, you know, where my spine was smashed. My pelvis was smashed. Both quadriceps ripped off. Um, my pancreas shut down so much cortisol was pumped out. I was in a wheelchair for, you know, donkey's years. I'm still in a wheelchair at times, you know? So it's like, I physically can't tren properly anymore. And, and, and the way I looked at it eventually was, man, that was exactly what I had to happen. You know, that's what needed to happen. Cause IMight not have stopped. IMight still have been competing all the way through and IMight've had a health problem. Eventually, if I'd kept competing, the only thing that was, would have stopped me competing was probably an accident like that. So was that thrown my way? Because it was me getting a slap across the head saying, stop what you're doing. You know, um, I, I, I don't know, but again, it's just the way I had to react to that situation. I had to turn it into a, something that was positive. And so I decided to go to academia, you know, that's like got degrees in history, literature, and then went on MA and looking to do a PhD now in literature. That's fantastic. Um, but what I really love, and you probably picked it up from my Instagram posts is I'm a storyteller. I love telling stories, you know? And it's like, I love telling the stories about the days in the nineties, Temple Gym. I love those stories. And I love, you know, I love just sharing stories. And, and if people enjoy those stories, then, then I'm happy. I'm fulfilled. I love reading your stories. That's how I found your, your page. They're, they're fantastic. They're fantastic. And you need to tell them more. IMean, these are, these are amazing stories. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, IMean, I, I do plan to, to write a book. I get so many requests for one. Um, and, and I'm kind of scheduling it in for, for next year. I'm, I'm currently writing a book at the moment, um, with another great dear, dear old friend of mine. Um, the, the artist, Simon Bisley, um, from Marvel and DC comic fame. He was, he was my trening partner over 30 years ago too. So we've kept very close over the years. And so we're writing a book together. I'm doing the narration and he's illustrating the book. Um, so that'll be complete this year. And then next year I hope to produce tales from the temple. Something like that. That's fantastic. I love the creative process. I actually, I was an arts major in school and study. I was a music major and I, I love the creative process. Um, and, and that, that, that too is much like bodybuilding. It's, it's something you chip away at daily and it's a slow grind and something you have to be disciplined and committed to. So that's fantastic. All right. I appreciate you coming on. Any parting words you want to leave the audience with? Um, yeah, I, I, I guess when you tren, fucking tren hard. Like you ain't going to make improvements unless you give your body a stimulus that it can't cope with right now. Like you can do all the pump sets. You can all do all the sets with reps in, reps in reserve that you want, but no, no, no. The body responds to a stimulus that they can't cope with. So it, it has to adapt. It has to grow. So when you tren, like don't tren half ass, unless you want to just go to the gym for a social event, fine. But if you're there to actually make improvements and you want to get on stage, like take your workouts seriously, really seriously. And, and, and don't half ass anything, give it everything you've got. Don't leave anything left in the tank. Don't leave anything left in the gym. And that's true for life too, folks. Absolutely. Life is precious. It's short. Make the most of it. And that's a good note to leave us on. Paul, thank you for being on. I really appreciate it. Thank you, Paul. My pleasure. Let's do it again. Be fun. All right. Yeah. Let's do it again. Thank you. Bye-bye. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.