warning this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition battle tested expert formulated use discount code a b10 at checkout for 10% off alright folks big Paul here today with Aaron Burke bodybuilding with Aaron life in Thailand what's going on Aaron appreciate appreciate you giving me the time I guess I'm just another another one of the Thai crew now as well I think half of the guys on your show right now I think dude if I didn't have kids I'd be over there with you guys I would I hate it here seems like it's heaven in Thailand for bodybuilders it's alright it's a nice middle ground it's not it's not as bodybuilder friendly as the States you know gyms wise facilities food but it's a nice chill comfortable sort of style of living where you can kind of just get in your own world like for a bodybuilder what do we do right eat sleep and tren and repeat and do a bit of work in the mean in the middle and if you just kind of staying in that little sort of cycle it's a really easy nice place to do it but you are limited on some of the you know some of the cool bodybuilding stuff you guys have got over there really it's mostly gyms gyms Costco food yeah we have great gym IMean I have a great gym a really awesome bodybuilding gym really close to my house so I am lucky there but you guys also have walk into a store and buy any of the gear that we don't have that that sort of access that is true that is true there is a couple of nice friendly pharmacies here which seem to keep pretty well stocked so that is a nice I think like I can get anything delivered to my door the same like an hour after send in the message and it'll just get delivered to my apartment so this yeah I wish we could do that pretty cool while I have great machines I don't have great access to gear here in the United States so that's that is a downside but yeah IMean you know every place has its ups and downs we were talking about peaking before we got started and you're a big dude and it seems like big guys are harder harder to peak it's really hard to dial it in going in the shows IMean what what have you done in the past to peak coming in it's been every different show has been a bit of an experiment I still haven't nailed it still haven't got that those stage shots where I'm like yeah that was it absolutely nailed it on that one we got me and Steve got pretty close once and for that one it was pretty standard kind of loading protocol carb loading over a few days and we typically day before the show I like a fat load a fat load tends to sort of tighten me up pretty well and I feel well and a little bit of a water push there and we've tried various different protocols with diuretics and you know anadrol loading and insulin loading and things like that and yeah to be honest like we had a really good full look on one of those because I did back to back shows two days in a row first day nice and full pretty decent look but could have been a lot tighter so we just went for the next day said let's just go big or go home you know go out for a big slap-up meal tonight wake up in the morning we'll smash a plate full of waffles see how it looks and get on stage and just nothing to lose kind of attitude and that second day actually turned out to be the probably the best I've looked and that was the meal the night before was it was just basically a bit of a Mexican feast and so lots of fats and carbs and stuff going in and obviously high sodium and the next morning was high carbs again so I think we kind of I was a lot smaller then I was still pretty big you know but smaller than now and I think the fine-tuning what it takes to really load a sort of 250 260 pound physique and have those carbs really stick and look good for me I like the fat load I like two or three days of carb load in a fat load and then what I did myself recently bar the actual show day which I did cock up admittedly but everything leading up to that it was a little mini-cut and I decided to last-minute jump into a local regional just to qualify early and I kept it pretty simple you know it was just a three-day carb load and a fat load and normal push the water high reduce the sodium a little bit straight from the Scott Stevenson be your own bodybuilder coach kind of peak protocol and nothing dramatic nothing drastic and then on the day the morning look was I was you know still four or five week out look this was a last-minute decision to jump into a show I wasn't stage ready but probably lean enough to look pretty respectable I woke up in the morning and I think when you it doesn't matter how good you are at this or how long you've been doing it I think it you do need a coach to really land the plane there like as you just I wasn't in there everyone's their own worst critic I was looking at myself in the morning thinking a bit flat by the time I'm on stage I'm gonna be super flat I need to load up I need to make sure I'm full enough and size and fullness for me there's never really been an issue but in my head I'm thinking oh the last thing I want to be is flat whereas the reality is my morning fasted look is probably always my best look towards the end of a prep for some reason I don't need much to fill up you know on the day but I decided to go big on a couple of heavy cream of rice meals and decided to throw in some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and anadril to try and push a little bit fullness and completely spilled over and I just kind of laughed it off but yeah as far as peaking protocols and what I've tried I've tried a lot what's actually worked and nailed it yet to find out so hopefully this year will land the plane I pretty much do the exact same thing man with the carb load and then a fat load the day before the show and then we'll pull the water down well we'll mess around with the sodium and water at the end and exactly the same I do the exact same thing I have it's impossible to be objective about yourself I would totally fuck it up if I tried to coach myself but I looked in the mirror every day and I'm like man when one day I'm like man I look great the next day I'm like I look like shit I would I would totally screw it all up so I just put it in Justin's hands and Justin Harris my coach and whatever he says is what I do this it's the right decision like I thought to myself you know I'm gonna do it all myself this year you know and when you grow in it's fine it's easy to manage you know and for the vast majority of a prep it's pretty easy to track things and keep things going I try to be very disciplined on when I push my refeed days and things like that my high days when I really need them and it's gonna work the best and for the most part it works out great but it's at the end when you've got to make those important decisions where timing is everything and having a yep hands-off approach there and just let someone who you can trust make that call I think is I've realized now that's necessary so I'm currently right now in talks with someone who I'm just just gonna hand hand over the reins see how it goes obviously that would be great if I'd like to still obviously partner up with with Steve like we'd like we used to in the first few years but obviously Steve's not coaching anymore he's far too busy educating the world on all the wild and wonderful things that we play with in our industry Steve's big time now what did you think of the Anna draw at the end I thought about doing that this year I've never done that before I thought it was a bit overkill to be honest I don't think it was really that necessary I feel like it's just too much stuff going on in those last two days a lot of yeah from changes and on I think it's just one added variable that's just really not necessary and what I've seen from by looking back and being really sort really looking over the pictures the morning the afternoon the days before and all of that I wasn't really that flat we know we're never as flat as we think we are you know no I think be honest I think the size and the fullness would have been plenty I didn't need to chase it any more than just the food did so yeah I do think it is for people that I guess that do struggle to get full it could be an option for sure a little bit like I think protocols are played with that we did practice with Steve a while ago was like a 25 milligram sublingual with meals you know and just sort of see how that fills up see how it kind of just makes that glycogen stick a bit and and then you know program accordingly as the days that the meals go by but yeah honestly I don't think I don't think I really need it same with the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone on the day didn't need it night before would have been fine. I usually pull the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone out a few days before to get the water I deliberately did it this time. I deliberately did it. I kept everything in because you always hear something I always hear people say you know if it ain't broke don't fix it if the look is good don't change anything and I thought would you know what I'm just gonna because you know we say that and then it gets to a week out and you're like you know what I'm gonna pull the shots and just hopefully get that nice little drop in inflammation a bit more detail a bit more dryness etc etc right and I kind of was happy with the look a week out and I was like you know what I'm just gonna keep everything in keep it all the same and not change anything boletus, vulcanit abortion, vulcages cartilage, pretty the bride vulcas, vulva, crania vulca, vagus vulca. So this was a kind of edney of complicated stuff but I thought how you would use it with a vagina. At least I know, at least I can confirm now the size and the fullness is not the issue. It's dialing it in and being lean and dry and crispy and freaky. That's what I need to do. I usually have the opposite problem. I lose all my fullness at the end. It just goes away. I don't know what happens to me. Maybe it's stress. I don't know. I require a lot of food though. Yeah, you do. I think it's just a metabolism thing, a genetic thing. You can burn through food like, do you know anyone else that sort of eats and does what you do? Maybe Roman. Roman. Yeah, maybe. It's funny. Anomaly, isn't it? It's very rare. It's funny. My clients will reach out to me and ask me how they can get there and I'm just like, I don't know. I wish I had an answer for you. I think my body just wants to go back and be that 185 pound dude I was in college that played basketball all the time. I just was a skinny guy in college. I think my body just wants to go back to that is what it is, but yeah, fullness has always been my issue. I've never had an issue being dry. I'll say that and then this year I'll be a water balloon on stage. No, I'm sure you'll be fine. I think to be honest, in what you look like a day or two after your high days, just one high day is a pretty good look right now, so even if you change nothing, you do pretty damn good, you know? Yeah, I got a little bit more. Go on. Carry on. Sorry. I was going to say, I got a little more fat. I want to get off my lower back, but you know, it's just, you know how it goes. I bet you. You're there with a magnifying glass looking for that fat at this point, aren't you? Yeah, I'm super conscious about the back because last year that was what they said that I needed more detail on my back, which I think I have improved this year. That's going to be good. And which show is it you're doing? Masters Nationals. It's a pro qualifier. Where is it? Pittsburgh. Oh, cool. It's the largest Masters show in the world as far as I know. That's the big Nationals as well, right? Yeah, last year I think there were over a thousand competitors. Was that the one with Carlos Jr. and Justin Shire, the one that they did? Is that the big one? I don't know. Maybe. There's a few different now. I always hear like USA's Nationals. This one's Masters Nationals, so it's all over 35, 35 and up. Geez, I can call myself a master as well now. Is that what it is? 35 to do Masters? Yeah, 35 you can. IMean, you're still, you're still in your peak. They have a 35 to 40 class and then a 40 to 50. That's not Masters. Yeah, I know. 50 to 60 and then 60 and up they have, I think. But I, this is my first year. I'll be in the over 50, so we'll see what happens. I was close last year in the over 40. Won the Super Heavies and then I don't know where I placed overall. It was, I was in the final three in the call outs at the end. So, but I was close. But it's a good, you've got a good presence on stage as well because you'rEQuite a tall guy as well, right? What are you like 6'1", 6'2"? Hair under 6'2", yeah, so 6'1", some change. That helps, I think. I'm in that weird spot though where I'm not quite big enough for open but too big for classic. Yeah, I don't know. It's a good, you fit out pretty good. Like for your height, it doesn't look like, you know, it's, yeah, I guess you probably could go either way but you're pretty damn lean. I don't know what your classic weight cap would be but you fill out your presence, your size and shape and structure does work pretty well for you at your height, so. Which is difficult. 232, so I'd have to lose 18 pounds. I don't, you know, what does that work out to? 9 kilos, something like that. 8 kilos I'd have to lose. Yeah, that's not happening. Yeah, not a chance. Where are you? IMean, what's your weight on stage? Where do you expect to be? Come November, I imagine I'm probably going to be probably in the 260s. I imagine something like that. Probably 260s. If I really, well, if I'm inside out, you could always be a little lighter than you think, right? If you really look at it. Maybe a 255, 260, I'd be very happy with that. Inside out, peeled on stage. I'd be pretty happy. IMean, I'm pretty lean right now. I'm on 275. And there isn't a great deal to come off. You're looking like a pro to me, man. Where you're at right now. IMean, is this how you're doing an IFBB pro qualifier? Yeah, I'm going to try and get the overall finally. I've won the super heavyweights too many times to not win the overall. So this year is the get the bloody card sort of thing. But it's crazy. Yeah. Right now I'm just moving into a cruise now. Yeah, that was fun. How much were you on the left? There I was probably... 88 kilos? Yeah, about 88. And I don't know how much body fat. I just kind of guesstimated the math there. But it works out probably 80, 90 pounds over five years or so. That's crazy, man. That's some awesome progress. It's been a fun ride. That's for sure. That's fantastic, man. People don't realize how hard they see that progress. But there's a lot of hard work and days in between those two pictures. Oh, yes, there is. But I think it's one of them. Yeah, it's hard. But I don't know what your perception of hard is or your perspective. I've worked hard jobs. I've worked on fishing trawler boats, construction jobs most of my life. On the farms in the summer. And it's like those dudes are workinGHard. So me going to the gym for an hour and sitting around like it's a different kind of hard, right? But I think mentally, you know, staying consistent. You know, just understanding that this is a long process. And you've just got to be very consistent for a long time and be okay with that. That's probably the hard bit. Probably being patient is the hardest bit because I'm super impatient. Don't you think that's what a lot of young guys struggle with is the patience and the consistency. That's the part that they seem to... I'll get guys that I coach all the time. Recently, I just had a guy who was with me for six weeks. And he's like, I'm disappointed in the results. I'm like, dude, you can't see progress in six weeks. It's just six years. It surprises me. With all the content that's out there on the internet now, or the conversations like this that we're all having all the time. And still people... I have consultation calls all the times with these guys. And they're like, so what do you think? How long is it going to take me to be pro? Do you reckon I can turn pro next year? And all of this. And I'm like, dude, like five years if you're really good. It's probably going to take you a minimum five years if you're really good. If you're okay, but working really, really hard and doing everything right consistently for most guys, seven to ten years, something like that. And that's the reality. And you see their faces and they're like... It's like they don't believe you. You're talking to the walking evidence of that. And it's a strenge thing. And I think the same thing about all of these subjects that we're all talking about, whether it's drugs or trening and food. But these real like entry level questions that you get. And I'm like, have you not even just spent just a couple of hours online? Just what is bodybuilding? And go down a YouTube rabbit hole for just a couple of hours. And you're going to come across a lot of these answers. But still, I don't know. I think people... I don't know whether it's just that young generation, that TikTok attention span, right? They're scanning through, they see a physique. I want that. I want to hire this guy, click this link. When do I get it? It's like, hold on a minute. Maybe that's learninGHow to spell bodybuilding before you start doing it and seeing if you like it. Blah, blah, blah. Very, very impatient, for sure. But the guys that stick it out, the guys that I don't post too much, you know, client stuff and things online, marketing and all of that, not really. But the ones I do, IMake sure that... It's like, yeah, no, this is good results. It's cool. It's been hard for like two years so far. You still got a long way to go. And I always end most of these little statements and questions with, all you've got to do is just not quit. Like, you'll get there. But you just don't quit. And then the other factor is, of course, genetics, have you got decent enough genetics to make it worthwhile? Yeah, man. Do you remember when you first started bodybuilding? I was a teenager. And I bet you probably thought very similar thoughts as well. I remember I started when I was late. But even me and leading up to my first show, the excitement gets to you and you start having these little, you know, daydreams about potentially going to the Olympics. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. IGTM, Pam1,reoninal. But it's not called rangin' for kind of the person on their own. It's great for the drugs. It's helpful for the body. But in terms of that I do with them is where I see the big leap forward. That's where I see the big leap forward. The first show you're just like I taught like these guys that have their two show plan to be a pro they're gonna win their first show and then win nationals and get their pro card and I'm like it doesn't work that way unless your name's Phil Heath or Ronnie Coleman and even then I don't know that that's the case but it's usually that first show you're just kind of figuring out what the fuck is going on. You know getting on stage you're like deer in headlights. I was you know I was panicked and scared the first time I was on stage. I didn't even know how to pose. I didn't know how to put my tan on. I didn't know how to shave. Any IMean all these little basic things over dieted. All these little things that you got to figure out and then and then you get that rebound and learn how to do an offseason how that process works and then it's usually that second shows where I see the leap forward. So if I can get guys to stick with me for two years that's when I see the big jump. Yeah no absolutely I totally agree and it was exactly the same story with me and Steve. We had a really good first year like you know got it good and competed a couple of times, had the experience but it was at that two-year point when I won my first show and it was like okay now we're getting somewhere. We had a good rebound, had a good offseason, really started to everything just started to sort of sink in and gel and make sense. It's like okay and then you get that reality check of timelines and just slowing your mental you know slowing down that excitement a little bit and just focusing on day-by-day goals. Then it just becomes a lifestyle you don't even think about it and before you know it a year flies by and you're like okay show time again this rock and roll but yeah it's definitely two years seems to be a key number for sure. Yeah that's usually like well I'll know if somebody has what it takes to compete after two years. It's hard to tell after after one but after that I can tell where if somebody has what it takes and that that seems to be where people make. IMean it's the same thing with me man that's the first you know you have a rebound and then you you make some progress, you get on stage, you look better and I think a lot of guys get disappointed with a eight to ten pound gain in a year. If you do eight to ten pounds of true stage weight over five years you're gonna be the biggest damn guy in your gym after five years. It's really really good gains, really good and the guys that are getting more than that you know are gonna be those guys that do just potentially have either a structure that allows for a bit more size. Some guys have just got big thick bones and they can hold that way a bit easier and the genetic factors I go on about genetics all the time I think is so underplayed to be honest but it's a very big to me a very clear massive factor in all of this and it's hard sometimes you go tell some of these guys look the guys you'recomparing yourself to you're trying to chase out the genetic elite elite guys you know you can see these little you know fairy tale stories of are you just started three years ago and now he's a pro and he's on the Olympia stage and this how rare that is like it's that's not you this is gonna take you like probably that five to ten year mark and and you don't think about that you should do this first and foremost the foundation of this is because you love doing it not the end result you have to love the process right what is it they say you gotta love the jerk do it for the journey not the destination something along those lines do it for the journey yep exactly that if you don't love bodybuilding then don't play golf because it's just not gonna be it's not gonna be worth it yeah IMean I love the sport and the genetic thing is funny and like people underplay it and bodybuilding and it's I played basketball when I was younger and I really had aspirations of being a high-level player and then you get a wide a rude awakening when you you're playing with bigger guys and you can basketball it's apparent you can look at it you can see somebody seven feet tall it's that's elite genetics it's right in your face man you you know that you're never gonna be that guy yeah no matter how hard you try right and you know having genetics like Heath is like being seven feet tall it's a probably a one in a million type of thing now that's not to say you can't improve that's not to say that you can't be a better version of yourself it's not to say that you probably couldn't I think more people have the ability to be a pro than think they do at sometimes and there's a class for everybody now that you know if you you may not have what it takes to be an open but you might be able to compete in physique mince was eat you might be able to compete in classic there's there's other options to know which is kind of cool yeah for sure and if you love the journey and you love the process of being a bodybuilder then go for it you know I'm not gonna sit here and say if you don't have Phil Heath genetics you just give up and go and play golf there's certain factors to consider but yeah like the realistic expectations I think there's a lot of people that have the work ethic and you know the drive and they do put the the hard grafted to turn pro we've seen it over and over again yeah maybe not the prettiest physiques maybe not the greatest structure but they just grind and grind and grind and they get themselves there they get to pro I think once you get to that pro level then you start to see where those genetics really impact that's the difference between first and second yeah but hey still getting second call out in a really big show in the pro leagues you're still a professional athlete in the thing you love to do that's a massive achievement and if you can get there intact then hey kudos to you I think Nick Walker in my opinion if I look at somebody he is the clearest example of somebody that overcame mediocre genetics IMean he is done everythinGHe possibly can to maximize his his potential I do you see the pictures of him when he was young right IMean it's just it's uh it's crazy to look look at him like he was I would have never looked at that guy and thought he could compete in bodybuilding there's absolutely his journey is amazing and what I love about Nick is the amount of hate and the amount of naysayers year in year out and he always just shuts everyone up like just keep talking watch me and then everything is he can a shape is improving year on year as well like I didn't think someone that big could grow anymore but he still is it's nuts everything I've heard about him is that he's an incredibly incredibly hard worker that's that's what it's what people here's a let me see if I pull this picture up but this is the people probably get tired of me sharing this one but this this is crazy this was where he started to where he's at now it's just nuts it's like he ate two of his previous selves yeah you wouldn't look at that kid on the on the left and think that guy's gonna be a pro bodybuilder no like if someone like that came to me and they said look I've done one show I want to go all the way I want to make it to the Olympia I'd say look let's have a proper chat I'd probably say give it another year doing things really dialed in the right way and see what that response is like if after a year that response is not what we're looking for you may want to rethink what you decide to do and then and then he goes and does that it's just unbelievable like it's against all odds story it really is it's they'll make a movie about it one day it's super cool and yeah that's wow he's up against guys that have that the shape and the muscle bellies and the assertions of just the elite few in the world and he's up there battling out with the best of them and winning and it's just nuts yeah and he may never win an Olympia because he just hit his cap of where he can go but you know the guy he made the most most of what he had that's for sure yeah IMean yeah tough they're in the world usually with young guys what I'll tell them and I think it's this is a thing I think it's better for people focus on the immediate goal in the in the like you said the journey to get there yeah like for the first thing like it's like that win the day such a good little thing that is just yeah this is a little goal-setting thing I think a lot of people don't understand is you know a lot of times people have a long-term goal but they don't have the little incremental things that they need to do to get there laid out so like I'll tell guys like let's let's just get you on stage local show don't worry about winning let's just get you on stage first and then you back it down from there you look at like alright this is what I need to do today this is what I need to do over the next week this is what I need to do over the nexT4 months and if we can master those things then you know we progress to the next step you know we go from there but most people just have this nebulous long-term goal and they don't have any idea of how they're going to get there and they're so focused ovarian, ovarian glycemic, ovarian gedaan, ovegan biology, obesity, obesity inhibition ok, obesity metabolism, obesity outputs. So these are the areas where I focus in. Thanks Chloe. Hey, Jasmine. She freed me from my pathology, which is a hard topic, which serves as a testimony to you. Were you a little bit I fell away from and they'd last a lot longer. But hey, yeah, it's a strenge old mindset. It's a weird sport that we're in. It takes a very different mindset other than this, unlike any other sport or any other thing I can think of. And it's a difficult thing to teach. And it kind of just got to kind of just got to practice what you preach. And hopefully they click on and they just do what he's doing. Listen to and listen to the right people at the right times. But it's a tough one. Some people just get it. I don't know. I'm sure you've got a whole bunch of different kinds of clients. Some of them just get it. They're like, I know, I know this. This is fine. Let's just get locked in, you know, and they barely need any work. They know exactly what they need to do week in, week out. And they just tick boxes, get it done. And they make that progress. And some guys need a lot of, you know, frequent talks and encouragement. And they have their little battles with themselves all the time. And you've got to sort of, that's fun. I don't mind it. You know, it's part of the coaching journey. I like helping these people out. But it's definitely a strenge mindset to teach. People think it's about the drugs, the diet and the trening. For me, it's more about getting them into the right mindset, teaching them how to grind away at a goal and work hard at that goal. IMean, to me, that's like with, especially with a young guy, that's probably the most important thing I can teach. And you're right, there's some people that get it. But usually the ones I find that get it are the guys that were athletes before. The guys that have played sports, they, or somebody who's, it's funny, like manual labor guys, like guys that have worked hard, hard jobs. They seem to get it. Or military guys as well. Military guys, yeah. Follow plans, get it done, no worries. Yeah, they just need the marching orders. You tell them what to do and how to get there. But yeah, a lot of guys, it's funny because I talk about PEDs all the time because it's what gets attention. But everybody wants it to be about the PEDs. And I'm not saying they don't work. I think people understand, misunderstand what I'm saying, but it's part of the puzzle. But it doesn't matter how much shit you take if you don't put in the work. It's not going to, nothing's going to happen. And it's also the most boring part of all of that, in my opinion. Yeah, we talk about all the chemistry and all of that stuff. And it's, you know, we can geek out and nerd about that stuff. And, you know, I'll sit there and listen to you guys and Kurt and all that, talk about that stuff all day. And we can sit here and talk about metabolic weights of different drugs and these interactions and that interaction and the mechanisms of action of whatever. It just makes me bored after a while. I'm just like, everything works. Do the drugs that work well for you at the right dose that you need and crack on. And to me, it's just so much more interesting aspects of bodybuilding outside of the drug input. And, you know, it's, I don't know, it's kind of a, I like the bodybuilding side of things. For me, I like to, the lifestyle, such an extraordinary thing. I'm obsessed with being anything but ordinary. Or being ordinary terrifies me. So just that keeps me really stimulated to just keep doing it so I can make sure I'm never just a regular ordinary guy. Not that there's anything wrong with ordinary guys. It's just a mindset that I've always had since I can remember when I was a kid. And that's a thing that I've tried. There's so much cool stuff to learn about within bodybuilding. So many pieces of the puzzle. And yeah, it's definitely way too drug focused, that's for sure. Obviously, it plays a role in some part, but... Look, I'm not trying to diminish it. IMean, it's a huge part of it. And the way I look at it, it's a tool to get the job done. I think people look at it the wrong way. It's funny, we all go through the phases when we first start out. We're looking at all the little weird drugs and trying to come up with complicated cycles. And then you experiment and you go through all that shit. And then everybody ends up at the same place. Like, I don't know, like half the guys I talk to that are pros, people speculate about what they're doing. And they're just running tests, PrimaBowl and GH, and maybe some insulin here and there, or whatever. It all comes full circle every time. The last two years, I've done loads of experimentation, right? I've decided to do 20 IUs of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone a day, listening to Chase, I was like, I'll try it. Blew a whole bunch of money, did a little Incrolex stuff with Steve. We did a whole bunch of other little trials on various different peptides, this, that, and the other. All kinds of experiments I've done. Nandrolone solo cycles, I've done loads. Oral cycle, well, not just oral cycles, but orals within different phases of growing and stuff, and testing out this, testing out that. It's fun, and I'm all for trial and error. I'm all for experimenting, because we can sit here and talk about it all day long. But at some point, you've just got to try it and see. That's my opinion anyway. Obviously, in a controlled environment, like any other good scientific test, you do it in a controlled environment and you collect the data accordingly. And I enjoy doing that. But yeah, at some point, I'm just sick of talking about it. I'm like, I'm just going to try it and see what happens. And then I know. And then I can pass that on and say, well, this is at least my experience of it. But like you say, it all comes full circle. You can play around with all of these different things. What I've learned from all of it is everything works, and you just need to be consistent. You just don't quit. That's the main thing, just don't quit. Everything works. But sort of the conclusion I've come to with the PEDs, and this is where I've gotten to on this prep, and I think why this prep has been so good for me is I want to take as much of the stuff that doesn't make me feel like shit as I possibly can, keep it simple. I'm running this prep without Tren, and I've never thought I would run a prep without Tren. And I'm like, I feel so much better. I think I look better without Tren. I thought Tren was required for prep. Doesn't seem that way. You know, if you can't sleep, you feel like shit, what's the point in taking it? No, and it's so true, and that's the same for every single drug and compound as well. It's the only, we can talk about, like I said, we can talk about those ideas, what this person says they're doing, what that person is lying about, who's taking this, who's taking that, none of it matters. The only thing that matters is an individual response, and that's it. Your own personal individual response is the only thing that matters. It doesn't matter what anyone else is doing or taking or talking about. And it always comes back to that. So because that's the end conclusion every single time, the whole other part of the conversation is these days kind of, kind of bores me a little bit. I like to nerd out about it sometimes, and like, you know, me and Nicholas- I agree with you, I do. Drugs and gear and stuff all day long, but really the answer is always kind of the same. And I think people gotta really understand that one. But no, you're right, I think. IMean, you recently, you just, you quit Deca and MPP, no more of that as well, right? Yeah, and it's funny, it's changed as I've gotten older. I don't know what changed in my physiology as I've gotten older, but I used to love Deca and MPP. They were my favorite compounds for size. I just can't do them anymore. They make me, they make my anxiety go through the roof. I can't sleep. My dick doesn't work. So I'm like, yeah, I'm like, there's no point in taking this. Honestly, I just pretty much run test, premable, GH, and insulin here and there. That's pretty much it year round. It's pretty solid. I downloaded your cheat sheet a couple of days ago just to get an idea of how you stack design from a baseline, knowing nothing about someone, knowing nothing about how you would initially approach that. And it's the same as every intelligent bodybuilder out there. You know, we're pretty much, most people are on pretty much the same page and it ain't, you know, no one's trying to reinvent the wheel, but works, works. And then it, like I said, it's just a case of individual response after that. But it's interesting that over time, maybe it's an age thing, must be a, maybe a genomic response thing over time as you age, that certain drugs just don't hit as good. Maybe a site, maybe it's a size thing, like a receptor site activity and things like that. Who knows? Like kind of, I don't know about you, but I remember when I first started, I would aromatize like a little bitch, and you know, 50, 60 pounds of muscle later, and it's not the case. I can run, you know, a couple of grams of tests and be absolutely fine with a little bit of aromacin on the side maybe, but you know, it's muscle mass, body fat. Yeah, IMean, as you get bigger and less body fat, yeah, you're gonna aromatize less. I don't really need a lot of, I used to, yeah, same thing. I used to be a heavy aromatizer. Now, like I ran an entire offseason, which is test and primo and no AI, and my estradiol was within range. It's fine. It's a feel good stack as well, isn't it? Like I always feel good on a bit of test and primo, or just even if I'm hard in dieting, I still always kind of feel pretty upbeat day to day. It's nice. And what I've found is I can run doses higher and feel better. I feel fine. Whereas there's a limit, upper limit. I will say this, high dose GH, I do love. It's something I've experimented with a lot over the last year and before I was like in that five to six I used, I was like yeah it gets the job done. I ran that for the vast majority of my bodybuilding up to a couple of years ago. And then I was like I was not big on the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone trening. I was like do you know what I just don't think there's any good for growing muscle whatsoever. I think it's more of a fat loss drug and it works wonders in prep or recomps which I still I would lean more towards that now. But pushing all the way up to 20, I went from six and then titrated all the way up to 20, ran 20 for a good solid month. Thanks Chase, cost me a bloody fortune trying to copy what you did. But yeah, I for me personally didn't see a massive difference between sort of that 10 and 20 range. It was just kind of didn't see enough return for me to want to continue doing that. But 10, which I've been running for the lasT4 or five months, 10 right before bed. Well about an hour before bed, it's just a sweet spot. I wake up every morning, I don't hold water on it, retain a nice bit of morning fullness. Fat doesn't seem to accumulate very easily at all. And when I'm in a diet, yeah, I think that's probably a massive reason why you did quite a lot of growing in your prep. You know, the first stages of prep, obviously your food's still pretty damn high as well. Yeah, you tren like a beast. But I think if that environment is in play, trening, the nutrition and everything else is on point, then yeah, a good dose of good growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Yeah, I'm kind of more on board with that than I used to be for sure. 10 is sort of where I settled into. I've been running nine units of Pharma HGH on this prep. I started off at 15 at the beginning, but 10 has kind of been my sweet spot as well. 9, 10 in that range. I found that that's sort of like the good compromise. I don't think four or five was enough before. I think so. Longevity, maybe injury repair, things like that, like longer-term goal stuff. Maybe a maintenance for long-term life policies if you're just eating around maintenance the whole time. Potentially a good place to be. And obviously affordability-wise, depending on what people's budgets are. It's definitely going to do something. But yeah, I think if you want to see some legitimate cosmetic results from it, 8 to 10 seems to be a pretty damn good spot, in my opinion. And I don't really feel the swollen hands, the swollen joints. But then I think me and Steve got pretty lucky over here with a certain brand that I don't think I can really mention, tell you off air. But yeah, we did some bloods on it and stuff recently, and it tested better than the Pharma stuff that we had been using previously. And it's a third of the price. And happy days. So yeah, we've got a really good source here at the moment for that. And it's working a treat. Can't go wrong. And if it's a little bit cheaper, then you can afford to run it a bit higher as well. So I will be running that probably at 10 throughout the whole of this prep. A few weeks of cruising coming up, and then I'll start prep. And I'm just going to run it all the way through, I think. Are you doing a 16-week prep? It's going to be 16 to the first show, 19 to the second show. Yeah, somewhere in that range. But I was going to do one a couple of weeks earlier, but it's right after the Olympia. And I'm coming to the Olympia this year. I've got to watch it. First time. Awesome. I'm coming. Me and Steve are coming over. Chase said he rented a sofa at the expo, so we're coming to join us. Yeah, we got a booth. So we'll hang out, man. We'll eat some food. Yeah, it's going to be fun. The last couple of times, I was so close to doing it, but just massive financial burden at the time. And I was in this situation, that situation, whatever. But this year, everything's falling into a good spot. So I finally get to make it to the Olympia. So I can't wait. Well, Las Vegas is really cool. I've been there before. I've been in Vegas before. Loved it. Amazing. But yeah, not for the Olympia for a week. So I can't wait to just be mingling in the gym. At that point, I'll be like three or four weeks out from a show. So I should be in decent shape. So you'll look like a bodybuilder. Yeah, so hopefully I'll look the part. And that's actually one thing I'm most excited about is just beinGHumble. Because over here, I don't get the opportunity to stand next to many big, like legit, big pro-level bodybuilders. Over here, the biggest guys over here is me, Nick, and Steve. No one else is that sort of size. Like me and Nick are probably the two biggest guys in Thailand right now, pound for pound. And I never get the opportunity. I've lived in Asia for almost 10 years now. And I've never really got many opportunities to mingle and stand next to big, legit, big, high-level bodybuilders, apart from one time I went to Dubai and met Andrew Jackson. Almost quit bodybuilding that day. That's enormous. Well, you know, I'm looking forward to being in the Dragon's Lair and the gyms there and just mingling with everyone, being in that atmosphere, getting that good motivation ready for my show a week later. Yeah, it's a lot of fun. Not many people made me feel small, but IMet Samson Dauda at a show last year. And I'm like, my god, that guy's the biggest human being I've ever seen. He's a thick boy, right? Yeah, he's like my height, but he was in off-season when I saw him. He was like 320, 330 when I saw him. There's controversy about his height. So you're just a smidge under 6'2". Would you say he's maybe an inch shorter than you? Yeah, he's probably 6'4"-6'1". Yeah, that's what people are saying. That's what other people keep telling me now. He's only like 5'11". He looks tall. Nah, I've seen him in person, man. There's no fucking way he's 5'11". He looks pretty massive. He's every bit of 6 feet. Yeah, he's a big dude. He's impressive in person. It's funny seeing some of the other guys. Like, you think they're going to be big, and then they're all short. It kind of ruins your impression of them. You know, they're massive, but they're all short. Like, it's funny. I'll take pictures of me with these guys, and they're all tiny. Get the angle as well. Yeah, get the angle on them. You know, it's like, I think I briefly talked to Hany Rambod after the Arnold, and I think he said that Hany Tupin was only like 2'25'' on stage. He just looks, you know. Yeah, IMean, he's massive. He just looks like 270 pounds of granite. It's crazy. Yeah, he's just, you know, he's 5'5", or whatever, however tall he is. So, I think a lot of these guys do lie about their height. IMet Jay Cutler in person. IMean, he's still thick for, you know, he's my age, 50 years old. Jay still looks good. What was Jay? 5'9", 5'10"? Yeah, 5'10", I'd say. Something like that. He's a good height. I think when I talked to him, he said he was around 2'35", 2'40", something like that still. IMean, you could see he's just put together. He's just big, just a big frame. He's just one of those guys, genetically, structure-wise, big, thick bones, holds the weight very well. You know? Yeah. He's just massive. Yeah, I'm sure he's like 2'30", 2'40", not even trying. Yeah, that's crazy, isn't it? It's just kind of his baseline. Yeah, you can see it. Some people, like, their baseline is higher than what other people. I have guys, you know, you'll see it when you tren guys. I have a young kid that I tren right now. And, IMean, he's just like a couple years of trening, and the kid's like 2'70", 2'80". It's just like, some people are just made different. Yeah. And if you can get into their heads and make them understand just how good those genetics are and what their potential could really be, if they just dedicate and don't quit for another 5' to 10' years. I know it's a big ask for many people. Do you know one way I've always justified that, though? I've always justified that big 5-year, 10-year mark with saying, look, what have you done with the last 5 years of your life? And most people will sit there and pause for a few minutes. I'm like, what's significant in your life in the last 5 to 10 years? You know, something extraordinary that you've really achieved that you can be proud of. And they'll sit there and they'll be like, I don't really know, just kind of work, just normal, normal working every day in the cycle life. I'm like, right. And in 5 years' time, it's going to be exactly the same unless you do something about it. So you've got nothing to lose. You're not sacrificing anything. You're just sacrificing another 5 years of time that's going to be wasted anyway. So you might as well put it to something good, especially if you've got the genetics for it. And they'll go, yeah, I guess if you can ask, well, how's that last 5 years? Think about how fast that's gone as well. And they've gone, yeah, 5 years goes fast. You just have to do a little bit more, just a little bit more than the average person. That's it. It just takes a little more effort. It's, you know, it's funny. I see a lot of bodybuilders that do really well in business after they retire because I think it's the same mentality. Business, building a business is the same thing. it's grinding away at a goal. DoinGHard things. Yeah, doinGHard things, other things that people don't want to do. It's seven days a week. Bodybuilders just trensition really well to that with the goal setting and just grinding away. Business is the same way. Like you don't see results immediately with business. It takes time to build a business. I've run businesses my entire life. And it's definitely something that requires patience and consistency. For sure, absolutely. And I see it carry over into relationships and everything as well. There's so much to be taken away from bodybuilding. So I always encourage people like just do one show. Just prove to yourself that you can take yourself all the way to the stage and be really proud of that. And all the things you will learn about yourself in that just one short little journey will change your life forever. Because there's a lot to be taken away from bodybuilding in that respect. It's funny though when you think about it, a contest prep will be probably the hardest thing that most people ever do in their life. Definitely. From all aspects, physically, mentally, you know. Yeah. I've done some hard shit in my life. You know, I wouldn't say contest prep's the hardest thing I've ever done. But for most people, that probably would be the most challenging thing they've ever done. Sure, for most people. Like some people have climbed Everest. But we're just talking about regular people, right? Yeah. Definitely gonna, it's gonna be a life-changing event. Yeah, I have a contest, or I have a guy that's a former Special Forces guy. And he's like, yeah, this is nothing. Right? You know, they're used to pushing through shit like that. You know, athletes, you know, if you've played sports at a higher level, you learn how to push through injuries and pain and, you know, all these things. It's funny, like just like regular people, like they have a low threshold for being uncomfortable. Especially like the new younger generation, right? That everything's so easy. Everything's easy, everything's a click away. And they've never really had to, you know, I think maybe I'm probably the last generation of kids that grew up without cell phones and smartphones. And you wanted a few quid to spend on candy or a new skateboard. The more you have to go and shovel people's driveways and ask, you know, Dave down the road if you can be a brick laborer for a week just to earn 20 quid. And they'd put you to work big time just to earn a few bucks. And now everything's just a click in an affiliate code away from making money. You know, if you look a certain way or do a certain post and it's, yeah, it's gettinGHarder I think to see, to get the younger guys to really buy into, embrace the suck, embrace the pain, like the difficult stuff. Like, I love the gasp, there's a quote they put on some of that stuff. It just says, be harder to kill. I'll ask people, but be honest with yourself. How easy are you to kill? Like if push comes to shove, like, come on, think about it. Could you toughen up a little bit here? Could you really just man up and really fucking grab your own life by the balls and do something with it rather than sit around complaining about everything and being the victim? And it's a strenge mentality to try and teach to the new generation because it's just a whole different world they're growing up in. Everything's so easy and accessible. And I know I sound like a bloody whinging, whining old man, but I really appreciate having that childhood with, you know, the bare necessities to just get by, have fun and make a little bit of money. And it's not a thing anymore, is it? Yeah, IMean, I grew up very poor. My family was very poor, very blue collar. My dad was a plumber. And, you know, I had to learn how to work early, early on. You know, if I wanted anything, I had to work for it. It's just how it was. I do find it cool though, because that is the biggest thing I try to impart on young people that I coach is the hard work aspect of things. And it's really cool when you see it click. When guys, when it clicks with guys. I had a guy, I was pushing through a contest prep and he told me, he's like, man, I'm starving. I just like, I don't think I'm, you know, this is bad. I'm starving. I need to eat some food. And I'm like, dude, you're eating six times a day. You're not starving, man. You're hungry, but there's literally people in other parts of the world that don't eat for days. And they're working for their next meal. You're eating chicken and asparagus six times a day. You're not starving. You're uncomfortable. You're hungry, but you're not starving. And we got through that prep. It was a challenge. And I got him through that prep and he was just so proud of himself. And he like, it clicked. It was just cool seeing that click at the end. Like he understood after that. He was just super charged and ready to do the next phase and to put the work in. It is cool when you see a click. It's really cool. It's really cool. So like I said, it's a big life changing experience and it will definitely make a real men out of the boys a lot of the time. And it will carry over to every aspect of your life. Very positively. It has done for me. And every single aspect of my life has been incredible. Just bodybuilding, just doing bodybuilding, not making money from it or anything like that. Just the bodybuilding. Just allowed me to be way more focused, do harder things, put more effort in. And I look back on my first prep and I thought it was the most difficult, horrible thing in the world. And I grinded to the point, you know, I was working jobs, full-time jobs and stuff and falling asleep and in the middle of work and stuff like that. And I look back now and I'm like, yeah, I could have gone way harder to be fair. If I would have done this, I would have. Well, your threshold increases. You know, I talked about at the beginning, like this is the easiest prep I've ever done. And maybe it's not that it's easy. It's just that I'm so conditioned to it now and understand, you know, I am. Comfortable with being uncomfortable, right? It's just a normal way of being. And I don't even think about it anymore. IMean, now granted eating as much food as I am makes it easier, but yeah. IMean, you build a threshold up for it over time. You become better at it. You build a tolerance, so to speak. Yeah. And that's where the patience comes in as well. IMean, if you try and coach that to people, like this will get easier. You will learn to love this more and more. And then you will start asking for more. You'll start kind of challenging yourself more for more harder things because you know what the prize is so much sweeter if you really, really grind for it. And IMean, what about now? Do you find yourself, if you're in a position, like doing easy things is kind of odd. Like I'll go on a vacation and after three days of doing nothing and sitting around, I'm like. Sporing, I get restless. Yeah, go do something. You know, it's. Yeah, I'm not very good at relaxing. I don't think most bodybuilders are outside. Maybe a little gaming or watching a movie or something, but I get antsy. It's the same thing with, I can't vacation for more than a few days. And it's not just bodybuilding, it's work. Like I start doing work. I feel like I gotta do something. I'm checking emails, I'm doing check-ins, I'm working on business plans. I'm thinking about how I'm gonna do my next diet. And it's all these things start creeping in. It's just kind of becomes a part of your DNA. For sure. But it's massively productive as well. You get so much done. You're setting things up so much better. And I think, yeah, IMean, it's just, it just used to be busy. I like to be on that threshold of like almost too busy. And it's a very fine line, but it's kind of always on your toes. And like, you know, I can probably push myself to sit down and watch a good movie all the way through if it's a really good movie. But if it's not a great movie, within 10 minutes, I'm back on the laptop doing something else. You know, I'll get, you know, for family members that'll tell me you need to relax and take some time for yourself. And I'm like, but that's not relaxing for me, man. I like grinding away at stuff. I like working on things. I've gotta have a goal I'm working on. Absolutely. It's just, I think, like you said, it's ingrained into your DNA. Just, you have to be making some sort of progress somewhere all the time. And there ain't nothing wrong with that. You'll see it with, you know, I think the highest example of success would be billionaires. You'll see, you know, a guy like, for example, and I know he's very controversial and people, a lot of people don't like him, but a guy like Elon Musk, like I still work 12 hours a day, seven days a week. He doesn't even work, he could go. Kids left, right, and center as well. Yeah, he could go buy an island somewhere and fuck off. He could do nothing. He could do nothing, but he's, people like that are just not wired that way. No, no, they're very, I could go into the whole conspiracy theory side of things on this. With those very select few people throughout human history that have made a big difference to legit, to civilization, how society evolves. Yeah. Like I think there's some outside influence that have pushed them in that direction, but that's. implciat, clinically important, technically important. Most successful people work very, very hard. But I think it's a key thing a lot of people miss out on. They want the success, but they don't want the work that goes with the success. They don't want to put in the work that you have to do to get there. And I can't remember the name of the book. Maybe it was Think and Grow Rich. I don't remember. But it was talking about a long time ago. They talked about wealth as a state of your mind, not a state of your wallet. It's not necessarily talking about accumulating money, but if you want to accumulate success in anything, it's all here, not so much what you have. Absolutely. Yeah. Obviously, finances give us a certain amount of freedom to do certain things. Right. But I do believe in that we can't buy happiness. You know, you have to be legitimately happy doing what you're doing. And that's the wealth. Like, I'm very happy just to earn enough money to be comfortable, but everything I do and everything that's involved in my life to really make me happy at the end of the day, a very fulfilling lifestyle, I can't put a price on that. Not in my opinion. But if for some reason bodybuilding were taken away from you, you would find something else to grind away at. Of course, yes. Just in our nature. I'm obsessive. Bodybuilding is the first thing that I found where I was like, it's just me and the weights. No one else is really responsible. I can just, you know, get stuck into this. And I liked it. It was a situational thing, time and thing that wasn't really on my mind until very late in my life. I had no idea about anything bodybuilding wise. But previous to that, my entire life, I would find a sport or a martial art or something like that and obsess over it. I would read everything I possibly could about this thing and get good, but never great. I'd always get good at everything and then I'd quit and move on to the next thing. And that was the story of my life until I found bodybuilding. That's me too, man. I always say I'm a jack of all trades, master of none, but I will obsess over things. I remember for a while for me, it was jujitsu. I got all into jujitsu. I was doing jujitsu and reading and all obsessed with that. Then I went back to bodybuilding again. I gave up bodybuilding in my 30s. I didn't lift for, I don't know, 10, 12 years. And some of it was just life situations and injuries and things going on. But it was the same thing. That was sort of like when I came back, I'm like, all right, I'm going to stick to it this time and see what I can do. I had all this regret. I'm like, fuck, I probably could have turned pro if I just had stuck to it when I was younger. And I'm just like, I had some health scares, some things that sort of made mEQuestion my existence. And I'm like, I'm going to push and see what I can do this time. I'm not going to give up 80% of the way. Yeah, man. Do you think there's a lot to do with, obviously, certain factors like health scares and things which maybe give you a different perspective on making the most of the time you've got and really doing something with it. I think it's a mental maturity thing as well, because people ask me all the time, do you wish you would have started bodybuilding in your 20s? And I'm like, I don't think I could have. I don't think I was mentally in the right place to really do it good. It would have been another thing I try, get fairly good, and then quit. But starting later, I started bodybuilding when I was 30, but I was so mentally ready to take on such an epic, demanding thing. Yeah, I would get distracted by other things when I was younger, whether it was business or sometimes women or friends or playing basketball or whatever. I would have too many, rather than focusing on one thing and being really great at one thing, I would have all these different things tossed up in there, and I never really fully committed to any of them. And so now my focus is 100% business and then bodybuilding. Those are my two, outside of my family, my kids, raising my kids, but they're almost grown at this point. So I sort of had an existential crisis, I went through a really bad divorce, I had cancer, and it's like all these things sort of kind of coalesced at the same time and made me think about wasted years, I guess, and how quickly life goes by and how precious it is and how I wanted to, there's just some unfinished business. I feel like bodybuilding is something I had a talent at, and I wasted that talent when I was younger. Yeah. Yeah, no, completely. Absolutely. It's nice to hear it from someone else, actually. It's very completely related in every way. A lot of unfinished business, I never really did anything to that point of really achieving it. And now I'm like, I wasted so many years just pissing around, just so frustrating to think about it, but you can't dwell on the past, you just make the most of the time, not now. But I think having gone through that, and I've had some real rock bottom low moments in my life, and having wasted a lot of time and all of that, you never want to go back, you don't want to take a backward step towards that again. I can't afford to waste more time and do this and make those mistakes again. And that is a big foundation in the back of your mind always. And I think that really, really helps people become good, but at least good at something. For us, it's that we've chosen the bodybuilding route. But that's probably going to be the thing that just stops you from quitting. People ask all the time, I've thought about just quitting, it's really hard, it's this, that, it costs so much money, blah, blah, blah. It's not even a thought, ever, ever. No, there's no choice, right? I've got one last chance to make myself good at something, and it's going to be this. Yeah, there's no choice. And I think you see that in a lot of successful athletes, bodybuilders, guys that have gone through some real tough shit, hard shit, and learned some hard life lessons. I don't know how much of it's true, but there's a story, I believe it was Caesar, when he had his, there was a final battle that he was having with an adversary, and they went into battle, and they sailed to go fight this final battle, and he burned all the ships behind the troops, and everybody was in a panic, and they were like, why? And he's like, because we have no choice. This is it. This is, we either win or we don't. There is no choice. So when you leave yourself with no choice, you have to make it work. All right, Aaron, I've got to wrap this up, my man. I appreciate you. Where can people get a hold of you? That was a good point to wrap it up on, actually. IMean, look, life's short, people. If there's one message I can impart on people, I know when you're young, you have no, if I could impart anything, like if I could go back in time and tell the young Paul a lesson to impart is that things go by quickly, morEQuickly than you think, and you get one crack at this thing and make the most of it. Yep, absolutely. Couldn't have said it better myself. That's, you know, for young guys, if I can teach them that lesson to learn how to push, learn how to work hard, learn how to be consistent, learn how to stick to a goal, I think that's sort of the theme of this talk we've had in growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone Hormone. Yeah. That's good. Very philosophical chat. It's very good. Very nice. Philosophical chat. Anyway, Aaron, how can people get a hold of you? Just type in bodybuilding with Aaron anywhere and you'll find me. Mostly on Instagram, that's where most people get a hold of me. And you coach, right? I coach, yeah. I've got a good little army of dudes, a lot of guys coming up towards their first, second shows is kind of where I seem to have slipped into the market there, but yeah, it's great. I love it. I love coaching. People will hear me talk about it all the time. It's good fun. I love the journey and I've been through it and yeah, it's a nice thing to impart on other people as well. Just be a nice guiding, guiding sort of person in someone's life. It's fun helping other people. It really is. Yeah. I'm very lucky as well. I was taught by Steve, very lucky that my first teacher, mentor was someone who was a very good coach and someone who, he didn't teach me just about this, that and the other. It was like, it was actually how to be a good coach as well. You've got to give a shit. You know, you've got to give people your time, you've got to care. It's not, they're not just numbers on a bloody bank statement and yeah, and it was, it's been a really, really great ride and I'm very thankful to be able to do this for a living now, which is cool. And it's cool. I love it. It's great. But yeah, I've just started the YouTube channel again as well because my channel got taken down for talking about peptides from a certain website that we can't say on YouTube. So my, my old channel got banned, but this is my new channel. Won't we live in fear that mine's going to get ripped down? Well, if it does.  ůpulse chamber. That might make my channel a bit bigger but okay. So I've started the new節目 ﷻ to keep an eye out, by doing bodybuilding with Aaron, or typing MSL-NOMADS, as I do with Steve very now and then. And that's about it. Alright man, thanks for coming right onto the program this morning. I greatly appreciate it, thank you! Take care guys.