 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, Big Paul here today with Coach Colton, what's up Colton? How's it going man? It's going good. Good. We haven't talked in a while man, not you and me. Yeah. We used to do these, we used to do these bro talks for, on our own, but we haven't done one in a while. I've been so damn busy with, with life. Me too. It's just competitive season, so you have, it's like hard to find time to, it's like clients back and forth and it's a mess. Every weekend this year, this is the first year like I've really had a lot of competitors, but every weekend I have a couple people competing. Yeah. I mean Justin, my coach Justin Harris was telling me he has like six, seven, eight people. Six, yeah. He's just on a podcast and he's like, I don't even know what I'm going to do. I'm like, yes. Yeah. Cause he has to pick and choose what shows to be at. And then like the client he doesn't go to feels bad. So it's like, how do you even juggle that? It'd be so tough. Yeah. And I know how needy people can get at showtime. I've been that needy person. So at the end, I know, I know now not to be that guy. Like literally people think they need to check in with you every 15 minutes and every grain of rice they eat matters. It doesn't matter. Yeah. I, I, I made a post about that or story posts, at least talking about, you know, someone asked me a question. Like what's the most surprising thing that's happened since I became like a bodybuilding coach. That's, you know, has a pretty successful company. And like, honestly, like I think that the technical aspects of coaching matter so little when it gets to like that, that last point, because it's the people just become almost childlike and you need to like be on them. And it's not necessarily like they're doing stuff wrong. It's just, they need attention and it's, you're a therapist. You're literally a therapist, right? You need to call them. You need to get pictures from them. And sometimes you do check ins and you don't even need to change anything, but you're just making things to you. You're just doing checkpoints, pulse checks with them to make sure that everything's okay. Cause they, that makes them feel better. And that's a lot of it is just like playing into that psychosis sometimes. It's so tricky. I, it's almost every weekend dude that I'm talking to somebody off the ledge. That's going to think about pulling out of a show or like, I'm not ready. And I had, I had a dude recently that was going to pull out of a show and then he ended up winning his class and getting the second overall. Wow. I've been there before though. I've been there myself. Like last year I was in a full blown panic, man. I had COVID two weeks out from my show. Yeah. So I couldn't train. Like basically the last two weeks going into my show, I was like, and I actually think it ended up benefiting me resting. I looked better. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Actually. You probably under so much duress. It was like that time off really helped. I've been playing around as the season. It's, it is fun doing contest preps with people. It's, it's sort of like your own little lab. Yeah. But I've been playing around with pushing people and having them ready a couple of weeks out and then start incrementally pulling back the cardio and pulling back the, the volume on their workouts and then upping the food. And it's, and I've been having great results with having people look way better going into shows. Yeah. One of the things that's what I do too. Now it's what I've, cause it's like that post show rebound is always so significant. Like you, you grow astronomically, you get older, you, you somehow maintain a level of dryness, which you've never been able to possess at any other point in the year. And so it's like, we have this moment after the show where everyone's like, fuck, I wish I would. I looked like this on stage or like, damn, I feel really fucking good. I'm getting amazing pumps. Like I really feel my body. It's like, why not just do that two weeks before the show? Like get really, really ready. And then just do the rebound before the show and hit that perfect timing. You know, like you said, two, three weeks away from the show, have that slight rebound, drop cardio out, get the fatigue accumulation, just wiped out. And then step on stage, feeling completely like full as a house, feeling comfortable, feeling good. And probably realistically have minimal water retention. If you are really truly lean, which is kind of the only caveat there. But I agree with you. I think that's the way to go. Because it's just anecdotally, everyone knows like after the show, what the hell happens if you get so full, so grainy. The drugs are the lowest, like usually for some people. And it's just like, wow, why not just replicate that before the show? I was talking to a pro that worked with AJ Sims and he said that that's what they did. He pulled out, you know, I apologize to AJ if this is incorrect, but what it sounded like is they pulled out leg training the last two weeks. They dumped the cardio and then they just pushed up the food going into the show. Yeah. And AJ's guys are always on point. They, he has, he's, he's, and I've heard Chad Nichols, that was kind of his thing is he gets really aggressive with the food at the end and pushes people up. I guess it can backfire too. Yeah. But, but you know, I, I, I play it here, play it by ear with each client though. Cause there's some people, there's some people you need every last minute to get them ready for the stage. Yeah. There's it's tough. Cause there's some people that respond. There's like so many different variants of clients. There's ones that respond really well to everything. So it's like their capacity to, to transform in such a short window of time is insane. Right? Like insane. I think about, um, uh, what's his name? The guy from UK black guy, really nice midsection. Um, makes a transformation in like, he was working with Dubai crew for a while. I can't remember his name. Some, some might know about him. Um, but he gets like, he does like an eight week prep and it's like ridiculous. Uh, and, and there's people like that out there, but yeah, there's other people who, you know, the other sort of subtype is like, you have a client who doesn't adhere and it's like, you have to push them harder because of their non adherence to, to make up for the lack of like the 10% that not following. And, uh, then you have the guy who's just doing the, the do, but doesn't respond. And it's like really tricky to figure out which guy is which in a sense. And sometimes you kind of ask yourself, like, is this guy just not adhering or is his body not responding? It's a hard question. I'm the guy that does too much in the past. That's always been, I coach says do 20 minutes of cardio. I'm doing 30. Coach says eat 200 grams of carbs. I'm eating 150. So I like, I've, I've, I've learned that lesson the hard way. I make myself look awful, but it's really case by case. I mean, I've had, I'm sure you've run into these guys too. This is always a mystery too. It's the guys that doesn't matter how hard you pull things. They just don't get flat. I've had a couple of guys like that. I get flat as a pancake when carbs go down, but I've had some dudes. It seems like it's, you can do infinite amount of cardio and, and take all the carbs away and they don't flatten out. Yeah. I have a Vietnamese guy and he's, he's exactly like that. And the, the curses, he has like thicker skin. So it's harder to see the detail even as if we push really hard, but he's always full. Like he's all, his shoulders are always rippling. His chest is always striated and veiny and vascular. And it's like, dude, you're not even, you're eating like 30 grams of carbs. And you're still like round as a house. It's just radical. And then it's the same exact thing for me. If I'm man, I need like a lot of carbohydrates to look good. And I, I'm the guy that eats, you know, we're just talking about your high days and stuff. I'm that guy. Like I eat a thousand to a thousand, 200 grams of carbohydrates almost every other day in the offseason. And it, it, I hardly maintain weight. So coming down a little bit, I see so much flatness right away. And having that kind of, you, it's almost like a drawback because you get that fullness. But you also, it seems like those individuals are also struggling to get the leanest. Yeah. In some way. Yeah. I, I, I've wondered too, if it, I don't know, it was just me just speculating, but if it has something to do with glucagon and how, how, how they pump out glucagon. Like, like, like, like, like I noticed like last year I ran metformin on my contest prep, which, which, which suppresses glucagon. And I stayed a lot fuller. Hmm. That's interesting. Yeah. And I, and I know, I, I think it mediates it through the liver, uh, glycogen dumping through the liver, but I don't know if it has any effect on muscle tissue. I don't know if it's even been studied and it could be just completely anecdotal. I don't know. I just did a lot of things different last year, but I, I felt like I stayed fuller when I ran metformin on my prep last year. Yeah. I mean, and you also didn't, you know, ridiculously dose the T3. I wasn't doing a hundred micrograms of T3 either. That's a big part of it. No, no T3 last year. You did zero at all. No, zero. Yeah. Oh, wow. Okay. I, so that's an interesting subject because I, I'm getting to the point and I think we talked about this. Gosh, I think this is on a podcast with either you guys or maybe it was Justin, but we were talking about how thyroid, it just seems like it's not really necessary at this point. Like when I throw it in, I'm tending to see, especially for myself, more loss of fullness in lean tissue. I benefit from because it's non-selective. Like you're, you're increasing metabolic rate, but that's non-selective to fat issue. It's just like systemically or increasing metabolic rate. That means muscle tissue as well. So I find that man, just having a good diet that hits some micros, you get plenty of selenium, iodine, magnesium. You're pretty much good to go. And chances are, if you're doing like those high days and having refeeds and appropriate timing of nutrition, you're good to go. Like you don't have to worry about thyroid down regulation. First. Yeah. I tested my, my, my thyroid's always on the high, sometimes even above the normal range. Uh, I find that was probably the high dose growth hormone that I did. My T3 was wildly out of range, but like high out of range. Like it went, it went way up. I posted on my YouTube channel somewhere, but it's, it was shocking. I have the same experience. Yeah. I have, I have the same experience, but then some people are the opposite. Yeah. It's, it's pretty, it's interesting how that works. Again, I think it's probably due to like the growth hormone potency in a weird way. I like the, I think all, I think you said this too, is all growth hormone is growth hormone. Like it's just, it's what it is. It's just whether you get well, it's either one 91 or it's not right. You, you get transported effectively growth hormone and you get really like shitty garbage transportation growth hormone is the way I kind of look at it. Yeah. I mean, there's a, I guess, you know, I was talking to a pharmaceutical, I get a Kurt, Kurt, we did a whole thing on growth hormone early this week, but I guess some of the protein folding can have an effect on the quality of it too. Yeah. How they manufacture it. But for the most part, the degradation happens in, in transportation. So it's, you know, the, the, the pharmaceutical Greg, you know, the Sarah stem kits, they come in, they're like in foam and plastic and in their, you know, refrigerated and when in transport it's, it's, you know, so they're handled with care. Whereas that cheap growth hormone you're getting from China is, you know, coming in a little hot sauce that's been on a shipping container coming across the Pacific. Right. Yeah. And God, not temperature controlled and God knows how hot it is. Yeah. And right. Like in these summer months in Texas here, it's like 120 some of these days out of the week. Like, and if you have anything sitting in your mailbox or in a car, 160 in there. Right. Yeah, exactly. In a cargo container, man, who knows? Like that shit's probably boiling realistically. Yeah. It's, it's probably completely denaturing the proteins in it. Uh, I would, I would imagine, but that's just my speculation. Dude, I got to tell you about a, an issue I ran into that, um, has been perplexing me for the last six, eight months. And, and Justin was having the same issue too, is, is, is that a my man? And, and I've been having like these horrible IBS flare ups. I mean, just horrible, like shitting my pants out for an entire day. And then they go away and then I've had, my appetite has just been horrific. And so I finally just, I'm like, I'm going to do an eliminate, elimination diet. I'm going to, going to pull everything, all my supplements, everything. And just eat chicken and rice. And then I'm going to slowly add in back my, my, uh, OTC meds and, and my supplements one by one. And it was the goddamn is that a my, I tested it twice. That was causing my stomach issues. And, uh, I told Justin about it and Justin pulled his and had the same result. Stomach issues went away. Okay. So, and I was looking into it and it does seem like that is one of the side effects. One, one of the, that it can cause stomach distress. And I was looking, um, I've also, I, you know, I don't know if there's, it's probably, probably just a coincidence, but I know a couple people that have ended up with pancreatitis that were also taking it, you know, it could be a combination of that and taking gear, eat the way the diet is. But I also found that pancreatitis was one of the listed side effects. I've heard of that before, for sure. I think it's, it's probably due to, cause it inhibits the digestion of the, of cholesterol essentially. And the correct absorption of it. So it's like, and I think it's, it's through this like Neiman pick receptor, Neiman pick one, like one receptor in the gut epithelium that it basically blocks. I think you're realistically, it's just like you ever go to a Chinese buffet, you know, you shit your guts out afterwards cause there's a ton of fat in your stool. Like you, you're literally pooping out oil. Um, and I think that's maybe what's happening. I've, I've personally never noticed it, but I also have a really, I pretty much do lower fats year round. So I'm not ingesting. I mean, I'm a low fat guy. I don't eat a lot of fat. So that's the weird part. Maybe it's, uh, maybe it's just that you're older and I'm not, not, not, no, no, it's, it's, I definitely, my, my GI does not work as well as it did when I was in my, my twenties. That's that is for 100% certain. I will say there is, I have seen azetamide increased liver enzymes and that is on the Merck index. If you, if you read through azetamide's contraindications, it does cause elevations in transamerases and the liver is a digestive organ. So maybe something's happening there to a certain people. I don't know. Well, I was having these weird issues where I get like this really bad, what, what would happen is I would, I'm going to overshare here, but I would get these really bad like burps and indigestion and I could feel all this bloating going up. And then I'm like, I know my butthole is going to explode within a couple of hours of all this happening. But that was weird. Like just these, like I would just profuse amount of burps. Like I could feel all the gas coming up. And, and so like some, somebody was telling me it was SIBO and I'm like, I've been tested for SIBO. I don't have SIBO. Yeah. It did the nitrogen test. I know a lot of bodybuilders end up with SIBO, but. Yeah. 100%. I think it's just the diet and the abuse we put ourselves through digestively. But yeah, it's probably all the oral steroids. Oh, the oral steroids. The, I mean, there, I don't think there's ever been a time in history. I don't think humans ever really in any, obviously like the current society we live in is only like 200 ish years old. Right. So the, the side of me on there, I don't think there's ever been a point where we've only strictly ate three meals a day, but I don't think we ever obviously consume more than six to seven meals a day. So, you know, like it's hard to say, what is that really doing when your gut isn't able to, cause it goes through during windows of fasting. You have like the migrating motor complex, which is like you have, your gut basically just cleans itself out specifically with a small intestine, but it doesn't happen when you're fed. So it's like, how long are we going without kind of deep cleaning mechanism happening? And it was, it was, shoot, who was it? It's late at night here. I'm forgetting everything. It was, it was John who said that you should fast every like one. He recommends fasting like once a week, 24 hours, which I thought was John Meadows, which I thought was really interesting. And I kind of think it probably has some real life application for bodybuilders, especially when it comes to like waist circumference too. Yeah. I used to plan in some fast, although I have my unplanned fast with my stomach blowing up. Yeah. So I'd have to give it like 24 hours for it to settle down. But yeah, I mean, I, I've won't like, I definitely feel better after I have a fast. My stomach seems to be settled down. My digestion's better. It's part of the reason why I think you, you're got it so much better after a contest, because you're not really hammering it like you are in the offseason. Right. Plus all those carbs and stuff, everything's fermenting in there. Thing, right. It's like all the, and then, you know, in the offseason you get sloppy, you throw in artificial stuff, barbecue sauces, you know, what have you. That can't be contributing to anything good. Anymore, man. I am so bland with my food. I just, I don't even, I, I've gotten to the point where literally salt is the only thing I season my food with. Really? Maybe some sugar free ketchup here and there, but it's salt, sugar free ketchup, mustard. Uh, you know, that, that's it. Yeah. I, I'm on a big, like I'll do, um, like I'm a geek for the ship, but I look for seasonings and I look for a seasonings that don't have like sugar and shit in it that I don't necessarily want. Trader Joe's has this one called umami seasoning. I think that's. Oh, I've had that before. Yeah. Mushrooms in it. Yeah. That shit I'll put on everything. Um, and then I, I do mostly sugar free ketchup and then I do like the G Hughes for like, I only allow myself one meal a day to put that on top or the outside of that. It's all salts that umami shits or pepper, like salt. I only go crazy with the sugar free condiments at the end of contest prep. It keeps me saying it's in the kind of prep that and that and pickles. I eat the fuck out of pickles. I eat the pickles on contest. I eat like some sweet pickles at the end of the contest. Yeah. Oh my God. It's all I do the salty ones, but like just all the salt and everything just satiates me. Yeah. I literally will, will be drinking the pickle water. Sometimes I'm like a pregnant lady. Uh, did, were you ever like around in the era where people were, I mean, obviously were, but were you ever practicing the thing where people were just restricted salt like entirely? Oh my God. Oh my God. Back in the nineties, it was cut salt out completely. And then, um, drink the, what was the water that has all the electrolytes? Yeah. Distilled water. Distilled water. Yeah. That's a good thing to do on a contest prep. Yeah. I was, I was, I think it was, was it the body opus that has that in it? I can't remember. I was reading some old bodybuilding book that was talking about it. I'm just like, that seems like such a horrible idea for like terrible idea, man. You end up with electrolyte imbalances. Yeah. Like talk about shitty training. Like, Holy cow. Season up on stage and you look watery on top of it. Yeah. Cause you can't uptake any glycogen. You saw that. A shit show. If you're taking more diuretics to fix the look. And then you're, you're wondering what the fuck's going on. So you're doing all these ridiculous things. Saunas spitting out the water, all this crazy shit. Yeah. That wonderful look where you're flat and soft. Yeah. The big Rami look. Yeah. I find that honestly to most people just likely need more water to get for like, Yeah. Sometimes the equation is that they haven't had enough food because most guys, especially at a regional level have had plenty of food. It's the lack of water because everyone's still kind of follows the trend of let's completely restrict water altogether. There is some water manipulation, but I don't think it's as great as some people played out to be specifically like local coaches. I've seen some crazy shit like two days out, three days out, no water. I mean, I've even, I've had a few people this year, man, where I don't even pull water at all. Yeah. Yeah. I've been playing around with that a little bit. I usually, what I'll do is I'll have people run. I'll run, I'll have people run two gallons up the last two weeks before the show. I'll have them do a spring water or an electrolyte water. Uh, and then the day before the show, I'll cut it down to a gallon and then the day of the show, I'll cut it in half again. Yeah. That's, that's right. Where, where I'm at too. Usually it's, I've been trying to do, it just depends on the person too. With females, what I've been trying to do is actually have them still maintain the same amount of water all day. So like Monday through Saturday, like they have the same amount of water intake. It's just that on that Friday, they finished their water all earlier. They still consume the same amount of water, but it's just finished earlier in the day, significantly earlier. And then on Saturday they have a third of their water before they're prejudging a third after, and then the third after the finals. And then it's like, generally that seems to be really well for females. I haven't tried it with men yet. Cause bring this and being hard is like a really, really big deal. But, um, uh, I mean, if I recall correctly, like I, I see these stupid people, these stupid coaches that'll pull water and try to carb load at the same time. I'm like, yeah, Jesus fucking Christ, man. It takes it. You can do the math on it. It's, it's, uh, three parts water, one part, uh, carbohydrates to load glycogen and you need sodium as well. So if, if my, if I recall the math correctly, so if you're doing, if you're doing, if you're doing 500 grams of carbs in your load, and let's assume that you load all of it, you're going to need 1500 grams of water. So that's a kilo and a half of water that you're going to need. So I'm trying to do the math here. That's, uh, let's see 2.2, like three pounds of water. So that's almost a half a gallon of water just to load the glycogen. Right. And then you, like you said, you need sodium for there's sodium glucose, like transporters that transfer like, uh, glucose out of the gut into the bloodstream. And then you have like the enzymatic reactions to synthesize glycogen that require a shit ton of magnesium and calcium. I mean, if you're not consuming water or minerals like salt, you're not getting these things to even load the carbohydrates you're eating. Yeah. So your, your car blood when you're water depleting and taking diuretics is literally pointless. Yeah. And that's the funny thing, right? Cause there's certain situations where people are like, Oh, I car blood and I just kept my weight, kept going down, which there's real applications that like that happens in some people. But sometimes it's like, yeah, you're carb loading, but you're just like dehydrating the fuck out of yourself. You're not eating adequate minerals. Like you've skewed your potassium and sodium intake so far from what the norm is. Like your body is just the aldosterone is just screwing up. You have everything going like the, the, uh, diuretic hormones are just fluctuating to a degree. That's incomprehensible. And it's like your weight's not going down because like some magic is happening. Your weight's going down because you're, you're becoming dehydrated, uh, through both your electrolyte status and water intake. And then, you know, you know, and then you top that off with a potassium sparing diuretic and you end up hyper, hyper, hyperkalemic on top of it. He's loading with sweet potatoes and loading with sweet potatoes. I can't tell you, I think I've been having people run blood work two weeks out from shows. And I like, it seems like one out of every three is hyperkalemic. Yeah. And I'm like, dude, stop eating the potatoes. Yep. Like we get there great. And they fill you up a little bit more, but holy fuck. You get some scary occurrences with that. Well, Thomas Arden makes it even worse to get that issue with Thomas Arden as well. And insulin. insulin is almost a potassium sparing compound in of itself. It's a very detrimental situation. You look big in that tank, man. Holy shit. I'm a little puny over here. I'm, I just cracked into the two sixties. What from, from where were you starting? From where were you starting out? It was like two, two 82, something like that. Two 80. Right. Yeah. You're six, two, right? Six, three. Uh, just a hair under six, two, six, one and three quarters. Okay. Yeah. My daughter was looking at my driver's license from, that I got like 10 years ago. It says some six, three. And she's like, why are you, why do you say you're six, three when you're, when you're under six, two? And I'm like, I shrunk. What happened? Do you think that was from, I hear so many stories about this, like squatting or heavy lifting, or do you just think that's age generated? I don't know. I mean, it's possible it's from squatting. I did squat and deadlift a lot. I, it's probably, I mean, I would think that your, your disc and your spine are probably getting worn down. Right. And that, and I don't know if that would account for a whole inch, but I have a bit of scoliosis too. So it's, it's just a mild, mild case of scoliosis. I've had it since I was a kid, but it doesn't get better as you age. Yeah. Yeah. Um, you know, I had something interesting come up and I'm curious on your thoughts about this. Cause I coach like a lot of younger dudes and I have a lot of younger dudes in my following and a lot of them were saying that Prima Bolin, and this is something I've seen anecdotally as well. Prima Bolin is giving them greater hair loss than any other DHT derivative like mastro. Mastro, or testosterone, for example, just having direct conversion into DHT. Have you noticed that obviously like you, you don't have hair as of the moment, but like with your clients and population, have you seen something of that nature too? Yeah. Guys complain about Prima Bolin and Mastro on both with hair loss. Uh, you know, Victor Black's going to disagree with that one. Yeah. That's what I find interesting. Like just anecdotally, like so many people lose hair on these compounds. Like there's no way it's not. I was talking with Kurt, Kurt and I, this was last week and in. In, in, and this is where an area where I disagree with, with Victor and I'm sure he's going to lose his mind when he hears this, but all androgens from what I understand can cause androgenic alopecia. Yeah. Now DHT seems to bind with the receptor. The, the, uh, according to what Kurt was saying, it's, it's the, it's the number one offender, but, but like, like the point he brought up is if we fully understood the pathways at which, which androgens affect baldness, we would have cured baldness by now. Right. Right. So like, like, you know, and then, and then we don't know how the different ones affect gene transcription in various people either. Right. So like what may happen in one person may not happen in another. In, in theory, in theory DHT is the worst offender. Right. So it w it would, it would seem that you would want to inhibit DHT. And then because, uh, like his perma bone is already reduced that it, it, it selectively binds with the androgen receptor and yada, yada, yada. And it shouldn't, shouldn't cause issues, but it doesn't seem to be that way. Anecdotally. Right. It seems to almost produce worse results. Yeah, it, it, it does seem, it seem that way. And I, um, and I know this was another one I saw that the, the, the Victor black lost his mind on is where I said, I lost all my hair on trend. And, and like that, it literally, it was the first time I used train, man. I was pulling out hair out of, out of my head. That was, that was me with anadrol. Like the, when I was like first getting started into this thing and I was like experimenting with compounds and I had tried anadrol, I was like having a heart attack every time I take a shower because I would just, I would like clean my hair and then it would just be the clumping out and like clumps of fucking hair. And I was so concerned. I didn't understand what the fuck was happening because everyone told me, Hey, you should be flying on this stuff. Like you, you should be relatively safe. That's just, in theory. And this is what I tell, tell guys, you want, you want a hair safe cycle. I would think probably the safest hair, hair cycle would be to run a test with the, with the five alpha reductase inhibitor and just GH and some insulin. That's probably the safest, you know, the most hairline friendly cycle you could run. Right. And that's the funny thing too, because a lot of people run these five alpha reductase inhibitors with things like nandrolone or a premium, which it's going to make it worse. If anything. Yeah. Yeah. Because isn't it a dihydro nandrolone is actually less one, you know, toxic to the hairline than the regular nandrolone is. So you're actually making it worse. Right. Yeah. It's, it's really fascinating actually. Cause I wish I had the answer, man. I always have really is anecdotal experience to go off of. And it was just like Kurt was saying, man, if, if, if like somebody like Victor black truly knew the, the, all the mechanisms for how hair loss works, you would cure it and make a billion dollars. Exactly. Yeah. That's kind of the thing. Right. And you have huge research studies going on for.  cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort cort Obviously, there's going to be outliers in that situation, but it seems like there's much more going on to that specific organ than maybe just a DHD. Well, yeah, I mean, it could be it could be as something as simple as just, you know, blood flow. Yeah, that's yeah, that's the other thing. What's happening to the capillaries when, you know, we're lifting weights or when we're consuming a certain diet or, you know, there's so many variables there. Yeah, I mean, you literally could be nuking nuking your hairline from, you know, loss of blood flow. Yeah. You know, I know the same thing goes along with erectile dysfunction to people, but that's another one that's super complex as well. I mean, there's really I think people oversimplify erectile dysfunction. It's very complex. It's hormonal. There's blood flow. There's you mean it's a it's a canary in the logical. It's the canary in the coal mine for cardiovascular disease like plaque buildup. Yeah. And that's like, holy shit, if you have erectile dysfunction, you better get like your tax scan and a cardiogram and like do the whole nine because that's going to be a whole lot more. Yeah. A lot of times in our cohort, it does seem to be hormonal. Mostly, you know, it's just what I've seen. That's the times either people it's as simple as estrogen being too high or too low. Yeah, definitely. Or you're running a compound that's not necessarily agreeing with you. Yeah. Like, like, like, like Deco or or or trend. Yeah. Right. Trend's a weird one, man. Like some people turn into raging, you know, perverts on trend and then other dudes completely lose everything. Like I'm I am in column B. Yeah. I don't I like it completely nukes all my sex drive and gives me erectile dysfunction the whole nine yards. I don't. Yeah. I don't get like gas talking about being, you know, raging ball hormones on trend. I'm like, I wish. No. Yeah. Yeah. It's terrible. If anything, it exacerbates like psychological issues that cause issues in and of themselves. Yeah. And I think really a lot of it, too. People tend to over. They provide too much credit to androgens when sometimes it's like you're in a caloric deficit. Like you're fucking. Yeah. It's amazing how your your boners and your sex drive come come back after eating some cookies. Yeah. A good burger. Holy shit. It's like the best aphrodisiac that you need. Hey, guys, it's like two days after the show and they're back in business and they're like, I feel so much better. It's coming off everything. I'm like, that stuff is still in your system, man. Yeah. Only thing that's changed is you're not starving. It's got to be a fight or flight response, man. Just like the hierarchy of needs. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely. You know, the massless pyramid. But yeah, your body's saying, yeah, fuck you, asshole. Go kill a buffalo. We aren't making babies until you get fed. That should cost too much calories. Yeah. We don't need a baby when we're starving. For sure. It's the body. The body's a funny thing how we've evolved to, you know, we have all these biological imperatives that are based off of evolution. Yeah. It's interesting. I sometimes wonder what androgens are doing to that whole process. Because there is, I think the, there was that one study that was talking about the worldwide androgen use. And it's like, like 1.3 million Americans are on, and that's obviously like way under predated or on some form of anabolic steroid. And I sometimes wonder like. Oh, it's way lower. It's way up more than that. It's got to be way, way more. And it's like, what does that do to like the epigenetic shift from usage? Like, what does that do to the offspring? You know, and obviously like Chase Sirens is a great example. He was, his father was using when he was born. And now the dude's got like, obviously he's using copious amount of androgens and growth hormone. But like, he's got like peak shoulders and has like the sort of bodybuilder-esque look to him. And I wonder sometimes, like wonder, you know, as far as epigenetics go, like what's being, because if, if you look at obesity or diabetes, like there's transgenerational effects of that stuff when, when a parent induces themselves into an obese state or a diabetic state, which means that it affects at least 30 or three generations of children. So if, if you think that that has the capacity to do that, like what does using androgens do? And sometimes I don't even know if it's like a bad, maybe it's a good thing. Because if you look at Michael Hearn's kid, like he's jacked. He's like ripped. You mean Michael Kern is on gear? Come on, call him. Yeah. He's just, he's older than all of us and looks better than all of us. That's all that's happening. You're just, you're just making up shit, Mike. It's not taking anything. What am I doing? Yeah. I wondered about that too. I mean, my daughter, I was, I was, I was full blown blasted when, when I found my wife up with her, but my daughter's just like a beast, man. She's strong, like stronger than like the boys. There's gotta be something to it, man. There's like, there, there's, it's inconceivable to me that there's not some, at least a fact that's, that's handed down in some weird way. Well, we got to counterbalance the, the opposite end, man. It's, it's the opposite, man. So many people are, are there's, they're not masculine. We're reloading the testosterone into everybody. That's what we're doing. You can't use, you can't, they recommend not using SSRIs. I think Steve got off, you know, I think he was on Prozac or, um, Flavoxine when he was trying to conceive and he got off of it for, for those reasons. But I think they recommend you get off because of the epigenetic shift while using it. So there's gotta be something. And I don't know what, but yeah, I've always dealt with, uh, anxiety, man, but I, I, I have stayed away from the SSRIs. I just like, they're worrying me, man. My daughter is on one, but it's, you know, her, her anxiety was pretty crippling, but I have just avoided it. I don't want to go down that path. It seems like once you're on them, you're on them for life. Yeah. And I trust me, I use them. So like, I don't, I don't use them regularly. It's something that I'll use intermittently. So like on a prep, I will use Flavoxine just because it levels me out to a point where that sort of angsty feeling that you get from being in a caloric deficit doesn't completely destroy your business and your relationship and all the other shit. So it's like, for me, it's really essential at that time. And I usually don't have a problem getting away from it because on the back end of a show, you're kind of riding that euphoria of eating more food and kind of, uh, getting that like good response to training. Yeah. That would be a good time to come off. Right. Like you have a lot of positive feedback in life in general already at that point. So I don't know, like for me, it's been helpful, but I, I, I do, there is issues longterm, especially that's the problem because there's also benefits longterm. Like you get more upregulation of, uh, brain derived neurotrophic factor and all these cool things. But I don't know. We don't even know if SSRIs work for depression. Like there's more depression in the world now. And there's, I think 2.7 million prescriptions of, uh, antidepressants made every other year. So it's like, if, if more antidepressants are being prescribed and more people are depressed than ever, I don't think it's working, but it certainly does something. I, um, I don't really get depression. I get really bad social anxiety sometimes. And it seems to be worse when I'm, especially like when I'm taking trend and stuff, I don't get the, like people talk about the trend rage. I do not get that with me. It's just like, I don't want to be near people. I don't want to talk to anybody. I get really withdrawn. Yeah. We were talking to me and Jess were talking about, we had a podcast that I randomly hopped on. Yeah. Justin's definitely an introvert. Yeah. He was talking about like how he's getting so bad at that. Like he'll just sit on his computer all day and he'll be like, he'll go on a Thursday. And he's like, fuck, is that like the first time I've gone out in a week and a half? And I'm the same way. Like if I have the opportunity, I always order my groceries. Like I can't tell you the last time I've been to a grocery store and you know, the most socialized, I get exhausted. Like that's the weird thing. If I'm out too long, it's like I get exhausted so quick. It never used to be like that. And I, I'm definitely like that. My, my girlfriend loves going to like wine parties and things like that. And I think she, I think she understands now, but like initially she would get upset with me cause I'd be over in a corner looking at my phone and, and, and she's like, Paul, you need to socialize and talk to people. And I'm like, you don't understand. I'm going to have a full blown panic attack if I start talking to people, especially people I don't want to talk to. Yeah. Makes it doubly worse. Right. I'll talk to stupid bodybuilders. I'm okay with that. Yeah. It's so funny. Cause I'm the same exact way. Like everyone who gets to talk to me cause I have like tattoos all over the fucking place. And everyone's like, you know, they constantly on this big, like 250 pound guy. They're like, Holy shit. This guy's scary. And then if I actually like talking to someone, they're like, Oh, he's really fucking nice. But like most people think I'm an asshole. Cause like, I just genuinely don't, I get anxious. I don't want to talk to anybody. I don't want to be around people. If I'm in Costco, I got my headphones on. I'm like cruising around knowing exactly what I need to get. It's like in and out as quick as I can go. It's really interesting. I think it's maybe a selection bias to like bodybuilders, but it is common amongst us. Well, I feel like bodybuilding is made for being an introvert. You like, I like routine. I don't like going out. I don't, I'm not, I'm not a person who wants to go out and party and hang out with people. I mean, that, that is very conducive to being a good bodybuilder. Right. Conveniently enough, also a good business owner. It's good for business too. Yeah, exactly. Um, I, yeah, it's, it's, man, going to the gym anymore is just a fucking nightmare for me, man. Because I've, I've gotten this a little bit of internet celebrity and then just, oh my God, man, people, people want to just talk to me. And, and I'm so anxious about it. I was like, here comes somebody. I'll see him. I'll see him look at me, make eye contact. You're like trying to look away. You're like shit. I'm like shit, man. Here they come. I got to talk to this guy. Cause I don't want to be the dick that, that, you know, hurts somebody's feelings. I've, I've heard stories about Branch Warren hurting people's feelings. And that's the thing. Branch is a fucking sweetheart. Dude is awesome. Oh no, I've heard he's a great guy. He'll like host events all the time for going at the gym. Come shoot at my range. Come ride on my quads, you know, whatever. Get grill out at my house with us. Like we'll just invite everybody at the gym. Sweet, sweet person. But like he's don't interrupt his workout. Right. Don't fuck with his workout. Don't ask for a picture. Don't say shit. And he's very socially awkward. He'll say a couple words in a conversation and feel like not often kind of go somewhere else. It's an interesting situation. The best video of him ever. I know we talked about it on the, on the show, but it's him telling the lake press he was going to rape it. So they're screaming at it. That's a guy that turns it up to another level. Yeah. He's a freak. I'm, I get the pleasure of seeing him and Johnny Jackson train a lot. Are you working on a destination Dallas? Yeah. Occasionally. Yeah. Yeah. So you put my daily, but now I moved to like golds and other stuff just because one destination is a little bit further away, but two, it's just like kind of, it gets a little bit loud and crowded in there. And it's Danny Martina was just up here and I get to watch her workout. Holy shit, man. Fucking freak, dude. Oh my God. I'm like, it's pound for pound. She's going to be one of the strongest people on the planet. She, she outdoes me on the pendulum squat. And I'm like, how is this even possible? I think she was on the Atlantis chest press doing four plates for like 10 reps. I'm like, what? And she's like, not, you know, people probably don't know what she looks like. She's not like gigantically huge. She's like 140 pounds. Yeah. It's, it's insanity. And she's like ripping her vape while she's doing this shit too. It's funny. Like she'll like rip her vape, like after a hard ass pendulum squat set. I'm like, how do you even, you're, you gotta be breathing. Like, what are you doing? It's crazy. Yeah. She was super nice. I couldn't believe how fucking strong she was. There was a coaching summit here a couple of weeks ago. A bunch of people came in, Stan efforting. Justin was here. I met, what's his name? Mark Bell's buddy, little smoky. Oh yeah. Steven. Yeah. That was, that was pretty cool. Meeting all those people and hanging out with those people and working out. You're lucky. You get a lot of cool opportunities, man. Yeah. There's a, there's an, my gym pulls a lot of people in. I don't know. It's, it's probably the best bodybuilding gym in the DC metro area. Yeah. It's lucky. We get, we get a lot of people that roll through here. Um, but yeah, it was, it was really neat. Um, but yeah, man, and the social anxiety thing is just awful. Sometimes I feel like such a jerk. It's like people, people, people will roll up and want to talk to me and I just, I, I probably get awkward. I can't make eye contact. Yeah. I'm the same way, man. I want to be better at it too. It's something I like really attempt to be better at. I've been forcing myself to get out of my comfort zone. When I was at master's nationals, I, I set up downstairs and, um, and I, uh, like I had my computer out cause I like to people watch, even though I don't like, even though I don't like talking to people. Well, I like to people watch, but I set up my computer to do work and there was just people lining up to talk to me. Oh my gosh. And I'm like, Oh God, I gotta, I gotta do this. So I got to not be a jerk, but I would go hide in my room every like half an hour. It was like a tap out, take a deep breath, try not to have a panic attack and then go back down and talk to some people. Yeah. That's exactly it. When my clients are, you know, they have their show and they get their awards or whatever and I've been down there all day. It's like, they're going to go out for food and then come with us. I'm going to go upstairs. I'm okay. Thanks. And I'll just like fall asleep. Man, master's nationals. That was an eyeopener for me, man. I couldn't believe the level of competition for the old guys. It was nuts. It is crazy. I saw some of those pictures, man. It's, it's actually really impressive. It wasn't like this even just 10 years ago. What I think is happening is like you're seeing the genesis of all the young guys. Who got in around like the, the Ronnie Coleman J era kind of coming to fruition after years and years of work is really what it is. The people who like stuck in the sport cause they just, they love it. You know, they're not like transient. Like a lot of people are transient now or they'll do like one film called good. I think the people back then were like, let's just, you know, fucking do this shit. Yeah. I talked to a dude when I was there. He told me he got his pro card. God damn it. I wish I could remember his name, but he told me it was his 13th pro qualifier. Oh my God. Talk about loving the sport. Yeah. You don't, you don't do 13 pro qualifiers. I mean, just think about all the money he spent. Seriously. I mean, it's gotta be, it's gotta be 10 grand a show at least. Yeah. That's insanity. Yeah. Probably, probably spend his kids, kids college fund on, on, on shots. Hey man, be happy. Whatever. Who cares? Yeah. No, it was, it was just really cool being there. It made me realize that I, I, uh, it's not going to be an easy, easy walk in the park for me. So I gotta be on point when I, when I get out there. What's your biggest concern? Um, uh, I don't know for me, the, my skin sucks. I just have terrible skin, um, from being fat for a while. So your skin effect. Yeah, I have loose skin. I have stretch marks, I have scars everywhere. A lot of that you can cover up with a tan. Uh, but definitely my stomach is a fucking mess. Cause I've had two surgeries on my stomach and, and, um, you know, I had a abdominoplasty from having loose skin and it didn't turn out the greatest. Um, so, but I, I, you know, some of that I can cover up with posing. Um, I, I don't know size wise, or I feel like I'm pretty symmetrical and size wise. Um, I, I should be okay, but that, and I get ripped. I don't have a problem getting ripped. So, yeah, I don't know. You know, you know how there's always a self doubt when you're a bodybuilder and you know, you're, you're never as good in your mind as everybody else sees you. At least the good bodybuilders, the shitty ones always think they're better than they are. That's so true. Yeah. It's, I'm the same, in the same boat where it's like, you kind of mentioned earlier where you're, if you're told to do 20 minutes at card a, you'll do 30. If you know, I'm the same because I never see myself as complete as I need to be. So it's like, well, the only thing I can do is suffer. That's what I'm going to do the best at, you know? And it's like, surely just suffering is the like, almost like tactic feedback that you need to the haptic feedback that you need to say like, okay, I'm doing enough. Um, and sometimes it's not the right equation, but yeah. Yeah. My arms too. I think my arms just never fucking grow. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's just, it's, it's the, it's the curse of having long arms. I mean, the, the, the thing is it's, it's an illusion too, because like I put the tape on them. They're over 20 inches. Yeah. But when I, the arms realistically, but when I pop a double bicep, they don't look big. Yeah. Mine are. Fuck. I don't even want to flex right now. I feel like a bitch. Nowhere near. I think mine are like 19 inches. They don't even like, uh, yeah. They don't even look impressive. Yeah. When I pull them up over my head, they just shrink up. Although I got, I got some big ass triceps. Yeah. It's some fucking, you got really big ass triceps. Dude. I don't know what you're talking about. It's the biceps. Yeah. It's all it is. Yeah. Nothing. It's a little synthol can't fix. You ever tried synthol? I think we talked about it. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I've used it before. I've been doing, actually been doing sight injections. I've been putting all my gear in my arms this year and I feel like it's helped my arms grow. I think. It's like fuck. Yeah. But I think that's part of what helps it. Chase was mentioning like his quads are as big things. He's been just jabbing shit in his quads all this whole time. And I think that's a lot of the same thing. It's like you, it's almost like that, uh, that proprioception that able, you're feeling the sort of muscle. Yeah. And it's maybe it's not that it's filling it up, but it's causing inflammation and you can sort of direct your attention towards that exact muscle. That's the main effect when I was, I did synthol for like 10 weeks. It was fucking miserable. But the main effect I found from it wasn't that it gave me like a long. That's how you feel. Yeah. It's the pump. It's like, I can really fucking feel my triceps like expanding and moving. And it gives you like, you almost learn how to connect with that muscle better afterwards. I know the old bro logic was, is it stretch the fascia out and gave the muscle more room to grow. I don't know how much that really means anything, but. I don't know. That's, that's the whole theory. Uh, blue had to eat. You always wanted to do stretches and stuff to create more fascia, room for the muscles to grow. Like you said, and I never saw a huge benefit from it. So. I mean, that's the old Dante Trudell. I think we came from Charles Poliquin. I think. Yeah. It originally came from. Yep. I don't know. I didn't know. They can't hurt. Right. I don't think anything hurts. I just think it's like, if it's unfortunately enough, this is like a 100% genetics. I'm this should just say, but it is a 100% genetics game. Like you, you really, you know, when you, especially as a coach, like you can put someone on like TRT dosage and watch them gain 30 pounds over a 12 week span. And you know, like that guy's different than other guys who have been on, you know, a gram and have seen zero progress for three weeks, four weeks, five weeks. Oh man. I feel sorry for the kid. Like there's some people, man. I get some people come on as clients and they'll, they'll take grams and they just don't even look like they've even lifted a weight, man. That's what I was talking about earlier. Sometimes I don't know if it's like, I'm, I trick myself because I'm like, are they actually adhering? And I'll get on calls with them. I'll talk. I'm like, man, they, they sound like they're doing everything. Like what's going on? And I went down the rabbit hole. Kurt, Kurt's all the time sending me studies about CAG repeats. And I don't know if you've gone down that rabbit hole or not, but CAG repeats and it, in, in the genome and how it has an effect on it. It responds to androgen. So I think I could have it backwards, but the more, is it? Yeah. It's the more CAG repeats you have, the more you respond to androgens, right? And the less. The more CAG repeats you have, the better your responses to any sort of androgenic stimulus. That's why even some people can even develop dyno with like little to no estrogen is because they have a ton of CAG repeats and that causes expression. Yeah. And it was like, it was even went down further, but like they, they, I know this is going to be controversial. But they found that black men have the, on average, have the most CAG repeats. I mean, there's a lot of anecdotes. And Asians had the least. That is very interesting. Yes. That's what the study I looked at. That's what, that's what they found. But it plays out in, in bodybuilding pretty well too. I mean, you look at the, the top 10 on the Olympia stage and, you know. Yeah. I mean, I know that's, that's controversial and eugenics and all that bullshit, but I mean, it's, I mean, you can't deny the science on it. But I found that they also said that I think it was certain men of, of genetic, uh, descendancy, like, uh, like white men, like of Northern European descent had more, more. Interesting. Um, you know, but I mean, you see that too, like, like all your fucking strong men and stuff are, they're all Norwegian and from England and all, basically all the places that the Vikings raped and pillaged. Yep. They got stronger. Yeah. All those people got, got huge, got stronger and hit, but it's a different type of, but, but genetics. Yeah. I always go down the genetic thing. I mean, it's, it's funny to me how people, it's the only sport, bodybuilding is the only sport where people think genetics has no, no, no play in it. And, and, and it's like, I always use the example of basketball because it's just blatantly obvious in basketball. Right. Um, that if you're seven feet tall, you're, I mean, it's something like one in 20 people that are over seven feet tall playing the NBA at some point. Right. Right. And you brought up last week, you brought up a picture of Ronnie Coleman when he was like 15 or whatever. Yeah. 15, man. It's like he's fucking like 30. I mean, it's, it's, that shit is just undeniable. And, and that's, that's a truly sad thing because some people will think that they can do this and it just requires a certain amount of work and then they'll abuse the hell out of certain compounds for a very long time. And only to find out at the end of the road that this was never really for them, which, I mean, if it's a sport you love, then by all means, I don't, I'm not saying stop. It's just like realize your limits. And again, that's another thing where people will reference Nick Walker a lot and say like, well, he didn't know he had, I mean, bullshit. He didn't know he had good genetics. Like the dude grew 10 fucking pounds, almost every single 12 pounds, every single year, you know, not more of his career. And it's like, if you respond like that, let me know. It's like, I'll coach you for fucking free and we'll get you to the Olympia. But that's, that's not feasible for most people. Yeah. And that's not to say, and I don't want to discourage people. Everybody can improve. Right. But, you know, rather than gaining 100 pounds of muscle, you might gain 30 or 20 over, over the course of you. I try to be very specific when I talk about this, but you can be the best version of yourself. You're just not going to be your favorite influencer or your favorite Olympian or that, that person in your mind. It's like you, I wish people would just strive to be like, how fucking good can I get? And, you know, I have, again, but the population is skewed for me because I'm working with a lot of young guys and they see people like the Chris Bumsteads, like the Christian Guzmans, like the, the dudes who have been in the game for much longer than they have. And they're like, well, I want that button. There's a very large chance that your chest doesn't have those insertions and you don't have the framework to make up what that individual looks like. Yeah. I mean, that's the other part of the Gen X. It's not just even responding to the gear. It's the, it's the, it's how your body's put together. Yeah. Like, uh, are you familiar with Andre Boo? He's the men's physique guy. Yeah. Yeah. Like his, his physique is want to get a lot of people saying they want to look like him. I'm like, you have to realize that he is, uh, the 0.1% of the 1% of the population in the world. And it's a look like him would be a crazy by-product of amazing life. It doesn't happen. It doesn't happen very often at all. It's, uh, you know, and this is what I tell people comparing, you know, trying to model what you do after a genetic outlier. I mean, they're so statistically insignificant. It's not even worth considering. Yeah. I'll get guys come to me all the time, but, but ex-pro bodybuilder did this. I'm like, well, you're not ex-pro bodybuilder. It, it, it's back to the basketball example. They're, they're like seven footers. They're only like, I don't remember the exact number. I think there was like 3,500 in the whole fucking world. Yeah. People that are over, over seven feet tall and that they're, they're what, 7 billion people. Yeah. So it's like one in every couple hundred thousand are, are seven feet tall. That's probably Ronnie Coleman, Phil Heath, Ty Green type of genetics are, are, are that rare. They're probably one, one in many tens of thousands. For sure. And this is where I think too, a lot of people talk about training as if it is, and it's, I don't want to downplay it. It's significant, right? If your technique is shit, if your intensity is pathetic, like it's not going to work for you. But you look at a great example is, uh, you know, like the way Phil Heath trains versus, uh, Johnny Jackson. Another great example, like Johnny Jackson's a very like aggressive, throw the weight around, no real technique or form. Just go fucking all out. And you have Phil Heath, who's like very methodical, high reps, a lot of pump work. And it's like both ends of the spectrum work and two people can do two wildly different things and be wildly successful. Two people can do the same things or different things and be wildly unsuccessful. It's, it's almost entirely genetic driven in some instances. So that's what I tell guys. Like when they, they come to me, like, why aren't you doing, you know, you know, like ex pro bodybuilder does. And it's when I'm putting programs together for a client, it makes sense to work towards the mean, the average. And then if we find that you are a genetic outlier, then we can, we can make an adjustment. But I love that. I love that. Yeah. Work towards the mean. Work, work, work towards the mean, because that's where most people are going to be. They're going to be a few degrees off from, from the average one way or the other. There's also the other people that are so shitty genetics that they, you know, there, there, there are the, there are those people too. Right. Yeah. You have to do almost. The pendulum does swing the other way. Yeah. Right. Right. Right. So, but I, it just, you know, like, like I was telling people, you know, like, like model, I play, I play basketball when I was younger, but like modeling your basketball game and your approach to playing basketball game after LeBron James. Yeah. Is, is he, he is such a statistical anomaly. It's not even worth considering. You know, model your game after the guy that's five foot nine or five foot 10 that made it to the NBA, the average person. Yeah. See what he did. Not, not what LeBron James did. And it's not like you can't take his work ethic and apply that. Right. It's like his, you're, you know, it's like trying to teach someone how to fly a fighter jet using a propelled plane. It's, it's completely different. Like the same concept, but completely different. Did you ever see LeBron James when he was like 13? I think I did. He's pretty fucking jacked. That's what I recall. Yeah. Yeah. He looked, he looked like a grown ass man when he was like 13. Yeah. It was, it was, it was, it was crazy, man. I'm going to see if I can find a picture of him. Yeah. I mean, he looked like he was 40. That's like, man, I've seen, there was this, I had a kid. viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia That is an example of blatantly obvious genetics. I don't know why guys just don't consider. I feel like I get stuck on this genetics thing too much, but it frustrates me so much because I get guys come to me all the time. I'm like, well, you know, Doreen Yates did this. Rodney Coleman did that. Phil Heath did this. Chris Bumstead did that. And I'm like, you're not even one of those guys. Don't even worry about what they did. It doesn't matter. And that's such a, man, we could pull back so much to this exact thing. It's why clients leave most frequently is because they feel like they're not making progress fast enough. So they're going to leave and find another coach that has the algorithm that works for them, which in reality, any algorithm that's going to work, you just have to do it long enough. And the other reason is, I mean, it just, it goes to so many different things. The safer use model, like some people will be so, so careful with things because they think, well, so-and-so did this and he said this was the right way, but he's jacked. Well, your response might be, your response curve might require more. It's very probable. Likewise with less. So I saw so-and-so use this much. You know, someone might look at Chase and be like, I need to use six grams to get that big. And it's like, dude, you're growing off like 250. What are you, what are you doing? Like, you don't need to go up to six grams. And it just creates this wild dichotomy of, you know, people saying they need this versus that. And this is right. This is wrong because they responded to this and not that. And all these just kind of really weird things on the internet that you get. That's one of the things that's been really cool about coaching is seeing how wildly different people are with response to food and training and, and everything, man. It's, it's, it's, it's funny. Like what, what they, especially like diet, like what I give one guy that will make one guy fat. Yeah. Um, I literally got a guy right now, like, uh, um, Kevin, if he's listening, but I've never seen a guy that can eat this much food and not gain fat in my life. He just, he just like, he's just like, never gets fat. Like I literally, I literally have him eating thousands of grams, you know, carbs and keep adding fat. And he just does not get fat. He probably hates his life. Oh yeah. I'm sure it's frustrating, but most people would kill for that. I, that's, that's the, so like, you know, that's a genetic outlier. Like I, I, he's one, he's in of one. I mean, I, I've never, I've never coached anybody like that. I've never, you know, I've never seen anybody like that in 25, 30 years of doing this. I use the only one. Right. And I have another example of like that, which is typically for a high day, it's like increased carbohydrates, decreased protein a little bit. Maybe you have moderate to low fat intake. And I have a guy where it's like, man, if he goes anywhere beyond 300 grams of carbs, it's like, he'll literally blow up. Like, yeah. I've had those people too. Yeah. And it's like, so for his high days, it's like, well, fuck doing high carbs. Let's do high fat. And he responds. I'm like, it's like, is if he did a high carb day, like he gets forward, more vascular training improves, digestion improves. It's like, what the fuck? This shit's so, it's so different. So that's why you can't have a cookie cutter approach. Yeah. I have a baseline I start off with and then it just, it, I'll, I'll start adjusting until we get people figured out from there. So I try to tell everyone that the program is in its infancy. When we start, it's the communication we do and the work that's done together. That makes the actual thing work. That's a good way to approach it. Yeah. That's a good way to, there's a certain, I gotta be careful what I say. There's a certain popular ex bodybuilder who's, has a big YouTube channel and he literally gives everybody the same diet and same training program and same PED protocol. I've seen it. Every single person gets the exact same thing. I'm sure. Is, uh, is he using green screen a lot by chance? Possibly. Yeah. It's hilarious. So like literally zero effort is put into it. For me, like setting up a new program for, I feel bad because like I, I, I, I was somebody one tonight and I'm like, bro, I'm sorry. I just haven't had time today to do it. You know, I'm putting 30, 40 minutes into writing up a program or whatever it is. That's the hardest part of bringing a client. It's the initial setup. Yeah. It's, it's what takes, you know, people want to refund and stuff. I'm like, man, that's, I'll always do it. But I'm like, this really sucks. Cause like I put in like an hour to make this fucking program and I'll sweat my balls off. Like, and it's like when you're writing training, training is what takes the fucking longest time because it's like, you have to be so specific. And for me, at least I provide videos, tempo reps, sets, rest periods, you know, recommendations to use during those. And it's just like, man, all that stuff put together takes a ton of time. It's funny. I used to get people training programs. It's still, you don't bother with anymore. Cause they just want to argue with you about training programs or whatever. They'll, they'll, they'll do the drug protocols. They'll do the, they'll do the, the, the diet, but then they want to debate every nuance of the training program. I'm like, just do whatever the fuck you want, man. I don't care. That's how a lot of coaches do it now. Actually, they'll say recommended training and they won't like do it. Yeah. I'll give them, I'll give them, I'll give them my training. I'll give them a couple of different options. I have a couple of different programs. Just pick the one you like and just work out hard. Yeah. Honestly, I've gotten to the point where, you know, maybe this is a shitty way to look at it, but like, I feel like the training is the least important part of the equation. Yeah. I mean, it is like you, you put any dude on and gear. And food and he's going to grow. Like, even if he's just walking up and down stairs all day long. Yeah. It's going to happen. Obviously, it's not the best response, but like, he's going to grow. I do think there is a way to optimize training for, for bodybuilding and whatnot. That's where I get into the debate with people and people get so pissed off is about the training. Like they, they, bodybuilders are the most idiotic people when it comes to training. They, they are the only, it's literally the only sport where they don't, they, they try to train like everybody else in a different sport. Like can't make up their mind if they're a crossfitter. They can't make up their mind if they're a power lifter or, or, or an Olympic lifter. And I'm like, why, why are you doing that, man? That has nothing to do with, why are you doing power cleans? That has nothing to do with bodybuilding. Yeah. And it's the same guys will say consistency is everything. It's like, dude, you're, you did eight different training routines in the past six weeks. Like what are you, why are you doing sets of three and, and, and one rep maxes on, on a bodybuilding program? Like, it's like, go, go be a fucking power lifter. If you want to be a power lifter. Exactly. So that's, that's why I don't argue with them anymore. I guess people get so sentimental about their training program. It's, it's like, I'm like, all right, dude, just do whatever. Unless you come to me and you want to be a competitive bodybuilder. Like I get guys come to me that say, all right, I want to be the best bodybuilder I can be. And then, then I'll go into details about my, my theories on training, you know, training specifically for your sport. Training specifically for hypertrophy, which over the years I've come to the conclusion is very different. Not, not saying that strength is not important, but. I'm just like, I don't like, why would you train like a, you wouldn't train for soccer and try to be a football player. Yeah. That's the part that's the logical fallacy to me. I'm like, why would you try to train like a power lifter and think you're going to be a good bodybuilder? Right. And I, I think progressive overload is important, but that. Oh yeah, I agree. Adding weights and has reps. That's that was this improved technique beyond what you were doing the last week. But I can tell you for a matter of fact, like my squat bench and deadlift has not gone up significantly, but I'm, you know, instead of 200 pounds, I'm 260 pounds. Right. So it's like, I don't know how much merit there is to wildly increasing the weight all the time. Yeah. Yeah. I don't, I mean, I, I do think when I was young, I, I, you know, I do think it paid off. I did a lot of DC training, which was just mad progressive overload. Just get as strong as you fucking get, get in that six to eight rep rep range, which is what, what, what I did. And then I do think that gave me a base to work off of with hypertrophy training. But I, I, at some point that runs its course, I, I, I think, but I don't know. I just, I just don't see. Now I'm going to contradict myself, but when you look at everybody that's a pro bodybuilder, nobody's training that way. Yeah. Yeah. And it's not like, that's the thing is like, I think there's like, there's this reverse U curve. Right. And it's like, you slowly get stronger and you progress. You slowly get stronger. You progress. And there's this like peak where you're really fucking strong and you don't really have to push any further. But if you do, you start to find the other side of the U curve and you start coming down in progress and accumulate injuries. You accumulate, you know, fatigue. That's just too much to even recover from. And then it puts you out of the sport altogether and you start reversing. And not making significant progress. I think once most people reach that peak, which seriously takes time, like I'm not there yet, willingly admitting to that I'm not there. But when people reach that peak, it's like, there's no need to, to really maximize that threshold and do like, I see Hottie Chupin doing some of the most insane shit. That's like his peak. But for some people, it's like, that's like way too far gone. They're like out of their realm and, you know, doing way too much. Well, like I literally got to a point where I was repping out 405 on inclines. Yeah. I just like, I'm like, I had a couple minor scares where, you know, tore my pack a little bit. And I'm just like, your bodybuilding career is over if you tear your pack. But I'm like, how much, how much stronger am I going to get at that point? So that's the thing is like on this last massing phase I did, I got up to like one, the mass dumbbell press I did for a chest press was 175 on each side for dumbbells. And that was really fun, but it was like terrifying. And I had like, when I pushed that weight up, I had this one moment where my shoulder like tweaked up like this. And I felt like an instant sharp pain. I was like, dude, no, like I'm not, it's, it's cool to lift that shit, but I'll stick with like 155, 145. Like that's going beyond margin for error when you're, when you're at that level is like that. Yeah. Like one missed slip. And it's just like that weight comes tumbling down and everything's gone. It's weird to me that like the whole Mike Mentzer, Dorian Yates style of training is, is making a huge comeback. I get a lot of young guys talking to me about that, you know, whether that's the way they did it. And I'm like, you know, I love Dorian. Dorian's my bodybuilding hero, but the dude retired at 35 because of injuries. Right. Or 36, whatever he was. Like, I don't know where people, and I get it. Like he was like that high intensity, low volume guy, but motherfucker was doing like 30 rep sets on the leg press. Like it wasn't what people think it was. And I don't think like when people describe Dorian, they're like, oh, he trained like a fucking beast and watch blood and guts. Like he was doing 30. I know. I literally went through and did a video breakdown of blood and guts and, and I'm like, you count the sets up. I mean, dude was doing like 20, 25 sets of stuff. He was not low. I don't know where people got that idea. He's not low volume and he certainly doesn't do low reps. But the, the bros are arguing with me like, well, those are just warmup sets. Those are, those aren't his, I'm like, it's all volume, man. Yeah. It's like, and his warmup sets were pretty intense. Yeah. Like he's grunting and screaming and struggling. Like that's not doing nothing. That's definitely more than a warmup. Yeah. That's more than a warmup set to me is banging out 135 for 20 reps and stretching your arms out. It's, it's not pushing 315 or 365 or a massive burn or fatigue. Your reps shouldn't slow down on a warmup. Like it should be pretty consistent. That's probably, you know, 70 or 80. I mean, once you get, I don't know, up above 60 or 70%, that, that to me, that's, that's a working set. Yeah. 100%. For sure. But I get all, I get all these bros arguing with me about that. And I just, I just ask them, I'm like, how many people have made it to the pro level training that way? Yeah. Like one, two, three. Yeah. And, you know, Ian, Ian Valliere talks about how he, since he started with Matt Jensen, he, he switched training methods more of that high volume style where he's doing 15, 20 reps per set. And he finds that he's actually getting a lot more progress now that he started to do that, as opposed to pushing weight and doing lower repetition ranges. And I think there's something to be said about metabolite disruption and getting that sort of pump to a certain degree, even though people say, you know, I think Todd even disagrees with this, but I do believe that that has an effect too. Oh, I do. Yeah. That, that, and how much stronger is Ian Valliere going to get? He's already exhausted his potential in that area. Right. So you have to have an, another modality of advancing at that point. So volume is really the only thing left for him. Right. Right. And it's just a safe bet. It's like, if you, if you really, cause there's like, there, there's your branch ones, right. Who have almost no tempo control or movement control and they're working out. But if you really want to stay safe, the best bet to apply progressive overload is to control the repetition to a point where you have, you know, you're, you're, you're doing a two second, three second eccentric. You're doing a, a one second, three second lengthened loaded position. You're like doing those really slow, meticulous cerebral repetitions. You don't need a lot. Like I can fucking burn myself out with 50 pound dumbbells on a bench press easy with doing like a slow technique like that. I think people, they get too caught up in what weight that is on the little fucking dumbbell or the whatever. And they just completely bypass the thought of let's take our time and actually feel what we're doing as opposed to, you know, just fuck the training. They dumbass. I, um, you know, I made a post about it today. To me, it's like blatantly obvious what the formula is. And I don't know why people want to completely reinvent it, but you can look at the thousands and thousands of people that have progressed and gotten big. And it's, it's, the formula is really simple. You train with intensity, you train with hypertrophy of mine. You, it's some sort of progressive overload. And, you know, and as far as anabolics, it's just basic shit people. And that also progresses as you get bigger generally, you know, it's, it's testosterone, whatever anabolic you like, GH insulin at some point, probably down the road. And the food is just, it's really simple too. It's meat in, in meat and rice five, six times a day. And you just eat more. You try to, like Justin says, you eat as much as you can eat without getting fat. And then if you get stronger, if you eat more and you don't get fat, there's only one possible outcome. Like, that's what he said, that you have more muscle. Right. For sure. And it's, it's, it's an interesting thing because it's like the, the coaching industry has really taken advantage of people's misinformation because they, or maybe it's their obliviousness. Because people will try to come up with these articulate formulas about their specific way of doing things as being unique and different. And that's why it works better. And then people buy into that because like, that's, that's the blue pill I've been missing this whole fucking red pill I've been missing this whole fucking time. This is what I need to do. And then they pay this guy copious amounts of money and still, and at goal zero, which was, you know, no progress made at all. And it's really shitty because especially for gen pop people, like they get caught in that so much. It's, it's just such an easy formula and the new thing comes out and just like, here's all my money. Well, I mean, it's, it's a story as old as time. The, the novelty and shortcuts sell. They, they, they always have, you know, you, you have some novel, unique approach. You're the, the whatever methodology, the, you know, you know, the Paul Barnett system. Yeah. The, the Paul Barnett safer use system or whatever you want to call it. And, and, and the, the Paul Barnett high volume training, the big Paul high volume training program. Yeah. And, and, and I'm going to shortcut your gains and I'm going to do it without you getting, you know, while preserving your health. And I don't know, it's bullshitting, but. No, that's the thing. Yeah. It's always some, some novelty. And then, then people are like, Ooh, I gotta have that. But the boring stuff doesn't sell. Right. It's, you know, it's, it's interesting. You might look at my profile and be like, well, this is, you're doing exactly what you're talking about. I really like when I market things, I'm like, what we're providing is just more level of doing things for you. Like we, we have programs where I'll like get on zoom calls every week and order your groceries and like literally do fucking everything for you. It's not that I'm doing anything different. It's just that there's levels of program where I'm doing more for you or, or employees are, or there's levels of the program where it's like very basic level coaching. And you order groceries for people, man. Fuck that. Like people who really want to be like up there and want to spend some money. I mean, that's a whole nother story to talk about, but they're willing to spend the money. I'm willing to do it. You know, we'll hire someone to do it at least. Um, not for me, man. I'm just going to tell them how to eat, what, what to take and how to train and call it a day. Yeah. I don't know. I, the, the simple stuff works the best, man. That's just always been, you know, it's back to the whole sports thing. It's like basketball. Like everybody's trying to reinvent the wheel with basketball. At the end of the day, if you can shoot, play defense, grab rebounds. I mean, it's, it's, it's the simple stuff that works. Like literally you get a guy like Steph Curry, who's not, you know, he's kind of, what is he? Like six one. He's not, not exceptionally physically gifted and he's sort of skinny fat, but the dude can shoot, shoot the ball. I mean, he's made an entire career because he can shoot the ball. Right. It's, it's that simple in, in bodybuilding to just do the basics. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's wildly true. And man, I always really bodybuilding to business because it's like the same fucking thing in my mind. I always use an application. It's like do, and it's like people are always, they always, cause I talk about business a lot. And I, and a lot of my console calls, people ask me business questions. Like, man, it's so fucking simple. Like you can make money, just do the same shit for a really long fucking time. And slowly, but surely get better at it. Like that's better at it. Yeah. Like, like, like, yeah, it's progressive. Do a little bit more. Once you've figured out how to do this much and you can easily handle this much, do a little bit more and then manage that and do a little bit more. And it's like, keep going and going, going. Most people are just content doing the same thing day in and day out. It's not even like you said, it's just a little bit more. Yeah. That's the thing. Right. Just like one more task a day or like two more things a day. It's just, it's, to me, it makes sense because that's how my brain runs. But I remember the ridiculousness of the progressive overload. Dante Trudell used to always tell me when he worked with me that the two and a half pound plate is your best friend. Yeah. And that shit works. It does work. There's, you know, it's, it's effective. Like my, my hamstrings are extremely weak. Like, I don't know what it is. They're not small, but they're very weak. And the 2.5 pound plates are like this entire offseason would have saved me on my hamstrings. Like it is the sole thing that's allowed me to progressively overload because they're so weak. I can't take large jumps. It's, it's like that little bit can do a lot for you. The 2.5 pound plate is a metaphor for life, man. If you just add a little bit. It is. You're going to get better at everything. All right, folks. On that note, I got to wrap this up. I have some programs to write in, check-ins to do. I'm going to be up till 1 in the morning. Still have another meal to eat. And to take my dogs out. That's the life of bodybuilding coaching. Right, right, Colton? Right, boy. Absolutely. No rands. All right, buddy. I appreciate you coming on. Guys, thank you for watching. You can check Coach Colton out on Instagram. What's your Instagram handle? Colton underscore red. And I will put it in the video description below, guys. Thank you for watching. Take care. Take care.