Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, Big Paul here today, and I got a good one for you. This is an interview I just did with Pete Rubish. You're gonna like this. Pete needs no introduction. He is one of the world's best strength athletes. We're gonna talk about his trensition from being enhanced to being a natty and going from strength sports into extreme endurance races. It's a really great interview. We talk about life, experiences in life, your mortality, being a parent, and just setting priorities and goals in life. I think this is a great interview. I like to do these interviews where it's just two dudes talking. I have no set agenda on these, and this is just sort of how things flowed when we were talking. You're gonna be a fly on the wall with this conversation. Before we get started, I just wanna remind you folks that I still have the sale on the anabolic bodybuilding community that I launched. With the community, we do a live privatEQ&A with the members once a week. Also have a message board where you can ask mEQuestions and talk with the other members. The sale's still up. Link's in the video description below if you wanna go check that out and be a part of the community. Anyway, folks, let's get started here in just one second. All right, folks. Big Paul here with the one and only Pete Rubish. What's going on, man? Not much, brother. What about you? Same old, same old. Just trying to figure out what I'm doing next. We were talking about it before I got my ProCard, and it's like I always gotta have something to be grinding on, man. It's like, and you know, I see you're grinding away at new goals now and got stuff going on, but it's just like, I said once I had my ProCard, it'd be done, but now I'm like, eh, maybe I'll do one show and see what happens. But you know how it goes, though, man. Yeah, there's always something next. There's always another goal, so I can relate to that. When do you think, like, when would be your next pro show than the first one? Probably next year. There's only a handful. I have no illusions of competing in the open at 50 years old, right? You know, so I'll probably do a master's pro show. There's a few of the shows that have master's divisions. I think the Chicago Pro or the Tampa Pro are probably my likely ones I'll do. And they have a master's division. And IMight say fuck it and go in and do the open just to get last place, just to say I did it. So it's like spaced out once a year, basically, for competing? I only do once a year. I just like, it's really hard on your body, man. It's contest prep and all the drugs and the diet and just everything, man. It's like at 50 years old. I don't know how guys do multiple shows, to be honest with you. Well, okay, how much, I'm curious about this. I did one bodybuilding show. It was like a million years ago. Feels like it, 15 years ago. I was 19 at the time. But how much does your weight come down from like peak off-season weight to when you step on stage? It's weird, man. Like, usually I, you know, depends on how fat you let yourself get. That's a big part of it. This year I stepped on, I started prep at 250. I ended prep at 250. It was, yeah, I've never had that happen before. I usually drop 20, 30 pounds usually. So I stepped on stage the exact same weight as I started prep at. I just re-comped. I actually gained weight the first half. I think what it was is I basically just, I was, I hadn't taken a break from the PEDs in a while. And for abouT4 months in the off-season, five months, I don't know what my break was between shows, contest prep. I just came down to bodybuilding TRT, you know what I'm talking about. And just took a break from all the stuff. And then I fired everything back up when I went into prep. And I gained weight initially and caught a re-comp. And I just, I didn't let myself get fat this year. I think I was sub 10% coming into the, 10% body fat coming into the prep. So I kept myself pretty lean. And it just made it a lot easier. But usually, you know, just usually, in the past, it's always been 20 pounds at least. Yeah, that's what I was thinking. I figured you'd like lose a ton. But I could see if you were kind of going super clen in the off-season, just adding in things, you'd basically be putting on muscle even during a cut. I'm like the opposite of everybody else, dude. I don't like to eat. I'm like the only guy that comes out of a bodybuilding show and loses weight. That's fine. Everybody is binge eating and getting fat. And I'm just like, man, I'm so fucking sick of eating. I'll go back down to eating like two or three times a day. I even did some intermittent fasting last year, just played around with that a little bit. I've never really tried it before. I think that helped a lot, kind of set me up for being, you know, put insulin sensitivity, gastric emptying, gave my gut a break. IMean, I've heard you talk about that, talk about insulin sensitivity being very important. Just did some stuff to set myself up to have a good prep, I think. Did you feel like you slept better too when you were doing the intermittent fasting and things of that nature? Oh yeah, man, way better. I felt sharper too with the mental acuity as far as being able to focus on work because I had a pretty demanding job at the time. I was running an IT company, CEO of an IT company. So I have to be on my toes during the day. But yeah, I definitely felt sharper. I always kind of made fun of the intermittent fasting guys and then I tried it and I was like, fuck, man, this is actually pretty interesting. It works really well. All my blood markers improved. Visceral fat was the lowest it's ever been. You know, just all these things that, you know, IMean, my blood panels were perfect coming into prep and pretty much stayed pretty great even with a high amount of gear on prep. I kept my blood panels pretty solid. Did you run anything alongside the prescription pharmaceuticals? Do you run anything for lipids or anything like that, blood pressure? Yeah, in the offseason, I'll run a low-dose statin. Sometimes, it just depends. In the past, if I keep my diet clen, if I keep the saturated fats pretty low and I strategically put in some low-carb days, I can keep my lipids pretty well in check. I'll use some citrus bergamot and some red rice yeast extract and then maybe a little bit of ezetimibe in there and I can keep my lipids pretty well in check that way. Okay, that makes sense. But sometimes, I've had to use a statin in the past. Yeah, I dabble with one from time to time. I'll use like 10 milligrams of Resuvastatin, which is Crestor. Yeah, that's what I do. When I've taken it in the past, once a week, it'll bring LDL down like 20%. Yeah, I was running it every other day and I noticed a pretty significant drop. With PEDs, usually, it's the HDL that gets crushed. I find if I keep cardio in and I'm careful with the saturated fat intake, if my carbs are high, it just depends. I usually run a carb cycling diet. I find that my lipids stay pretty well in check. Yeah, that makes sense. Do you get the naturally high blood pressure too? Because IMean, even like being off everything now, mine runs a little high, even with cardio in there, even with being lighter. Yeah. It's just one of the ways. I've always been a little hypertensive. I think it's genetic. It just runs in my family. So, I do run 40 milligrams of Tomosartan and that keeps me in line. That'll keep me at 120 over 70 pretty decently. Sometimes in the past, I've run some Nibivola in the offseason, a beta blocker, just a low dose, five milligrams, nothing crazy. But I've done that in the past. Yeah, see, that's interesting too because the Tomosartan, I've dabbled in that a little bit, 40 milligrams myself and then I've tried even 80 and it's just, there's hardly any benefit going from 40 to 80 from running. It doesn't move the needle at all. And I've messed around a little bit with propranolol but that, you know, usually my heart rate's pretty dang low already with all the running. Well, if you're doing all the endurance stuff you're doing, yeah, it's gonna stay low. But that's, well, the crazy part though, like when I got towards the end of all that like crazy endurance trening, it was, we're talking 80, 90, 100 miles of running per week. When I got to the end of that, I started having like some tachycardia issues on two occasions where my heart rate would just be racing for like 30 minutes after I'd get done with a set and it wouldn't come back down. And so that's when I kind of was messing around with the propranolol to kind of see if it would fix and alleviate that. Coupled with bringing the mileage down, it's helped a ton. So I haven't used propranolol in like a month or two but I had these two incidents of tachycardia and I've read, there's heard that. Afib is like 10 times higher in the really long endurance athletes. Yeah, you'll see it in endurance athletes. It does happen. It's got to be stress-related, I would think. I don't know the physiology behind it, but you do see it in endurance athletes sometimes. I used to do some distance cycling. I don't now. Obviously, that runs counter to putting on masks for bodybuilding, but that was something I got into for a while, going out and doing 100-mile rides on the bike and shit like that. Sometimes, I would have the same thinGHappen occasionally, and then I've never had it again since I stopped doing the distance cycling, so it only happened when I was riding. That's the thing. You can take anything to an extreme, so even at that kind of mileage, it can be counterproductive to health if we're running 100 miles a week, even 80. Now I'm running, by comparison, twice a week, I run six to six and a half miles. I went from 80 miles a week to 12 and a half, which is a much more manageable amount. I still get the health benefits. It's not cutting into my strength or physique goals. Have you noticed it affects your strength at all or no? Not at two days a week. Wednesday and Saturday are the days I run six to six and a half miles, and those are no issue. Zero effect on strength, hasn't negatively impacted physique. It's kept me leaner, obviously, but once you start ramping the mileage up, you're in that really higher end range, of course, it just cuts you way down. I've put on 20 pounds since the race in June, so big difference. The main thing that changed was just pulling your mileage down after that? There was a lot that changed, because it was this 100-mile race in the mountains of Wyoming, and I'd been trening for it for a year and a half. Everything I had, I was putting into that, so I basically stopped lifting anything the last two months, because I was just literally too exhausted to lift, coupled with the running. The mileage peaked at my highest week of mileage was 102 miles. You're exhausted all the time. My diet wasn't very good at that point, because I just wasn't strict about it. I wasn't serious about it with not lifting. Once that was done, after the race, which was June 15th, I dialed in my diet, gram protein per pound of body weight. I cut the running way back from that crazy amount of mileage to the two days a week. Started lifting again four days a week, two days upper, two days lower, and then it's been crazy since then. Went from 197 pounds to 217 pounds, which is where I'm at now. I feel really good at this weight. Strength's gone through the roof, obviously. The only things I've been takinGHave been vitamin K2 and then SheLegit. I'm trying. I don't even know if it does a whole lot, but I'm giving it a shot for this company. I did dabble a little with the propranolol after the race for the tachycardia issue. Then I've taken off and on Resuvastatin and Tomasartan, but not in about a month. That's all I've been taking. I was curious. That's interesting to hear that you ... I was going to ask you about the diet when you were trening for the endurance event. You weren't following any sort of strict diet? You just doing whatever? Oh, yeah. There would be ... IMean, I've never taken my diet seriously until after the race. The last 12 weeks, I've actually been taking it seriously, and I've seen a tremendous difference with my physique. That's been the game changer, obviously. Up until that point, I've always been known for my diet being pretty poor and eating whatever, so there were days I'd smash a pie or whatever. Just whatever I felt like, like a half a dozen donuts. Things like that, just low protein, didn't really worry about it, because you're burning so many calories. It's like you're going out. Yeah. It probably doesn't matter. IMean, 45,000 steps today, it doesn't ... My physique definitely deteriorated a bit without the lifting and coupled with the bad diet. Since then, taking the diet seriously, liftinGHard again, it's probably close to the best I've looked, even when I was on PEDs. Things have been really good. Well, I think diet is the area, especially physique, is the area where you can make ... IMean, it's going to have the hugest impact on physique. I think that's what separates bodybuilders from pretty much any other athletes, is how seriously the diet is dialed in. IMean, I can ... Honestly, I've seen guys, I tren guys all the time, and that'll be on a ton of PEDs, and they look like shit. Then you get the diet fixed, and they instantly change. I also work with some professional athletes, man. It's crazy to see how awful a lot of these professional athletes eat. I got guys that are in the NFL, man, and this is one dude I was talking to, and he's eating McDonald's and candy and just whatever, man, and he's a freak athlete. I'm like, I guess if you got the genetic gifts, it doesn't fucking matter. Yeah. Like you said, the activity load is so high, you're probably just burning it all up anyway. You probably need some trash in there just to get some calories in. Well, it's so crazy, because the whole time I was in my prime of strength with powerlifting, and I was on everything, I never took diet that seriously, and I still made crazy gains, but now I almost wonder what I could have done if I had that better dialed in like I do now, because I've seen it, and I have seen it more for physique. Physique looks way different with proper food and nutrients and all that. It has a slightly lesser effect, I feel like, on strength, but I'm glad I'm taking it more seriously now, and that's all part of the trensition to worrying about my health a little more and all that sort of thing. Yeah, IMean, I work with some powerlifters, too. You definitely can affect strength to a degree with it, but I think just overall health, and as you get older ... How old are you right now? 33 years old. Yeah, you're still young, man. See, like I could eat a dozen donuts when I was in my 20s and still have a six pack, man. You'll notice as you approach middle age, man, you got to be more dialed in with that stuff and little things like even just inflammation with the diet and how that affects the performance and stuff like that. You'll notice as you get older that that changes. Yeah, I can see that. It's not even quite as easy now as it was maybe in my 20s, but still doing all right. What sparked the want to do the endurance stuff versus strength trening? What got your ... Peaked your interest in all that? I think it was a culmination of things, like having been off PEDs and testosterone, it just was hard to progress in the gym. Everything felt terrible. It was hard to be motivated when you're hitting numbers that are way lower than what you've done, and so I kind of needed to pivot to something else, just like we talked about where we're always driven for the next goal, whatever that may be. It could be in any avenue, and I'd long known about ultra running and the 100-mile races and just felt like I wanted to give it a go. I only made it 66 miles. I didn't even get through the whole thing. Only 66. Yeah. I know. It was disappointing because everything blew up on me at a certain point. Everything went wrong, which will tend to happen when you're going that long, but it just was like a new goal, and I needed something to push me, and lifting, it's just so much tougher now, obviously, without anything in my system like that. I can't ... I'm not going to go deadlift 900 pounds tomorrow. It's just not the same, so it's hard to be as driven. Yeah, and that's one thing that's hard to go back. IMean, I think I told you when we started, when I came off, man, I just stopped lifting. It wasn't fun anymore. No, it's not. It's not fun. It's not fun at all. Why did you come off? What was your ... what made you want to come off? Usually, I very rarely, usually once, guys, I tell dudes, it's like getting bit by the vampire. Once you're a vampire, you're a vampire forever, and very few people actually come off. That's true. I should say, lifting's fun now, but it's taken like four years, so it took a while. The first thing was, and I know it can be done when you're still on stuff, but I wanted to have a child, so it was kind of ... that was the main thing. It's like, I want to have a kid, and we made that call to give it a go. It took seven months after coming off everything to get my wife pregnant. I did a little PCT afterward, nothing too crazy. I did 15 days alternatinGHTG and HMG, and then I did Clomid and Novodex for two or three weeks after that. Then I think it was July, she got pregnant, had my daughter, and then at that point, I rode out the tough part of it, where you're like, the first couple months, things are really at a low. I remember 60 days after, it was either 60 or 90 days after, my testosterone levels were 38 nanograms per deciliter. Yeah, that's a rough one. No, you do one set in the gym and you're smoked. You're so sore, there's nothing you can do. I got through all that hard period with no libido for a year, the first year there was no libido. Then I'm just like, well, I guess I'll just stay off. We kind of talked about it. I wanted to be a little healthier with my lifestyle and all that and I was worried about things because of Family history of heart disease, heart attacks. Yeah, and I have this like naturally high lipoprotein little a level that's sky-high So I'm like, all right, I got to be more serious about this high blood pressure things of that nature And I just decided to keep rolling with it. So the highest I've seen on an actual blood panel since I've come off Was 500 nanograms per deciliter That's fine. Yeah, IMean that's what a normal IMean a normal adult male is at your age typically IMean, that's that's not out of range. It's man. It's it's hard to go through all that I think a lot of guys it psychologically I think that's the hard part It's you should get your identity wrapped up into being strong or big or whatever Whatever it is, and that's the hard part to walk away from I think That's a hundred percent it. IMean I was known all those years is like, you know, I was 253 ish typically 253 pounds and I'm six feet tall in it You know, everybody knows you has that person and you know any period of time. I basically was deadlifting like 850 ish and it would get up to nine maybe if I was on a cycle Benching, you know 450 at all times and it was just you know You're used to that standard of strength and then you go where? You're like a you know Cut a major percentage of that off and it's it's hard to stay motivated. It's you shrink down IMean, I pretty much feel like I lost everything and have had to build back up Even though where I'm at now But I've had to like almost reinvent a new identity Because I just can't be that person. It's not the same Yeah, I remember some of your your strength feats man, you're crazy fucking strong man, it's insane Yeah, but IMean, it's like, you know, we only have these phases in life. We have to go through man it's you know, it's You know, I believe it's like I was telling you I was doing bodybuilding in my In my 20s and then just walked away from it for family and business. I I did knock my ex-wife up with my first kid while I was on so Hey So folks that's a lesson for you if you think that you're bulletproof while you're on That is not true Had just asked Ronnie Coleman. Yeah, it's got like he's got like 12 kids Some people some people is it you know, you really can't be done On psycho. I think we were just trying to give ourselves the best chance. So yeah, IMean some I You know, I work with clients to help them with fertility sometimes and some guys arecompletely shut down There's there's sperm count zero When they when they come out come out of being on cycle and then other guys just seem to be resilient It's some of it's just genetics. I Think and I think I was really shut down. IMean There was a period of 23 to like 26. IMean I ran tren acetate for Basically those three years straight things like that. Holy shit. Yeah Yeah, just all like year-round for three years and IMade some really good gains, but I bet you did But um No, it was it was wild. There's there's some overlap with the bodybuilding world that I've had as far as like being around bodybuilders because I Know there were different things that like impacted me over the years as far as what I wanted to do with with PDS and that Because when I was in Kentucky for a year, I trened at the same gym where Matt Jansen and Dallas McCarver were at. Oh, yeah, and then he they both we moved at the exact same time it was really strenge we both moved to Knoxville and We're also at the same gym in Tennessee Dallas and Matt So Dallas was the same age as me and I talked to him a little bit and I saw him trening all the time And That that definitely affected my thought process when when that all happened and just little things like that over the years you see and I wasn't like super close to Boston, but I talked to him quite a bit because I was friends with Leo of Leo and longevity and we texted a fair bit and I remember like textinGHim the night before he passed away too. So it was just stuff like that where I was like, man I Don't know. I just cuz it has a bit of an effect. IMean we played dangerous games. That's for sure It's IMean, it's something you got to think about when you have a family too. It's When you have a family that's more than just you when it's when you don't have kids you can be a little more selfish And that's also IMean when I was single and just Not married or anything didn't have a kid. I was cutting my own world it felt like but And the last couple years I feel like there hasn't been Too many deaths but for a while you remember that like year two is just like all the time like Shawn Road. Yeah That was that was a lot to take in So, I Think guys are a little more aware now and are being more proactive with their health and taking care of their Cardiovascular health, IMean really the biggest risk is cardiovascular events when you look at it when using PEDs heart attacks strokes aneurysms IMean, that's usually most of the time. That's what's gonna Acutely going to get somebody but most of the guys that are dropping over. It's usually something related to a cardiovascular event Yeah, that's have you ever done one of those? Um angiograms or anything like that? Yeah Yeah, I've had that done because I just did that too and I was just like want to cross that you know be sure where things are at and then I've had imaging done of like the The GI tract for a kidney stone issue. That was its own thing It's like a 24 millimeter kidney stone So I got to see the imaging of the kidneys and all that and they all checked out But I'm glad I did all that stuff to kind of know What I'm working with right now. So yeah, I tried I've been lucky man IMean, it's you know, my age is probably stupid doing what I'm doing But my blood work and my imaginGHave been decent, but I've also been you know, I pushed hard for my pro card this year, but for the most part I Pretty conservative and I'm proactive with with things like taking care of my diet keeping my diet plays such a huge role in it man, people don't realize it Especially with lipids and whatnot in blood pressure The you know, really when you think about what's going to kill people that use PEDs a lot of times it's a cascade of high blood pressure coupled with lipid skewing and it just has a cumulative effect and you end up having Arteriosclerosis you end up having You high blood pressure which can cause aneurysms. IMean that that's what got Boston if I remember right it was an aortic aneurysm Probably from chronic high blood pressure the kidney issues are usually from chronic high blood pressure and it's the the crazy thing is is if you're intelligent with your compound choices and Take some proactive Step so you can mitigate a lot of that. I'm not saying you can completely eliminate it I I compare it to riding a motorcycle. IMean, it's it's a dangerous activity, but you can make it safe safer And you wear a helmet you can you know make better choices, but it you know, you're still you're still taking a risk IMean, it's it's it's a higher risk risk thing. But there's you know, some of the guys that Passed early. We're pushing things a little too far and then there's just genetics IMean some people just if someone was just luck. Oh, I totally agree. IMean I Remember like Antoine via he was sayinGHis calcium score was like crazy high and Um, then you have other people completely unscathed so it's Mine's zero man, and I've been doing this for you know I'm 50 years old man, and I usually my LDL is a little elevated and I just my was zero It always has been you had a zero calcium score. Yeah Wow, do you do that? Um, did you do? fMRI or any of that other stuff echocardiogram? Yeah, I've done echoes. I have a little bit of LVH I like to keep tabs on my ejection fraction because that's another thing that sneaks up on people a lot of times You don't realize that you have a little Ejection fraction until it's too late You know and that'll sneak up on you too and you end up with with you know heart failure Basically have one of my friends going through the young guy going through that right right now You know and then you couple that with other things, you know, you know if you get sick, you know I can't say it but the virus that was going around recently that doesn't help cardiovascular things on top of what we're doing So you couple that with that and you know, you have even bigger problems So it's it's it's cumulative effect. I I think you know, there's only there's only so much you can redline The engine before things start breaking down and then some people are just built different man It's like You know some of these big pro bodybuilders that seem to go unscathed man. They're they're built like a Ferrari You can redline a Ferrari all day long and it's fine. Can't do that with a within a within a Corolla, right? You know, so some people are just made to it's like it's like you're and we all have that uncle in our family that drinks And smokes his whole life and lives to be 90 years old. It's just luck. It's genetic Yeah, if you're on the opposite end of the spectrum, you know, like somebody like Dallas's as young as he was even if he was pushing things, most people are not going to have those kind of problems, but he probably was genetically predisposed to having those issues, didn't know it, and then it was just bad luck. Yeah, that one just blows my mind because he was 26. I'm just like, I didn't think it was even possible really. I know you hear some stuff from time to time about a young person having a heart attack, but like, I don't know, that one blew my mind. I had a friend I played basketball with, a man that passed away in his 20s from a heart attack, wasn't using PEDs, you know, so it does happen, but I would suspect, you know, I looked at his autopsy, but I would suspect that he was genetically predisposed, probably had some sort of family history of arteriosclerosis. I think they said that he had almost an entire blockage of his coronary artery, if I remember, and that's just abnormal for a guy his age. That's crazy. Yeah, you would have to have, even if you were doing the craziest cycles, you'd still have to have like the deck stacked against you. It's insane. Well, those are the things you don't know, and then like a guy like him, if he had had a calcium CT scan done, or if he had had some imaging done, probably would have found out and could have taken corrective action, would still be here. That's the thing, that's why I think everyone should like get this done, look into it, make sure your heart checks out, just so you know, do you have any wiggle room, or is it something you really got to be serious about, because I think a lot of those guys, the same thing with Boston, if he would have gotten an angiogram, he would have seen, okay, you're developing an aortic dissection, like you've got to stop ASAP. Well, IMean, and obviously that one was blood pressure related, because that's how that happens. Yeah, but if I recall correctly, didn't his father have the same thing and had to have surgery to repair it? Correct, so there's definitely a genetic component. Yeah, so it was a combination, IMean, we all know that Dallas was mashing the gas pedal down, or not Dallas, but Boston was mashing the gas pedal down, but you combine that with a genetic predisposition to this stuff, it's a bad combination, so you kind of have to be aware of what you can get away with. I'm not justifying doing things, but it's calculated risk. Yeah, and that's why I think people should check it out and see what they're dealing with, but the other one that's interesting, like the lipoprotein little a thing, so supposedly that leads to an expedited level of plaque development. Yeah. Do you know what yours is at? Mine's always great, so while I have high LDL, my lipoproteins are in line, so that's probably why I have a zero calcium score. My dad is the same way. My dad's always had high LDL, and he has zero calcium score. He's in his 70s, so it's genetics play. Once again, I don't want to knock on wood, but I've been lucky in that area. I don't want to jinx myself here, but that's something I've been genetically lucky with. I've had other health issues over the years. I had cancer, you know, so I got the shit in and the stick on that one, but some of it's just luck, man, at the end of the day. What kind of cancer was it? I had a melanoma, and then I had to have all my lymph nodes. You can kind of see where my neck is all fucked up. I had to have my lymph nodes removed from my neck. I had a tumor in my salivary gland. Yeah, it was pretty fucked up. Man. Yeah, I'm still here though, so that was seven, eight years ago, something like that. Holy cat. Okay, you got to tell me about this melanoma. Did you just notice something was like way off there? You saw a spot? Dude, it was crazy. I didn't even know I had it. I was in a car wreck, and the doctor at the hospital, just dumb luck, I probably would have died. It probably would have killed me eventually. He noticed it when I was in the hospital. He was checking it out, and he's like, you got a spot on your back that looks weird, man. He's like, you need to get that checked out right away, and I waited like a month or so, and then the girls with it at the time was just like, hey, man, you need to follow up on this, and I went and checked, and it was a melanoma, man. They had to go in and take it out and take my lymph nodes, and it was just like, the doctor told me, you need to send that ER doctor a bouquet of flowers. He saved your life, man. You would probably have, because it was on my back. It's not like I'm looking at my back, and I used to lay in, you know, dummy bodybuilder, I used to lay in tanny beds all the time. Dude, that is unreal. That's crazy, man. There's some things that you just, like, I don't know, fate, fortune, I don't know what the fuck you want to call it, man, just dumb luck. Man, I dig that. God looking out for me, whatever it was. Whatever it was, man, you get a second chance like that. It definitely changes your perspective on things. How, okay, how did that change your perspective? Like, what, I'm sure after that, you're starting seeing everything different. Just the value each day. Like, I think when you're, especially when you're younger, at least me when I was younger, you sort of think of yourself as being immortal. Like, you don't realize that it's, you just have, that this is really temporary, and we all, we all suffer one fate, man. We're all going to die at some point or another. And not that I'm in a rush to get there any sooner, but I want to make the most of every day that I have here. I want to get the most out of it. I want to appreciate the people that are around me. I want to accomplish things. I don't want to waste my life being negative. I don't want to waste my life being angry. I don't want to waste my life with regrets. I want to make sure that when I punch out, that I've checked every box along the way, that I, you know, I don't want to be on my deathbed thinking, man, what if? That's one of the reasons why, you know, it's stupid, and one of the reasons why I chased getting my ProCard and bodybuilding, because I thought I had potential when I was younger, and then I just kind of wasted it, because it just wasn't very focused. I was partying and doing whatever, and just like, I'd take it seriously for a little while, and then I'd tune out and just, you know, just things like that. You know, because I'm like, I always have time. I got plenty of time to do this. I'll do it later. And then it made you realize that you don't have plenty of time, that it could all be gone tomorrow. IMean, shit, you walk out and be in a car accident. IMean, that's, you know, you don't know. So I wanted to make sure I got the most out of each remaining day that I had left. Wow. Do you have any, like, do you have any other major goals or things in life that you want to do or see? I've been pretty, I've been lucky. I'm not trying to humble brag or anything. I've been pretty successful in business. I just retired from my job. Oh, congrats, man. I want to help people. I've been trying to, you know, I enjoy coaching. Bodybuilders have been helping guys. It's not even really about the bodybuilding. It's trying to teach other people about, IMean, you understand this, but how to push yourself and how you can get more out. And I think, like, bodybuilding or sports in general teaches you those lessons. It gives you that skill set where you can learn how to be able to achieve goals. And I think it's kind of cool when you see that light go on, when a guy can go from being chubby and get on the stage, and then you can trensfer that to other areas in your life, whether it's business or whatever. I enjoy helping people. I'm trying to pay it forward a bit. Just getting my kids through college, traveling. I definitely want to travel and experience the world, just live life and experience the world, really. I'm kind of in the last phase of life when you really think about it. I'm 50. IMean, how much longer? I'm in the last third of things, you know, realistically. IMean, you know, as I think the average adult male in this country lives to be something like 75, 76. So, you know, it's crazy to think about, you know, 25 years ago, I was 25 years ago. In another 25 years, IMight be gone. So, you know, it's just, I don't know, you know, and goals will pop up. But the main thing is just want to get the most out of each day, try to treat people with kindness, help people where I can. Make, you know, make and create new experiences, new friendships, things like that. IMean, it's just really kind of cheesy stuff at the end of the day. Just live life, really. So many people waste their life sitting on the couch. I get that. No, IMean, I think that would have a profound impact on you where it's like, all right, you're going along, everything's great. And then melanoma, boom, you were that close to death and you know it. And it's like a second chance, you know? Yeah, IMean, I was lucky in that I, you know, it wasn't like I was full-blown chemotherapy and all that shit. You know, it was just surgery and some you know, some treatment. It was, you know, honestly, I was pretty lucky. So I shouldn't, you know, I know some people suffer and go through way worse than I did. But it just, it definitely made me realize that I got to get a, you know, treat each day with some urgency. Did that change in like how you spend your time each day? Yeah. Yeah, man. I, I, um, I still allow myself some recreation, but I think I was spent a lot of time wasted on things that are meaningless. You know, you know, consuming media, sitting around watching TV, playing video games, shit like that. Not that there's anything wrong with that. I still do it on occasion, but I wanted to spend more time experiencing life, doing things, getting, pushing myself out of my comfort zone, um, shit like that. You know, IMean, you know this man, you're doing it. Yeah. And I think that's one of the things, you know, I'm enjoying my family. Exactly. I'm trying to find a balance with it. Cause you think about every day, you're like, am I spending too much time watching football or even doing stupid things on your phone, you know? And I know it's not an infinite number of years we have. So I'm almost like, I don't know. I think about it a lot. Yeah. Somebody told me, I don't know, I don't remember who it was. It was like spend more time creating rather than consuming. And I think that, that one, that kind of stuck with me. Um, you know, creating experiences rather than consuming content or consuming other, you know, if you're, that's sort of the way I weigh and measure the balance. If I'm creating or helping other people or being productive or even, even, even doing something like this, um, rather than sitting around goofing off all day long, that I find that my life is more fulfilled when I do spend the majority of my time doing that versus consuming. No, that makes perfect sense. I'm basically trying to do the same thing, less watching what everybody else is doing and I'm doing things. And you've obviously, you've done that if you've developed a successful business, like that's part of what, what that is, how that happens. Yeah. You're a doer. Yeah. IMean, you, you are too, man. You, you, you get how it goes and it definitely changes when you have, how old is your kid now? Two years old, little over two years old. Yeah. IMean, you're, you're getting into the fun part. You're going to see him grow up. My kids are pretty, just about growing up at this point, but you'll, you'll see as you go, man, that time flies by and having a kid just changes your perspective on everything. How old are your kids? Uh, my daughter is about 17. My son's 13. Man, that's crazy to think like at that age. It'll be there. It'll be there fast, man. You'll be, you'll be shocked at how quick it goes by. I think that, how do you, how do you balance like the business with, with family and child childhood when they're, they're growing up like that? Well, it's another thing. It's just like going to the gym, man. You have to prioritize time. You know, everybody says they don't have time to go to the gym and there is time. It's just how you choose to use your, use your time. You have to make time to spend with your family too. It's, it's, uh, you know, they're just, you have to set aside and be able to go do some things with them and spend time with them. Um, it's, uh, it's a choice. You know, some people will make the wrong choice and others don't, you know, I've, I've been sort of forced into it because I've been mostly aromasingle parent, um, for the majority of them growing up, but it's, uh, that's a long story. But anyway, it's, you know, it's how you prioritize your time really at the end of the day. Another reason to spend less time consuming, you know, and we'll do things together too. Like I'll take them to the movies or whatever, just a little shit, go out to dinner. Um, you know, we just went to an amusement park the other week, you know, you carve out time. We went to a concert, stuff like that. No, I get that. Yeah. Oh, these are all the things I think about now being in your thirties versus twenties where it's like you're focused on yourself. Yeah. Twenties or twenties are a selfish period, but I think you need that. Um, I was pretty selfish in my twenties and I think it helps balance you out as you get older. Um, you know, having that period of your life where you do all those things and because you don't want to have regrets either, nothing's worse than an old man with regrets. Yes. I'm trying to avoid that too, but yeah, it feels like twenties are like a more of a selfish period. Thirties are kind of, so far it feels like discoverinGHow to be, how to balance it all. Really. That's where I feel like I'm now. Yeah. Balance family. And then I'm kind of shifting to the other side of it now where my kids are almost grown and they're, you know, they're going to be moving on and then it's, it's time for the next phase of my life where you can kind of go back to being a little selfish again. Right. You know, so you, you're, you're going to have a 18 year window where you have the kid, the kids have to come first and then, and then you can go back to doing some somewhat selfish stuff. Man, that's crazy. So it's all coming full circle. Now you want a pro car. You have that time retired. Nope. Nope. I don't know. Shit. It's, it's kind of a silly thing, man. Who knows where it's going to go? What's next for you? What are your, what are your plans or do you know, or are you just taking it? Yeah, it's, it's one of those things I'd, I'm definitely more focused on like building my physique and getting stronger right now. Um, and seeinGHow high I can take the numbers off, off everything. And then, cause I want to stay around two 20. I feel, I feel pretty good at about 220 pounds. And I like having the balance of like, okay, I can go run a 10 K, but I'm also trying to push for like a 700 pound deadlift and just be well rounded. But I think I was so focused on that a hundred mile race for so long. And it was time consuming that I don't want to have anything too crazy in the near future like that. Cause it was a very all encompassing goal. IMean, very long days, a lot of introspection, just time out in the woods, like by yourself. And someday I want to make it right and go back and complete the thing because it about killed me. And it's just a personal thing. It's like, uh, I thought I did everything I could have done preparation wise to finish. And it humbled me bad, like big time, just tumbled me. And, uh, I want to go back and get it done. No matter, like they give you 35 hours. I want to get it done at some point in the next couple of years when I feel like the time is right. And there were a lot of mistakes made and things to learn from. So I, in hindsight, now I know what to do. IMean, there was, I was one of the bigger guys there for sure. I was, you know, just to just about 200 pounds. Um, so it's tougher. You're not, you're not this, like, you know, you're not very skinny and knocking this out. So it was tougher, but cramping was a major issue. Cause there's some huge climbs. IMean, we started off, it was like a 4,000 foot climb out of the Canyon from like mile four to mile eight or nine. It was like 4,000 feet. We're going straight up out of this Canyon in the mountains. And that, that's when the cramping kicked in, my legs were locking up on me. I couldn't stand up, uh, really bad cramps. So that, that was a problem for a lot of the race. And then I think I like somewhat poisoned myself with the stream water. Cause I had a filter bottle that had like a filter you put on top, but I was good until about mile 28. And then I'd had some stream water that I thought was, you know, properly filtered before that. And I just had to go to the bathroom, you know, cause yeah, for like the next 35 miles. I don't know how you could even continue. It got rough, it got bad. And then the other mistake IMade fatal flaw. I didn't even think about this. The, uh, so you're having to go to the bathroom all the time. And I had, um, I'd pack baby wipes thinking that'd be fine. I didn't realize the alcohol was going to cause problems. Oh yeah. Oh my gosh, dude. So it was, things were not going well. Yeah. That doesn't pair well with chafing. Oh my gosh. It was incredibly painful. So between that and the, uh, the poison myself from the mountain water, it just was going downhill. And then at that point, my feet were so blistered. I was, I was in, I was in hell basically. Like, um, man, I felt bad. I felt like a zombie and I just, I had nothing left. It's too many mistakes at that point. And they just all compounded on one another. So your feet are done. I lost two big toenails, both of them. Holy shit. Yeah. They both fell off completely. You're a tough SOB. It's, IMean, it is, it's, it's like its own thing. Like the sport of ultra running is, and there's a lot of walking, hiking, cause it's there's sections. It's impossible to run. . � .. .. .. .. .. .. .. running that far is not fun runninGHiking ah but I just want to get that done at some point Yeah, when you have that incomplete task in the back of your head it just sticks with you Yeah, it's like the pro card like never having gotten it for you for me never having finished the race Like I didn't get to cross the finish line and I got to see other people doing it and it just it eats at you Yeah, that and especially if you know, you made mistakes And it's hard, you know I believe me I've made mistakes before and sometimes you put your health at risk When you make mistakes and it's hard to dial back and just tell yourself you need to pack it in I know how I am man. I'll die before I give up And I still think I'm like was I not? You have thEQuestions of like did I just give up or could I've gone further? and you have thesEQuestions in the back of your head and like I was I was On the last bit of energy I had at the end. IMean You can't just drop out at any point because you're so isolated out in the mountains You have to keep going to be able to likEQuit like you can't that's what sucks like you could be dead and it's like Oh, you still gotta go five miles through the mountains to get back to a place where they can like get you out of there so I Was done at like 60 and then I had another six miles of like 45 minute miles Like I was clocking 45 minute miles Just you know death marching To get back to the point where I could get a ride out on these crazy roads where there's like you have to go through streams and boulders and Then it's like a two-hour drive back. And so it's very remote but I wonder you know, sometimes I'm like could I pushed a little more and the main thing that like shut it down was just Feeling like you have to constantly go to the bathroom and then how painful that guy from the baby wipes So, I don't know. I think when you get to the point where you're sick you have to stop You know, there's there's just when your body gives up there's nothing, you know, you can push through pain and things like that But when you're actually sick, that's a different. It's a different ballgame. I Could yeah, I couldn't eat anymore at that point. I could drink but eating was like impossible and the pain of the feet was pretty excruciating and everything else, but I had this guy running with me and he was a he won like WBF worlds what it was the Natural Federation like W. I think that's it. I think that's WBF Yeah, he won their worlds in bodybuilding in 2018 Sam Okunola That's cool. He was with me helping kind of paced me this guy's huge like compared to everybody else out there He was he was 220 on the trail biggest guy out there muscular and then he did one a month later And he actually got through it took him like 30. Well, that's impressive yeah, it's the most impressive thing I've seen because this guy 220 pounds and he like Barely beat the cutoff like for this race. This race was was very difficult in Montana and Man like I'm thinking about that. I'm like, so basically where I'm at now my weight now is what he was at and He did it and IMan I know he was hurting so that that's like you don't see that you don't see guys over 200 pounds too much That's crazy, man yeah, and he's jacked like I Don't know How old is this guy? 40 40 man, that's even more impressive crazy, I When I said I hadn't met him I'd never met him until he was in Wyoming and I saw him and I'm like this guy's Huge like he's got to be like 6 to 220 super jacked and I Don't know he did it. So that also is like where you're like, okay if Sam can do it I gotta be able to do this But that's kind of the main thing other than that. I just want to get as strong as possible and be healthy Strong and be able to do distant stuff. That's crazy, man And IMean your strength drops off a cliff as does your physique and your muscle mass when you're like going that high mileage But I got it back pretty quick. It's been like 12 weeks now and it's come back real fast EverythinGHas rebounded so you can get it back quickly but obviously you take that temporary hit when you're really pushing for that goal and Now it's like all about being well-rounded like it'd be cool to be able to like knock out a half marathon even if it was kind of slow and Then deadlift like be able to deadlift 700 pounds bench 400 like those are kind of That'd be a good spot to be at for me where it's like I'm well-rounded 220 pounds body weight Good blood levels, you know Good biomarkers all that sort of stuff Well, I have no aspirations of running a marathon a half marathon or dead lifting 700 pounds. I Just need to look pretty. I Have more that to though like that's more of a goal nowadays where it's like the physique thing wasn't a focus for all those Years, I never did isolation movements It was all compound lifts based around like the big three squat bench and deadlift and nowadays I find myself doing tons of isolation work Really trying to get the physique as impressive as possible, too. So I relate to that It's just fun Yeah, it's a different. It's a different set of different set of goals. But IMean yours is more functional I do miss endurance stuff though. IMiss cycling. I'd like to get back to doing that at some point It's a it was a lot of fun. Do you ever get tempted to go back on anything? Does that does that creep in your mind sometimes? Not too much. IMean, I don't miss it. I just I don't miss pinning myself like it's felt like such a Sick at shore. It's like you gotta go do this, you know, and even when you're on a cruise and you're doing 250 a week it's like you still have to take that shot every week and I Don't really miss it. IMean it was really fun to be able to deadlift as much as I was and lift that much but Sleep suffers you get the sleep apnea gets worse all everything gets tougher I kind of like being well-rounded now and just having a little bit of everything even though it's not elite Yeah, IMean when I came off I honestly I didn't miss it until I don't know when I when I it's like I guess I went Shit 10 11 years without it and then didn't want to start it back up again Started getting stronger and seeing progress and I was just like, oh, yeah, here we go But then after the show like after I got my pro card, I just came off everything cold turkey for a little bit I'm just like I got tired of doing everything and then I'm kind of back on now, but it's It it does get old. I the pinning part is the part that gets old man. Yes That's the thing BeinGHeavy does kind of suck when you're heavier with the sleep apnea and whatnot. I'm hair under six to make six one I competed it to I think it was 250 on stage and then, you know, I'll go to 72 80 in the offseason and it's just like You know, you just can't breathe and everything sucks man. Yeah, it's fun filling on a shirt and you feel like you're you know Feel like this jacked person walking around but man like The practicality of it gets gets difficult. So I've been there Well, man, I got to wrap this up anything you want to promote anything you got you want to share with anybody? No, no, you can just IMean you can find me on YouTube P rubish fitness and That's the place to find me. So And you're on Instagram too, man. You get the following on Instagram as well. Well Pete. I appreciate you coming on man Thank you so much. This is this has been fun man. Awesome talking to you I love talking to people that are crazy and into extreme things Yes, sir, and now you're a dad. So you've got that on you on your plate, too That's that's its own its own thing. Yes, sir. I Great talking to you man. Thank you for coming on. Thanks. Bye for coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones fat loss muscle gain physique athletic performance nutrition and health for more information shoot me an email at big p3 rd at gmail.com