 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up, Jim Bros? Big Paul here with another Anabolic Q&A. This is where I answer your questions about trening, nutrition, and responsible performance enhancement, all while keeping you safe from the stupid shit you know your bros love to do. On today's episode, I have some great questions lined up for my school Anabolic Bodybuilding Members community. If you want to be a part of the community, I answer questions over there. I also have some free coursework and your questions are guaranteed to be answered on thEQ&A. Link is in the video description below. A few questions I have lined up today include, how does exogenous insulin make you fat and how to prevent fat gain while using insulin as a bodybuilder? Are there any potential downsides from running growth hormone hormone hormone hormone year-round? If two bodybuilders were beginning at age 25 and 45, what would be the differences between trening, PED use, and nutrition? After hearing about the recent inconsistencies in gear, are there places you can get it tested to be sure it's real? We'll dig into all thesEQuestions and several more in just a second. All right, before we start, hit that like button, subscribe, all that shit, you know what to do. And if you don't like my stuff, you can go fly a kite and suck on this. Anyway, I kid, I kid. I love the people that don't like the videos and also don't subscribe to my channel. But if you would please do so, I'd appreciate it. All right, first question I got up here is from Dave L. He goes, how do you typically use and dose BPC-157 for injury repair? And are there risk for running it long-term, possibly year-round? Okay, so let's, all right, so with BPC-157, I think people think it's the panacea of injury healing and injury repair, BPC-157, TB-500, GHK-Cu, you know, now people get the combos of them. You can get them, I think it's called GLOW that you can pick up from your favorite peptide provider. Can't mention names on YouTube, but the BPC-157 stands for Body Protection Compound 157. It is a peptide that's found in your gastric juices that is, that you, you know, how your stomach can heal from injuries, stomach, mouth, all these places in your GI heal from injuries faster than anywhere else on your body. Your body makes this, this, this compound, the, the peptide that heals ulcers and things like that. And it was figured out a while ago that if they synthesize it, that it helps heal up injuries faster. Now, it is great for healing up soft tissue. It's, it's been shown in studies to help with tendon and ligament, um, healing. It's been shown to help with muscle tears to speed things up, but it's not the panacea that everybody thinks it is. It's not going to work miracles. If you have a major fucking tendon tear, there's no amount of PRP, uh, no amount of stem cells or BPC-157. You can take the root parrot. Now, if you have, you know, things like tendonitis, tendonitis or a low grade tendinosis, uh, where the damage is not so bad, maybe it can help with some of the inflammation help with healing it. What it seems to be especially good at is muscle tears. Uh, I've seen it really speed up the healing from muscle tears. It seems to be really good at speeding up recovery time from surgical procedures. I've seen a lot of guys have fantastic progress recovering from surgical procedures with it. I paired with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone and some, some HRT growth hormone hormone hormone hormone and testosterone. It seems to, they seem to pair up very well. Um, now risk running it long-term. I would not run it long-term. I, I hear dudes talking about running it year round. I do not think that is a great idea. They say, I feel great when I'm on it. Well, it is a highly possible that you're just masking an underlying chronic injury. I found that out the hard way. You can ask me how I, I kept using it to get through my shoulder problems. And meanwhile, I was fucking my shoulder up even more. It can really cause more and more damage to my shoulder by using these things that were maskinGHow bad the injury really was. Also, I would be especially concerned if you have any history of cancer in your family. It's not that BPC causes, uh, causes cancer directly, but it could in theory contribute to acceleration of cancer growth hormone hormone hormone because of its promoting angiogenesis, which is the growth hormone hormone hormone of microvasculization, which is great for healing injuries and also fucking fantastic for growing tumors. So, and a lot of the shit we do in bodybuilding isn't the greatest for cancer growth hormone hormone hormone, you know, increased mTOR, lowered AMPK, all of these things that take the break off of accelerated growth hormone hormone hormone and increase hypertrophy can also increase the growth hormone hormone hormone of things that we don't want in our body. So the combination of GH and this high carbohydrate diets, all this stuff, probably not, not the greatest for preventing cancer, but it's just a concern that I would have. And really there's, there's no reason to run it year round. I, I just, I have also found after a while, it seems to just lose its effectiveness. It just doesn't seem to work as well after you pounded it for a while, but long story short, short runs six to eight weeks at most, I have a free BPC ebook up on my website. If you want to grab it and learn about dosing protocols, I usually dose it around 500 micrograms per day. I find that to be pretty effective. I do like to pair it up with TB-500. Uh, um, I don't know how much the GHK-Cu adds to the equation. I have heard some people talking about the GH, the combination of GHK-Cu, BPC-157, um, and the TB-500 that the GHK may ruin the BPC-157. I don't know for sure, but I heard somebody speculating on that. Maybe, maybe not. I I've run glow and I've had, it seems to work okay with me, but it's just something to be aware of that there is a potential there for that. Maybe it's just a bunch of bullshit, but I've heard people talk about that. But if you want to pick up the ebook, it's free over on my website, go to the free stuff section. I have a bunch of other shit up there too. Uh, I give a lot of stuff away for free. If you want to pick that up, uh, just use it in short runs. It's not going to work miracles and magically heal a major tendon tear. As I found out with my bicep tendon, it just continually got worse despite all of the treatments that I used growth hormone hormone hormone hormone, all, all the peptides. I tried everything and it just continually got worse because there was structural, actual structural damage that just wasn't going to get fixed without surgery. Surgery is always the last resort, but sometimes it is the only way to fix these problems that we have. All right. Next question here is from Marco and Marco asked, how does exogenous insulin actually make you fat? And what can you do to proactively avoid a fat gain while using it? Um, contrary to what people say, if used properly with a diet that's intelligent and well-structured, you can actually improve body composition and gain muscle while using insulin. And this is something that body boys figured out a long time ago. Uh, it's not your average gym bro approach to things. I would say if you're just a recreational gym bro, maybe insulin's not the right choice for you, but the problem is not so much that the insulin makes you fat. It's the poor diet that makes you fat macronutrient, uh, distribution to be specific. And really what insulin does is it turns on the signaling at the cellular level to uptake nutrients. That includes fat that includes, that includes glucose glycogen that includes amino acid uptake. And in our setting with a bodybuilding mindset in place where we're trying to improve performance in the gym and promote hypertrophy, we can leverage insulin with a low fat, high carbohydrate diet and moderate to higher protein diet to increase glycogen synthesis, increase the amount of protein synthesis that we have, increase amino acid uptake. All of these things that are important for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone. All of this in allows you to eat more carbohydrates. You, you, usually when you see guys eating a thousand grams plus carbohydrates, I remember seeing Jay Cutler doing that back in the day. And I'm like, how the fuck is this guy doing this and not getting fat? And I didn't know enough back then to know, to read between the lines that the way dudes do this or, or, uh, Dennis Wolf, I remember him doing something crazy, like a 2000, 2000 gram or 2,500 gram carb. I don't remember what it was over multiple days. It was crazy. And I'm like, how can somebody eat and actually process all that food? Well, it's, it's insulin. Uh, you're going to drive increased glycogen synthesis, especially when, while you're lifting weights, you pair that up with some volume trening where glute four trensport is increased. Milo Sarchev is kind of the grandfather of the old school insulin protocols. I do think there are better ways to use it than what he was doing, but clearly what he did worked. And he was the first guy to come up with this idea and figure it out that if you do a bunch of trening volume and you slam a bunch of carbohydrates and amino acids around the workout window that you fucking get bigger, it, it works. And you don't get fat at the same time. You have all these downstream metabolic effects that happen, increased IGF-1 conversion, increased nitrogen retention, increased, uh, amino acid uptake and increased glycogen synthesis, uh, lowered AMPK, increased mTOR, all of these, uh, all of these factors that come along with high carbohydrates, low fat and insulin use. Now the trade-off here is if you think about it logically, because of how insulin turns on storage signaling at the cellular level, if you're slamming a bunch of fats in your diet, which is what I see most bros do, they, they, they end up just getting fat. And so your, your typical bro, that's doing a HIIT style workout, low volume, eating ribeyes and smashing a, you know, potato and sticks of butter, all that stupid shit. They take insulin and then they wonder why they get fat. Well, no shit, motherfucker. You're not trening with enough volume to actually have the benefits of the increased glute four trensport and glycogen synthesis that you're going to get from the increased insulin use and carbohydrate intake. You're also eating way too much fat. And what do you, what do you think is going to happen when you're in a caloric surplus and you're eating excess fats while taking insulin, which is going to supercharge your fat storage. It's going to supercharge nutrient uptake. You're just going to end up in a state where you're going to just get fucking fat. And it's, it's more so not a problem with the insulin. It's how dudes tren. It's how their diets are structured and they're, they're idiots and how they put all this stuff together. I don't know why it had not occurred to most of these dumb motherfuckers that you can't eat a high fat diet and do minimal trening volume and reap the benefits of insulin. You'll see it all the time. Like the guys that say that insulin was useless. I didn't get anything from insulin where the dude's doing low volume. Well, no shit, it's useless because you're not actually reaping the benefits of, of, of the increased glute four trensport and all of the other things in your, your silly keto diet that you're doing. You know, look, if it works for you, I like poking fun at the keto and carnivore guys, but I do occasionally put people on low carb, high protein, higher fat diets. I think in certain applications it does work, but for a bodybuilder who is taking insulin and wants to get huge, have those big round full muscles, it's probably not the wisest approach for the fat dad that is trying to get in shape. Yeah, no, it's, it's, um, you know, that it's better than probably the shit diet that you were eating before. So, and you know, just some things to keep in mind with, with insulin. I like to strategically place it on high carbohydrate days in a carb cycling approach, because the issue you run into with it is if you're slamming it all the time, there are, I see bros that are also doing it every fucking day, all day long, every day. And then the problem you run into there is the more insulin you use, the more insulin resistant you become, and then you have to use even more insulin and then you make yourself diabetic. So that also can be an issue as well. So I like to strategically pick a couple of days a week where we push the carbohydrates really high. And I use insulin on those days to leverage the benefits from it. And IMake sure that my treninGHas sufficient volume to have the, reap the benefits of the increased glute forward trensport. I know Mila Sarchev does giant sets and things like that, but it's just more volume at the end of the day. Um, you know, and, and I like to, I do like to tren hard and heavy sometimes too, but you, you have to think that what your goals are with the insulin and how you're leveraging it during a fat loss phase, I stay away from insulin because when you are using insulin, it turns off lipolysis. You're shifted toward for away from fat burning to storage. Uh, so probably doesn't make sense in a diet phase. And also you should be in a caloric deficit. If you're using insulin in a caloric deficit, you're just going to end up making yourself hypo. I did use it sometimes on my high days when I was running a contest prep. And then you just get to a point in contest prep where you get so lean that glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent is so great that even on the high days, even slamming a thousand grams plus carbs, this tiniest little bit of insulin make me go hypo. So that's no good either. So these are all just things that we have to keep in mind when we're deploying insulin, but I think most people just completely use it wrong. That's why they get fat on it. They don't tren correctly. They don't eat their diet correctly. They take the wrong types of insulin. I've done a thousand videos about why and when to use certain types of insulin, you know, basal versus rapid versus medium acting. They all do different things. As far as we are concerned for performance enhancement, I'm not going to go into that now, but you can see some of my older videos for that. All right. Next question here is from Westside Aaron Westside ask, what's the most painful body part for you to tren? For me, it's hamstrings, specifically seated leg curls. The burn is so intense. It feels like the muscle might fail before the strength does. Have you experienced anything like that? Yeah, dude, for me, it's shoulders. I don't know why I've always gotten crazy shoulder pumps. My shoulders feel like they're on fire. And I remember back to being a kid. I grew up in the country. We, you know, we had, we did country things. We stacked hay. We, we, you know, had to split wood and things like that. And I remember my dad making me stack hay and split wood when I was a kid and my shoulders would be absolutely on fucking fire. Then I'd be complaining to my dad. I'm like, dad, I can't do this. I need a break. And my dad's answer would be don't be a pussy. That was his answer for everything growing up. And, and I didn't know what the hell was going on. I thought, I thought something was, I was hurting something. I thought I was hurting myself and I had no idea what I was feeling was the burn and pump from using my delts. It's probably why my delts have always grown easily. They're one of my body parts that seems to excel as far as getting bigger. And that's what I found is that dudes that have these body parts where you, it's easier to get a pump or a burn that they fail. You, you, you, you hit this pain threshold before you actually fail. Those are usually the party parts that grow the best for you. For whatever reason, I am dealt dominant. My delts kind of will take over and overpower everything, even on arm curls, even bench press. Like when I was doing bench press, my only thing that happened to me with doing flat barbell bench presses, my front delts just got absolutely massive. It was all front delts for me. And, you know, and same thing with pull downs. Like I noticed doing pull downs and barbell rows, my rear delts got massive. I guess it's a good problem to have because a lot of people have a hard time growing delts, but that for me, that's the body part that screams at me the most, that gives me the most pain when I'm trening. And I'm sure most people would not say deltoids is the muscle that gives them the screaming pain. But for me, it's delts. I think most people, it's legs. I can fuckinGHammer my legs and my legs don't, don't, you know, they, they, they burn, but they're not like, not like my delts. My delts seem to be the ones that yell at me the most. All right. Next question here is from Christopher E. He asked, are there any downsides to running growth hormone hormone hormone hormone year round? I'm following your cycle guide and planning 10 units per day on a bulk and five units on a cut and 10 units on a rebound and two units while cruising. Um, I ran growth hormone hormone hormone hormone continuously for like eight fucking years. I never stopped using it. Now I did up and lower the doses. Um, we can, we have a lot of data on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. I feel like I've beat this one into the ground and there's growth hormone hormone hormone hormonEQuestions on every episode, but growth hormone hormone hormone, growth hormone hormone hormone, a lot of misinformation out there about growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. If you go and look at the long-term clinical use data, the FDA has it available for Seristem. It's, it's out there. I'm sure for genotropin too, but Seristem is probably the most relevant one, um, because it's used in adults while, although while there are HIV patients, but most of these, these patients are also on testosterone therapy or hormone therapy and it's long-term use. These guys have been on this stuff for decades. Whereas like genotropin is mostly used in children with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone deficiency, short windows, um, six months, a year, whatever, however long they're on it. They're not used, but Seristem dosed in HIV patients is dosed at 18 units per day. And these guys are on the stuff for decades. So we have a lot of long-term use data and the single most common problem long-term, if you look at the clinical information to the two most, there, there were really three big problems that they saw long-term with it. But the, the, the biggest risk really is making yourself insulin resistant in developing type two diabetes from it is really the biggest downside that we need to manage with, with a carpal tunnel. There's long-term use can cause permanent carpal tunnel, the peripheral edema. Um, there, there is some, a risk of acromegaly long-term. IMean, I have definitely seen my hands have grown, uh, my big ass head. I've got the GH horns on my head. My nose has grown, although my father's got a fucking gigantic nose too. I don't know how much of that is, but it's the body parts that, that tend to grow and keep growing as you age can continue to grow. And I, I wouldn't say that I run a ton of GH. I did briefly try the chase irons protocol of 18 units a day. I lasted about 10 days on that tapped out, but typically my, my high end dose would be around nine or 10 units per day is where, where I just kind of fucking tap out. I can't go more than that. And a lot of times I've been running like four or five units a day. I would say this, I know you talked about your doses on the rebound. I would be cautious on the rebound. Uh, a lot of times I keep the doses a little lower on the rebound because of water retention can be a huge problem when you increase your carbohydrates. So just something to be mindful of, monitor water retention and see how it is on your diet phase. Typically water retention is not an issue. I usually use a little less. I think you have it sit on here to run a little less on the diet phase because really the main benefit that we're trying to get from GH is the increased IGF-1 and when calories are restricted, you're doing a bunch of cardio. AMPK is going to be up. MTOR is going to be down. Uh, IGF-1 signaling is going to be suppressed. Really at this point, it's just an expensive fat burner and anti-catabolic. So I don't see a reason to run high doses of it while you're, while you're, um, on a diet or contest prep. I run a little bit lower when I'm in those phases to be, to be honest with you. Uh, you mentioned my cycle cheat sheet. I guys, if you want to pick that up, I have all the cycles, how to do the year round blast and cruise method detailed on there, how to manage and mitigate side effects. I have also in their insulin protocols, all these other things that it's all simple, broed down, made simple. I even put pretty pictures in there for you cavemen who prefer pictures over, over words, when how to, how to put stuff together. So it is caveman proof. I literally wrote it like a Dr. Seuss book. So it's easy to digest. If you want the deep dive, we have also have the anabolic Z course that Kurt Havens and I did. That's sort of the, the 500 level course on, on, uh, on PEDs. If you want the basics that just, you just want to get to the nuts and bolts of the information, the cycle cheat sheet's 30 bucks. You can pick it up over on the website links in the video description below. All right. Next one is from the classical Joshua Perry. This is actually not a clown joke. Uh, this one's a funny one. I like this one or a good one. This is, this is not a funny one for a change. Josh asked, let's compare two bodybuilders, one starting at age 25 and one starting at age 45, both with a five-year plan. How would trening PED use and dietary strategies different between those two age groups? Um, not that, not that radically different. I would probably say as you get older, you just have to be more careful with everything. That's the big thing. A big difference. You can't mash the gas pedal down like you could when you're 25. IMean, I look back like fuck when I was 25, I go out drinking all night long, hammering tequila shots and sleep five hours, get up, go to the gym tren, go play a tackle football game with my friends at the park, go home, do it all over again, take Ganadrol while I'm drinking and everything was just fine. Uh, it was just fine. If I did that shit in my forties, I would have been in the fuckinGHospital. You just have to be more careful. You have to be more cautious with the PED use. Uh, you have to be more meticulous with the diet. I will tell you this, it's easier to get fat as you get older. You usually, when you pass that 40 barrier, it seems like fat gain just sort of creeps up on you. It's, it's really easy to gain fat at once, once you get past 40. So you have to be more meticulous with the diet. Fat loss becomes a little harder when you get a little bit older trening. You have to be more intelligent with your trening. I would say probably less use of the big three compound movements. You do still want to progress and use some sort of progressive overload. If you are a beginner trener, that is the foolproof method for growing, but you do have to be more cautious with exercise selection. I would say you have to really consider the risk versus reward ratio of selecting exercises. Is this exercise going to put me at risk of tendon or connective tissue in a jury? Whereas when you're 25, you can just fucking go balls out, you know, do deadlifts, squats, clens, whatever the fuck you want to do. But long-term, the plan's the same. You want to progress. You want, everything progresses. You want to progress your trening. You want to progress your food intake, slowly ramping up your food intake and increasing your capacity to eat more food. You want to turn yourself into a rice and meat eating machine over the period of time, get your metabolism nice and high. You want to put on lean tissue, not, not gain fat. With the PEDs, you want to use enough to get the job done, but not so much as to make you sick. I would say when you're younger, as far as PED use goes, guys can get away with using more orals and harsh shit like Tren. When you're older, you probably can't get away with that stuff. Like, I remember doing my, my test, Deca and D-ball cycles when I was in my twenties, or, you know, running Tren, high dose Tren, stupid shit like that. And even in my early thirties, I can't get away with that now. So I, it's, it's test primo GH for me now. That's about all I can fuckinGHandle at this point. And same thing with trening. Like I, I really only use machines at this point, occasionally dumbbells. I'll do some dumbbell presses. And even then I feel a little squirrelly doing dumbbell presses. I prefer machines. I think at this point, just for everything for the most part, but really just managing risk is going to be the biggest thing and keeping yourself in the gym. Because if you are 45 and you try to change tren, like you're 25, if you try to drug, like you're 25, when you're 45 and you end up making yourself sick and you end up injuring yourself, you're not going to progress. So you can't, as they say in the NFL, you can't make the club in the tub. Same thing with bodybuilding. You can't win a show if you're constantly hurt and sick. So that is going to be the biggest factor when you get older is you're really going to have to manage your recovery, your health, your, you know, health includes both tendon and connective tissue health and your, your metabolic and, and organ health as you age. That's another thing too. Like you can hammer a shit ton of food when you're younger and not really make yourself insulin resistant. And as you get older, you have to really be more meticulous with the food and pick and choose these periods of time where you can push the food up, but you can still make gains. IMean, you fuck, I had some of the best progress of my life from 45 to 50. You can look at it. I put on something like 50 or 60 pounds of stage weight during that time period, because I really got dialed in on making things as efficient as possible. I tried to look at the most efficient ways to tren, the most efficient ways to eat, the most efficient ways to use PEDs with all those considerations I put in mind, keeping yourself healthy, keep preventing injuries and, uh, you know, eating food that you can handle and not getting fat. Those are, those are really kind of my, my primary objectives. And I think it worked out pretty well. All right. Next question here is from Kevin G. Kevin asked, how important is exercise variation for hypertrophy? Many programs use six to seven exercises of the four to six sets each. Would it be detrimental to run only four exercises with more total sets per movement? Are there meaningful drawbacks? I travel frequently for work and in busy gyms often. So it's easier just to stick to a few pieces of equipment while getting all the reps in with quality pumps. IMean, yeah, you don't need to do 50 million different exercises. Some of the best bodybuilders of all time had very limited routines. IMean, look at Ronnie Coleman. IMean, the dude worked at, out at Metroflex gym and I, they don't have a lot of equipment there, man. It's just, it's just good old slag iron at Metroflex, man. Barbell, bench, deadlifts, dumbbells. Uh, they don't have a large collection of Atlantis, Panada, and, um, you know, Dorian Yates. IMean, he worked out in his dungeon, his little basement gym in the UK that was the size of my bedroom. Right. I don't know how many, I think he, Hammer Strength sent him a couple of pieces of equipment. He started incorporating those into his routine, but Dorian had a very simple routine. You look at his routine. Sometimes it's like one or two extra exercises per body part is all he did. And he was arguably one of the best bodybuilders of all time. The old school guys back in the 70s, there wasn't a lot of equipment at, at, at golds, cables, barbells, dumbbells. You know, they had a couple of Nautilus machines back then. Those guys all look great. So no, you don't need to do this thing. And this whole thing about exercise confusion and all this stuff to make the muscle grow. I don't buy into all that bullshit. You just progress your lifts, lift hard, lift with intent. That's all that really matters. And ultimately it's mechanical tension that drives hypertrophy. It's not exercise variation. So exercise variation is really meaningless when it comes to hypertrophy. Like I said, it's, it's all about mechanical tension. And if the muscle is progressively in experiencing more mechanical tension, then there's going to be an adaptation and a corresponding amount of hypertrophy associated with that adaptation. So it's really a simple formula. I have pretty much done the same workout for the last eight years. I've switched out an exercise here and there. Sometimes an exercise just goes stale. Or if you're using a machine, you end up maxing the machine out, or you just kind of get to the point where you're not progressing on that machine anymore. Or it just, or maybe it doesn't feel right. Like you're, you don't really feel it in the target muscle. Like there's been some times where I've done some critical evaluation on an exercise. I'm like, am I really feeling this in the muscle I'm trying to work? Or was I feeling it better on machine X versus Y? And I'll go back to machine X if that's the, the, what I experienced. Look, my, my gym, man, we have so much fucking equipment. We have, it's an overwhelming amount of equipment and more there's, I probably have used about 10% of the actual equipment in our gym. It's just, it's like being a kid in a candy store. I just picked a few things that I find. I like to experiment and try different things every once in while. But like if, for example, we have a couple different leg curl machines and there's certain ones I like better than the other ones. And I just stick with that one machine that I like better than the others that I feel more mechanical tension in my hamstring. So I stick with that machine. So no, you don't need to do all that. Literally you could do the same. You could probably do one exercise per body, body part and grow. IMean, that's essentially what I think Dorian maybe did too. I don't want to go to extremes, but, and he got quite big and had a very balanced physique. So you don't need to do that. It's all about getting the most out of what you do, not how much you do. All right. Next question here is from Richie N. What's an appropriate rate, rate of weight gain for an intermediate to enhanced lifter during an offseason growth hormone hormone hormone phase to minimize fat gain without leaving progress on the table? I've used this example a million times, but I'm going to toss it out there again. We know what the upper limits are of muscle gain. We have pretty good idea on it and you can look at it. I would say 10 to 15 pounds a year of actual stage weight is sort of the upper limits of what now you're going to have some years that you're going to break through and have bigger gains. That just happens. It's not linear, but you, you will see it. And usually the more advanced you get, the less you gain. Nick Walker is the example I used a million times. And I think Nick gained something like a hundred pounds over like an eight year period of time. And he averaged like 12 pounds a year. Now, granted, you know, it could be year one, he gained 25 pounds and it was 15. And it was 10, that it was eight, that it was five, it was three. That that's typically how it goes. It declines as you get more advanced, but I'd say for an intermediate to advanced lifter, if you can put on five to 10 pounds of real tissue in a year, real solid stage weight in a year, that, that is excellent. Now, how much do you gain in your offseason, your bulking phase? That really just depends on body composition. I don't get hyper focused on the scale. I really guys get really obsessed with the scale. A lot of times what ends up happening on bulking phases. When you get obsessed with the scale, you end up just making yourself fat on a cutting phase. When you get obsessed with the scale, you just end up making yourself emaciated. So both times that, that, that can really get in the way of things. Now the scale is important. It is an important piece of measurement that we can use when we are formulating our algorithm for what success looks like. I use the scale in combination with gym progress in combination with the check-in picks and how body composition is looking. So if we have an increase in gym performance, if we have an increase in weight on the scale and we have no noticeable or appreciable change in body composition, then we know that the likely outcome is that you gain some lean tissue. Also in the offseason, we have to factor in water gain, compound choices have an effect on that. A lot of times guys will, will put on 20, 30, 40 pounds in their offseason. And then they end up with a net of maybe five or 10 pounds of additional stage weight when they get it all off. A lot of that's water weight. You'll see guys like I saw Derek Lunsford this past year. I don't know how far out he was from the Olympia, like 10 weeks out from the Olympia. And he looked like a fucking water balloon. Like, like how the hell is this guy going to be ready for the show? And yet they pull it together because a lot of it, when you're bigger and you're slamming a shit ton of carbs, you're just going to retain more fluid. That's just how it goes. That's part of the bargain that you make when you're a big dude slamming a bunch of food and yada, yada, yada. IMean, it's just, that's just how it, how, how it goes when you're, when you're a big, big dude. And you know, if you're running deep ball and 18 units of Sarah's Tim and doing all the crazy shit, the bodybuilders do a lot of that weight gain is just going to be water, which is necessary. Sometimes there are guys that get paranoid about the water gain in the offseason. There are those dudes too. I'm one of them. I don't like being big and fluffy and bloated looking. I fuckinGHate it. My face gets fat. I even, even though I, even when I have, IMean, my face is a little round right now, even though I still have abs, it's that's the crazy thing is, but it's the water retention. I seem to hold the water in my fucking face for whatever reason. I think a lot of guys do. They get that fucking moon face when they're in their offseason. So don't get too obsessed with the scale. If you can net out by the time you cut down and you're, whether or not you're a competitor or not, but when you cut down, if you can net out five to 10 pounds in a year, that is a significant amount of weight gain. And if you want to play around with it, there's these new AI tools out now. Some of my clients have been using where you can go and have it add 10 pounds of muscle to you. People are shocked when they realize how much 10 pounds of muscle changes your look. Like they have no idea. They guys get disappointed with a five pound weight gain. Think about what five pounds of steak looks like in your shopping cart. That is a lot of lean tissue, man. If you add that to your body in a year, five, five pounds of fucking steak, there's a lot of lean tissue. And people get disappointed with those results. Bodybuilding is the ultimate grind, man. You just have to stay patient. You have to stay consistent. You have to be willing to make small incremental daily changes. I remember Dorian Yates saying one brick at a time, you're just putting one more brick in your foundation and in your house, building your house every day. And you have to look at it that, that way. When you go from day to day, that one brick doesn't look like anything. It doesn't look like you made any progress, but over time you eventually end up building a castle. All right. Next question here. I think this is how you say it. My friend, Heli Arts, he's Dutch. I think the J sounds like an H if I remember right. He asked, in your experience, how common are thyroid issues among PED users? What symptoms and blood markers point towards hypothyroidism? And what's the recommended course of action when markers are off? I almost never see hypothyroidism in men. It just doesn't exist in men. Very, very, very, very, very rarely in my long time coaching. I probably looked at a thousand blood panels last year. I can only think of maybe one or two. I saw where somebody had low T3 and high TSH and had no, had an issue. And it's almost always at the end of a hard diet. Sometimes guys will need a replacement dose of T3 and then usually it bounces right back. Now, women, that's a different story. I've seen quite a few women, not that I consult with that many women currently. I've been dealing with more and more lately, but women tend to be more prone to thyroid issues, especially after large periods of caloric restriction and women tend to, their thyroids tend to be more fragile than, than men. Men seem to just rebound right away. If anything, I see the opposite in men, especially dudes that are using growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. They end up in a situation where they have high T3 uptake. They have increased T3 and low T4. Basically the metabolism just starts to spin out of control, especially as you throw more carbohydrates at it. It seems to even put more fuel on the fire as you go up. I've experienced it myself when I increase my HGH doses, my metabolism just starts to rev up and I'll, I get, my thyroid goes crazy high sometimes. And sometimes you'll see T4 depletion. I don't get too worried about T4. Guys worry about supplementing T4. You have to remember the T4 is at the top of the funnel. It's an active thyroid. It's the substrate that's, that your body uses that to, it metabolizes it into T3. And as long as T3 is okay, that that's fine. TSH, um, sometimes I'll see in, in, when guys that have hypothyroidism, sometimes I'll see that be skewed, but I rarely ever, you can see it. The most common thing that I see is low T4, high T3 uptake. T3 uptake is just the amount of cellular demand for T3. And when you take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone, it upregulates that signaling. I don't remember the exact enzymes that cause it. I wrote an article about it at some point, but, and researched it, but what ends up happening is there's more cellular demand for T3. Your body converts more T4 into T3 and your metabolism speeds up. It's one of the beautiful things about growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. It's why guys, there's many reasons why it also shifts you to lipolysis, but it's also why guys can take a shit ton of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone and it's kind of hard to get fat when you're taking a bunch of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. It's pretty easy to make yourself insulin resistant, but it's kind of hard to get fat when you're taking a bunch of growth hormone hormone hormone hormones. So I really do not see hypothyroidism in men. It's occasionally, I do see it in women. Very rarely at the end of a hard diet, I will see it in men, but almost always it's the exact opposite. It's hyperthyroidism, depleted T4, high T3 uptake. That's the most common thing I see in its result of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. Usually, treng can do it too, but it's most likely growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. Everybody takes growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. I wouldn't say everybody, but probably two out of three people that take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone end up with low T4 and high T3 uptake. All right, last but not least, this is from William P. from the School Antibody Bodybuilding Members Community. If you want to join, you can get your questions answered on thEQ&A. William asks, is it absolutely necessary to take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone fasted or at least two hours after eating? I usually finish my last meal around 7 30 to 8 p.m. and try to be in bed by 9. If I can't take it always two hours, am I losing any meaningful benefits? No, dude, you're fine. I would, you know, eat your meal at 7 30 or 8, take your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone shot right before you go to bed at 9. It takes two to three hours for it to peak. So it's really going to be three to four hours after your last meal before it actually peaks. The issue that you run into when you're taking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone in the presence of carbohydrates is that it shifts your body to lipolysis. And in that state, you can end up with high glucose levels because you have this temporary shift to lipid metabolism away from glucose metabolism. Glucose levels can rise. If you eat a lot of carbohydrates long-term, this can lead to insulin resistance and diabetic-like symptoms from taking GH. And that's why in the clinical setting, they administer it at night before bed, because it's going to be the longest period of the day when you're going to be fasted. So, and that shift of lipolysis lasts for about six to eight hours. So really you could take it during the day if you're eating a low carbohydrate diet. I know a lot of the old school bros split their doses up through the day. They just force the issue with insulin when their glucose levels get high. But the problem you run into there is the more insulin you use, the more insulin resistance you cause. And it's just this downward spiral where guys will long-term make themselves diabetic from this. And it doesn't affect everybody that way. When I looked at the Serostim clinical data, the trials, I think it was something like one in five people reported some rise in glucose levels when taking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. But the easiest way to prevent that is just to take it at night while you're in your longest fasted state. If you're really concerned about it, like if you notice your fasting glucose levels are high or your glucose levels stay high throughout the night, you can make your last meal a zero carb meal. You could split the dosing up to every other day dosing. That's something they did in the clinical trials of Serostim. And it's actually recommended in the prescribing information for people that have issues with water retention. And increased glucose levels, they suggested that people go to every other day dosing. And most of them saw a reduction in the symptoms without much loss and benefit from going to every other day dosing. I've been playing with that myself lately. And I've noticed that my glucose levels stay a lot lower when I go to every other day dosing. And if you're one of the idiots that are splitting it up and taking iT4 times a day, as I've seen some people recommend, a lot of times you end up havinGHigh glucose levels and having to take insulin to deal with it. And like I said, it's just a downward spiral into diabetes from there. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. I hope you enjoyed it. I appreciate each and every one of you, you motherfuckers that rock, especially those that made it all the way to the end of this episode. That was a lot. I love all of you. See you on the next one.