 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today with my post show rebound update. This is week five. Five weeks post show. Sorry, I didn't have a post up last week. I actually took some time off and did a short little vacation with my girlfriend and just unplugged for a few days. So that's why I didn't post last weekend. So that's why I didn't post last weekend. Um, it's also why I haven't been posting as much lately because I just got a lot going on. But, uh, I will get back into my regular cycle of posting videos. So things will be back up. I had several people ask me why I didn't, um, have a, uh, update last week. But I'm back on track now and I will continue to be on track. Uh, everything was great this week. I don't know, not a whole lot to report. We'll dig into it. Um, but you know, the, the rebound's going well. I, you know, I don't know that I'm having the crazy rebound that I did last year, but I didn't expect that to happen again. That was kind of like a once in a lifetime kind of thing. Uh, but anyway, we're going to dig into it in just one second. All right. So where am I at currently? Uh, my weight really hasn't changed much over the last couple of weeks. My fasted weight is 257. My daytime walking around weight. I'm at weight myself at the gym the other night. Um, it's like 266, 265. I'm always like somewhere between eight and 10 pounds heavier at night than I am in the morning. So I'm almost back up to my offseason weight. Uh, I think it was like 270 when I started prep somewhere around there, 270, 275. Um, fasted. So in five weeks, I'm almost completely back up to my offseason weight. And I feel like the weight I put back on has been pretty quality. Um, uh, blood pressure is 125 over 80 ish is where it's been. It's been up a little bit, but that, you know, that's to be expected with the rapid weight gain that I've had. Uh, fasted glucose has been fine. It's definitely settled back in after my first week or so of the electrolyte imbalance causing, um, causing issues, the hyponatremia. Um, I just had a little bit, uh, the sleep is still fucking shitty. Um, I, I've been, I've been trying like hell to get a CPAP. I've been trying to do it the right way. I thought I found a place online. I saw a video Chase Irons had up of a place he suggested that you order it. I ordered it. They want a prescription, so they won't send it to me. Um, I don't know how he got one without a prescription, but he must've just gotten lucky. No such luck for me. Um, I called my doctor. I had a prescription for a CPAP many, many, many years ago. I tossed, I stopped using it and got rid of it because I just, I fucking hated it. But, um, I'm going to try it again. And I just asked him to just write me a new one. Nope, he won't do it. Um, what, what, what's me to do a new fucking sleep study and go into the hospital and do the fucking overnight sleep study. I don't, I don't want to go through all that bullshit. Um, I found a place online that sends you a kit. They'll do a home sleep study. So, um, I think I'm going to do that. So as of right now, I still don't have a fucking CPAP. My sleep sucks. I've, I've been snoring and waking up multiple times a night. Uh, my, my Apple watch, which I don't have one right now, tells me my sleep sucks. Um, so, um, I, that's not going to get fixed until I get a fucking CPAP. It is goddamn ridiculous that we live in a free country and I can't fucking buy a CPAP machine. Just don't even get me started. It's just utterly ridiculous. The hoops that you have to jump through to get a fucking CPAP machine so I can sleep. Um, it's, it's all about making money. Really. I'm, I'm on a rant now, but it's just, they're just these artificial, artificial paywalls. So, you know, the hospital makes money. The insurance company makes money. Everybody's fucking making money. It's thousands of dollars when I could have just order a fucking machine and be done with it. Um, somebody was telling me that I need the doctor to set it up properly. No, no, you don't. The new machines are, they fucking run on autopilot. Uh, they sense where you're at and they, the doctor doesn't do shit. So it's just an artificial paywall. Anyway, end of rant. Training has been great. My strength is going up. Doctors suck. Nothing else has changed there. Uh, progress picks. This is where I'm at right now. Um, I'm still fairly lean. I'm definitely bloated up. Um, you know, you can still see cuts in my legs. I still have my abs. Um, you know, I, I, I'd say considering that I put on, you know, you know, daytime weight, almost, you know, 30 pounds from stage weight five weeks ago, I'd say overall I look pretty good. I'm not going to be able to do it with where I'm at right now. Um, I, I will admit my diet has not been perfect. I've had a couple slip ups. Um, when I traveled out of town with my girlfriend this weekend, I did not follow a structured diet. Um, if anything, I probably didn't eat enough food. That's why my weight, um, hasn't gone up. Uh, I, and the food that I did eat wasn't the greatest. So, um, you know, that's a problem when you get to a certain size, uh, you just burn through fucking calories. And then when I eat shitty food, I don't feel like eating. It upsets my stomach. You know, I wouldn't even say shitty. It's just like normal people food. I think when we went out to dinner, what did I have the one night? Um, I had a hamburger and fries. That's what I had. And, um, you know, and then they had some chips and guacamole for appetizer and I eat that and then it upset my stomach. And then I didn't feel like eating. Um, and the next night we went out and I had steak frites. Um, but I did have a dessert with it. I ate a brownie Sunday that upset my stomach. So the dairy, and then I don't feel like eating the next morning. So I didn't eat that much. Uh, so that's the cycle you get into when you start eating regular people food, you eat regular people food, you feel like shit. Then you don't want to eat your next meal. And then I ended up eating three meals instead of my six. And that's what happens when you go on vacation. So I didn't want to be the asshole to pack my food with me. So, and that's usually what I tell my clients. They're like, what should I do when I go on vacation vacation? Like just enjoy your vacation. Go with your girlfriend, your wife, your partner, whatever. Eat what eat, whatever. Don't worry about training. We'll get back to it when you get back. That, that, that little breaks, not going to kill you. I'm not one of these people that has to go 365 days a year. Um, you know, even if I were a pro, I don't even think I would do that. You know, so you have to balance that with your social life and making the people that you love happy. Um, you can see here, this is the side and rear picks. I usually, the, the back is where I carry my fat. You can see I'm carrying a little bit of lower back fat. Um, my hamstrings are still pretty tight. I still have some cuts in my glutes just a little bit. Um, you can see my serratus and everything from the side, you know, I'm, I'm, you know, softer, but not, not stage ready, but I think I look pretty decent right now, considering this is transitioning into offseason mode. Uh, the rebound diet. I just got my diet fresh off the press from Justin. Um, he said, this is about as high as we can push food. Um, he's worried about me actually losing my appetite, which I'll be honest with you. I'm like, what? Eating is my superpower. I feel like I can just eat and eat and eat. Um, but right now I'm on the cusp of losing my, my appetite. So he said, we'll let my appetite dictate what we can do. Um, I want to start a cruise here in a couple of weeks. So we'll, we'll definitely pull the food back during the cruise. But for right now I'm continuing to push the fruit, the food. Um, my load eggs right now are 405 grams of carbs and 330 protein. Um, 72, um, you know, 72 added, this is added fat. So it's, it says it's somewhere around 3,500 calories, but really it's probably 4,000 if you count the, the meat, the meat that's in the, uh, the, the food. So, or I mean the, the fat that's in the meat. So, uh, yeah, it's probably more like, more like 4,000 calories. Oh, my load egg. Um, my medium days right now is 350 grams of protein. Um, 635 grams of carbs. That's more than what some of my clients high days are. A lot of my clients high days. That's my medium day. And, uh, 40 grams of added fat. Um, so right now I'm at 3,940. Uh, so they're probably around 5,000 calories to be honest with you on, on my medium days. Um, if you factor in the, the fat from the food, from the meat and then my high days, which I have three of a week and with a cheat meal at the end of the day, I'll be honest with you right now, I'm getting to the point where I'm so full by the end of that high day. I don't even really want the cheat meal. Um, it's brilliant putting the cheat meal at the end of the high day, the last meal of the high day, because you're so damn full. Even when you do cheat, you don't eat a shit ton of food. You don't binge, which I think is what a lot of people do on cheat meals. Um, so it saves me from binging, uh, uh, which I usually don't do anyway, but right, right now my high days are around 5,200 calories. Really. It's probably closer to 6,000 with the cheat meal. Uh, we're doing a thousand grams of carbs, 290 grams of protein. It's a pretty robust, uh, high day and three of those a week. So I am eating a shit ton of food right now. Um, this is probably the most I've eaten in a long time. Um, and my body seems to be responding to it pretty well. I'm staying lean with the three cheat meals. I don't know. I, I, you know, we'll see, we'll see how it goes. We'll, we'll adjust, but right now I feel like I'm just burning through the calories and added on quality size. Uh, current PEDs. This is my rebound cycle. I'm kind of getting towards the end of it. Um, 175 milligrams of test every other day, 100 milligrams of MPP every other day, 10 milligrams of tamoxifen every other day. Um, the reason the tamoxifen is in there is because MPP tends to flare up the little bit of gyno that I have on my right, under my right nipple that everybody likes to point out. This is, it looks like I have a deformed nipple. Uh, but it seems to keep that, that gyno calm. Um, six units of GH every day, a thousand milligrams of metformin per day, 1500 milligrams of berberine, 80 milligrams of telmosartin. Um, humalog on the high days as needed. I let my blood sugar dictate what, how much humalog I need or if I need any at all. I have a video up on insulin. Um, my insulin protocol, if people always ask me what my insulin protocol is, search it. I have two videos up on insulin, uh, on my insulin protocol. I'll call you there. They're there. I take 25 units of Lannis pre-bed every day. That's just for my basal insulin replacement. And then I supplement that with the humalog on the high days. Usually my high day humalog use is pretty mild, mild, mild. It's like five units, you know, meals one, three and five. So it's something like an additional 15 units. Um, I had some dude tell me that I was using too much insulin. Um, and that he's a diabetic. He doesn't use that much insulin. He's probably also not eating as many carbs as I am. So it's relative. If I was taking too much insulin, I would be going hypoglycemic. I am not going hypoglycemic. That's how you know you're taking too much insulin is if you go hypo. So, so I wanted to clarify that one. Rebound cycle plans. Uh, I got one more week and then I'll start my tapering and my cruise. So the cruise starts mid August and goes through mid, um, goes through mid, um, September. So we'll, we'll finish up sometime in September and then it's transition into the offseason blast, which is when the fun will happen. So training right now, I am not pushing, I'm playing around with my training. I talked about this before, just experimenting right now. I am trying to push up my strength a bit, keeping the volume kind of at a medium level. Um, I don't know, I'm trying to think how many sets I'm doing per, per body part, per workout, something like, I don't know, between seven, eight, probably seven sets per body part per workout. So something like 14, 15 sets per body part per week, which is not my peak volume. Usually I'll get up between 20 and 25 per week per body part. Um, some body parts more, some less. Um, but right now I am trying to progress my strength within reason. I don't want to get sloppy with my form, but, uh, strength has been increasing. And then as I transition into the offseason, I'll get more focused on increasing volume versus the strength. So this is kind of a strength, not a, you know, not, not a true progressive overload block, but I am progressing the strength within the higher volume platform. Um, cardio, uh, it's supposed to be 15 minutes of hit three times per week. I haven't been doing it the way I'm supposed to. Although I've been walking a lot. I've been doing a ton of walking. Um, so I haven't really been doing the hit cardio. So it's not like I'm not doing cardio. I walked a shit ton, you know, this weekend. I mean, I think I, one day I had 18,000 steps. So, um, there's, there's, there's been a lot of walking. Uh, coaches feedback. Uh, he wants me to continue to be aggressive with the food and the training. And listen to the hunger feedback. That's pretty much it. Um, my plans right now, pushing the, uh, continue pushing the loads up. We talked about that. Being aggressive with the food and the training for right now. Um, trying to get that fucking CPAP machine. It's still a goddamn pain in the ass. Here I go. I'm going to start on a rant again. I'll stop myself. All right. Fuck doctors. That's that. We'll just leave it at that. Um, greedy bastards. Um, that know everything and what, what to tell you how you live your life and that they need to be in control of everything. So fuck them. Um, other than that, not much else. And then transition into the offseason. As long as my house stays fine and then do a 20 week offseason blast. Another cruise 16 week contest prep and then masters nationals next year and see how I stack up against the best in the country. We'll know where I'm at then. Um, if I, if, if I have any hope of competing. So I think I do. We'll see. Um, anyway, guys, that's all I got. Thank you for watching. I appreciate each and every one of you. Take care for coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at big P three R D at gmail.com.