 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today. I am going to talk about week three of my post contest rebound phase. Things are rocking and rolling, weight is rocketing up, training's been awesome. I feel great. This is, I don't know if I'm going to have the same kind of rebound I had last year, but I'm trying to do the best that I can and we'll see what happens. We're going to get into it in just one second. All right. So, three weeks post show. Um, my fasted weight was 256, almost 257 this morning. So I'm up eight pounds from last week when I did the check in with you guys. I was up 10 pounds from my check in with my coach, but that was post high day. Yesterday was a low day. So don't weigh as much, but overall I am up about 25 pounds, 23 pounds. I don't know, something like that from my fasted weight show day. Um, so, uh, strong weight gain so far. I feel like my body composition has stayed fairly well. Um, diet has been mostly on point this weekend. It kind of fucked up. I traveled. Even big Paul makes errors on his diet. I was perfect through the entire contest prep, but this weekend I traveled with my kids to an amusement park. And it's not like you can carry your fucking cooler around with you at the amusement park and eat chicken breast and rice. After riding a roller coaster, it just doesn't fucking work. It was 90 degrees out. I didn't feel like eating. It was too damn hot. And I probably would have puked if I had ridden roller coaster and then, and then, uh, you know, slam some beef and rice afterwards. So I just took some beef jerky and granola bars with me and just kind of munched on that throughout the day. And I was so goddamn hungry by the end of the day. Uh, when we were on our way back, I just ate fast food. And next morning I eat Cracker Barrel for breakfast and then we were back at it again. So it was kind of a shit weekend for eating. I definitely didn't eat enough and the food I did eat was shit food. Um, and anytime I eat shit food, it just messes my stomach up for a few days afterwards. I was back on the diet on Monday. So this week, um, was fine, but next week I'm traveling again. Um, so next weekend, I don't know what the fuck I'm going to do. Um, it's impossible to, when you're traveling, at least I have found, I don't travel a lot. I I'm a homebody. I'm an introvert. So I pretty much hide my house when I'm not lifting weights. And so it makes it really easy to stay on a meal plan. Uh, but I, you know, I'm going out of town with my girlfriend for a couple of days. Um, and so I don't know how the hell I'm going to do the food, um, thing. So I'll just do my best. Uh, usually when I travel, you know, if I'm doing a vacation, I just kind of put the diet on hold for a little bit. It's not, not the end of the world. Um, and just try to eat clean ish as best you can. So that's kind of what I do. Um, uh, all my health markers have seemed to return to normal. My blood pressure was down to normal ranges and the glucose levels were back down to normal ranges. Um, sleep has still been shitty. Um, I talked to everybody last week about how I needed a CPAP. I went on the quest to get a CPAP this week and what a fucking pain in the ass that is here in the U S. Uh, it's so stupid. So fucking dumb. What you have to go through to get a goddamn CPAP here in the U S. Um, uh, you know, there's all these artificial hoops in, I want you to come in and do a sleep study and then you have to pay a bunch of fucking money. Um, so dumb. I know I need one. I told the doctor I needed one. Can you just prescribe me one? And no, they, they won't just prescribe you one. So, so dumb. They want you to jump through all these hoops to make money. Essentially is what it is. You can't just buy one, which is insane to me that it's illegal to buy a goddamn CPAP. How, how is it illegal here in this, in supposedly the freest country in the world to buy a fucking CPAP machine? Utterly ridiculous. So, um, I, I just, you know, I said, screw it. I'm not, I'm not going through all this bullshit and dealing with a doctor. I found a used one. Um, I ordered it. Um, it should be on its way and I'm, I'm just going to forego the doctor on this, you know, and there's probably gonna be some medical professionals listening to this saying, oh, you need a doctor to get a CPAP machine. The fucking things run on autopilot. Now they use an algorithm that measures your, your breathing and automatically adjust everything based on your breathing. I don't know why I need a doctor to tell me that I need one. I know I need one. Um, so, so stupid. It's not like the doctor sitting here monitoring me, using it in my house. Um, some of them do send reports to the doctors, but still, it's not a live thing. I don't need somebody to hold my hand. It's just a money making scheme at the end of the day is what it boils down to. Anyway, end of rant about CPAPs. Our medical system is so fucked up here in the U.S. that you have to pay for every goddamn thing. Um, and jump through paywalls and you can't even do things for yourself to, to help, help your health. It's no wonder bodybuilders don't want to go to doctors. That's all I gotta say. Um, so CPAP is ordered. Uh, the sleep avenue has still been pretty shitty. Training has been awesome. My, my strength has just been going through the roof. I, I, I'm like blown, you know, not that I trained for strength, but my, my weights just keep going up. You know, what I did for 12 reps last week, I'm adding 10 pounds to this week. I mean, it just keeps going up and up and up and up and I'm already past where I did last offseason. I mean, my blown past where my, um, numbers were last offseason when I, when I was training. So that's been great. Uh, progress picks. This is what I look at like right now at plus 23 pounds or whatever I am from the show. You know, I'm a little puffy, but overall I think I'm holding together pretty well. Lakes have got a little more water on them than they did last week, but, um, overall I'm, I'm not too bad. I'm not too bloated. Uh, things seem to be settling in nicely. My hope is, is to go in this offseason and keep, keep things as tight, pretty, pretty tight. Um, you know, you can still see my intercostals. I still got a couple little cuts of my glute. You can see from my backside, I'm holding some water and a little bit, a little bit of fat. That's usually where I pick it up. I don't have the Christmas tree anymore on my back. But overall, I'm happy where I'm at. Uh, diet, uh, Justin pushed the food up again this week. Um, he said he wants to be aggressive with the food and the real food. Um, so we are being aggressive. Uh, I have on my low days, I'm eating 316 grams of carbs and 84 grams of added fat. That is crazy on a low day. I only do one low day a week, but still that's pretty crazy. Um, so we're talking about, let's see 26. So like 3,500 calories on a low day. And that's not counted the fat that's actually in the meat and stuff that you eat. So it's probably closer to 4,000 calories. Um, high day, we are going up to 350 or medium day. Sorry. We're going up to 350 grams of protein as well on the medium and low days. Uh, 620 grams of carbs on my medium days. That's what most people eat on their high days. Um, and 40 grams of added fat. So you were looking at, uh, 3,800. So about probably realistically, this is probably closer to 5,000 calories by the time you factor in the added fats in the, uh, I mean the incidental fats that are in the protein sources. Um, and then the high day, we are doing 1,000 grams of carbs. Uh, there's a cheat meal at the end of that day. So we're talking about 5,200. With the cheat meal, I'm probably closer to 6,000, 6,500 calories on that day. With a thousand grams of carbs, that is a good day. I've been taking full advantage of the cheat meals too. I need to clean them up a little bit. I mean, I, you know, you guys know what I do for cheat meals. It's usually a steak and a potato or, or I went the other night, I went to a silver diner because my daughter likes that God awful place. Um, and I had the, the chicken dinner, which was, or not chicken dinner. I'm sorry. The turkey dinner, which is a roasted turkey with mashed potatoes and vegetables. Um, I had a bowl of turkey chili with it. And then I got a piece of chocolate cake for dessert. So ideally I should drop the dessert. I shouldn't be having the dessert. I've been getting desserts with my cheat meals. Um, but my cheat meals are always pretty clean. Like the other night I went to Texas roadhouse. I had a steak, plain baked potato and I dumped some of their, a cup of their chili on the baked potato. That's a cheat meal for me. And then there I got, um, what did I get there? Brownie Sunday. I think it was, or no apple pie and with some ice cream, a scoop of ice cream. So I ideally I should dump the dessert. It serves no physique purpose. Um, current PDs. I am on my rebound cycle, which is about half 60% of what my total blast numbers are. I'm doing 175 milligrams of test every other day, a hundred milligrams of MPP. Um, I dropped the XMS stain. Um, uh, the, that was the plan is to get off the antiestrogens. I don't run antiestrogens. I'm sorry. I don't run aromatase inhibitors that we clarify in the offseason. I'm doing 10 milligrams of tamoxifen every other day. The only reason I'm doing that is because I have a little piece of gyno. As you can see in my chest, everybody, some assholes like to point out, it looks like I have a nipple that's bigger than the others. It's, it's from the other, it's from the gyno. There's a little piece of gyno under there that pushes it out. And that kind of tends to flare up if I don't use tamoxifen when I'm using MPP. So I just need a little bit of tamoxifen in there to handle that. Um, and I don't use the anti aromatase inhibitor. Sorry, because I don't want to crush my lipids. Um, six units of GH every day. That's, that's generic GH. People always ask me if that's generic or pharma grade. I've tested both and I've found no difference between the two, to be honest with you. Uh, thousand milligrams of metformin per day, 1500 milligrams of berberine per day. I do 500 milligrams of berberine at meal one, three and five. And then I take the thousand milligrams of berberine at my last meal before bed. 80 milligrams of telmosartin to deal with the blood pressure. Um, and humalog on high days as needed. I don't need a whole bunch, just a couple of units at meals one, three and five. And then I up the Lantus to 25 units pre bed. Somebody told me I had some dudes say, I'm type one diabetic. That's too much Lantus. I'm like, dude, if it's too much fucking Lantus, I'd be going hypo. You know, believe me, insulin lets you know when you take too much of it because you go hypo. Um, and if you actually look at their website, you plug in the numbers on their goddamn website. And my weight, that's what I'm supposed to be using. That is their recommended dose. So I don't know what to tell you, dude. Uh, fat burners. I dropped all the fat burners. Um, they are completely out now. Now we've completely tapered off of them. Um, rebound cycle plans. Uh, I mean, I've outlined this before eight weeks, rebound cycle tapering into a six week cruise of 250 milligrams of test. And then I'll get my health, get a physical done within the six week cruise. Make sure I'm okay. If I'm okay, then I'm going to blast for about 20 weeks. Um, healthy recovery. I got my blood work back. Uh, I'll be honest with you. My blood work was surprisingly good. I was shocked. My blood work was trashed last year after my contest prep. Um, I think the glutathione IV and running NAC and TUDCA throughout the whole thing, running lower doses of trend, using less orals, all that made a huge, huge difference. I used less toxic compounds. I did more proactive things to protect my health through supplementation. And I didn't die as extreme. I mean, my lipids were perfect. Really? I, I mean, I don't know how much, you know, as good as they can get one being on PEDs. My liver enzymes were just a little bit elevated, but I mean, that's just the cost of doing business when you're using PEDs. I mean, they were 10, 15 points over where they're supposed to be. I've had my ALT and AST be up to like 300 before. Um, uh, my eGFR was fine. Kidneys looked fine. Hematocrit was fine. I never get to have a high hematocrit though. I know a lot of guys struggle with high hematocrit. It's just never an issue for me. Um, my sodium was a tad low and my calcium was a tad low, which we knew from the electrolyte imbalance after the show. It's probably fine now. I would suspect since everything seems to have leveled back out. Um, but you know, no surprises there either, but everything else was good. It was, it was, it was shocking. So it just goes to show you that you can do contest prep and do it safely. If you're smart, you know, not pounding a gram of fucking trend and taking 300 milligrams of orals every day. Uh, training. I am going kind of with a mid medium volume training and trying to push up my, my loads. Same, same, same deals before same split. Push, pull, push legs, pull, push legs, pull off is a split that I'm using right now. It is sort of an RP style program. Um, uh, rep scheme, nothing to failure, as you guys know, probably one to two reps in reserve right now. I don't know. Somebody asked me how many reps in reserve. I'm like, I don't know. I just stopped short of failure. You know, if I feel like the, my form is about ready to fall apart or, you know, it's just unproductive to do more. I stopped, um, 10 to 12 reps on compound movements, 15 on isolations. Um, right now cardio is 15 minutes of hit three times per week. I'll be honest. I haven't been the best about doing the cardio like I'm supposed to be going, but I've been walking a lot with things. I mean, I fuck, I walked 17,000 steps in one day to amusement park the other day. So I would say that's, that's enough. Um, I talked to Justin. He said he wants to be aggressive or emailed with him. He wants to be aggressive with the food. Um, my plan of thoughts, I am pushing, I'm doing a little bit different with the training on the rebound since my strength seems to be going up. I'm riding that wave right now, keeping my volume kind of at mid level somewhere between. minimum or minimum effective volume and maximum recoverable volume, kind of like mid middle of that. And then rather than ramping up the, uh, the volume every week, I've been ramping up the loads. I want to get my loads up and then I'll start pushing up volume when I get into my, um, when I get into my hypertrophy phase, my offseason hypertrophy phase. I'm being aggressive with the food as you've seen, uh, being aggressive with the training. Um, see, my pain in the ass CPAP is hopefully on the way. We'll see. Um, guy said he didn't need any proof. So I guess, you know, when you're buying off the secondary market, you don't have to verify this shit. I don't know. So once again, so fucking dumb that you have to have a doctor so you can buy a goddamn CPAP machine. And you have to go through all these hoops, just artificial barriers. So dumb. Anyway, guys, that's all I got for you today. You get to hear my rant about the medical profession. Take care, dudes. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you. Thank you.