WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey folks, Big Paul here, and I've got a little treat for you. This is a clip from the most recent livEQ&A that Kurt Havens and I did for the anabolics e-course. This question was about the post-show rebound strategy. I talk about my strategy for post-show, and Kurt chimes in with his two cents on it and how he handles it with his clients. And this is a example of what we cover in the course. We have an hour long one this month from our Q&A. It's up on the anabolics course. If you already have a subscription, you can go watch it. It'll be uploaded tonight along with this video. You can go check it out. There's also the June one that's up. We do one of these once a month. If you want to subscribe to the anabolics course, there's a link in the video description below. I have 20% off coupon that's going to be available for the next week to celebrate my IFBB Pro card win. Just type in IFBB at checkout for 20% off. Enjoy this clip. Thank you. So let's see here. Scott, I am competing September 2nd. Would you guys go over the steps to get the most out of the post-show rebound? Do you want to talk about this one or do you want me to take it? Sure, whatever. Well, you can go back and forth if you want. IMean, I think the biggest question is, are you done for the season or are you doing another show? Because that's going to change. I'm guessing by rebound, you mean you're done. Typically, what I would have guys do is- I think he's talking about like kind of like Justin's thing where you have that six to eight week window post-show where you can gain a bunch of weight. Again, IMean, just in a generic sense because I don't know the person, I would say I normally have guys pull tests and injectables a week out. Typically, I'd have guys then inject some tests the night of after they get off stage or the next day just to kind of feel better. I'd probably leave the doses lower just enough to get your androline load back to a normal level. I don't go nutty with the food. I would have a guy have one, maybe two nice meals and then go right back to the macros that they had four to six weeks out depending on how the prep went and then titrate it up. I have a guy that just came off Nationals. He was with you. He was in Classic and that's what I'm doing. So this coming week now, we're going to start bringinGHis food back up. But he's just on tests now. It's very debatable. The data doesn't really support a huge amount of muscle gain after a show. There's a lot of fluid retention and glycogen. The human body though tends to want to cause hyperplasia of fat cells if you overeat after a strict diet for survival. So you just run the risk of doubling your fat cells if you really blow it out. I've seen some crazy, I tell you what, Justin is really aggressive in that phase. He puts a lot of food back in quickly. There's a couple arguments for it and there's a couple arguments against it. I've gotten a little more conservative with it because I've seen it go both ways. I've seen some guys really fuck themselves up post-show. I kind of test it out coming out of the show, test the water a little bit and see where they're at rather than go aggressive. Justin, what he'll do, man, he throws five high days in a row right at you. And his argument is, and this is a compelling argument, that ghrelin is going to be high and most people just don't have the mental fortitude to get through that phase without eating some shitty food. And his argument is if we fill you up on chicken and rice that you're not going to go binge on pizza and donuts. Got it. No, it's very valid. That was just, I tend to be more conservative with the food after. Yeah, and I have stopped doing that, Curt, and even I'll tell you why. Because I've seen some people have crazy fucking water rebounds post-show, like their electrolytes are all out of whack. And I've seen dudes, even if when they eat clen and push the food really hard the week after, I've seen guys gain 20, 30 pounds in water sometimes. Yeah, and part of my reasoning too is I don't typically bump the anabolics back up like high immediately after because you're coming out of probably the worst phase for your health. Yeah. And you don't, in my opinion, you don't want to go back on two grams a gear, three grams a gear. So if you don't have the anabolic support and you push food real high, where's the composition going to go? That's kind of my thought. And I like to keep guys leaner. I feel like, look how well you did this year because you never got out of shape. Like you would have when I saw you in whatever that was, March. Yeah, I weighed five pounds less on stage than I did at the start of prep. Yeah, so there you go. I'll tell you though, with the gear, I know there are a lot of coaches that pull people off and go straight to a cruise. I do think that's a mistake. That's a mistake too. I'm just saying a normal amount of tests. Here's what I have been doing and maybe it's right or maybe it's wrong. What I'll do is do about half the total load of what I did on the prep. That makes sense. And I dump all of the, I'll dump all of the shitty stuff like Trin, any of the orals. And usually what I'll do is just run tests and whatever the primary anabolic is. So like for right now, like with me, I'm taking three test shots, three primo shots a week. So it's 900 tests, 600 primos where I'm at right now. That's 1500 milligrams. I know it sounds like a lot, but that's half my total load when it was at the end of prep. And then I taper off the fat burners over a two to three week period of time. I don't pull the fat burners out cold turkey. And you also have to be careful with yanking the AI right after show. People have massive estrogen rebound and they just set you up for water retention and rapid fat gain. No, I'm with, I agree with all that. That's my, I just, I just tend to be more conservative with the food part of it. But I go right back to some sort of gear, just nothing crazy. Yeah. And I've been a little more conservative with the food. Like I, I, well, one, IMight, might do another show, but right now I'm running, I'm running my diet. Basically it's just sort of, um, I would say a baseline diet, or I, I'm, I think I'm probably even still in a little bit of a deficit with the diet that I'm running right now. I'm actually down a little bit from my show. Your metabolism is still cooking. So, yeah, IMean, so, but with my clients, what I'll do is I'll have them run. I give them say show Saturday. I say, go out and get a dinner, eat whatever the fuck you want, have breakfast or whatever with your family on Sunday. And then we get back on, on a diet Monday. I usually, what I'll do is have them run two high days and then check in with me. We'll see where they're at. If they don't have any rapid water gain, IMight get a little more aggressive with the food. If they're up like 10, 15 pounds from the show, I pull it down, man, right away. I don't, I don't fuck around with it. I have them check in with me twice a week for the first couple of weeks, and then we get back into a regular routine. I got a guy right now. He's a little disappointed because he couldn't be aggressive with this green rebound because he had just all this crazy water gain, but we just kind of have to let the body dictate what's going on. That's the way I do it. You really can't have a one-sized fits all approach to it. Okay. Sorry for the long rambling response to that, but that's sort of my, my approach to it. All right, folks, I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, the scientific principles of anabolics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below.