 warnin, aromasin,ithmetic, aromasin,ithmetic, aromasin,ithmetic, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin. Warning. Warning. Warning. Warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by. First. Detachment. Nutrition. Battle. Test. Expert. Formulated. Use. Discount. Code. A.B. 10. What's. Up. Jim. Bro. Big. Big. Here. A.B. A.B. I haven't done a training video in a while and I used to geek out on training all the time. I was constantly making up programs and trying different programs and believe you me, I have done everything you can imagine from HIIT training to DC training to high volume training to German high volume training to Renaissance periodization. I have tried them all. And this is a power building program that I used to run that I got a lot of success out of. I will tell you, I will forewarn you about power building. It will beat you up. If you're young, if your joints are healthy, this might be a good program for you. It's a great way to increase strength and increase size. I don't know that it's the most optimal thing for pure body building and physique enhancement purposes. But if you want to be big, ugly and strong, this is a program for you. It will focus on traditional progressive overload principles. It is more of a HIIT style program. It is push pull legs. And we're going to dig into all that in just one second. All right, Jim bros. So this is an old school power building program. You're going to get strong. You're going to put on some size with this. I ran this style of program all throughout my 20s and early 30s. I did DC training for a good bit of the time and then I switched to sort of this style of training, which is a hybrid of DC. Probably more volume than when you would have in a DC training. There's not all the rest pauses and stuff like this. I also did this when I first came back to the gym in my mid 40s and I quickly discovered that my joints and connective tissue cannot handle this style of training like I could when I was in my 20s. So, be forewarned you old guys. If you want to try it out, do it at your own risk. It is going to beat you up. Now you young dudes, if you want to get strong and nasty, this is the way to go. It is a traditional progressive overload program. We are going to be focusing on smashing the log book every time we go into the gym. So you do need to log your workouts. I will tell you that. You, this was a, this is a DC training principle that I cannot emphasize enough for you young guys that you need to be smashing the log book. You need to be progressing your weights, progressing your reps in beating that log book every week. And that is the surest indicator of making progress in this style of program. So the typically the way it works, you're going to have a prescribed rep range on your PR sets. There are going to be certain exercises, typically compound movements that you are going to strive to progress from week to week. And on those exercises, you're going to have a prescribed rep range. Let's say for example, five to eight reps. It's going to be heavy. That's typically what we're going to do on our big compound movements. And each week you're going to try to progress in some form. So this week you might be doing five reps on your bench press at 225 pounds. Next week you might be doing six reps. The following week you might be doing seven. And then you hit eight. And when you hit eight, you add another five pounds to the bar. Dante Trudell used to always say that the two and a half pound plate was your best friend in the gym. So the two and a half pound plate is what we're going to use to incrementally progress the weights as we move up the scale with the weight challenge here. Two and a half pound plate. That's all you need to do. So let's say you progress your bench press five pounds every month. That would theoretically be 60 pounds in a year. That is tremendous progress. Most people don't progress their bench that much a year. So that's probably an unrealistic expectation. But this is progressive overload. This is beating a log book. This is doing that style of program. So let's talk about exercise form for this progressive overload power building style program. Form is critically important here, guys. I can't stress that enough. Form is critically important. People get obsessed with beating the log book. Sometimes they will compromise form to increase those weights. They'll cheat. They'll bounce the weight. They'll use less range of motion. Whatever the case may be, you just got better at cheating. You didn't get better at moving the weights. You didn't improve. So we want to actually improve. We don't want to get better at cheating. I see tons of dudes in the gym, usually young guys, that are heaving around weights, that they have no business to be heaving around, and it's because they have gotten obsessed with beating their previous workouts. We want to progress with good form. Now what good form looks like in this program? It is slow and controlled negatives. Something like two to three seconds on your negative. And explosive positives. Full range of motion. No bouncing. No cheating. No swinging. No heaving the weight. That does not help us. All you're doing when you do that is you're putting more stress on connective tissue and increasing the chance of injury. We're not really doing anything to place additional load on the muscle. We do, however, want to get stronger, but we want to do it within the context of good form and keeping the load on the muscle. Otherwise, we're not growing. Otherwise, we're not actually becoming any better. Like I said, you just got better at cheating. Deloads with this program. Deloads are going to be critically important if you're going to do this style of training. I did not do deloads when I was younger. I trained balls to the wall 365 days of the year and then I kept getting myself hurt. I've had multiple surgeries from injuries that I've had. And deloads will save you from those injuries in theory. I like to have a programmed end deload. A lot of times people will wait until they feel like they need a deload. And often if you're to that point where you're so beat up, you feel like you need a deload. It's too late. And most of us have gotten adjusted and acclimated ourselves to pushing ourselves through pain and putting up with pain when we're in the gym. I literally trained on a torn ACL for two months. I have been training bench press and overhead presses and tricep extensions for 10 years and just recently realized that I have no UCL ligament in my elbow. That's why my elbow hurts. I at some point ruptured my UCL and did not even know that I did it. I just pushed through the pain. Don't let pain in how you feel be a guidepost for when you need a deload. You program them in. In the old school, uh, DC training, Dante had them programmed in every four to five weeks or so. I don't recall the exact number, but I feel like you can push things out to five or six weeks, but somewhere around that five to six week mark, you're going to want to back off and take a deload. During that deload, we're going to pull our weights back. Usually somewhere around 60% of our full load that we are using during our blast sessions. And you can even back down the amount of training sessions that you're doing per week. You may want to go down to something like three sessions in a week for the deload. Some guys even take an entire week off from the gym. I have not found that to be productive. Personally, I feel like that just sets me back. I feel like I get more out of active recovery, actually getting into the gym, getting some blood flowing through the muscle, maybe increasing my rep ranges and using lighter weights, just increasing volume and getting blood moving to the muscle. And that alone seems to improve recovery in my opinion. So how the workout split works with this setup. I do push legs pull. I know some people do PPL push pull legs. I sandwich legs in the middle. So we're not running upper body on back to back training days. That gives us a break. So what I'll do day one would be push day two would be legs. Then we'll have an off day and then we'll do our pool workout and then have another off day. So you're never doing upper body on consecutive workouts. You're going to have at least one day, sometimes two days break between upper body workouts. You can also add a second rest day after you finish the complete push legs pull rotation. If you feel like you're fully recovered, you can go back in and just get it in again. So you can do the go through the rotation, put two off days in, or you can do a single off day. I used to do a single off day and I felt like I could get away with it most of the time. Some people have an impaired ability to recover from workouts might need a little more time. If you're natural, a little bit older, or you just have some miles under your belt, you may need an extra day. Or if you just push things too hard, you may need an extra, you may need an extra day in there. Just listen to your body. Your body will tell you what you need. If you go back in to work out again and you're still sore from your previous workout, you need another day to recover. So if you push things and you do the one rest day between the cycle, you essentially end up working out everything twice in a 10 day period of time. I'm going to have a free copy of this program up on my website. If you want to download it, all you need to do is give up your email address. I promise not to spam you too much. Whenever I do send out emails, it's usually pertinent information. It'll be an article or about a program that I have coming out. I try to limit the marketing stuff to absolute minimum. I'm not going to spam you. So I feel like the price of an email address is not much to ask for me putting this document out there for you to have. So if you want it, you can download it from my website. I'll put a link in the video description below. So the way the workouts are structured, there'll be a legend on the workout program I'll show here. Red indicates a PR set. This is a set that we're going to go to absolute failure and try to progress from week to week. This is our progressive overload set. Black sets are not going to go to failure. These are more focusing on feeling the muscle, mind muscle connection, pump sets, whatever you want to call them. There's also going to be purple sets in there, which are super sets. Those are also just pump metabolic work as well. And they're going to be blue sets, which are our warmup sets. We're going to use those to get everything loose before we progress into our workout. Additional warmup sets. As far as they go, you won't need a whole lot on your big compound movements. You're probably going to need to pyramid up to your maximum weight. So for example, if you're squatting 405 pounds, you're not going to just go straight to the 405 and put that on the bar. You're going to work your way up to it. So usually how I would do a warmup would be maybe eight reps with 135, something like five reps with 225. And then maybe just like a couple, two or three reps with 315. And then I'll do my working set with 405. I don't want to expend a ton of energy on the warmup sets, but it's just enough to get me loose. Get my mind ready for the sets. Have a neurological connection with the weight. Getting things ready to go to perform on the actual working set. On some of the auxiliary exercises like flies and dumbbell lateral raises and crap like that, you probably don't even need to warm up at all. You can just jump straight into your working set. Long story short for the warmup sets, just do what you feel like you need to do to be ready to do your optimal working set. That's all you need. Don't overthink it. In regards to rest periods between sets, you don't need a ton of rest, but just listen to your body. I see these guys in the gym that are have their stopwatch out and are, you know, measuring how much time they're taking between sets. I don't get that anal with it. I feel like that does not really add any value or growth. So things like that that don't add any value or growth to your workout. I just don't even bother with doing. So measuring the time between sets is more than likely a wasted effort. Just don't do it. Just go when you feel ready. Your body will tell you when you're ready to do an optimal set. I would say wait long enough to where you can get the maximum rep range, but don't go so long that you're getting cold. So the workouts themselves, we are going to split them in A and B workouts. This is sort of a DC method. Actually on the original DC training, I believe it was split into A, blast and cruise workouts. So you would have three different workouts with three different exercises. You are going to progress. Mainly here. We are going to do it just so we can hit body parts from different angles and focus on different body parts through different workouts. So we're going to have an A and a B split on every body part. The push A workout is going to be focused on lower pecs and side delts. The legs A workout is going to be focused on quads. Primarily, they're going to be some hamstring work and calves in there as well. Your pull A workout is going to be focused on back thickness, which means we're going to concentrate on rowing movements. The push B workout is going to be focused on upper pecs and rear delts. The legs B workout is going to be focused on adductors and glutes and hamstrings primarily. And the pull B workout is going to be focused on back width, which is primarily going to be pull down movements. So the push A workout, which is lower pecs and side delts. We are going to start off with a warm up of the pecs machine. The machine, it's the one with the arms that extend straight out in front of you. I think hammer strength makes, it's not the one that goes like this. It's the one where your arms are straight out in front of you. We are going to do front pecs flies and we're going to do rear flies for our delts. Mainly, it's just to get our shoulders warmed up, get our shoulder joint loosened up. It's 20 reps both ways, three sets. Don't overthink it. Don't feel like you have to progress it. This is purely just to get your shoulders loosened up. Don't put a ton of weight on it. It's just to get things moving. Our first PR progressive overload set is going to be flat barbell bench press. I will give you the warning. Flat barbell bench press is where I have seen most of the catastrophic injuries in the gym that I've seen with bodybuilders. I don't do flat bench presses anymore. To me, they're not worth the risk. But if you're a young guy, you can certainly go at them. You could sub this out for flat dumbbell bench if you want, but this is a flat barbell press that we have in here that's going to be our PR set. So what we're going to do, we're going to go through our warm ups. We're going to work up to our PR set, which is in a five to eight rep range. And just like we described earlier, we're going to progress the weights or progress the reps from week to week. And as we hit our target top end of the rep range, then we add more weight to the bar, usually five pounds. After that, you're going to have a back offset, which is primarily focused on form. This is usually somewhere between 50 and 60% of your working set. You're going to focus on squeezing and really feeling the muscle on this one. That's going to be in about the 12 rep range. And then we finish off chest with flat dumbbell bench presses. Super set it with cable flies, high to low cable flies. Where you're moving the cables from the high position down to the low position, focusing on your lower pecs. This is mainly just for pump and blood flow, metabolic work, I guess you would call it. But this is really, you really want to focus on squeezing the muscle and feeling it. You could sub out the dumbbell bench press for machine presses if you want, like a hammer strength press or something like that. You don't necessarily have to use the exercises described here. You can sub in your own exercises. Then we move on to shoulders. We do front barbell presses for shoulders, shoulder presses. I stay away from military presses, behind the neck presses. I've seen so many people screw up their rotator cuffs and labrums on behind the neck, shoulder presses. I just don't think the juice is worth the squeeze. So I wouldn't do them. That's my two cents. But this is going to be a PR set as well, just like the bench press. So we're going to go in the five to eight rep range, have a back offset of about 12 reps where we focus on form. Once again, the back offset is 50 to 60% of your working set rep reps or weight, sorry, 50 to 60% of your working set weight. And then we're going to do a super set of lateral raises and upright rows for our metabolic work for shoulders. For triceps, we're going to finish the workout off with a skull crushers and then some dips. Now, if you're a bigger dude or a newbie, you may need to use the dip machine. You may not be able to do body weight dips. For some guys that are super strong, you may need weighted dips. But regardless, we want these in the 12 to 15 rep range. Whatever you have to do to make that work, whether you use weighted or assisted dips, that's cool. You can use a dip machine. That's cool as well. Regardless, when we do triceps, we want to hit them from both angles. We want an overhead extension and we want a push down style extension. So we're hitting both ends of the tricep. Moving on, we have our legs A workout here, which is going to be quad focused. I usually warm up with the adductor, abductor machine and that just gets everything loose. My hips get tight and I think a lot of guys can't squat deeply because their hips are tight. So this will help get your hips and your adductors opened up and loosened up. That'll help with squat depth when you go to do squats. I also like to do my hamstrings before I do squats. I have found that my squats, for whatever reason, are more powerful when I do hamstrings first. I feel like that maybe you get your hamstrings engaged more, get them loosened up. But I like doing hamstrings before I do squats and I've heard other guys mention that as well. So here it's just four sets of lying leg curls. Really, you can use any leg curl you want somewhere in the 12 to 15 rep range for these. Next, we're going to move on to our PR set with our squats. Once again, you're going to want to warm up as much as necessary to get you up to your working set. So the heavier your squats are, probably the more warm up sets that you're going to need to get you ready for your heavy working set. This is going to be in the five to eight rep range for your working set. I will tell you once again, this is something that drives me nuts with squats. I see dudes in the gym all the time doing three quarter squats and doing three quarter movements with leg movements all around the gym. It's always a dude with the pencil legs that are doing the three quarter movements on legs. Now, I'm not saying you have to put your butt cheeks on your ankles. Some people don't have that sort of range of motion, but you got to be at least hitting parallel and should be getting below parallel. I've had two ACL replacements and I'm almost 50 years old and I can get below parallel. So there's no reason why a young guy shouldn't be getting below parallel on their leg movements. And you don't have to set the world record for leg press or squats. I mean, seriously, this is bodybuilding. You know, we do want to progress, but get your ass as deep as you possibly can on your squats. This would be followed by the back offset, of course. And then we get into our metabolic work here, which is going to be standing lunges superset with leg extensions. I'm telling you, this will absolutely torch your quads. If you can't feel a quad pump after this, I don't know what to tell you. And the leg extensions are another exercise where I see dudes using way too much weight. I see it all the time at my gym. It's always the dudes with the pencil legs that are piling every plate on the plate loaded leg extension machine or using the whole stack on the machine that has the selector stack on it. It just drives me nuts. You do not need that much weight on a leg extension. If you cannot fully extend your leg and get a squeeze in your quad, you're using way too much weight. You should be able to pause it at the top of the extension and get a good squeeze. If you're not doing that, then you're using way too much weight. Remember, our PRs are going to be on our heavy squats, our heavy working set. That's the set that we're going to do progressive overload on. And then finally, moving on to calves. Calves are another exercise where I see dudes using way too much weight. And it's always the dudes that don't have any calves that use the most weight. It never fails. Every freaking time, it's the dudes that have the pencil calves that are loading every machine on the calf raise machine. You don't need to do that. Just use a light weight. Do 20 to 25 reps. Dante Trudeau had this calf raise methodology that he had. You want to look it up. I'm sure there's somebody that has a YouTube video up about it somewhere. Where you would have this really slow negative movement and you got to the top and you squeeze. And then at the bottom of the movement, you would push your heels to the floor and get a calf stretch. Full range of motion, light weight, 20 to 25 reps. That's the best thing to make your calves grow. We're not trying to set PRs on calf raises. After that, we're going to have an off day and then we are going to move on to our pull workout, which is going to be back thickness focus. This is going to be the pull a workout. And once again, the thickness workouts are going to be primarily focused on rowing movements. Back seems to be the one area that I see a lot of guys struggle on progressing. It is a lacking body part on most amateur bodybuilders. They just don't know how to train or activate back. And it's usually because crap form on rowing movements or they just make poor choices on rowing movements. I see a lot of guys get focused on these silly ass one arm rowing movements where you're not using any weight. You're using the cable stack and they just don't do crap. If you want a big back, you got to move some heavy weight around. It's just what I've seen. You got to move some heavy weight around with heavy barbell rows. I've never seen anything that will grow your back like heavy barbell rows or heavy dumbbell rows. Now, once again, you got to make sure you're actually activating your lats and activating your back when you do it. I see a lot of dudes that just row with their arms, but you have to think about pulling with your elbows. If you want to check it out, John Meadows has some videos up. God rest your soul. But John has some great videos up about using your elbows to pull with when doing back movements and how to activate your lats. Check it out. It's a really, really, really good video on how to have proper back form. So, on the Pool A day, I like the warm up with some pullovers. You could do machine or dumbbell pullovers. I kind of like the dumbbell pullovers for warm ups. I don't like them for active sets, but I like them for warm ups because they get you a really, really good stretch. We're just trying to stretch out the shoulder girdle here and just get some range of motion going before we move into our exercises. I like to start off with barbell rows after that. Heavy ass barbell rows with good form. You know, you can be explosive on the positive and control the negative. You can do them overhanded or underhanded. There are two options. I know Dorian Yates used to do underhanded rows. I will say this, that the underhand rows, I believe, at least this is my belief, that they carry a higher risk of bicep tears. I think maybe that's what Dorian Torres bicep won. Don't quote me on that, but I have heard of people tearing their biceps on barbell rows, doing them underhanded. Same thing with deadlifts doing the over under grip. I've seen guys tear biceps on deadlifts doing the over under grip. So with the barbell rows, we are going to do a heavy balls out set of five to eight reps and then a back offset where we'll tighten our form up a little bit and then go to the 12 reps. With the barbell rows, you can get a little sloppy with the barbell rows. You can heave those a little bit and get some stuff out of them as long as you're contracting with your back. We'll follow that up with conventional deadlifts. I like to do my rows before deadlifts, so I'm sort of pre-exhausting my upper back and getting, you know, so the deadlifts end up being more back thickness focused. And with deadlifts, you really can't go to absolute failure on deadlifts because form breaks down before failure happens, usually on deadlifts. And if you try to push deadlifts too far, you end up getting hurt. So for me, failure on deadlifts is where form starts to break down. But deadlifts, we're going to do a PR set on deadlifts. No back offset on deadlifts. I feel like high rep deadlifts are just asking for a lower back injury. So we have to be mindful of our lower back. But if you want those thick spinal erector muscles, you need to do some deadlifts, especially early on. I think as you progress in your bodybuilding journey that you can drop the deadlifts. Deadlifts seem to be a high risk for injury and also kind of give guys that tree trunk waste. I know a lot of men's physique and classic physique guys now are not doing deadlifts. I have dropped deadlifts from my routine, but I used to do a lot of deadlifts when I was younger. Mainly now for me, it's at an advanced age. I don't want to risk a back injury at this point. After deadlifts, usually I just rip out a couple quick sets of barbell shrugs. This is another thing that guys get stupid on barbell shrugs and try to set the world record and do way too much weight. You don't need a ton of weight on barbell shrugs. Just pop a couple plates off your deadlift. You already got the bar there and just do some barbell shrugs with the bar. I like to finish off my back thickness workouts with seated cable rows. They're one of my favorite back exercises, although you can never seem to get on them at the gym. Everybody is on the damn cable rows. But I find cable rows to be really, really good exercise to finish off your back with. This is going to be a great back thickness workout. After that, we have our biceps. I mean, really with biceps, you can pick up any exercise that you like. If we're going to do an old school program, you're probably going to want to do barbells and dumbbells. So usually like easy bar curls. I don't like straight bar curls. They really seem to put a lot of tension on the tendons in your elbow. And it just, I don't get much out of them. I like the easy bar curls and then dumbbell curls with those as well. Hammer curls specifically, because they hit, I believe it's the brachialis. I always get those two mixed up, but I like hammer curls to finish off my bicep workout with. Keep the wrap range in 12, the 12 to 15 wrap range. When guys try to move the weights up higher on bicep stuff, you end up not working your biceps. I see the young dudes in the gym heaving around the 50 pound dumbbells with 13 inch arms. It never makes any sense to me. I mean, you're just, why are you fooling yourself? You're not bigger than me. I'm over there curling the 35s and you're 165 pounds using the 50s. You're not, your arms aren't bigger than mine. I don't know who you're trying to fool, but use a moderate amount of weight. Really focus on the squeeze on the bicep exercises. And then we finish off the workout with some abs. I like doing weighted ab exercises. I'll tell you, I see it on the amateur bodybuilding scene all the time at amateur shows. A lot of dudes don't have developed abs and either they just don't train abs or I think, this is what I think is that guys get obsessed with doing crunches and leg raises, which don't add really any meat to the ab muscle. You know, it's great for endurance or whatever, but I feel like with the abs, if you want those thick, chunky abs that stand out on stage, you got to train them with some resistance. I use like, I'll do cable crunches or I'll use the hammer strength ab machine and load the plates up and do some weight with the abs. Now, I'm not saying you have to get insane with it, but I feel like some added resistance to ab exercises help with your ab development. So we've completed our first loop through the routine. We've done our, uh, a split. And then here's where we take a day off, maybe two days. If you're a person that has impaired recovery or you just need an extra day off, you can do two days off here. I used to squeeze it in after one day off. I have never had much problem with recovery. I also probably ignore it. So who knows? But we go to our B splits after this. All right, I'm not going to go into too much detail on the B splits, but primarily where they differ is we are focusing on different parts of the muscle. So on the B split for the push day, we are going to focus on upper chest, which means we are going to add in incline movements. We are going to the same deal. We're going to have, uh, or in our incline presses, we are going to have our PR set and then our back offset. We then, uh, superset incline DBs with low to high. I emphasize that low to high. So moving up on the cable flies. I always like to have some sort of dumbbell shoulder press in there, even if we're focusing on rear delts primarily on this day. So we'll throw in a dumbbell shoulder press in here for our shoulder press movement. Same deal. PR set with a back offset. And then we're going to move into our rear, um, rear delt exercises, which for the rear delts, I like to do rear, uh, lateral raises. You can do them with bent with dumbbells, or you can use a machine for those superset those with face pulls. I do my face pulls a little bit differently. I use them to focus primarily on rear delts. I think I have some videos up somewhere showing how to do that, but I can record another video at some point to show you how to do that. And then the same deal with triceps. Again, we'll finish off with a tricep workout with some sort of overhead extension and then some sort of pressing, uh, press down movement. So on this day, I have French presses overhead with the dumbbell and then a cable press down. Moving on to our leg B workout, which is going to be adductor and primarily glute focused. Same deal again. We start off with our adductor, abductor machine to get our hips loosened up. And then we move on to hamstrings. I like supersetting the stiff legged dumbbells, deadlifts with the leg curls. You'll notice that on this second loop through, we don't do deadlifts. We only do deadlifts every barbell deadlifts, every other workout. So we are not running deadlifts back to back with our, um, with our stiff legged deadlifts. So we never want to run those back to back. So I alternate weeks, but with the stiff legged deadlifts, I use the dumbbells, not barbell for stiff legged deadlifts. And I'll tell you the reason I do that. And I think this is a mistake that a lot of guys make is that you can't get deep enough to get a good stretch in your hamstrings when you're using the barbell. But I just don't think you can get enough extension with the barbell deadlifts. And they're clumsy in the position in which you have to hold them. I just don't think there's enough range of motion there to be effective with stiff legged deadlifts with the barbell. I prefer the dumbbell for stiff legged deadlifts. Those are going to be super set with some sort of leg curl. You can pick any leg curl you like. It doesn't really matter at 15 reps, but these are just pump sets. For our PR movement, we are going to do high and wide leg press. I'll be honest, I'd debate it whether even to make this a PR movement or not, because I see so many dudes at the gym that are trying to set the world record on leg press by loading every damn plate in the gym on the leg press and trying to impress somebody. I know they're not impressing me, but I don't know who they're trying to impress. You know, maybe some girl or a potential girlfriend. I don't know, but it's utterly idiotic the stuff that I see that goes on on the leg press machine. So don't get overly focused on adding more plates. Now you should progress the leg press where you can. On these high and wide leg presses, you want your feet up at the very top of the platform on the leg press with your feet angled out wide. We're going to use that for our adductors, glutes, and hamstrings. This is going to shift focus to that region of our legs. Remember, this is an adductor day, but don't be the idiot that's trying to set the world record on leg press. Nobody's impressed by you putting every plate in the gym on the leg press. Don't be that moron, okay? So we're going to do our PR set in the 5 to 8 rep range there. And then we move on to our back offset, which is more like 15 reps. After that, we are going to superset hip thrust with split squats. Honestly, you could use anything that you wanted here for the glute movement. If you have a glute blaster machine or whatever you want. I neglected glutes earlier on in my bodybuilding journey. I thought that was just stuff that girls did. I'll be honest with you. And I didn't do them. And then I got on stage and I realized that I had no ass. So the judges told me I needed to bring up my glutes and hamstrings. So really, even if you are a dude, unless you have a giant booty, you should probably throw in some glute training in there. I have the skinny white guy butt. So you definitely need to do some glute training in there as well. And then we finish off with our calf raises again. I don't need to repeat myself on this one. Just be sensible with them. You don't need to put every plate in the gym on the calf raises. It's not a PR set. Next, we have another off day. And then we move on to our pull workout that is going to be width focused. And a width focused pull workout is going to be pull down movements. We're going to be doing vertical pulling instead of horizontal pulling like we do with rows. So this is going to work on lat width. And this is going to be things like narrow grip pull downs, etc. I usually like to start off this workout with Dante rows. If you don't know what Dante rows are, do a YouTube search on it. I'm sure somebody will have a video on how to do them. I like those to get my lats opened up and loose. And then I move on after that to chins. And it really depends on where you're at in your bodybuilding journey with chin ups, whether you can do weighted or you need assisted or you're just doing body weight. But be sensible about it. These are going to be three sets to failure essentially with chins. I usually try to keep the reps somewhere in the eight to ten rep range. And if I can't get more than that, then I will use the assistant machine. If I can do more than that, then I'll strap a plate onto my weight with a belt and a chain. You know, it just really is relative. I have stopped doing chins because I tore my leg from doing chins, weighted chins more specifically. And now my shoulder pops out of socket when I do chins. So I can't do chins anymore. After that, we are going to move to narrow grip pull downs. This is going to be our PR movement. Now with the pull downs, you can get a little bit of a heave in it, but just don't go nuts with it. You want to make sure you're keeping your elbows tight. You're pulling with your elbows. As I mentioned before, we're going to do this is going to be our PR movement. And then we do the back offset with it. After that, we're going to have our pump metabolic work, which is going to be wide grip pull downs with some sort of pull over. For this, I like to use a pull over machine or cable pull overs. The problem with the dumbbell is that you're not getting tension through the full range of motion. With the dumbbell pull over, you're only getting it at the fully extended portion of the movement, which is fine for warming up when you're trying to stretch out. But when you're actually trying to do some sort of effective workout through full range of motion, I don't find it very productive. And then we finish off with biceps. You can use really whatever curls you want on here. I think I have dumbbell curls and preacher curls on here. I really don't do preacher curls anymore because they hurt my elbows. And then we finish off with our weighted ab movement. All right, guys, this is sort of an old school power building program, progressive overload. This is my take on power building. This is how I did it. This is the power building program I used to run. And I find it very effective. I don't know that it's the best for bodybuilding, but I did enjoy it. Before we wrap up here, I want to give a shout out to my sponsor, First Detachment Nutrition. They have great supplements formulated by the man himself, Justin Harris. Go over there and check them out. And if you want to support my channel, buy their products. My discount code is AB10. Let me know what you think about the training program in the comments section below. And thank you for watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.