WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right folks, Big Paul here today. Sorry I didn't get this out last night. That was my plan. I went to edit my video and I realized the entire thing was corrupted. So I'm recording this for a second time. It is three weeks out from Masters Nationals in Pittsburgh, PA, 2024. I am down to the finish line on contest prep. We're getting near the end now and things are cruising along. A lot changed over the last week. Justin pushed my food back up. He said he thinks we're pretty much done with the fat burning at this point, which always makes me a little nervous. We might drop a little more fat, but food was pushed back up. I'm going to dig into all that in just one second. WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright, so fasted weight is 242 this week. I'm up one pound from last week. I had that big weight drop over the last couple weeks, which tends to happen to me, and Justin got out ahead of it and kept putting food back in. And I'll talk about it in a minute, but we did an unlimited high day last week. Oh my god, what was it? I should have recorded it. I don't know what I was thinking. I should have done a vlog. It would have been a good one. But I had 2,000 grams of carbs and I did a double cheat meal. I ordered two entrees at dinner. I think I had something like 10,000 calories one day. That might be a record for me. I don't know. I think that's the most carbs I've ever eaten in aromasingle day. I'll show you the pictures here in a minute, but it was interesting the next in the couple days after what happened. My daytime weight right now is around 249 pounds. My height is 6'1 and 3 quarters. For those of you that care, people seem to be obsessed with my height for some reason. Nobody ever believes that I weigh what I do, and I guess the height makes it make sense. I don't know. My blood pressure is 110 over 70-ish. It's been in the 60s. 110 over high 60s here a few days. I usually get like this towards the end of prep. My blood pressure goes down and down and down and down. Imagine that. As you get leaner and you do more cardio and you eat better, your blood pressure improves. Who would have thought that? Fasted glucose is in the low 90s. That's about as good as it gets for me with my issues that I have. I slept, I don't know. I've been tracking on my sleep app, so six, six and a half hours, somewhere in there, but that's about where it's at this time of prep. It, sleep declines as you get deeper into prep. Strength, strength has been really good on this prep. Upper body always fades for me. My legs have actually gotten stronger, which I, it's been a surprise. My legs have come up, and I think my back has gotten stronger. My pushing movements are weaker. That could just be my shoulder injury that I'm dealing with too. Who knows? My shoulder's still messy from the dog incident. I have a torn labrum, and my dog chased another dog and it popped my shoulder out of socket. I don't know, it was about six weeks ago, a month ago, something like that. My shoulder's still a little sore. I just, I'm so numb to pain at this point. I just work through things. I am constantly injured. People always ask me, what do you do about injuries as you get older? You just figure out a way to work around them. That's really all it boils down to. Health, I feel fine. IMean, you can hear my voice. It's a little scratchy. I don't know if I had a little bit of cold or allergies. I had a migraine on Tuesday and then kind of had just a touch of a sore throat or something afterwards. Whatever it is, it seems to be going away, which always worries me towards the end of prep, getting sick right before a show. Your immune system's already run down anyway, so that could be a problem. All right, let's see here what we have next. I have the Building Effective Cycles Ultimate Cheat Sheet up on the Antibiotic Bodybuilding website. It's half off right now. I will raise the price at some point. It's $20. People were asking me to put more content in it. I thought that maybe I would keep it simple and just, you know, it was a five-pager, I think, before, and it just went through and showed you how to put it together, cycle, compound choices, potential side effects, and people asked for more content. So I listened and I updated it. I added probably 12 to 15 more pages worth of stuff, and I have bullet point steroid profiles with highlights of them with their chemical structure, their dosing schedules, potential side effects in applications. There's profiles for all the commonly used PEDs for bodybuilding. Of course, there could be some more obscure stuff that I could add at some point, but I am open to updating it if there's more that people want to add to it, but I think it's a pretty good value for $20. You may or may not agree, but if you want to support the channel, go pick it up. I think it's pretty simple and easy to understand. If you want a more detailed deep dive, I do have the anabolics course up. So where am I at right now? These were my fasted picks yesterday. You can see I'm a little flat here. My legs tend to be where I flatten out. You can see my legs are a little flat, but they're very, very, very grainy. It's hard to see from these pictures. This is from the crappy light check-in pictures. When you look good in your crappy check-in pictures, you know things are cruising along. So I think I'm in a good spot right now. You can see the side pick here. It's hard to see in this one as well, but I have striations in my obliques right now. I've never had that before, like cross striations in my obliques. My stomach's a little screwed up from all the scar tissue from the surgeries I've had. I've had multiple surgeries on my abdomen. I did have a skin excision and some reconstruction done to my stomach. I also had skin cancer and I had to have lymph nodes removed and a chunk of my stomach. So I had to have reconstructive surgery and I did the excision and all that at the same time. So that's why my stomach is all scarred up and looks goofy. Nothing I can do about it. It is what it is. You can see from behind here, my glutes are in. I do have shredded glutes right now. I've had them for a few weeks. It's the low back fat is the last place to go on me. I think it's pretty much gone now. The low back situation there is just loose skin that'll tighten up at the end as you deplete water. For the e-course, IMentioned that earlier, we have 90 plus, I think over a hundred lessons actually up now. There's 50 or so, you can see I'm losing my voice right now, 50 or so hours worth of video content. People ask me if I could put text up as well. So I've been slowly adding text to the video content. I didn't think people read anything anymore, but I am adding stuff. This is an evolving thing. Kurt and I do a monthly Q and A call for the members as well, but I have interest to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles. We talk about real cycles, not the BS that a lot of these other courses use, safer use BS. Not that I'm against safer use, but there's nothing safe about fucking bodybuilding guys. I have the real shit up there if you want to learn what real cycles look like. And I talk about safer use as well, if you're just a hobbyist. HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts as a mission, smaller use, fat loss agents, estrogen management, PED, hypertrophy, there's a bunch of crap up there. We're going to add a section here soon with a pro steroid cycles. Every once in a while, I get people that send me these pro cycles. I can't really share it on YouTube, but we're going to go through and deep dive and rip those apart and talk about those on there. All right, back to it. So I did my super high day last Friday. And on the super high day, I was, I don't know, I think I came into the super high day at 241 pounds, if I remember correctly. And I woke up the next morning, I did that 10,000 calorie, 2000 gram super high day. I woke up the next morning at 253 fasted or 251, no, 251 fasted. So I jumped up 10 pounds. My daytime weight went up to like 257. I was very watery. I should have snapped some pictures. I'm sorry, I don't have that on there. But these pictures are two days after the super high day. You can see the difference here. You can see how filled out my legs are, how filled out my upper body is. And let's go back and look at today's check-in. You can see my legs have more detail in them today. They're drier, definitely drier. Of course, these are fasted pics too. And these are evening. This was post-workout, but you can see how much, how much fuller I am. Sorry, sorry, I'm losing my voice guys. It's, I've had this cold, but you can see how much fuller my legs are, especially my upper body. My upper body looks really good, but when you carry water, it's, you know, of course, gravity, it makes sense. The water's going to go down to the legs and you're going to carry, carry your water in the legs. You can see the side pics here. The hamstrings are in rear pics. I, this year, like my hamstrings look a little soggy here. I think that's just from me not flexing them. Maybe there was some water, but this was two days post the super high day and my rear double bicep shot. If I can speak here, you can see the hamstrings here. Sorry, I don't have posing trunks on, so you can't see the glutes. I think, I don't know. I think, IMean, you saw my glutes in the other picture. I think I've improved this rear double bicep shot. I worked on bringing my back up. Now this was three days post. I went into the gym and I was like, holy fuck nuggets. I couldn't believe what I looked like, how dry and full I was. So I think 2000 grams of carbs was probably too much or I need to do, if I were to use this as a peak, that's definitely too much. So I probably would pull back to something like 1200 because I wouldn't be dry enough for the show by the time, by that time. But this was three days post and I swear to God, people accuse me of manipulating this photo and Photoshopping this. I'll show you here in a second. I did nothing to this photo. This is the way I looked the day after. Now the exposure is a little blown out, so it looks contrasty. That's just my shitty phone. But I'll show you in a second. I did nothing to manipulate this photo. This is what I looked like. I know people accuse me of manipulating it, but you can see how gnarly I looked. There was just veins popping everywhere. I had striations in my abs. A lot of the stuff that looks like stretch marks in my abs are not stretch marks. They are veins. I know it looks weird and goofy, but my abs are super freaking veiny. But I was just, you can see, I don't know if you can see here, all down the sides of my obliques. I just have these striations going all up the sides of my obliques. It's gnarly here. And I'll show you, look here. I took a screenshot from my phone so you can see. Usually people, what they'll do to make themselves look grainier, they'll turn up the sharpness and they'll turn up the definition on the photo. IMade no changes to this. This is how the photo came directly out of the camera. Now, like I said, the exposure is blown out. So three days post, this was Mondays when I looked my best, and then I just started flattening out from there as the food came down. And today's check-in pics, let's go back and look at those. This is today's check-in pics. This was fasted under the crappy light. Now, granted, the other light is different. That is the posing room light. And people are like, oh, you look better. The light's not the same. And you got to remember the posing room has light like you have on the stage. They have the angled down light coming from the 45 degree up, which is going to make you pop more. But this is in a closer approximation of what you're going to look like on stage. And, you know, and I'm still happy with how I look in the check-in pics. It's just, you know, it's just a little washed out. It's just crappy check-in pics. All right, so moving on from this crap. My diet right now, Justin just raised my food going into the lasT3 weeks. IMean, this is not quite an off-season diet for me, but it's back to pretty close. My carbs on my medium days, which I do five medium days a week, or my trening days are at 525 grams. Added fat is 40, so pretty low on the added fat. And that's not counting trace fats that are in the meats, but I keep my meats super lean. My protein sources are protein powder, chicken breast, and cod at this point. That's, IMean, there's essentially no fat. And my protein is at 370 grams, 525 grams of carbohydrates. So my total calories are around 4,000, slightly under 4,000 on my medium days. I lose weight when I get below about 4,000 calories, 4,200, somewhere around there. High day right now for this week, that'll probably change next week, is unlimited. Now, there are some rules on the high day. Only half of my carbs can come from sugar. I know some people see my pictures of my cereal and my candy and shit that I eat, that only 50% of those carbs can come from sugary sources. So keep that in mind. The rest has to come from rice, so 50%. And then I get a cheat meal at the end of the day. I try to keep the cheat meal lower fat. Last week, I did pancakes with no butter. I skipped the butter. I did an omelet, just a plain omelet, some potatoes, and some toast, dry toast. I did put jelly on it and I put syrup on it, but so it was a fairly low-fat cheat meal. I think tonight I'm going to do some sushi. I'll stay away from the fried stuff. So IMean, that's what I call sort of a clen cheat, just more carbohydrates. The problem when you mix a bunch of saturated fat with carbohydrates is that extra saturated fat is just going to get stored as body fat when you're eating it with a bunch of carbohydrates. It's just fuel, and your body's going to prioritize glucose as fuel. When present, it's not going to use that extra fat. It's going to store glycogen, burn carbohydrates or glucose as fuel, and then store any excess fats that you eat for the most part beyond what's the essential fatty acids that are needed for cellular function and all that jazz. My low day is one low day per week, which is my off day. Right now, it's 300 grams of carbs. That was at around 200 before, so we raised that up. 360 grams of protein, 84 grams of added fat, extra fat since the carbohydrates are lower. Total calories on that day are around 3,500, somewhere around there. So that is a deficit for me. That is a deficit for me. And on the high day, I keep the protein lower because you're eating a bunch of carbs. Protein is tough on digestion. Lower the protein a bit on the high day to speed up digestion, and we'll just keep it there. Carbs are also protein sparing. So if you're trying to get down all these carbohydrates, you don't need to eat a ton of protein on the high day. Current PEDs, the only thing to change from the PEDs this week is we slammed the anti-estrogens. The eczema stain is maxed out at 25 milligrams a day, and then added in 10 milligrams of tamoxifen to help with some of the lower stub back fat in to dry up the gyno. You can't, well, you shouldn't run, it's not so you can't, you shouldn't run tamoxifen with anastrozole. They interact with each other. A lot of people make that mistake. I'm running a Gramma test, a Gramma Primo, a Gramma Mastron per week. People ask why. That's just the way I've always done it. In that ratio on PrEP, it seems to work very well for me, so why change it? I run a lot of tests going into shows. Some guys cut their tests way back. I tend to flatten out and stay dry anyway, as you can see. Test helps keep me full, so why not run more tests? I get these guys like, you run way too much tests on PrEP. No, bro. I know it works for me, and not all my clients are on the same protocol. I don't, I, everybody, everybody that I work with, we adjust based on how their body responds. I don't do a one-size-fits-all. I get these other idiots that are, think they're gurus and know more than me, and like, bro, you're, you know, you're running way too much tests. You'd look better without it. Trust me, I've tried it, and I do not, I know my body better than you do. Peptides, I am running nine units of Pharma HGH per day. I forgot to take out the doubled one here. I didn't double it. That's been the dose that's been in there for weeks. insulin on the high days, obviously, if I'm eating that many carbs. When you see people eating over a thousand grams of carbs, there has to be insulin in play. ECA stack, 200 milligrams of caffeine, or in 25 milligrams of ephedrine, 81 milligrams of aspirin. Honestly, for the caffeine, I've just been drinking a couple cups of coffee. I don't do any stimulants on the high days, since it's not a fat-burning day anyway. 100 micrograms of Clinv. Right now, IMay lower that down. Health supplements, it's the same old shit. Berberine, I use the Suppressor Max from First Detachment. If you want to pick it up over there, discount code is AB10. General health, I use Thorne Whole Food Multivitamin. I need to get links to all this stuff in my profile, or in the video descriptions. I'll do that moving forward. 2,000 milligrams of vitamin C, 5,000 units of vitamin D, 5,000 milligrams of magnesium for cardiovascular health. I do 3,000 milligrams of fish oil, 2,000 milligrams of flax oil, 100 milligrams of CoQ10, 1,200 milligrams of citrus bergamot, 1,200 milligrams of red rice yeast extract. People will ask me about my cardiovascular stack. Liver, I run the Renal, or no, why do I always want to call it Renal Reset? I run thEQRF product from First Detachment's Tug of the Milk Thistle in NAC. Sometimes I don't run the NAC. You don't want to be running it constantly. Discount code AB10. Once again, it's a great product. Same thing for kidney. I use the Renal Reset product from First Detachment, if I can speak. Also, a discount code for that of AB10 for 10% off. It is primary ingredients, astragalus. It has some other stuff in it. Digestion, ox bile and hydase, digestive enzymes, and psyllium husk nightly. Telmosartan, right now, I lowered that down to 20 milligrams. I'll probably drop it completely the last two weeks. My blood pressure's been low. I like to pull it out at the end. Sometimes it's counterintuitive, but Telmosartan, even though it modulates the renin-angiotensin system, it can cause water retention in some people. I've found that I just remove it at the end of the process. Plus, my blood pressure, sometimes, I've had my blood pressure crash before I attend a contest prep. I don't want to be dealing with a situation where I stand up and pass out and conk my head. trening, I run an RP style PPL. I've been running this RP trening system for years. I have not trened to failure in years. Once, in a very blue moon, I'll take a set to failure. I shouldn't say absolutes, but this is something that drives me mad. I see guys talking about trening like a madman going into the last week or two of their contest prep. I hear guys all the time, I tore this muscle going into the week of the show. I'm a badass. I was squatting and setting PRs on squats and deadlifts and bench press. Bro, you're a fucking moron if you're doing that going into the peak week of the show. You're not getting any hypertrophy going in. There's no award for maxing out going into the week of the show or setting PRs. All you're doing is increasing your risk of injury, probably causing some inflammation that's going to cause water retention when you get on stage. That's another thing that people don't think about when you tren super freakinGHard. You're going to cause inflammation. That inflammation is part of the process of recovering and growing. Inflammation is part of the hypertrophy process. So you don't want to be inflamed going into peak week, now do you? You want to have clear, crisp muscles going on stage. What would make more sense? Probably backing off your trening just a little bit. I just do pump sets on peak week. I pulled my trening back a bit beforehand. You're all dry and stuff. IMean you think about all the injuries that you hear in bodybuilding. Every time you hear somebody tearing a muscle, it's going into the last couple weeks of show prep. That's it. So you're a moron if you tren like an animal. Sorry to break the news to you. You do you, but I'm telling you, you're a fucking idiot if you're trening like that going in the last week and a half, two weeks of your show. Cardio right now, I'm not really doing measured cardio per se. I'm doing eight to 10,000 steps per day. I keep an eye on it on my Apple Watch. Posing, I do six rounds or six days a week, three rounds of posing every day. It's another thing that drives me nuts. I see dudes that are just starting to practice their posing three weeks out from the show and they're shaking like a leaf on stage. They're cramping up. You have to get in posing shape. For those of you that haven't posed and learn how to pose hard, you're going to need to be in shape when you get on stage for posing. I see guys that gas out all the time on stage and then they can't present their physique and they lose shows because they can't fucking pose. Once again, stupid to spend all that time getting ready for a show. I know you're tired. I know you've done all this cardio. I know you're depleted, but you got to pose. Plans and thoughts, diet adherence was fine this week. I think IMissed a meal or two on my low day. If my stomach starts acting up with the IBS, I just back off for a little bit. I talked about it on a video I did earlier this week, how I experimented with intermittent fasting this offseason. I put that into my routine. Check out that video. I think that helped with my stomach issues. I didn't do it for some magic metabolic wizardry. I just purely did it to give my stomach a break, let my gut heal up, keep insulin sensitivity in check on my offseason and I think it worked pretty well. Coach's feedback, we experimented with the super high day, planning on two shows, Masters, Nationals, July 18th. My backup show is North Americans end of August. Everything's rocking along. I feel good, happy about where I'm at. I think things are looking pretty good right now. I'll give you guys a boobie bounce. It's for the ladies that watch, we're all one of them. Anyway guys, I appreciate you watching. I appreciate all the support, even the guys that say my nipple looks weird. I love you too. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.