WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right folks, Big Paul here today. I am officially two weeks out from Masters Nationals in Pittsburgh, PA. Getting down to the wire now. Things are getting close. My brain's starting to play tricks on me. Anyone who's done prep knows how that goes at the end. That's why the coach needs a coach because your brain always tells you something that's not real and you have to put your faith in someone else's hands and let them make the decisions. And we'll talk about it in just one second. I don't know how people coach themselves on contest prep. I know there are guys that do it. Dorian Yates did it. Some of the guys back in the 90s did it. But really, most everybody has a coach. I like to think I know what I'm doing and I have been able to mostly get my guys in shape for shows and have them place well. But man, I'm telling you, when you get towards the end, your brain starts to play tricks on you. You start to see things in the mirror that aren't there. You start to second-guess yourself. You start to have self-doubt. You start to think that, man, maybe things are starting to go sideways. Anyone who's done a show knows what I'm talking about. I get like this every year towards the end of my prep. Last year, I remember freaking out towards the end and I finally just said, fuck it. I'm just, whatever happens, happens. I end up going out and placing really well. But you never know what's going to happen. So you just sort of have to put it in faith's hands and see what happens. So that's why I have a coach and that's why I pay someone to be my common sense for me to make sure I don't screw things up at the end because I probably would. I think to second-guess themselves and screw things up, I just let Justin drive the ship and wherever he tells me to go, I do it. So where I'm at right now, fasted weight is about the same. I have one here, 242. I think that was last week's weight. Actually, I should have updated. That was like 243 today. I was up like a pound. Daytime weights around 249, 250. I did more food this week. Justin pushed my food back up. I got up in the 250s for a while and then it was just down, down, down, down, down after that. And I hit this point and I'll show you in the pictures where I look my best, I think abouT3 days after my high day, maybe two, two to three days after my high day. It's where I look the best and then it's just I get softer and I get flatter from there. It's a weird thing. You probably can't see it, but I can see it in the pictures. But that's just how it goes. On prep, you know, you got to get flat to lose fat. So my overall weight is up just a little bit this weekend. Justin said we were done with burning fat. He was happy with where I was at and he just wanted to bring me in full and big. So we'll see where things go. I feel like I'm a little bit leaner than I was last week, even eating 600 grams of carbs on my medium days. My blood pressure is down 110 over 70-ish. I cut the, I cut the, the Tomasartan. I wanted to say Lucentapro. That's what I used to take back in the day. But I cut the Tomasartan down to 20 milligrams a day. IMay just drop it out altogether the last couple of weeks. Sleep right now is meh. I had one rough night this week where I just could not fucking go to sleep. Could not go to sleep. I think I had too much coffee. I'm super sensitive to stimulants and you combine that in with the ephedrine, which I'm only doing one dose of ephedrine a day. And you put that in with the ephedrine and with the clenbuterol and it gets to be a rest in on the low day. It's always low day where I can't sleep. My height for those of you who care is 6'1 and 3 quarters. My fasted glucose, I don't know, it's around the 90s. I don't check it every day, but I check it some days. People had some guys, I posted some food questions or pictures of my food and stuff up and people were asking me, how do you maintain glucose sensitivity on contest prep? I'm like, dude, you're in a calorie deficit. Even when I'm eating all these carbs, I'm still in a calorie deficit. insulin sensitivity is not an issue. I'm sorry, not glucose sensitivity, but insulin sensitivity is not an issue when your body fat is single digits and you're in a calorie deficit. It's when you're in a surplus, your body fat gets higher. That's when insulin sensitivity starts to be a problem. I had that bad night of four hours of sleep. I can see it in my resting pulse rate. My resting pulse rate went up. I didn't take a picture of it, but it usually is around 70s, low 70s. Then it went up into the 80s the next day. Strength, my legs, I don't know, legs are holding. Upper body is down. I've been deliberately pulling back on the upper body stuff. My dogs are barking, by the way, because the fireworks are going off. My upper body has gone down. I deliberately cut the weights back because I'm on windstraw now and windstraw always makes everythinGHurt. My muscles get really tight. My joints get stiff. I feel like if IMake one wrong move, I'm going to tear something. So I'm being very deliberate and slow with my movements and I pulled my weights back a bit just on purpose. Health, I feel like I'm catching a cold. It felt like it last week too, the end of last week as well. You can hear me, I'm stuffy. I have a little bit of a sore throat this week. There's been people sick at the gym, it's been going around. I'm feeling creaky from the windstraw. The Building Effective Cycles Ultimate Cheat Sheet, I still have that up. If you want to pick that up, it is half off. It's $20. It's a cheat sheet. I don't want people to think it's a full blown ebook, but it is about 20 pages long and it has breakdowns of how to put a simple breakdown of how to put an off-season cycle together, simple breakdown of how to put a fat loss slash contest prep cycle together. It has compound choices, how to choose the right compound to get the right job done, not just for cycles, but for things like insulin sensitivity and injury healing and things like that. I also have a side effect, simple side effect mitigation sheet on there. Just a couple words on what side effect and what might be causing it. It's not definitive. And some profiles on commonly used PEDs with my personal experiences and just some highlights on those. It's great value for 20 bucks. Pictures right now. So this is what I look like today. I need to get a new phone. My phone sucks. It's three years old now. These are the front cameras. So they're blurry. The light sucks at home, but when you look good in your crappy pictures, you're going to look good, even better in the stage light. You can see here, this was this morning. I flattened out over the week and I get a little soft at the same time. It's really fucking weird, man. And here's the side pics. You can see my glutes are in. I have striations. It's hard to see here in my obliques, but I've got the fan down my obliques. My lower back, I don't know. I think I pretty much got the fat off. That's just skin at this point. When you're old, it's just how it goes. My glutes are in. I also have a fourth of July sale on the science of performance enhancing drugs e-course. There's 40 to 50 hours of content on there and a hundred modules. If you want to learn about PEDs, go into the deep dive, the cheat sheets, just a short, you know, simple, little summary of things. The e-courses, if you want to go the deep dive, it's 20% off use code AB20 at checkout. Here is the gym pics. You can see the difference here. This was, I think this was two days after my high day. So you can see what I look like two days after my high day, how different I look. I look way fuller two days after my high day, a little bit harder, fuller. I think, I think I look better here. You can see here, you know, of course this is the better lighting, but you can see here I have fullness and hardness at the same time. A little bit soft from behind, but that was just, you know, holding water. IMean, I ate 15, 1600 grams of carbs, but you can see what it looks like. The following day I had some professional photos done. I dried out even more by that day. And you can see here what I look like now. Granted, this is from a professional photographer. They run it through filters and Photoshop and all this stuff. So you can, you know, they make things pop a little bit more, but you can see what I look like under professional photography. You know, you can see, see what that looks like. These are the professional photographer pics. All right. Anyway, food, nothing's changed on the diet. I didn't do the, today I was doing my high day. I didn't really do the unlimited high day. It just, the windstroke crushes my appetite. I just kind of went back to the old macros on the high day, which were 1200 grams of carbs. That's plenty. My medium days are at 525 grams of carbs. Sorry. I think I said 600 earlier. It's not 600. It's 525, 370 protein, 40 grams of added fat. For my added fats right now, I am just doing fish oil, flax oil, a little bit of olive oil, whatever. You know, that's, that's what, it's minimal. And I keep my meat sources mostly to just chicken and cod right now. I'll do some beef here and there. Probably for the last two weeks, I'll just do chicken and cod to keep the fat really low. And I'm not counting trace fats. There's very little in the chicken anyway. So my calories right now are around close to 4,000 on my medium days. My high day is something like 6,000. I did that one really high, high day where I went up to like 10,000 calories, 9,000 calories, something like that. My low days are 360 grams of protein, 300 grams of carbs, 84 grams of added fat. I do that one day a week. And what I've been doing for the low days, I've been eating a little bit fattier meat. Like I'll get some steak for a couple of the meals. And then I don't do the added fats. So it kind of makes up for the added fats. And then I'll get in my EFAs on three of the meals. Like, you know, I think I'll do steak for like two of the meals. And then the other four, I'll do the added fats. I'll keep it super lean. But my low day, which was yesterday, it's funny. I'm flat after my low day. You can see it like in the pictures this morning, I was flat from this, from 300 grams of carbs. Flat and a little mushy. Current PEDs, the anabolics will be dropped soon, somewhere around seven to 10 days out. It's test, Primo, Masteron, each at a gram a week, 150 milligrams a day. I take it every day. I up the windstraw to 50 milligrams per day. When I drop the injectables, I will be upping the windstraw. Estrogen management right now is 25 milligrams of eczema stain each day, 10 milligrams of tamoxifen. Peptides are nine units of Pharma HGH. And somebody was asking me about insulin. I only run it on the high days. And I think IMay just even drop it going into the show. Because insulin can make you retain some water. fat burners right now, ECA stack, 200 milligrams of caffeine, 25 milligrams of ephedrine, 81 milligrams of aspirin. I usually just do that in the morning, not on the high day. I skip the stimulants on the high day. But IMay have a cup of coffee before I go to the gym. So I don't know, I'm probably getting somewhere around 400 milligrams of coffee a day. I do my caffeine from coffee. I do three cups of coffee per day, basically. I don't know what that works out to be. Three, 12 ounce cups of coffee. So 36 ounces of coffee, it's probably around 400 milligrams of caffeine, somewhere around there. 100 micrograms of Klyn. IMay pull that back. I don't know. I've been okay with the Klyn. Klyn doesn't seem to bother me like the ephedrine does. The ephedrine and the caffeine really amp me up and make it hard to sleep. Usually if I pull the ephedrine and caffeine out, I can sleep. Health supplements, I am doing Suppressor Max, their first attachments, glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent that has berberine in it. You can pick it up with discount code AB10 for 10% off. General health, I do a whole food multivitamin Twice a day. Somebody was asking me about this. I need to get links to this on my profile. Keep meaning to do that or in my video description. I am doing Thorne. They're doing their whole food multivitamin Twice a day. 2,000 milligrams of vitamin C, 5,000 units of vitamin D, 500 milligrams of magnesium glycinate, cardiovascular health, 3,000 milligrams of fish oil, 2,000 milligrams of flax oil, 100 milligrams of Q10, 1,200 milligrams of citrus bergamot, 1,200 milligrams of red rice yeast extract. That is probably overkill for the cardiovascular stuff, but I will say this, my HDL, even on all the orals, usually stays pretty high. I very rarely see people on PEDs that have HDL over 40. It just doesn't happen, but I can get mine up into the high 30s with this, 37, 38, even with orals. Liver, I run thEQRF product from First Detachment as well, discount code AB10 for 10% off. Kidney, I run Astragalus. Actually, it's Astragalus-based kidney product. It's renal reset from First Detachment. Digestion, I run DAO, oxybiol and hydase, digestive enzymes, and psyllium husk nightly. Ptomaine sardine, I lowered it to 20 milligrams. As IMentioned, IMay drop it the last two weeks going on the show. trening, I run an RP style trening. Right now, I'm just kind of trening by feel. I only tren chest and shoulders once a week, everything else twice a week. But as IMentioned, the windstraw is making me feel very, very creaky. I trened back before I recorded this, and I felt like it was going to tear my bicep a couple of times. It was very tight, very stiff. My elbows hurt. So IMade sure to take my time and slow down. I'm going to grab a drink here. To slow down and be very deliberate with my movements, I lightened my weight up a little bit, just 10, 15 pounds from what I normally do on things just to make sure I'm not hurting myself. I'm not really counting reps in reserve and volume and all that right now. I'm just kind of going by feel these last few weeks. Cardio is eight to 10,000 steps per day, posing six times a week, three rounds. Diet adherence was perfect this week. I don't think I had any deviations or missed meals. I don't cheat on contest prep. I will miss meals occasionally. And the meals that IMiss are planned. I have IBS. If I feel my stomach starting to get a little weird, I just don't eat and let it heal rather than forcing the food down. I have learned my lesson about forcing the food down before. It is not a good thing. Right now, we did the super high day again last week. I, like I said, I didn't do it this week. I coached feedback planning on two shows, Masters Nationals, July 18th, and my backup shows North Americans in August. All right, folks, that's all I got for you. Only one more week and then we're headed into peak week and it'll be time to get on the show stage and see what happens, see how I stack up and, you know, just enjoy the moment, stay in the moment. Don't let my brain trick me. I'm just letting the coach drive the bus and then whatever happens, happens. All right, folks, thank you for your support. I love each and every one of you. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.