WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright bros, it's Big Paul with another contest prep update. I'm four weeks out from Masters Nationals 2024 in Pittsburgh, PA. Getting down to the final stretch of prep here. Almost there. I got a little bit more to do. I got a little more fat to burn off. Get a little bit of fat left on my low back. We'll show you that's been stubborn. Been eating a ton of food. It's been a pretty easy prep so far. I think it might have to mash the gas pedal down here the next couple of weeks. We'll see what Justin wants me to do. But further along than I was last year, I'm bigger, fuller. Things are coming together pretty nicely. I'm very happy about where I'm at. And we'll dig into all that. All my information will go through my cycle, my nutrition, my trening, how I'm feeling. We'll dig into that in just one second. Well, I can't believe I'm down to the final four weeks. It's crazy that it's going by this fast. It's just blown by. I've been so busy with work and life, kids, etc. Time just melted away. I've been on autopilot on this prep. It doesn't feel like a prep. I don't know how to describe it. It's just been weird. Usually I'm very focused on prep, but I think I have so many other distractions going on in my life right now. Things have been very busy. Prep is just sort of in the back of my mind. I'm just on autopilot doing what I need to do, following the plan, just part of my structured day. And it's just what it is. So right now, this week, I'm down another two pounds today. My fasted weight yesterday was my low day. Justin had talked about doing an unlimited high day, possibly tomorrow. We'll see. Tomorrow is my high day where I'm at, but I'm down another two pounds this week. My fasted weight was 241 this morning, which is the low for the prep. My daytime weight is around 248. I just got back from the gym and I weighed myself. I was 255 after my high day. Well, I guess two days after my high day on Sunday, I had my pics up. I always look the best two days after my high day. That is when I look the best. I've filled out. My skin is pushed out from being full. That's when I have my best look is two days after my high day. And that's sort of how we do it going into peak week. We'll fill up two days out and then just kind of go into the show with that. And I think that brings the best look, at least for me, it always has, but the weight is dropping. So we'll have to keep an eye on that. I've had issues in the past where my weight will just rapidly drop and I lose all my fullness and pop towards the end. I, even last year, I kind of lost some fullness towards the end. It's, it's a fine line. You have to walk between being full and beinGHard and caught for a show. And I'm in the super heavy. So the, the thing that I'm bringing in size, I usually am very conditioned. I'm usually very conditioned for super heavies. Most super heavies at the amateur level are just starting to shape. I'm not trying to talk bad about people, but usually somebody who is a conditioned super heavy is fighting for a pro card or already has a pro card guys that arecompeting in local shows at super heavies are usually fat. Most of them, my height is six, one and threEQuarters. For those of you that care, my BP BP blood pressure has come down. This is an issue I always have at the end of prep where I eventually have to drop the Tom Sarton. I lowered the dose down to 20 milligrams. I was at 40. So it's, IMay just have to come off of it completely. We'll see. My fasted glucose is in the low nineties sleep was better this week than last week. I had one really crappy night of sleep. Other than that, you know, usually it's after my low day, this, this last night after my low day, I got like six and a half, something like that. If I get six to seven, that's pretty good. I've been averaging like between six to seven, and then I'll get like a half hour or 45 minute nap in during the day. I work at home so I can do that strength. My upper body is definitely weaker. My legs are strengely enough, stronger. My legs have gotten stronger through this prep. This has been an odd thing for me. I usually lose my legs on prep probably because I just been doing step count this year. I haven't been doing any stepper. I haven't been doing elliptical, no hit cardio. I just been trying to hit a step count every day. I don't know. I do between somewhere around 10,000 steps. I do my 20 minute walk in the morning. Then I'll get a couple minutes, couple of smaller walks throughout the day, like 10, 15 minute walks throughout the day between meals. I'm not really doing like a structured cardio session this time. I'm just doing step count health. I feel pretty good this week. Everything's been good. Shoulder is feeling better-ish. Although all my joints get creaky towards the end of prep. When my body fat gets lower, my joints start to hurt. I pull back my weights. I just can't push the weights as much as I could when I was younger towards the end of prep. When you think about it, when do most bodybuilders get hurt anyway? It's at the end of fucking prep. I don't know why guys feel like they need to be setting PRs that makes them some sort of badass going into the final week of prep, trying to set PRs and look like Billy Badass. You're not proving anything to anybody. You're not going to gain any muscle going into this last couple of weeks. It is not going to add anything to your look on stage trying to set PRs in the last couple of weeks of prep. At this point, you're just trying to maintain what you have, not get fuckinGHurt. If you go super, super hard the last few weeks of prep, you're going to have inflammation probably from blowing yourself out. I just have never seen it work in anybody's advantage. So you can look here. I talk about sleep. This is the effect that sleep has on me. This is my resting pulse throughout the week. This was all of last week. You can see where my resting pulse was at. You can guess which day I goT4 hours of sleep. Yes, it's the day that my resting pulse went up to 85 and then it's back down to 70. In the offseason, my resting pulse is somewhere in the 60s, mid 60s, low 60s. When you're on stimulants and fat burners and taking a bunch of gear, it's going to be elevated. That's just how it is. I'm on three grams of gear. I'm taking ephedrine. I'm on clin. A 70 resting pulse being walking around at 250 pounds is not bad. I just want to take a quick second and tell you guys to pick up the Building Effective Cycles Ultimate Cheat Sheet. I put it together. I added some new stuff to it. So those of you guys that already bought it, you can go re-download it. You should still have access to it. I put a section in with side effects. It's a super simple cheat sheet that has offseason cycle structure, cutting cycle structure. It has a compound chart with all the compounds, what they do. I think there's like 50 or so compounds on there in what specific roles that they play. In side effects, it's about five pages long. It's super simple, six pages, something like that. And it's only 20 bucks. I have it half off right now. I'm going to charge 40 for it. It's an introductory price. Grab it while it's still $20. It's been selling like crazy. I'm actually shocked at how many of these things are selling. It's fantastic. I think I did a good job putting this together. Go over to the Antibiotic Bodybuilding website, pick it up. The link is in the video description. All right. So this is what, sorry for the blurry picture, I don't know why I need to get a new phone. This is my crappy phone under the crappy light early this morning. This was after my low day. I look flat. I don't have any detail. This is just the way I look after low day. It sucks. My worst look is usually the one day out from the high day. This is my high days tomorrow. When I get down to that end, that's when I have the worst look, but that's what you have to do to burn fat. Side pick here, you can see my glutes are in. I got a little bit of fat at the bottom of my lower back. You can see it here just a tad on that. IMay go get that shit lipoed in the offseason. I've been thinking about it because I got to get my gyno redone. My lower back is always the last thing to come in. I literally am burning it off going into the show. I'll be 6% body fat and still have a little bit of low fat on my back, or back if I can speak. It's been a long day. A little bit of fat on my low back. You can see here my glutes are in, but yet I have the lower part of my back looks like melted candle wax. There's some loose skin there. There's a little bit of fat. I got a little pocket of fat on either side. Not in the middle. It's just on the outside region where the love handles would be. It's just a tiny little bit on each side. That is the only place on me where I still have fat left. Maybe a little bit on my inner thighs. My front, I'm completely fat free. My back, I could probably bring out a little more detail on the back. I already talked about this. This is the e-course, guys. I have a free preview of the e-course up if you want to check it out. That's up on the website too. There's a link to it. If you want to check out the anabolics e-course, I broke it up into payment plans now too. I think it's five payments of like 80 or 90 bucks. I don't remember what it was. People werecomplaining about the price being too high, so IMade it. It's a full year of access. Kurt and I just did our first livEQ&A. We're doing weekly livEQ&As. I put a sample of it up actually on YouTube today. There's a free sample of it up on the trial of the course, so you can go check it out. This is after my high day. This is what I talked about. When I look my best two days after the high day, this is what I look like two days after the high day compared to this morning. Kind of washed out, kind of flat. You can see I'm full. Everything's popping. I think I was 255 that night. My legs are a little watery. You can see a little bit of water on my legs. This was at the end of the day. I'm always my wateriest at the end of the day. That's everybody. You can see here how I had more pop. Just more fullness. Skin's tighter. Once again, you can see my hamstrings are a little washed out. A little washed out because it was the end. Two days after my high days, it was the end of the day. I was filled out. Once again, that fat, although I think if you go back and look, this was two days after my last high day. This was four days. Let me go back here. This is four days later. That fat has pulled up a little bit. It is not as much if we go back and look at it. That has tightened up a tad. You can see I got my underwear on inside out. That's a Paul trademark, wearinGHis underwear inside out, because I'm a classy kind of guy that does that shit. Inside out underwear, bros. That's the way to go. I probably need to bring my posing trunks and come to the gym, but I always feel weird wearing my posing trunks in the gym. I guess I shouldn't. It's no weirder than wearing your underwear, right? Macros currently, nothing changed from the last time I talked to you guys. I'm going to do a video. I think I confused the hell out of people when I say I don't count direct macros. I'm going to do a video. I have it on my schedule. Why counting the direct macros is just extra work for no extra benefit and direct macro. Sorry. If you want to count the trace fats from your chicken breast, if you want to count the trace protein from your rice, go right ahead and do it. That's fine. It's not hurting anything. Guys think, I think they get offended when they say that you don't need to do it. I get ripped. I don't count trace macros and I'm not going to go into the whole diatribe today, but there's, there's the whole, if you've taken a college level statistics class, there's accuracy versus precision. The only thing that we can control is precisely measuring our food with a scale. The accuracy of the data from the food labels is horribly inaccurate. It's a little side rant here. The FDA, I think it's what who regulates it, but they allow up to a 20% margin of error on food label. So that yogurt that might be a hundred calories, this could be 120, could be 80. That's a 40 calorie swing either direction. That chicken breast that says it has five grams of fat in it. It could be two, it could be eight. You don't know. So we can control how much we weigh stuff. We can't control what the macros on the food label, whether they are, are accurately, accurately reflected in what's really in there. So why I say it's pointless to measure it is because we're just concerned about net energy balance really for fat loss and muscle gain and sort of hitting our carb and protein goals. If I cut my rice from a cup down to half a cup, logic would dictate that I have reduced my calories. Anyway, side ran over my medium day right now is 35, 85. Since I don't count indirect macros, it's probably plus or minus. It could be 3,300. It could be 3,800, but it's somewhere in that ballpark. I precisely measure my food. So I know my food measurements are the same. I prepare my food. That's another thing. If you add a little more water to your rice, your calories and your rice is going to be completely different. I prepare everything exactly the same. I use the same measuring cup for my rice every day. I use the same scale. I cook my meats and everything with the same method. So nothing is inconsistent. I precisely do everything that I can, that I can control precision on. Right now, 370 grams of protein, 425 grams of carbs, and 45 grams of added fat. My added fats come from EFAs mostly on my medium days. High days, it's just one a week. I do five medium days, one low day, one high day. My high day is tomorrow, Friday. My protein on the high day is 330 grams. My carbs are probably more like 1,200. Cheat fats, probably 60, 70 grams. I don't know how much, how many fats are in the cheat meal. If I go to Denny's, who the fuck knows how much fat's in there? It might say it's 1,500 calories. I think they severely underestimate how many calories are in restaurant meals. I'll look at some of these meals and say they're 800 calories. There is no goddamn way. Once again, proving my point that you can't control the accuracy of the macro data. So the only thing you can control is the precision of measurement. Low day, my low day is around 3,000 calories, plus or minus a bit, 360 grams of protein, 200 grams of carbs, 84 grams of added fat. I haven't really been hungry on prep. The only time I really get hungry is maybe at the end of the low day. After the low day, I'm a little bit hungry. I actually kind of like being a little hungry. I know people, I don't know, I shouldn't complain about my diet. My contest prep diet is probably what most people bulk on. Current PEDs, nothing's changed here. A gram of test, a gram of Primo, a gram of Masteron a week. I take it every day. Estrogen management, 25 milligrams of eczema stain every other day. That will be ramping up the last two, maybe three weeks. IMay go ahead and start, IMay switch it out for Aromadex and start upping the dose so I can get myself hardened up. I hate crushing my estrogen because then trening sucks. My joints feel awful, trening sucks, but they're going to feel awful when windstraw goes in. I have not, to this point, put any orals in my cycle. I'm four weeks out, zero orals. I think there were a couple days I took a little bit of antiviral pre-workout just to help with some drive on my workout, but I haven't really done any orals. I think maybe like two or three times. I just haven't had the need to do them. I continue to improve. I look good. I dropped the tren. So, if I look better, why change anything? If I'm getting better from week to week, might as well just ride this. Peptides right now, HDH, nine units every day. A pharma grade HDH, I have one on here that's doubled. It's not. Humalog only on my high days in the insulin and I've had to cut it back. I was goinGHypo yesterday on my low day with no insulin. I did my cardio in the morning. I was messaginGHer. I was feeling woozy at the end of my cardio, just walking. I was walking and I started feeling lightheaded and I checked my blood sugar when I got off and it was 55. That's with no, that is with no insulin folks. fat burners. I do an ECA stack, 200 milligrams of caffeine, 25 milligrams of veteran, 81 milligrams of aspirin. Sometimes I take it two times a day. Sometimes I take it one time a day. I'm rolling the dice with taking it two times a day with sleep. It can affect my sleep and usually for my caffeine, I'll just do a large cup of coffee. I'll do like a 16 ounce cup of coffee. That should be about 200 milligrams of caffeine and then take the ephedrine and the aspirin with it. ECA stack. I don't take any fat burners on my high day. You're not going to be burning fat anyway because you're in a calorie surplus. So IMight as well give my CNS a break from all that stimulation from the fat burners. And Glenn just, it says 80 on here. I just bumped it to 100. It's crazy going from 80 to 100. Usually 100 is my max dose, but I think last year I didn't go up above 80, but 100 is my max dose. And I was sweating like I was under a blast furnace at the gym today, just lifting. Health supplements. Somebody asked me about my supplement stack. I have an entire video up about my supplements on YouTube. If you want to check it out, you can just search it. I have my whole supplement stack up there. Glucose management. I take the suppressor max from first attachment. General health. I take a whole food multivitamin Two times a day, 2000 milligrams of vitamin C, 5,000 units of vitamin D with K2, 500 milligrams of magnesium, glycinate before bed, cardiovascular health, 3000 milligrams of fish oil, 2000 milligrams of flax oil, 100 milligrams of CoQ10, 1200 milligrams of citrus bergamot, 1200 milligrams of red rice yeast extract. That's all for my lipids, for my health, heart health, liver, milk, thistle and tucca, kidney, astragalus. I do the renal reset from first attachment. If you want to pick up the product over there, this is a great product. It's really helped my eGFR stabilize. It is, the discount code is AB10 for 10% off. It's, it's a great product. Digestion. I use Oxbio at every meal on my high days, digestive enzymes, and I take a fiber supplement nightly. I just take Metamucil, nothing fancy. People ask me if you need to take some fancy fiber supplement. I don't. I just, Metamucil seems to work fine. I get the sugar-free Metamucil. The Tomasartan, I forgot to update that. It is at 20 milligrams now, that it will probably be dropped soon. trening, I do an RP style PPL. I'm not going to go through all this again. My split is chest and tris, quads, hams and calves. Then I do a pull day. I do delts and tris, adductors, glutes, hams, glutes and hams, pull, and then I'm off. So essentially I do legs twice a week, legs twice a week, back twice a week, because those were my weakest body parts. I think I've brought both of them up and I only tren shoulders and chest once a week because those are my strongest body parts. So I'm dedicating more volume to the weak body parts, less to the strong body parts. Also my shoulders are wrecked. So it needed a break. I tren with some reps in reserve. I don't go to failure. Cardio is 20, like I said, 20 minutes, five times a week. That's not necessarily true. I have been doing a little more cardio. I do a 20 minute walk in the morning. Then I do a couple short 10 to 15 minute walks during the day. So I try to aim for a step count. I'm hitting around 10,000 steps a day, eight to 10,000. Posing. I do posing every day. I tren six days a week and I do three rounds each time I tren. Why guys don't practice posing is beyond me. I see dudes that get on stage and have zero clue how to pose. It's you spend all this time on contest prep, getting yourself in shape, and then you don't fucking know how to pose. Bro, come on. Plans and thoughts. Diet adherence. IMissed a couple meals on my low day because of my IBS. I can always feel when a flare up's coming because I start burping and I get heartburn and my gut starts rumbling and I know, shit, I need to pull back a little bit. And a lot of times it's just better for me to miss a couple meals, take a couple meals off, let my stomach settle down to prevent a flare up. Last year on prep, I just kept pushing through and I'm like, I gotta get this meal. I gotta get this meal. And then I would have these really bad flare ups, especially after I added the orals in. It's another reason why I've held off on the orals because usually once I start adding the orals in, my stomach turns into a mess. I figure if I can hold off on the orals, my stomach will be better off. My coach's feedback, the change here is he's talking about doing an unlimited high day tomorrow, possibly. We'll see. And I'm planning on two shows. Masters Nationals, July 18th. It's going to be crazy competition. There are a lot of dudes in my class, like some real dudes, dude dudes, guys that are coming out of the woodwork that are highly competitive. So it's going to be a good show. There are going to be some really quality competitors there. This is going to be the most competitive show I've ever been in, so I don't know what to expect. The way I look at shows, I don't care how it plays. Of course, I would like to place well. Who doesn't? Everybody that gets on stage thinks they should win. But I'm realistic. Really, the journey is for myself. I just try to go out there, be the best version of me I can be. And whatever happens, happens. I can't control what the judges think. I can't control who shows up. I can't control who's better than me. I can only control how good I am and how much effort I put in. So that's all I focus on. And plus, I just love doing this shit. I love seeing other guys succeed. I love being out there with guys that have watched me on YouTube and people that are my friends. I have several friends that arecompeting in this show. I have clients that arecompeting in this show. So it's fun. It's like playing a game of pickup basketball with your friends. You'recompetitive. You want to win. But at the end of the day, it's just about going out there and having fun. I'm never going to be Mr. Rapia. That ship is set sail. So this is really just a recreation for me. And my backup show is North Americans at the end of August if I want to go, if I want to take another crack at competing on a national show. So that's sort of my plan. All right, folks, that's it. Let me know if you have any questions in the comments section below. I really appreciate all the support I've been getting lately. I know I grump about the negative comments sometimes. There really aren't that many of them. I get a few here and there. That is to be expected when you're exposing yourself to the world. There's always going to be some people that are going to not like what you have to say. And that's OK. That doesn't bother me. But I really appreciate the people that support me and back me up. IMeet a lot of people through bodybuilding. They come up to me at shows. They come up to me at events. IMet several people at the event I was at the other weekend. Everybody's very kind. And I really appreciate it means a lot to me. I've been blessed to have this sort of support. And I love each and every one of you guys. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at BigP3rd at gmail.com.