WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right folks, Big Paul here today with a contest prep update. One week out from Masters Nationals. Well, technically when I'm recording this eight days, when you're watching this, it's going to be one week out. Getting down to the wire. A lot of things happened over this last week. It was kind of a shit week. It figures I'd say my worst week of prep until two weeks out, but things happen. You just roll with it. You keep going. I'm going to dig into all that in just one second. All right, so this week, yeah, this past week since the last check-in was a bit of a shit show. I got sick and I said on the last check-in video that I did with you guys that I was starting to feel a little rough and yeah, it hit me like a fucking ton of bricks over the last week. I don't know what happened. I got some kind of cold, flu, something. It seems to have hit everybody that's around me. I had a fever over the weekend. I was just feeling a little off and some people were giving me shit last week when I did my livEQ&A on Instagram saying that I couldn't breathe. I couldn't catch my breath. I needed to do more cardio. Well, it turned out I had some sort of respiratory bug and like everybody around me did too. I'm also 250 pounds and on a bunch of gear, so that probably doesn't help things, but yeah, I had a fever Saturday, Sunday, and I took off the gym both days. I rarely take off the gym. I honestly think this was the first two days that I completely missed the gym since I started prep. I don't think that's happened at all for me since I started prep. I'm in the gym seven days a week. Now, I don't lift seven days a week. I lift six days a week, so that extra day usually is just cardio and doing some posing. I'll go in and do that. People ask me if I stretch. I don't do any of that bullshit. Probably should. Anyway, vitals this week. My weight dropped down two pounds even after the calorie bump last week that Justin gave me. I'm down two pounds from my check-in weight last week, which was 242. Fasted, my daytime weight was like 251. My fasted weight, this is my low weight for the week. It usually I hit the high day, it comes back up, and then it just will kind of go back down. My low weight for the week, we should say, it was 242. Fasted, 249 in the evening at my daytime while walking around weights. I got up to after my high day, two days after my high day, I didn't bounce up that much after my high day this week. I think I got up to like 246, something like that, and my daytime weight was up to like 253, 254, even after all the carbs. I didn't do the 2,000 grams of carbs last week. I just did my regular 1,200. My height is six one and threEQuarters for those of you that care. People are obsessed with my height for some reason. Blood pressure is down again. It's been very low. That's why I dropped the Tom Sarton. I had somebody ask me, well, John Dewitt runs his Tom Sarton all in the show. Why don't you do that? It's just very simple for me. If I don't need it, I'm not going to take it. I think there is this cult of taking drugs proactively to prevent problems that you don't have. If you don't have high blood pressure, then don't take blood pressure medicines. If you do have high blood pressure, then you might need to take a blood pressure medicine. It's the same thing, you know, with other things. Like if you're having insulin sensitivity issues, then you might need metformin. If you don't, then don't take it. I don't know why people have this thing with taking drugs proactively for problems that don't have. Anyway, side rant, I'm back on track with this. I don't take Tom Sarton when my blood pressure is low. It's 110 over 70. What the hell do I need to take Tom Sarton for? Even with three grams of gear. People don't believe me. I've posted pictures up of my blood pressure several times. I don't know what to tell you. Sleep was one good positive about being sick. I took off the fat burners and I slept like a baby. Eight to nine hours of sleep plus a nap. Strength sucks right now. I will say this windstraw makes me feel like beef jerky. I think I need like two or three extra warm-up sets. I pulled my weights back down deliberately because I feel like I'm just on the cusp of tearing something. The strength is there, but I feel like if I push it, I'm going to rip something. And that's the problem I always have with windstraw. My joints hurt and then everything gets really, really, really, really, really tight when I run windstraw. I'm feeling, you know, somewhat better from the cold thing. I think today is the first day I've been kind of feeling better. I got back into the gym yesterday, which was Monday when I recorded this. No, sorry, Tuesday. Kind of had a shitty ass leg workout. It was my last leg workout before the show. So this is it for the leg workouts. Well, you'll see in the pictures here in a second, but I'm not looking my best right now. I looked my best, I think, about two weeks ago. But that's how it would happen sometimes. Just roll with it, see what happens. The Building Effective Cycles Ultimate Cheat Sheet is still 50% off. I am going to raise the price here soon. So if you want to grab it, grab it now. I'm going to pull it back up to, I think, 40 bucks is the full price. It's at 20 right now. IMean, it's 17, 18 pages. It is a cheat sheet. It is not an e-book. It's a summary of how to build in off-season or contest prep cycle or fat loss cycle. There is a compound choice cheat sheet in there, what compounds are used for what things, side effect mitigation, what potentially could be causing side effects, and very basic drug profiles for the common PEDs, steroids that people use while on cycle, and my personal experiences in dosing protocols with them. It's, I think, great value for the money. Pick it up. And for people that pick it up, I'm going to have some bonus offers coming up soon. So you keep an eye on your email. When you buy it, subscribe to my email list. You don't even have to buy it. If you subscribe to my email list, I have been sending out articles and videos and stuff to people that are on my mail list. You can go to my website and sign up for that, AntibioticBodyBuilding.com. I'm going to have some cool stuff coming up. I'm going to have some free stuff, some free like private webinars and things like that that are coming up. So keep an eye out. What I look like this week. These were pictures from this morning. After being sick, I look not only flat, but I look soft, both flat and soft. It's a beautiful look. Sucks. We'll see if we can get back on track. I've lost weight and I look softer. I hate this. Yeah, this was, man, it was just, I don't know. It's just a rough week. I don't know another way to put it. You can tell I was sick and my body just doesn't look healthy right now. I hopefully can bounce back before the show. You can see my dog in here hanging out. He's always near me. The Science of Antibiotics and PEDs eCourse, for those of you that want a deeper dive than the PED cheat sheet, the Science of Antibiotics and PED eCourse is a good place for you to go. I think there's 105 lessons, over 50 hours of content on there now. And it's like everything in depth with Curt Havens on PEDs. I have even broken it up into payments. I'm kind of regretting doing that because I get some assholes that don't pay. They pay one payment and then they don't pay again. But for right now, I have it broken up into five payments. If you can't afford the 345 upfront, it's cheaper to do the 345 and that's for a year access. We do monthly livEQ&As with that as well. This was last night at the gym. I looked a little better last night at the gym. This was post-lift. But still, you can see I'm just kind of watery, a little soft. I don't know, just not on point. And I'm kind of disappointed with how I look right now. I'm probably being overly critical of myself. But this is where I'm at. Hopefully, we'll get things lined back up. But I just felt awful all weekend. I've been working a lot on my posing this year. Really been trying to dial my posing in. Presentation matters. I see so many dudes. I'll ask them about posing. Guys that I work with, they'd be working with a posing coach. Now, have you been practicing posing? They're two weeks up from show. Yeah, I just started this week. You got to make posing, it's just like cardio. I do 20 to 30 minutes of posing every freaking day. It's part of your routine. Doesn't make any sense to me how guys will work their balls off to get in shape and then they can't present what they have on stage. You got to make posing a priority. So many shows are won and lost with posing. I think it was Steve Weinberger, head IFBB judge, I heard say he said, I can only judge what I can see. Keep that in mind, people. I have tried to change up my side chest pose. I don't know if I like this angle as much being a little more vertical and trying to get my glute to contract. I have a hard time getting my glute to contract on the side. But you can see I have some cuts on my glutes when I do that. But I can't get as much twist up front so I look narrower. I think I like the other look better. Diet right now, Justin pushed my food up last week. So it's the same. I'm at 525 grams of carbs on my medium days, 370 grams of protein, 40 grams of added fat. My low day, which is today, is 360 grams of protein, 300 grams of carbs, 84 grams of added fat. So there's a little extra added fat on the low day. And my high day, I don't know what it's going to be tomorrow. Justin will probably let me know that. Today, I would assume it's going to be my normal high day. No cheat meal this close to the show. I haven't had a cheat meal in two weeks. So the lasT3 weeks before the show, I cut the garbage cheat meals out. I just do one a week and I really try to clen up my food sources. So right now, my protein is primarily just cod, chicken, and some super lean steak. I'll do one serving per day. My carbohydrate sources right now are oats, rice, cream of rice. I'll probably drop the oats going into peak week and just stick with rice and cream of rice. My fats are flax oil, fish oil, olive oil, and some nuts, some almonds, not all almonds, and walnuts. Those are the only added fats that I'm using right now. So everything's very basic. I dropped all the sauces. I'm not using any sauces. I dropped all the sugar-free drinks. All we're drinking is water from here on in the show. Plain coffee, plain black coffee. Plain black coffee and I'm doing a couple cups of that a day. And that's pretty much it. It's going to be very dry generic food going into the show. I don't want anything that's going to cause water retention. I don't want anything that's going to cause any sort of gut distention or upset gut, keeping it very bland. If you can't make it two weeks eating bland food, I don't know what to tell you folks. Current PEDs, all the injectables are coming out tomorrow. This is a new protocol. I've never tried it this way before. This is sort of how AJ Sims does it. I don't want to say that this is exactly how he does it, but he and I talked. But I'm going to give this where I dropped the injectables a little earlier than I normally do. Usually I run them right up until a couple days before the show. I'm worried about flattening out, but we'll see. And I'm hammering the windstraw for the last week, doing 200 milligrams a day of oral windstraw. Estrogen management right now, 25 milligrams of eczema stain each day, 10 milligrams of tamoxifen, nine units of pharma GH right now. That'll get dropped three days out. It will be the last day for that. insulin only on my high day. IMay or may not use it for my carb up. We'll see. Here's the trade off with insulin. insulin will make you hold some water. So you have to see how you look. I don't, I'm not a water bag. I don't hold water as bad as some other guys. So I can probably get away with using insulin for my carb up. Some people can't. It's really case by case scenario. I dropped the ECA stack. I'm not using that anymore. I'm just using 80 micrograms of Klen so I can sleep. I was sick too. I didn't see any point in taking it. I needed to rest. I needed to recover. Health supplements, my typical stuff. Nothing's changed here. IMay drop some of these out on the peak week and just stick with the basics. Once again, I don't want anything that's going to upset my stomach. Glucose management on my high days, I use Suppressor Maximum First Attachment. It's their berberine product. You can pick it up over there at firstattachment.com. Discount code AB10 for 10% off. I'm not using it for my carb up. It's 10% off. General health, I use a Thorne Whole Food Multivitamin Two times a day. 2,000 milligrams of vitamin C, 5,000 units of vitamin D, 500 milligrams of magnesium glycinate. Cardiovascular health, 3,000 milligrams of fish oil, 2,000 milligrams of flax oil, 100 milligrams of quinoa co-10, 1,200 milligrams of citrus bergamot, 1,200 milligrams of red rice yeast extract. I find that that keeps my lipids reasonably in line. It's not like taking a statin or anything like that. It's not going to have that sort of effect, but it does help. I have noticed some improvement. My HDL does go up a bit. My LDL does come down a tad. It's not dramatic, but it is better than nothing. Liver, I run thEQRF product from First Attachment that has Milk Thistle, Tukka, and NAC in it. Kidney, I use their Renal Reset product as well. Discount code AB10. It's a stragglers based product. For digestion, I primarily run this on my high days when I'm hammering food. DAL, Oxbile with every meal, Digestive Enzymes with every meal, Insulium Husk Fiber nightly. I will tell you, and this is a mistake I see guys make at the end of contest prep. Guys will get constipated and then they throw more fiber at it thinking that's going to fix it and more vegetables. The issue when you're at the end of contest prep is that your colon has dried out. It's not a lack of fiber and you need to pull more fluid into the colon. Your fats are low, nothing is moving, so a good product to use is Miralax which will pull fluid into the colon and intestine and get things moving again. Adding more fiber a lot of times will make it worse and I've seen that with people. I've heard of guys getting impacted colons and having blockages from putting too much fiber in at the end. I usually simplify my foods at the end. I dropped the Tylenol Sardine as IMentioned earlier. I need to update that on here. trening, right now I'm just sort of winging it. Whatever I feel I can get away with but my structure and my workout. I run an RP system in the offseason. Right now it's just whatever I can get in. The last week before the show, we pull all the leg trening. It's essentially a deload. Weights come down to about 60 percent. 15 to 20 reps on everything. It's alternating upper body workouts. Push one day, pull the next, push, pull. With posing at the end, it's just a pump workout just to keep some stimulation and blood flow going. I'm not going to tren hard because of risk of injury. The windstraw definitely makes you like a porcelain doll when you run windstraw, especially at my age. Diet adherence was perfect this week. No deviations. I got all my food in even when I was sick. Usually my issue is not, I don't generally cheat, have off-schedule cheats. I haven't had one on prep that I can think of. I have missed a few meals. I have a shitty appetite and sometimes IBS flare-ups and I have missed a couple meals on prep. This past week I was perfect. Coach's feedback. Justin says he wants to push. Justin Harris, my coach, said he wants to push fullness going into the show and see what we can do there. We shall see. I've never done this before. Planning on two shows, Masters, Nationals, which is next Thursday. And if things go sideways there, then I will do North Americans in August. And folks, that's it. That's all I've got for you on this one. Let me know what you think in the comments section below. Appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for your support. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3o.com. BigP3o.com.