WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right folks, Big Paul here with you with another contest prep update. Give you a boobie belt. I'm five weeks out from Masters Nationals 2024 in Pittsburgh, PA. Things are rolling along. I'm going to give you an update of what's going on this week. Things have been a little bumpy this week, but such as prep, it never goes perfectly. All in all, the prep's been pretty great, but this week was a little bumpy, nothing crazy. And we'll dig into all that in just one second. All right, so my health and whatnot is where I'm at right now. The weight was down another two pounds this week, even after the food increase that Justin gave me last week, which is, I'm getting to that point where my metabolism just is starting to roll. And Justin bumped up my food. Maybe I need to cut back on the clenbuterol. I don't know. It's like a fine line. Do I keep pushing and get myself lean and then fill back up? Last year, I could have been a little bit fuller, I think, at the end. I don't know. It's a hard, it's a hard balance to strike sometimes. Like, I don't feel like my back was fully in, although I was pretty conditioned. I was probably, there was probably only like one or two people that were more conditioned than me, but I felt like it was one of the most conditioned in my class. But for me, fullness tends to go, so I probably should err on the side of fullness. I do want to get all the fat off pretty close. I got a little bit left on my back, but I do get concerned when I start losing weight fast. Two pounds is about the upper limit. Two pounds about the upper limit in the week. I really, the first half of the prep, I didn't lose any weight. It's just been here in the last week and a half that I've been dropping rapidly. I was kind of just like hanging out around 250, 252, somewhere like that. My daytime weight is 249 right now, but I am down two pounds this week. I was down four the week before, so six in two weeks. That's a little much for me. For those of you that care, my height is six one and threEQuarters. People had asked me about my height all the time. I posted my BP last week. I don't know. I've been checking. It's been, actually, it's been a little lower than the 120 over 80-ish. It's been more like 110, 115, over 70 here recently. That happens as I get leaner. I remember last, the last two years, I had to drop the Tomasartan. I'm down to just 20 milligrams a day now. I had to drop it completely out when I got towards the end of prep because it was just, my blood pressure was getting too low. My fasted glucose is somewhere around 90, sometimes a little lower. Somebody was asking me about, with all the carbs on the high day, if my blood sugar is okay, and the answer is yes. My blood sugar is just fine. I'm in a calorie deficit the rest of the week, and I'm on contest prep. I'm a big dude. I'm taking insulin on my high days to deal with it, too, so my blood sugar is going to be just fine. There's, you know, if I was in an off-season where I was power shoving a lot of food and not doing cardio and these other things that maybe it would be an issue to worry about, but sometimes I randomly go hypo. There was on my low day yesterday, there was a couple times I was like, my blood sugar got down in the 60s with no insulin. It just happens, and I'm not taking Trent either, so it just happens when you're on contest prep. Sleep. I had two really crappy nights of sleep. I have no idea why. NothinGHas changed, although I did up the Clen to 100 micrograms like a week or so ago, so maybe that's just finally catching up with me, so maybe it was the Clen messing my sleep up. I have no idea. We'll see. We'll take a look and see. Strength. And weirdly enough, my legs have been getting stronger throughout prep. I've been hack squatting again, and I blasted six plates on each side deep. No problem this week. As much, as little sleep as I'm getting, my legs have been very strong. It's really weird. My upper body's been getting a little bit weaker. That just tends to happen. My pressing movements seem to be the first thing to go down. In the past, when I've done a lot of the elliptical and stair climber, my legs tend to shrivel up and get weaker, but my legs have been holding on. Health-wise, I feel a little bit run down right now, but that's probably just from the lack of sleep. My shoulder is a little bit better. For me, like 80% is like 100% with my shoulder. I dinged my shoulder up, I don't know, three, four weeks ago. Three weeks ago, I think it was my dog yanked it. Take a break here for just a second. I just want to let you guys know I put together the Building Effective Cycles Ultimate Cheat Sheet. It's a four-page cheat sheet on how to build off-season cycles, cutting cycles. It has a compound selection chart showing you all the compounds of what they do and what the potential side effects are. It's super cheap. It's so cheap, it's almost free. It's $15. There's a link to it in the video description. It's half price right now. I'm just starting off. I'm going to raise the price here soon. Grab it while it's still half off. It's only $15. I think you'll get a good value out of it for $15. All right, so my progress pics. These, you have to excuse these. Usually, I take them fasted in the morning. I just did not have time this morning. It was just straight into work, out of bed. These are in the evening. I'm a little watery in the evening. That's just going to happen as you eat and drink fluids and you're on your feet during the day. You accumulate a little water. I'm a bit watery in these compared to what I normally am in my fasted pics, but a little bit leaner than last week. When you know you are ready for the stage is when you look good in your check-in pics under the crappy light. If you look good in the crappy light, if you're tight in the crappy light, you are ready to get on the stage. If you're not good in the crappy light, but you look good in the gym light, you're not ready for the stage. You see my side profile. My stomach here is a little distended, but that's after a full day of eating food. I had 400 grams of carbs today and almost 400 grams of protein. Just a little bit of distension and I just finished working out, so I had a lot of fluids, but that'll come down. My back. I feel like I've brought my back up over prep. Some of us just improved posing. I've gotten better with my posing. I still have some fat on my back. I've got the old man ass. I've got some loose skin. That'll tighten up when I drop water at the end. Everybody always asks me about the bumps and stuff on my back and they think it's acne. It's not acne. I've had multiple bouts of skin cancer and I've had multiple biopsies, so these red dots and bumps and shit that you see on my back are just from where I've had biopsies and also have moles on my back. This is why I don't tan. This is why I don't use melanotan. People ask me. I usually get a spray tan. I didn't get one this week, so spray tan is kind of fading off. The spray tan also makes some of the scars look darker than what they really are. Just for those of you that are subscribers to the Anabolic E-course, I just want to let you guys know that Kurt and I are going to be doing a livEQ&A for members only next Tuesday. It's an unfiltered livEQ&A for members of the Anabolic E-course at 8 p.m. You should have gotten a registration email. If you didn't, you can hit me up and I'll get that for you. For those of you that have not signed up yet, one of the perks of being a member. These are under the good gym light, so you can see the difference in pics from good gym light to crappy home check-in light. I look like I'm stage ready here. I do not look like I'm stage ready in the check-in pics. I look pretty good in the check-in pics, but I'm not quite there yet. A little bit of water, a little bit of fat left, but I'm getting close. I'm getting close. I probably say a few more pounds and I'll be there, but you can see here I look great in these. I look pretty stage ready, but if you want to be chiseled, you can see from the back. I don't quite have the same conditioning from the back that I do from the front. My front always comes in first. My back, my hamstrings always come in last. Just the way I am. It's weird, I'll get shredded glutes before my back gets lean. Side chest pose here. I didn't quite have my leg cranked enough to get the hamstrinGHang, but my hamstrings were a point of weakness that I had before and I worked hard on bringing them up and I think I did. Current macros, Justin changed these right when I did the last check-in video, so I hadn't started eating this amount of food yet. My medium days are up to 425 grams of carbs. Typically on a carb cycling diet, your carbs are going to be the wild card. Protein stays pretty consistent except it comes down a bit on the high day because carbs are protein sparing. You don't need as much protein when you are eating a bunch of carbs, so we bring the protein down. Also just to allow for the extra food, having a bunch of dense protein on top of eating all that extra food makes it hard on the gut. So Justin and I did a video on protein if you want to check that out. We posted a couple weeks ago on YouTube. It's up there if you want to take a look for it and we talk about protein requirements. Really, we probably overeat protein as bodybuilders. My typical day is 370 grams of protein. Honestly, I eat less in the off-season because protein is satiating and I just will eat it on contest prep just to keep me full. Also to potentially prevent some muscle wasting while you're in a calorie deficit. So you can see I lost weight on these macros this week. 425 grams of carbs, 45 grams of fat, and 370 grams of protein for a total of 35.85. I'm not counting trace macros from like fat from the meat and protein from the carbs. It's probably closer to 3,800 calories that I'm eating on a medium day and medium days are five days a week. I have one high day which is 1,125 grams of carbohydrates and 6,500 probably closer to 6,600 calories. My low day is one day a week. It's an off day and I'm around 3,000 calories on that day. Maybe a little bit more. Carbs are down to about 200. So I have an example. I posted a, it's up on Instagram. I posted an example of my high day on Instagram and also on YouTube. There's a post up. I also have a video up on YouTube if you want to search it. I did it, I don't know, six weeks ago with a full high day of eating if you want to see what a high day of eating looks like. But this is my high day from last week. My high day is tomorrow. I do my high days on Fridays right now. I'll probably have to shift that so it's on a line with my show coming up. But my high day was last Friday. So for meal one I had yogurt, Greek yogurt, fat-free Greek yogurt, chicken breast. You can see it's not a lot because the protein portions are smaller. And I had cream of rice with a Bon Mamon jam on it. Each of these meals are around 175 grams of carbs. My second meal was toast. It was sourdough toast with jam again in a protein shake. My third meal was rice and chicken with some Sour Patch Kids. Now with the candy I get fat-free candy, sugar candy. And if you look at the ingredients you can do glucose or you can do corn syrup. Not high fructose corn syrup. We don't want to do that. Regular corn syrup is glucose. Meal four is once again chicken and rice. We did some Mike and Ikes. I know people cringed at the Mike and Ikes. I don't know. I like Mike and Ikes. People say it's crappy candy. I like Mike and Ikes. And some simply orange juice. Meal five was Frosty Flakes. Once again, chicken and rice. So you can see here all those meals as close to zero fat as possible. The candies don't have fat in it. The jam doesn't have fat in it. A little bit of fat in the bread. I think there's like one gram per slice. There's no fat in the cream of rice. A little bit of fat in the chicken. Just a tiny little bit. This is 99% lean. There's no fat in the Frosty Flakes. So pretty much meals one through five are as close to zero fat as I can possibly get them. And that's because we're deploying insulin during that time period. I want to keep it. My last insulin injection is meal five. So there's probably abouT3 hours. I use Humalog. So it's cleared before I get to my cheat meal. And you can see my cheat meal is a relatively clen cheat meal. I did pineapple fried rice at my favorite Thai restaurant here in my area. It's since Thai. Shout out to Big Ross over there. Ross is a recreational bodybuilder. Used to be a client of mine. Ross makes some awesome Thai food. So I got pineapple fried rice with chicken and shrimp in it. And me and my friend we split a appetizer of calamari. It was a pretty small appetizer. But that's what I had. You know, relatively clen. There's a little extra fat in there. Ross tells me that he doesn't use any cheap oils. It's all just it's all good stuff there. And there's a bunch of vegetables and stuff in the pineapple fried rice. So you can see it was a huge portion. Satisfied me. It wasn't like some eating like some crap like pizza or something. That's usually what I'll do for a cheat meal. Something like that. A steak, sometimes a hamburger. I think tomorrow I'm going to go get a hamburger and fries. The cheat meals will probably get cut out, you know, three, four weeks out. Maybe I don't know. At the most I would push this two weeks out. But we'll just go with all clen foods going into the show. Current PEDs, nothinGHas changed since last week. You know, you guys know my whole tren story. I broke up a tren. Antibiotics is testosterone at 150 milligrams a day, not a week. Primo 150 milligrams a day. Masteron 150 milligrams a day. A gram a week of each. I know that sounds like a lot. Estrogen management, 25 milligrams of eczema stain every other day. No tamoxifen right now. People are asking me if my estrogen is crushed. My estrogen is not crushed. I don't know. Maybe it is. Maybe that's why I feel a little rundown. But you kind of have to beat your estrogen into the ground if you want to get absolutely shredded. That's just how it is. We don't want to do that year round. It's not good for us to have crushed estrogen. I doubt it's crushed. I'm a high estrogen converter. If I took my blood panels, when I've done this before, I'm usually like somewhere in the 20s, which is still within normal range for an adult male. Kurt Havens and I did a video on estrogen if you want to check it out so you know what appropriate estrogen levels are for men. Guys seriously get the estrogen thing wrong all the time and run their estrogen way too freakinGHigh. Ended up with a bunch of side effects because of it. So if you want to learn about proper estrogen control and where you should be, if you don't want to be a menstruating woman or you know, I'd check that out. fat burners, peptides, sorry. HGH, nine units a day of nine units of Pharma, HGH, I'm not going to talk brands. Humalog as needed on the high day. I usually at the end of prep, I don't need it because I start goinGHypo just randomly. Although I'm not using tren this year, so maybe I won't go hypo randomly. fat burners, I am running an ECA stack, 200 milligrams of caffeine, 25 milligrams of ephedrine, 81 milligrams of low-dose aspirin. It's supposed to be twice a day, but I've only been running it once a day because I can't sleep if I take the second dose. I skip the fat burners on the high day because you're not burning any fat on that day anyway because you're in a pretty big calorie surplus and it helps me sleep. I use that day as a rest and recovery day and 80 micrograms of Clin. Actually, that went up to 100, so that's incorrect. Health supplements, my glucose management, I use Berberine on high days, suppressor from first detachment, discount code AB10 if you want to pick that up, their suppressor max product. General health, whole food, multivitamin Two times a day, 2,000 milligrams of vitamin C, 5,000 units of vitamin D, 500 milligrams of magnesium, glycinate. Cardiovascular health, I do 3,000 milligrams of fish oil per day for DHA and EPA, 2,000 milligrams of flax oil, 100 milligrams of Q10, 1200 milligrams of citrus bergamot, 1200 milligrams of red rice yeast extract for liver. I do milk thistle in a tug cup. I'll save the NAC for post-contest. Kidney health, I use Astragalus. It's primary ingredient in the renal reset from first detachments. People were asking me about my creatinine levels. I showed them last week and they're within normal range. They typically are when I run this product. Sometimes they're a little elevated when I don't and it pulls it down. Digestion, for digestion I use ox bile with each meal on high days, digestive enzymes with each meal on high days, psyllium husk fiber nightly to help poop. Pooping, as you guys know that have done contest prep before, can be a problem at the end of contest prep. RX meds, I actually cut the Tomasartan dose in half. It's on 20 milligrams now. trening, I'm not going to go into the whole trening thing right now, but you guys know my split. I do an RP style trening. The goal on contest prep, so you know, is not to lose muscle, don't get hurt and lose fat. That's it, period. If I can get a little stronger on some exercise, that is a win, but I am not pushing the trening. I see a lot of guys get themselves hurt at the end of contest prep, lifting like it's the offseason. You're not going to be gaining muscle, so there's no point to going to extremes, doing force reps, setting PRs, all this dumb shit that I see guys do at the end of contest prep and then they end up with muscle tears. You're going to be dried out. You're going to be vulnerable to injuries. You're going to be fatigued. Recovery is going to stink. Why would you do that? Do a little more volume, maybe keep a rep or two in the tank. Try not to lose strength. If you feel good and you can push the strength up a little bit, but don't go to failure, probably a smart thing to do on contest prep. I've heard, you know, all these old dunderheads that, you know, look, I like hit trening. I did hit trening for years. I'm not trying to slam hit trening, but you see a lot of the hit guys tear muscles on contest prep. I think about Dorian Yates, every muscle he tore was at the end of contest prep and I think he even acknowledges that he probably should have pulled back a bit in his contest prep and he would have extended his career. Right now my rep scheme is 10 to 12 on all compounds, 12 to 15 on isolations. I don't do any barbell compound movements. I don't do any squats, deadlifts or bench presses. So like I'm talking about like machine presses, leg presses, shit like that. 12 to 15 reps on isolation movements. People ask me about warmups all the time. What I do for warmups, enough to be ready. That's it. No more, no less. MEV to MRV, you know, my volume range is somewhere in the 10 to 20 sets per week, just depends on the body part. On contest prep, I don't have a programmed out volume progression. I just kind of listen to my body and if my body's feeling run down, I'll just pull back a little bit. If I feel good, I'll push it a little bit. I just listen to my body and try not to force the issue. Cardio right now is doing 20 minutes of walking five times a week. I know people laugh at me doing 20 minutes of walking. I just don't need to do a ton of cardio. I never have for contest prep. Maybe I'll crank that up a little bit. I'm probably doing a little bit more because I take some short walks during the day. So it's probably a bit more than that. Posing, I do. I consider posing, it's almost like cardio. IMean, you're burning calories. I do a lot of posing. I probably do 20 to 30 minutes of posing six days a week post-workout and I get a good sweat going when I'm posing. IMean, I'm sweating like crazy on posing, more than I do on cardio. So you are definitely burning calories when you're posing. I don't know why people wouldn't consider that. So instead of doing two hours of cardio, do an hour of cardio, an hour of posing. I don't know. Just a thought. Planning thoughts. My diet was perfect this week. Didn't goof anything up. Coach's feedback, he added more carbs last week to slow weight loss. I'll see what the check-in tomorrow looks like. I'm planning two shows, Masters Nationals on July 18th. North Americans at the end of August is my backup show. That's it, bros. That's all I got for you on this one. Get some more boobie bouncing in. Pick up that book, or not ebook, I guess, the cheat sheet, the cycle cheat sheet. It's cheap, man. 15 bucks. If you want to support the channel, grab it. I'd appreciate it. I put the money back in the coffers to buy new cameras. I'm going to set up a studio upstairs so I have a better production quality. It'll go back into the fun for new cameras and getting a set set up. I probably won't put it in my pocket. trening and stuff was for that. But anyway, I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for watching my channel. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com