WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A for you. This week I got some great questions. Some of them are from my school members community at school. I also took somEQuestions from the comments section on the post I have up for requests for questions on YouTube. I have some really good stuff this week. We have a thing about HCG. I have a question on Masteron, whether or not it lowers estrogen or leaves estrogen alone. We'll talk about that. Strategies for carb cycling on a deload week, how that works, and many, many morEQuestions. Before we dig into that, most of thesEQuestions did come from my school anabolic bodybuilding members community. As IMentioned, you can go over there and join for 30 bucks a month. It's super cheap. I answer questions over there directly, so if you havEQuestions that you want answered, I can answer them over there. I also give members first priority for the live or for thEQ&As that I do weekly. There is also a section over there with a classroom where there's just various coursework on building basic cycles, insulin, stuff like that. Also, folks, I just want to remind you that I do have a sale going on this week, the Memorial Day sale for the Science of Antibiotics and PEDs eCourse. It's the biggest sale of the year. It's 30% off and you can save over $100 on the course, so if you've been waiting to pick it up, now's the time to pick it up. Link is in the video description below. You can use the code USA at checkout for that discount. Anyway, folks, enough of that stuff. Let's dig into thEQuestions in just one second. All right, first question I have up is from the Antibiotic Bodybuilding School members community. This one is from Paul Robinson. Paul said, on a carb cycling diet and a fat loss phase, what is the best approach during a deload week where you're not trening or just going like low days or stick to medium days to aid recovery and then before the next trening block? Usually what I will do, it just depends. Sometimes on a diet phase, you need to wash off some fatigue and pulling back your trening intensity can give you a break from that fatigue and you're still going to be in a deficit more than likely with everything except for the high day. So I just leave the diet alone during a deficit phase where we're in a fat burning phase. During the offseason when we are in a caloric surplus, I'll either pull the high days down to one or take them out completely, but I would say during a cut phase, I would use that week as a recover week and leave the calories, leave the diet in place. If you go into a further deficit during that week, you're probably just going to create and have more fatigue, not give your body a chance to recover and I usually leave that high day out. There are some extreme or leave that high day in. There are some extreme cases where I will yank the high day out if somebody's really struggling with fat loss, but my preference is to always leave that high day in. I find that when I take that high day out, that we just have more fatigue, we just have more issues. People have, you know, just this mounting fatigue that never gets caught back up and then you just dig yourself into a hole that you can't get back out of if you go too far with it. Now with that said, I think people can get over, you know, concerned with fatigue sometimes, but you're more likely to have fatigue and need to manage that fatigue during a caloric deficit than you would be in a surplus, so I would just leave the food in place during that deload week on a carb cycling diet. All right, next one is from Will Davido. Will asks, any tips or tricks outside of the usual improve your sleep hygiene stuff that I hear for sleep disruptions that are likely driven by gear? I am trying to pinpoint what it could be, but my sleep seems to be abruptly have gotten worse in the past few months and I'm not running a wild amount. TRT plus 210 milligrams of testosterone a week, five to six units of GH a day, and Dr. Dean's mitochondrial fat annihilation stack. My guess would be that the fatigue issues that you're having and the lack of sleep, you know, this kind of goes back to what I was talking about in the sleep disruptions, have nothing to do with the actual anabolics that are in place. It's a pretty mild load of anabolics. It could be the mitochondrial, the mitochondrial enhancers. I have found that those have, do seem to have some sort of a stimulatory effect with me and disrupting my sleep, but more than likely, it's just being in a caloric deficit. I find that as you get in a caloric deficit, you get deeper into a cut that sleep disruptions happen. I don't know if it's some sort of fight or flight response that happens when you're deep in a caloric deficit, but it seems like your body's like, let's get the fuck up motherfucker and go kill a buffalo. You're starving. We can't go all night without sleep. I also find that when people are in a deficit during a fat burning phase, that they tend to consume more caffeine because they are fatigued. I'm guilty of this myself. I've been on preps before where I start just getting tired and I need to keep moving and keep moving and I'll drink more coffee or have an extra energy drink and not think about it or a little extra pre-workout and not think about it. And then I realize later on that it's starting to affect my sleep. I would say this, this is what I do with my guys that are in diet phases that are having sleep disruptions in this way that you could kind of experiment and see what's going on. I would drop the mitochondrial stack for like two days, have a high carbohydrate day. See if your sleep improves after that high carbohydrate day, basically like a high carb, low fat day. See if you get a good night's sleep after that high carb day. I'm betting that you do that you get a good night's sleep. And that to me would, would indicate that it's either some stimulatory effect from the mitochondrial stack. I'm not 100% sure what you're running. I'm guessing probably SLUPP332, MOTC, maybe some retrotrutide. I did find that retrotrutide kind of messed up my sleep when I first started it. It seemed to be disruptive of it. But I, I would try those out. I usually look for the root cause of the sleep disturbances first before I resort to secondary things to, to improve sleep. You know, sometimes piling more supplements and drugs on the problem just masks the underlying issue. But my guess is that it would be something to do with that. Now, if that doesn't work and you want to continue to push the deficit, sometimes sleep just suffers and we have to deal with that. Some strategies that I usually use, we already talked about magnesium and there's magnesium and melatonin and sleep hygiene and all that bullshit. I, the whole sleep hygiene thing, I don't know. I think people, you know, I'm not saying that it doesn't have some merit, but people overthink that shit. Just turn the lights off. I like having a fan blowing only because I get hot. Make sure you're in a dark room. IMake sure it's quiet. I also like to use a little bit of THC and CBN when, when sleep is struggling. CBN seems to knock me out better than anything like Ambien does. Magnesium certainly does help a little bit. GABA can help. There's some other things that are going on, but I would guess that it's probably the mitochondrial stack and the combination of being in a deficit. So I would try dropping that for a couple of days first, see what happens. Give yourself a high carbohydrate day and see if you can get a good night's sleep and then you'll have your answer. All right, next one is from Jiten Kumar. Jiten asks, does eating in a continuous calorie deficit, 500 to 700 calories, slow down metabolism? And should I take griefy days at maintenance calories per week to prevent this? Well, eventually if you're in a caloric deficit, your body will adapt over time. This is what I've seen. There's a million different things we can do to kind of stave some of this off, but ultimately it is going to down-regulate over a period of time. And this is some sort of adaptive genetic thing over the period of time. If we, if our metabolism stayed high in a food-restricted state, we would have starved and died when we were living in caves, you know, 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 years ago, whatever it was. That campfire, living by that campfire in the cave when we couldn't find food for weeks on end. If you didn't have some sort of metabolic down-regulation or adaptation, you would have just wasted away and die. Having a high metabolism is actually a disadvantage in a survival state. So our bodies are evolved to survive, you know, long periods of not eatinGHumans. I, you know, I don't know for sure, but I would speculate that cavemen probably went days, sometimes weeks, without eating. That would be my speculation, or they would forage for just whatever they could find. And they were in extreme calorie deficits for a long time. And I would assume that metabolism has to slow down to adapt for that. And what I've seen as I diet people, as you get deeper into the diet, you have to cut calories more. People think that they're in a bigger calorie deficit. No, it's not that you're in a bigger calorie deficit. You're probably, and actually the net energy balance is probably about the same or a little bit more. Also, as you get lighter, your body is just using less energy. There's also that factor too. A 250 pound body at rest is going to burn more energy than a 200 pound body. Typically, even if you're fat, there's going to be, you know, that, that factors into a certain degree. But I do find that sprinkling in a high carbohydrate day periodically, keeping the fats low in that way, you can leverage the energy management systems of the body, how the body partitions new nutrients to allow yourself to have a day where you can actually be in a caloric surplus and not gain fat. And that's sort of the gist of carb cycling. You can push the carbs super high one day a week and leave the fats as low as you possibly can. And if you're in that state, assuming that you're going to be glycogen depleted at that point, those excess calories within reason are likely going to be stored as glycogen, a good percentage of them rather than fat. So in theory, you could potentially be in a caloric surplus and not gain any body fat during that period of time. I've seen that work over and over again with bodybuilders. So most bodybuilders at an elite level do some sort of caloric cycling like that. I don't think it's an excuse to go out and eat a bunch of shit food. That's not going to be beneficial for your metabolism or for your diet and goals. But I do think a high carbohydrate day sprinkled in strategically can be very beneficial. That is something that I would consider. And also there is potential for some sort of metabolic boost from that. You're not going to completely stave off metabolic down regulation as you diet, but it does seem to hold it off to a certain degree and also help fill a glycogen just, you know, allows you to get a good night's sleep. Like IMentioned in the previous question also helps with fatigue a little bit. So I do like sprinkling those in periodically on diets. All right. Next question is from Scott Brinkman. Scott asks, I've been competing for two years. I've done seven local shows. Wow. That's a lot, Scott. It's more than I've done. Now I'm planning to fly across the country to compete in a pro qualifier in a city I've never been to before. And I don't know anybody, any advice for me to keep this as simple and stress free as possible. What do you wish you would have known the first time you did something like this? I would say if you're flying across the country and you're doing a national show, I would get in early. That was a mistake IMade when I did Masters USA's. I flew out a day and a half before I was on stage and I had a bunch of fucking water retention when I got off the plane. I didn't know where anything was. It was just extra stress. And I probably wasn't at my best on stage. Most pros I talk to, they get into wherever they're going to four or five days, sometimes a week in advance. That way you can get settled in, get into your routine, understand where everything is at, get your body acclimated to the change. Every time I fly, I've seen this, especially with bigger guys, bodybuilders, most of the time when you fly, you're going to have some water retention afterwards. And it takes a day or two to clear that back off. If there's also stress, that is part of it too. I, another piece of advice I would say is staying in an Airbnb with a full kitchen rather than a hotel. If you'recompeting, having to deal with meal prepping in a hotel room with a microwave and a mini fridge fucking sucks, man. And a lot of times beds suck in hotels and things like that. I would say an Airbnb is probably a better way to go. Now, some dudes don't like to be far away from the show event and they would prefer to be in the host hotel so they can just walk downstairs and do their tan and all that stuff. If it keeps your stress lower than maybe that's the strategy to go with. But I like having an Airbnb so I can set up like it's home, be able to cook my food, spread out, have a full-blown kitchen, a couch I can sit on, a TV that I can watch, things like this that help me relax and get ready for the show. Because a lot of it getting ready for the show is just not having yourself stressed out. If you're so stressed out, you can literally take yourself out of place from being super stressed out and overthinking and having extra worry on you when you're going into a show. If you're in a place where you can chill and relax, I would also say having somebody with you can be helpful too. I, you know, I'm typically a loner and I like to do things alone, but going into a show it's nice having a pair of backup hands, that person to shave your ass for you, that person to help you pick up food if you need to pick up food, you know, drive you where you need to go when you're out of it on show day or you can just take an Uber. I usually just use Ubers. I don't worry with driving anywhere. I just use the Uber. Things like that I think are going to help you. I also bring my own pillow with me, a noise maker. There's some things that I do to make myself more comfortable so I can sleep at night. I like my own pillow. Just, you know, I know it seems silly, but you know, just little things like that that you can do to make yourself a little more comfortable. If stress levels are lower, you're going to look better on stage. All right, next question here is from Adam Haley. Adam asks, what is the best way to know exactly how much protein, fat, carbohydrates we're getting in from specific foods that do not come packaged like ground beef, chicken wings, chicken breast, etc. Different websites show different amounts. Well, I'll tell you this, that the food accounts that you find on most websites are horribly inaccurate and there's only so accurate you can be with the food measurements. Anyway, it's not like they're engineering cows in a lab. I've heard Justin Harris say this a million times so I'm quotinGHim here. You know, and in every cow has a different body fat level and it's not when the butcher's making it that they know exactly what 96% lean looks like. So you can't count on the calories being 100% accurate in the proteins that you eat because these are living, breathing beings with different body compositions. Some may have more water content than others, which would make the protein content lower per ounce. Some might have higher body fat than others and the butcher, you know, is not always paying attention. It's like my buddy Colin, who does the podcast with me, used to work in a butcher shop and he said, you know how we used to identify 90-10 and 80-20? We just look at the meat and say, yeah, this one looks like 90, this one looks like 80 and we toss it in the grinder. And so it's not like the food counts are going to be completely accurate. Honestly, the most accurate food counts are going to be the highly processed foods because they're under more strict measurement and processing guidelines than say, you know, organic foods. Organic foods or, you know, not necessarily organic foods, but foods that come in their natural state, I should say, are going to probably have less accuracy than your shit processed foods, like a box of cereal or something. Your piece of steak, your piece of chicken, your radish is going to be different from one to the other, but it's going to be similar. So, you know, there's this thing in statistics called accuracy versus precision. And when we try to accurately account for, or precisely account for an inaccurate reference, whereas, you know, the food labels, the USDA, I believe, or the FDA, whoever regulates it, I think it's the FDA that regulates it, I believe, don't quote me on this, but I believe the allowable margin of error for food counts is up to 20%. So that food label can be up to 20% off. And then not to mention the stuff that you find on different sites on the internet can be all fucking over the place. So the one thing that we can precisely control, we cannot precisely control the accuracy of the food label. So we know for 100% certain that the food labels are going to be highly inaccurate. So what I do is I find one, I find, you know, a food count that I'm going to use, and I just stay consistent with that food count. What matters more is being consistent in your measurement and preparation method. So if I eat 160 grams of rice, this is why I don't count calories anymore. I've gotten away from counting calories. This is why I know if I eat 160 grams of rice and I cut it down to 130, that there is going to be a corresponding drop in calories. So the measurements we can accurately control, the way that I prepare that rice, I can accurately control, but I cannot control the accuracy of that food label. That is up to somebody else. So we need to be precise with our measurements. And when we're precise with our measurements, we're going to have a better result in the end. So just pick a number that is relatively accurate. I like chronometer. That's the one that I use, that I work with my clients. I suggest to them, or you know, my fitness pal, a lot of people use. Just pick a number, go with that. I also, with meats, I always do cooked weights with meat because there's a lot of water loss. I get guys all the time saying to me, you know, like, well, that measurement you use for chicken is not accurate. It really should be more than that. No bro, that is the uncooked weight. You're going to lose 20 to 30% of the weight of the chicken just through the cooking process with the water loss. With meats, there's a considerable amount of, you know, so that chicken that might be, I'm just throwing arbitrary numbers out there, but that chicken that's 220 grams precooked, after it's cooked, it might be 160, 170 grams is going to have the same protein count. The protein count didn't change when you cooked it. The water weight went down. So you see here, this is another variable that we're talking about where it's, so I would say the more accurate weight for your meats is going to be the cooked weight. There are some things that you can't, you just can't measure cooked, you know, so for example, like oatmeal, there's going to be the variable of how much water you put in it and your method of cooking it, how long you cooked it and all that shit. So really the dry weight is probably going to be the more accurate way to cook it. But make sure that your preparation methods are consistent and that the way you measure and the way you weigh everything is consistent. And that's the part that you can control. Don't over stress about the food label. People get too obsessed with the food labels. Chad Munoz, he's got a question here. When going into peak week, do you change the way your athletes do cardio and tren? Yes, I do. When we're going into peak week, we are done with contest prep. We are done with burning fat. We are done with all that shit. Peak week for me, and I think what gets the best look on stage is to pull back a bit. We pull the cardio back, put a little more food back in, pull the trening back a bit and get people freshened up for the stage. After you've been pushing for all that time, usually you look like dog crap, run over twice. And when does everybody say, I looked my best? Every single fucking bodybuilder you know, this is like, God damn, I wish I looked the way I did five days after my show on stage. That's when I looked my best, the week after the show. So why not make the show day like the week after the show? I get guys that are grinding their dicks into the dirt all the way up to show day, and then they look like a dog turd, run over twice on stage. Not a good look. We've all seen that dude that's over fatigued. Now, not to say there are some guys, you know, some guys get too worried about the fucking fatigue and never really get themselves in shape. The caveat here is that you have to be fat free before you do this. So usually I would say the goal for contest prep is to have yourself fat free about two weeks out, 10 days to two weeks out from the show. Be ready. You're absolutely ready. All the body fat is going off of you. You can dial that cardio back. You can dial the intensity of the trening back. You can put more food back in. No Hail Mary passes, but we put more food back in and have you looking fresh, full, and filled out on stage, ready to go. Not a big mess. Wash off some of that stress and that fatigue and have your body looking great, fresh, ready to go on stage. I think that is the strategy. Running it all the way up until show day. I just don't think in most instances that is the best approach to go. Now, there are some situations where dudes just aren't ready in time and you got to break their balls all the way up until show day. I've had situations like that. Now, the last possible day that I'll push people is maybe three to four days out if I have to push it that far. Then, at that point, if you're not ready, you're not going to be ready. If you aren't looking good three to four days off from the show, then you're fucked at that point anyway. You're not going to win anyway. You might as well do your peaking protocol, put a little food back in, and then just do the damn show and go back to the drawing board and try it again next year. That's my strategy. Be ready early, pull the cardio back, pull the trening back, put some food back in, get fresh, make peak week like the week after the show. I'm not saying go eat ape shit, you know, go and, you know, just eat like an asshole, you know, go crazy and hit the buffet and all that stupid shit like dudes will do. Don't do any of that, but we put some good food back in, get guys freshened up, have them look great on stage. All right, next question here is from Adam Haley on injection sites. In one of your videos, Kurt mentions that different injection sites can change the absorption rate in the total serum testosterone levels, delts versus glutes. Is there any way that I can see the data table format for that in the locations, the best locations for intramuscular injections, also different types for different types of injectables? Um, I don't, I couldn't find the, I remember seeing there was a study or something somewhere. I think Todd, Dr. Todd passed it to me sometime. He would probably know better than me. Um, I, but I remember Todd sharing a thing where it showed the absorption rates of the different, um, uh, the different injection sites. From what I recall, I think the ventral glute was the best injection site. Um, I know delts are another one that doctors prefer when giving intramuscular injections. Really, I, I've, in my opinion, there's only really three choices. You, you have your quad, you have your, um, you have your ventral glutes. You have to be careful with the glutes. You want it on the upper outsidEQuadrant of the glute. If you get too close to the center line of the glute, there's all sorts of nerves and shit right through there. I hit my sciatica one time. Um, Jesus fucking Christ. That was, that was a nightmare. Um, I, I don't know how IManaged to fucking do that, but that was, I couldn't feel my toes for like a week, two weeks, I don't know. And then had just horrible pain in my leg. It was terrible. Uh, the shoulder, thEQuad, and a lot of it too, like it's just, you know, where the least amount of scar tissue is there. There's a bunch of different factors. I would think that we're going to affect absorption. Blood flow would be one major one. If there's poor circulation in a certain area, if there's a bunch of scar tissue in there, I did, I'm sure that would affect the absorption rate. Um, you know, the density of the muscle, like I don't have a lot of meat on my glutes. And so I can't do large shots of my glutes because my glute muscles are just tiny. They aren't that big. Some dudes got giant ass glutes and you can fit full three ccs in there. I can't do that with my ventral glutes. It's just not that big. My delts are big. My quads are big. That's where I like to do. I know a lot of guys do shots in their lats. I can't reach my lats. I'd have to have somebody else do it. I've never done a lat shot. I don't know. That seems insane to me, but I would say really the primary sites are going to be delts. I know that's what most medical professionals use a delts or glutes. I don't, I don't know that I've heard of a doctor using quads for an injection, injection sites. Quads can be a tricky one too, because there's a lot of vascularity in there. You can hit blood vessels, um, gank nerves. I've had a lot of guys. I've, I know guys that have gotten abscesses and quads. Quads seem to be an area where an abscess seems to be a higher risk. I don't know. I've seen a lot of dudes fuck up their shoulders too and get abscesses in their shoulders. I I've always preferred quads for me, but you know, everybody's different. I wouldn't spend a lot of time stressing about where you get the best absorption rate with. I would probably, for me, like the driving factor would be scar tissue, rotating sites, making sure that you're not getting a bunch of scar tissue accumulation from overdoing. I know there's dudes that will probably do the injections in the same, same place all the fucking time. I saw a guy at North American's backstage last year that had just huge lumps on his left delt. So clearly he was usinGHis right hand and just injectinGHis left delt all the time. Like that must have been his only fucking injection, injection site. I'm like, dude, what the fuck are you doing, man? You're, he had boulders all over his, uh, left delt. It was fucking crazy looking. I've seen dudes with the giant lumps on their glutes too. You look at some old, old pictures of Ronnie, he had big, big lumps on his glutes. But I would say, you know, just rotate sites. Just don't worry. Don't, don't worry about, if we're down to that nitty gritty where we're worrying about absorption rates in different muscles that there's probably a million other things that you could button up first. All right. Next question here is from Socho 1094. What's up, big Paul. Do you find using that HCG in a small dose while on cycle instead of just PCT makes the actual PCT recovery process easier and faster for getting off gear completely? Well, first off, I don't know anybody comes off gear completely. Do people really cycle on and off anymore? I just don't know of anybody that does that anymore. I would say once you're on test, you're probably going to be on test for life. I, I just, you know, here's my thing. I've, this is a rant that I've made a million times and I'll make it again. If you're going on test just to come off for like two months and then go back on, that is absolutely pointless. There's no point in doing that. You're not providing yourself any sort of benefit. You don't cycle on and off your blood pressure medicine. You don't cycle on and off your cholesterol medicine. You don't cycle on and off of, off of birth control, which is also a steroidal hormone if you're a woman to, for whatever. I would say unless you're coming off for more than six months or there's some sort of fertility reason why you're coming off, coming off for a year, six months, probably a year, I would say then there's no reason to come off completely. You just run TRT and save yourself the trouble of being on all of these nasty PCT drugs. What I found with ACG, some dudes love to run it because it does increase the size and fullness of their testes. A lot of dudes get obsessed with the size of their balls and they think that women care about how big their nuts are. I've never once met a woman that says, Ooh, look how big your balls are. Or I'm impressed. I've never heard any woman say that she cared about the size of a dude's grapefruits. Now the eggplant, we can argue that one. They do care. You know, there are plenty of women that care about the size of the eggplant, but the grapefruits, nobody gives a fuck about. They can be the size of grapes. They don't have to be grapefruits. So if that's a reason you're worried about it, then don't worry about it. Now, HCG, if there are fertility reasons you're concerned about, you're trying to have children, you want to have children long-term. Even then, I know plenty of guys that have just come down to, come down to TRT doses, used HCG and have been able to get their wives pregnant. I just had a client that just did it, uh, you know, quickly. IMean, it didn't take very long, just some HCG and some FSH. And he got his wife pregnant quickly. So HCG mimics luteinizinGHormone and stimulates the Leydig cells in the testes. And then you get spermatogenesis and you're going to have increased fullness of your testicles. You're going to have increased testosterone production from the HCG, but it does also seem to increase estrogen issues. I honestly, I've gone back and forth on it. When I was younger, I used to run 500 micrograms, like three times a week just to keep my balls full because I was that dude that cared about the size of my balls. I didn't felt self-conscious about my balls being small, but Hey, this, I think it was the great Rich Piana said small balls makes your pecker look bigger. So there is that. So it is all an optical illusion. So you, that is a benefit of having small balls as the eggplant are going to be, is going to be a bigger, or I don't know, maybe it does, maybe it doesn't, who cares? I'm too old to give a fuck about that shit. But I would say really the only compelling reason to use HCG is that for some reason you were concerned about fertility and maintaining your fertility for having babies. If you are planning to come off permanently, like if you're just going to be on for a short period of time, then maybe that's a reason. But I would say if you're blasting a thousand milligrams of testosterone, blasting bodybuilding doses, HCG is probably not going to do jack shit for you. If you're on TRT doses, then it, there might be some benefit for it. But personally, I see no compelling reason to run it anymore. If you're worried about having kids somewhere down the road, then you know, it's, you get something you could throw in the mix. All right. Next question. And the last question we're saving the best for last is steroid question. It's been, this episode has been light on steroid questions for all the people preaching blood work. How is there still so much confusion if Masteron actually lowers E2 or not? IMean, I don't think there's confusion. We are pretty confident that Masteron acts like a serum, not an aromatase inhibitor. It doesn't seem to directly have an effect on estrogen levels. Although all DHT derived steroids do seem to have some effect, but Masteron itself doesn't directly aromatize to estrogen. So there's nothing there to aromatize. It seems to have a serum-like effect on estrogen, a selective estrogen receptor modulator from what we understand. And don't quote me on this. I'm not a biochemist. Dudes that are out there that are way smarter than me on this. From what I understand, it does act in like a serum. It was originally developed as a breast cancer medication and used for that purposes. And then, you know, they found out that there were better options like actual serums like tamoxifen and then later on raloxifene that Masteron was tossed in the trash as far as a breast cancer treatment, because it was too androgenic and they were trying to isolate just the selective estrogen receptor modulation effects. So Masteron was kind of tossed to the side. Masteron, from what I've experienced, is a pretty strong androgen, you know, not on the level of, say, Tren or something like that. A very mild anabolic has, does not convert to DHT or convert to estrogen directly. There's no path for reduction there. It's already reduced. So there is no risk of additional estrogen elevations or DHT converting directly to DHT, even though it is a DHT derivative. It selectively binds with the androgen receptor. It doesn't seem that, from blood work I've seen, that Masteron has any profound effect on lowering estrogen. It does seem to mediate some of the side effects from estrogen, such as, you know, gynecomastia and things like that. It does seem to reduce gynecomastia or prevent gynecomastia. So the benefit of using Masteron would seem to be that it would allow you to reap a lot of the benefits from the testosterone that you have in your cycle converting to estrogen without smashing your estrogen, without actually smashing estrogen through aromatase and inhibition. It allows your body to have some estrogen present, reap the benefits from the estrogen, and selectively block it at the breast tissue and possibly other places so you don't have to worry about gynecomastia. I don't know of anybody that's gotten gyno running Masteron. It would be impossible as far as I know. So Masteron is a non-aromatizable DHT derivative. It does not directly reduce to estrogen. Its androgenic effects can oppose the action of estrogen. All androgens can. What we believe is that it down-regulates the ER estrogen receptor expression in selective tissue in the body. It seems to be the breast tissue which limits the effects of estrogen, but doesn't actually lower estrogen to any significant degree on its own. And it was originally developed for post-menopausal breast cancer treatment. Now there's better treatments such as, you know, riloxifene and tamoxifen that are used now instead, without all the side effects that come along with a synthetic androgen for women. But I guess in post-menopausal it doesn't really matter at that point, and if you're dealing with breast cancer. I would say this. I like some combination of Masteron or Primobolan when I'm on contest prep. My reason being is that they both work differently when it comes to addressing estrogen. Primobolan seems to be pretty potent at lowering estrogen. Masteron does not lower estrogen, but Masteron does act like a serum. So we get both the effects of the serum-like properties with Masteron in the suicide inhibition from the metabolites from Primobolan that lower estradiol. What I've seen in blood work, Primobolan in some people is extremely potent at lowering estrogen. Some people get smashed. For me, I don't get smashed. I was smashed after the last contest prep, but I believe that was from running eczema stain and getting a little too carried away with the eczema stain and possibly the windstraw. But that was the first time in my entire, you know, 25 to 30 years that I've used PEDs that I've had that issue. Never had it before, ever. I'm typically a high estrogen converter. I was also super lean, and I'm getting older. So I like the combination of Masteron and Primobolan because you're kind of hitting both angles. You're hitting, getting the serum effect and the anti-estrogen effect. I would say in an off-season phase, a lot of guys now seem to prefer Masteron, and I would imagine that that's due to the fact that Primobolan doesn't, your Masteron doesn't seem to dramatically lower estrogen. Dudes like having their estrogen a little bit higher in the off-season. So they have improvements to IGF-1 conversion, higher water retention. I personally don't like the higher water retention in the off-season. It just makes my blood pressure go through the roof. But if you want to sling more weights around and allow your estrogen to run wild, that might be a way to do it. So it's, you know, it's a tool in the toolbox. You know, people, you know, I hate this Masteron versus Primo debate, which is better. It's, to me, it's fucking silly. It's dumb. It's stupid. They both are tools in the toolbox. They do different jobs. You pull the right tool out to get the job done. If you're a guy that's a high estrogen converter, Primobolan might be a better option for you. If you're a guy that's a low estrogen converter or moderate estrogen converter and you want to kind of leave your estrogen alone and you want to run a DHT derivative, Masteron might be the better choice. So use the right tool for the right job. Don't be on Team Primo or Team Masteron. That's fucking stupid and narrow-minded. I would say just use the right tool for the right job. They do different things and be objective about it. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. Hopefully this Q&A was helpful. Let me know if you have any questions in the comment section below. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.