 WARNINGIN, WARNING, WARNING, WARNING! WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only! What's up Jim Bros! Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A! This is where I answer your questions regarding training, nutrition and responsible performance enhancement, all while keeping you safer from the stupid crap I know you Bros love to do while getting you better results! On today's episode, I have some great questions lined up for my school anabolic bodybuilding members community. If you want to join, you can head over to the link in the video description below and get your questions answered as well. Some of the questions I have include, at what point during a bulk cycle should elevated C-reactive protein levels be a concern? What are the best ways to protect your kidney health while running a cycle? I am experiencing flushing and acne while on TRT. Could this be estrogen levels or something else going on? After major weight loss and a tummy tuck surgery, should I start TRT immediately or wait for my recovery to take place? I have all these questions and a lot more coming up in just one second. All right, my bros, before we dig into this, I want to let you know that I have a $100 off sale on the Science of Anabolics and PEDZ course going on right now. If you wanted to catch the course, it is fantastic. Kurt Havens and I have put together the most comprehensive course on performance enhancement that you can find anywhere on the internet. There's over 60 hours of video and 100 plus modules in the course. You can pick it up at anabolicbodybuilding.com. The code is SPRING100. If you want to get $100 off right now, best deal of the year so far, go pick it up. $100. You're going to love this course. It is fantastic. All right, enough of the sales pitch. First question I got lined up today is from Joseph K. Joseph asks, at what point should elevated C-reactive protein levels during a bulk cycle be a concern? All right, so what is C-reactive protein? Let's start there first. It is a substance made by your liver. It's essentially a signaling protein. It attaches to the damaged areas or the problem areas and lets your body know. Your immune system know that it needs to come here and do something about it. Normal C-reactive protein levels are considered to be lower than one milligram per liter. And often we'll see some elevation in C-reactive protein from things like training, sometimes injuries. A lot of the stuff that we do in bodybuilding causes mild elevations in C-reactive protein, especially when we're in cycle. I will tell you this. If you do a hard leg training session, you go in and get blood work done the next day, you are going to most likely see some mild elevation in C-reactive protein. Somewhere around the three milligrams per liter range is what you'll see. See, my C-reactive protein is often elevated when I train hard. If you really want to get a true indicator of where your C-reactive protein is, you probably should not train for a few days before you get it tested. It's going to give you a better indicator. Now, doctors use it as a predictor of cardiovascular risk because a lot of times when there's inflammation in the cardiovascular system, C-reactive protein is going to be released in response. So if you're in some stage of chronic cardiovascular disease or chronic damage to your blood vessels, there's going to be inflammation and C-reactive protein is going to increase. And there's a known correlation between increased C-reactive protein and cardiovascular disease. Now, in our instance, I am just speculating here, I'm not a medical doctor, I don't know that some of the elevations that we see in C-reactive protein as a bodybuilding community are actually correlated with cardiovascular risk. But with that said, it's not to say that we should ignore it. I would say, and there are other factors that can cause elevation too. It can't be, it might not just be hard training. Sometimes there'll be things such as immune responses to carrier oils, or you have inflammation from shots that are irritating certain areas. You may have a low-grade infection or an abscess from a bad shot. A lot of times what I'll see is like as guys increase frequency of shots, this is another problem sometimes with microdosing. Your body a lot of times will have an immune response to the constant daily injections. Especially if it has solvents or carrier oils that may promote an immune response. You know, certain ones are known for having ethyl oleate, guacol, other things like that. Sometimes are known for causing immune responses and inflammation and soreness. You are going to have rises in C-reactive protein. Now, when it gets into the danger zone, when we need to take a look and see that something more, more, you know, problematic is going on is when it gets greater than 10. 10, if you're above 10 milligrams per liter, then you got a problem. Probably an infection, some sort of issue going on. I remember, oh my God, it was a decade and a half ago. I had chronic elevation in C-reactive protein. It was 1920. It was really high. My C-reactive protein got really high. And the doctor thought I had lupus, thought I had an autoimmune disease and couldn't suss out what was going on. And they started treating me for an autoimmune disease. And it turned out that I had Lyme's disease that was causing chronic inflammation throughout my entire body and increase in C-reactive protein. Now, misdiagnosis happened in infectious diseases like that. But a lot of times when you see 10 plus, there's something serious going on. Some sort of infection, some sort of other problem. That's when things need to be addressed. That's when you need to get in and see your doctor. Or mild elevations, you know, three, you see three or below that one to three in that area is pretty typical for guys on blast. And a lot of times when you lower, just in lower your injection volume, you'll see it go back to normal afterwards. But things to keep an eye on. If you're concerned, you probably should talk to your doctor. I'm not giving you medical advice here. But if you're concerned, see your medical doctor. Find out what's going on. If it's greater than 10, you might want to check. It could be just an abscess. It could be something going on. Some sort of potent immune response to your gear usage. It could be some sort of allergic response to something in your gear that you're using. But those are things to keep an eye on. It could also be chronic vascular inflammation from cardiovascular disease. It's another thing that's a possibility that you have to keep an eye on. Anyway, hopefully this has helped. Oh, and one other note before I go, I cut out too early. It could be chronic injury as well. My C-reactive protein was elevated from my shoulder injury, my bicep tendon tear. And, you know, I was kind of cruising around four or five. And it was inflammation from my shoulder injury. And that is another thing that could potentially be going on. It came back to normal after my surgery. After recovery from my surgery, C-reactive protein is back down below one now with me. But I'm also running really low doses of PEDs as well, taking twice a week shots. So just some other things to keep in mind. It could be a chronic injury that you have going on and inflammation from that that's causing mild elevation in C-reactive protein. But if you get greater than 10, then something else is going on. Something systemic is at bay. And you need to address that with a medical doctor. All right. Next question here is from William P. from the School of Anabolic Bodybuilding Members Community. You can head over there and join if you would like to be a part of the community. William asks, how do you decide between low-carb days and zero-carb days when doing a carb cycling diet? I see that you have some of your clients on low-carbs and some on zero-carbs on their low days. What is the deciding factor here? Depends on the metabolism. Depends on what our goals are. A lot of times with guys that have slower metabolisms, I have to go zero-carbs even in an off-season bulk on the low days. Guys that have issues with insulin sensitivity, sometimes where insulin sensitivity is an issue, sometimes we'll go zero-carbs on the low days in the off-season. If you're a former fat guy, it might be a good idea to keep at least one zero-carb day in per week. Now, in a cutting phase, I almost always employ zero-carb days just to accelerate fat loss. In the carb cycling setup, we are running the low-carb days on off-training days, days that we are not lifting weights. I like to keep carbs in place around the workout window. At a bare minimum on a carb cycling diet, when we're in a cutting phase, I will remove carbs from other meals, but I always leave pre-, post-, and typically intra-workout carbohydrates in place unless we have an extreme situation where we can't get fat off. But for the most part, that's what I do. And what I found is once you get below 150 grams of carbs, you might as well just go to zero at that point because you get in this dogshit feeling another region where you're neither in ketosis or you don't have enough carbs to sufficiently maintain proper central nervous system function. So you might as well just go into zero-carb and get yourself into ketosis. I know guys say that you can't get into ketosis that fast. I have just not found that to be the case. You can test it out with keto sticks or get a keto motor meter and check it. But I have found a lot of times even just some MCT oil in the morning, and by the afternoon on a zero-carb day, you can be in ketosis, especially in a diet phase when you're doing cardio and whatnot. It doesn't take that long to dip into ketosis. But that's usually the deciding factor for me. Now, in an off-season phase, some guys need carbs seven days a week. I have done it both ways. For me, I do like to do a zero-carb day once a week, personally. I'm also a diabetic. You can check your Big Paul bingo card for diabetes. And I find sometimes the break from the carbohydrates is good for me once a week. I also, when I am cutting, I like to time that zero-carb, low-carb day up before the high day if I can. And that way I can ensure that I am maximally glycogen depleted. You're never going to have zero glycogen, but you want to be as glycogen depleted as you possibly can be going into that high-carbohydrate day. And you are going to have a super compensatory effect, if I can fucking speak, from being zero carbs the day before going into that high-carbohydrate day. But I would say the big mistake that guys make with carb cycling diets is they don't go high enough with the high-carbohydrate day. They get scared to go high enough to actually get the super compensation effect that you have from glycogen synthesis from the high-carbohydrate day. And a lot of guys don't take it low enough on the low day to really leverage that. I also, when I'm cutting, sometimes I'll just straight-up do a 24-hour fast, where I just fast for 24 hours, and then I'll have a large protein dinner. Like, I might eat, like, a 16-ounce steak or something for dinner the following evening. But I found that also to be beneficial to get fat off quick for me. And I like to throw in some extra cardio on my off days as well sometimes. I really do not like doing cardio, but sometimes I will use my low-carbohydrate days as a fat-burning day. I look at the high-carbohydrate day as a refuel, replenish, recovery day. I do not do cardio when I am in a cutting phase on the high-carbohydrate day. To me, you're going to be in a surplus anyway. So what's the point in doing cardio on that day other than just maybe to help with appetite? A little bit of cardio sometimes can help get appetite going on that day. But typically, that's how I distinguish between zero low-carb days and a low, low-carb day. It's that 150 gram of carbohydrate threshold. If you dip below that, you might as well just go to zero at that point. And when I say zero, I do fibrous vegetables, fats, and protein on that day. I don't count fibrous vegetables as carbohydrates because the net carbohydrate intake when it's... If you're... For example, if you say you're going to have broccoli with every meal or asparagus with every meal, probably your net carbohydrate intake for the entire day is going to be less than 20 grams by the time it's done factoring out the fiber. And you're just going to shit all that back out anyway. You can see it with measuring ketosis. You wouldn't go into ketosis if there was any tangible carbohydrate absorption going on from those vegetables. Now, starchy vegetables, peas, carrots, things like that, can't do those on the low-carbohydrate day. That'll be enough to kick you out and make you feel like dog shit. So you have to make sure it's leafy vegetables, things that have low net carbs. I will be honest with you. I don't eat vegetables typically. I'm terrible. And I just will eat just straight protein and fat on that day, basically like a carnivore bro. All right, the next question here is from Ash OG1426. Ash is a YouTube follower. And he asked, what are the best ways to protect kidney health while running a cycle? I mean, the simplest and most effective way to do it is to manage blood pressure. It's chronic high blood pressure over a period of time that's going to blow out the nephron in the kidney. The nephron are very fragile. I heard Justin Harris use the example of thinking of the nephron like a coffee filter. And if you're dripping coffee or dripping water through that coffee filter to make coffee, dripping the water through it will not damage the coffee filter. But if you hit it with a fire hose, you're going to blow holes in it. The nephron are very fragile. And once the nephron are damaged, there's really not much coming back from that. I know there are some modern therapies using stem cell that seem to have some promise in it. But really, once guys lose kidney function, kidney function is, you know, I think that your kidneys can repair to a certain degree if you catch it early enough. But for the most part, once the nephron are blown out, they're gone. There's no coming back from that. And you'll see that with a lot of older bodybuilders. A guy's prone to chronic kidney disease. They end up needing kidney replacement long term. The liver is very resilient. The liver can regenerate itself. The kidney, not so much. So we have to be really careful. But high blood pressure would be the simplest and easiest thing to manage first and foremost. High hemoglobin, red blood cell count, and hematocrit that's going to affect blood viscosity. Also, you know, for lack of a better term, thicker blood. I know that's not the proper way to describe it. But increased blood, you know, lowered blood viscosity is going to make it harder for the kidneys to filter. It's going to increase blood pressure. More blood volume, higher hematocrit with more blood, you know, more, you know, more red blood cells. Sorry, higher hemoglobin is also going to make it more difficult for your kidneys to filter. There are other things. There are some substances that do seem to be directly nephrotoxic. Avoiding NSAIDs. I see a lot of guys. I have done a ton of consult calls with dudes that have fucked themselves up with NSAIDs. Um, bro's popping a thousand milligrams of ibuprofen every day for a year straight because their back aches or whatever's going on. And then you end up doing severe kidney damage, um, that way. Uh, Tom Prince, God rest his soul. I believe he passed away from cancer, but he also, from what I recall, was on dialysis. Tom Prince, from what I recall, said he roasted his kidneys from NSAID abuse. Now, I'm sure chronic PED abuse being 300 pounds. Nobody back in the day monitored their blood pressure or hemoglobin hematocrit. We didn't give a fuck about that. We didn't even know about it. To be honest with you, I never heard anybody talking about monitoring that stuff. And probably until Dante Trudell brought up some of this in, you know, 2006, 2007. I don't remember. You know, those are things. Telmosartin has been, you know, shown to have some kidney protective effects. You know, running a, you know, preventative dose of telmosartin has some, some preventative, avoiding NSAIDs, keeping your hemoglobin hematocrit in normal ranges. There are some PEDs that do seem to be more kidney toxic than others. I will see acute increases in Cystatin C from, specifically from TREN and from Equipoise. I know there's no, as far as I know, there's no clinical studies out there that show TREN to be directly nephrotoxic. But there is some sort of effect that's going on. Maybe it's indirect. I don't know, but I have seen declined C or Cystatin C readings on guys running TREN for long periods of time at higher doses. And Equipoise, man, I've seen some pretty radical drop in Cystatin C with guys on Equipoise. And for our population, bodybuilder population, Cystatin C is a more accurate way of measuring kidney stress, kidney damage versus using the traditional eGFR estimates that run off of creatinine and BUN. Because in our population, both are going to be elevated. Creatinine is waste product from muscle damage. Also, if you're taking creatine, creatine can falsely elevate creatinine. And BUN, blood urea nitrogen, is going to be elevated just from having a high protein diet. But so those eGFR readings based off of those numbers aren't always accurate in our population. So as a bodybuilder, you want to opt for the Cystatin C to have an accurate representation of where we're at. Now, with that said, monitoring creatinine, if you're above 1.4 or above, that's not from working out in the gym. You've got a problem going on. You've got something that needs to be addressed and looked at. I'd say 1.39 or below, that's typical. You see that with guys lifting weights. If you see a sudden rise in creatinine and blood urea nitrogen, BUN over 30, probably a problem. So it's not to say that those numbers are completely irrelevant. Creatinine over 1.39, a problem. Seeing a progressive increase in Cystatin C, that is a problem. There are things, preventative measures you can take. There is some evidence that specifically the analog that is in astragalus, astragalus side 4, is where the majority of the kidney, the renal protective benefits come from. From astragalus, you can just leave out the middleman and just go straight for astragalus side 4 if you want to leverage some supplements that are going to help with kidney protection. But once kidneys are damaged, from what I understand, astragalus actually can cause more problems. But I've seen some guys turn their numbers around running astragalus side 4. Leviathan Nutrition has a product, a renal, I forget what is it, their renal protective product that has astragalus side 4 in it. You can still get it from astragalus. You just have to run really high doses of astragalus for it to be effective because it's very low amounts in astragalus. But long-winded story, those are the things you can do. The simplest and easiest thing to start off with is keeping your blood pressure under control, keeping your hemoglobin hematocrit under control, doing cardio. All of these things are going to help protect your kidneys. Next question here is from Daryl O from the School Antibiotic Bodybuilding Members Community. Daryl asks, I'm running 140 milligrams of test, cipionate weekly. Daily injections, no aromatase inhibitor, with a total test around 1200 and E2 at 35. I've been experiencing facial slash body flushing on an occasional acne. Could this be due to switching carrier oils? Or is it more likely estrogen related? I mean, that's a really low TRT dose. I wouldn't say low, but that's, you know, 20 milligrams per day, I assume, which is what you're doing, 140 milligrams. 140 milligrams a week. Usually, estrogen wouldn't cause facial flushing or flushing that I am aware of. Low estrogen sometimes can cause hot flashes. Blood pressure would be something I would check on. Is your blood pressure elevated? You can feel flushed. Some people report feeling flushed when blood pressure is high. That is a potential thing. If you aren't checking blood pressure, you should be checking it daily. If your estrogen is at a 35, that would be considered within the high end of the normal range. Probably fine. Most people are going to be great right there. I feel my best when I'm in the 30 to 50 range. Most American reference systems you'll see, it's 39 or less for estradiol in men. But with our population, we can get away with running it a little bit higher sometimes. But I would check your blood pressure, see if blood pressure is high. Not medical advice here. I'm not a medical doctor. But that would be where I would start. It's possible that there's something else that you're using that's causing the flushing. Niacin can do it. A lot of pump products, pre-workouts. If you actually look at it, have niacin in them to give you that flushing feeling. That is a possibility. That seems to be unrelated. As far as acne goes, generally when I see people start having acne flare-ups. Now, it can be both DHT and estrogen can cause acne flare-ups. But generally when I see people with acne flare-ups, it's from high estrogen. And high estrogen leads to increased sebum production. You'll see it when you, guys that are on contest prep, when you smash your estrogen, your skin gets really fucking dry. My estrogen is kind of low right now. But my skin gets super dry. I'm looking at my arms. But my skin gets super dry when my estrogen is low. That just happens. But acne most of the time is a genetic thing. There are certain things that are going to exacerbate it and cause it to flare up. I've never once in my life had acne. Never had an issue with it. I went bald. Got that genetic gift from my father. But I have never had issues with acne at all. Occasionally I'll get a zit. But it's very uncommon. I just have never had acne. I guess I'm fortunate in that area. But I would look at blood pressure first. That seems to be the most likely culprit that's going on there. Or there could be some of your supplements. Look at the ingredients in your supplements. A lot of times guys don't realize that they're taking niacin when they are. It could be something that's hitting in some of your supplements. All right. Next question here is from Eric L. From the School of Anabolic Bodybuilding Members Community. If you want to join, you can head over to the link in my video description below. I'll answer your questions on the Q&A as well. Eric asks, Is there any correlation between GH-related water retention and sinus and ear, nose, and throat issues? Can GH use contribute to chronic sinus problems? The answer is yes. I always get a stuffy nose when I'm running GH. God damn it, man. And it's the soft tissue in the nose. I already have a fucked up sinuses to begin with. I have a deviated septum that I've got to get fixed at some point. I've got to address that and get that adjusted. But yes, the water retention in the soft tissue of the sinus, the mucosal membranes in the sinus can get inflamed. And you can get a stuffy nose from GH. A lot of guys report having a stuffy nose from GH. Guys that are... A lot of bros like to use low-dose Cialis because of the pumps that it gives them. Because of the cardiovascular benefits that it gives them. I don't think they give a fuck about that. They just want to have raging boners. Let's call a spade a spade. But that can also contribute to increased blood flow to the sinuses and cause sinus inflammation as well. I cannot run fucking Cialis, man. It makes me sick. It makes my nose stuffy. It gives me a fucking headache. I already have sinus issues. I don't need to deal with that bullshit. But yes, GH and the water retention that it causes can cause inflammation in the sinuses and cause the sinuses to get stuffy. Which indirectly long-term can impair or impede, I'm sorry, sinus drainage which can lead to infections and chronic sinus issues. It's not that the GH directly causes sinus problems. It's an indirect result of it. Now, there's also potential long-term GH, we know, causes growth of some soft tissue areas. The nose, the ears. Those are areas that can continue to grow. It's mild acromegaly-like symptoms. You'll see guys that have been running GH a long time that their nose and their ears get bigger. My nose has definitely grown, although my father has a fucking giant-ass nose. His nose has gotten bigger and bigger as he's gotten older. I'm sure GH hasn't helped my issue there. But there could be increased growth of the soft tissue in the nasal passage way as well. I mean, I'm just theorizing here. But that seems like that could be a possibility as well that would also contribute to impaired nasal passage drainage. And air flow through the nose. My nose is always stuffed up. Guys will hear me when I'm out walking and doing my talks and they think I'm out of breath. No, it's not that I'm out of breath. It's that I'm a chronic mouth breather because I can't breathe through my fucking nose. And when my pulse gets up and I'm exercising, I have to breathe through my mouth. It makes it a little bit harder to talk. I can't breathe through my nose. So you'll hear me a lot of times. I'm constantly pawing at my nose, but my nose gets inflamed and stuffed up. At some point, I've got to go in and get surgery done. I've talked to an ear, nose, and throat specialist and basically get it roto-rooted out. I've broken my nose multiple times and have issues there. You can see a huge lump in the middle of my nose. I have a deviated septum and all these things. But certainly GH has not helped the issue. Now, I've been off of GH for a year now, roughly. You know, for the most part, sprinkled it in here and there. And I have noticed that my breathing is better without the GH in place. I don't have the edema that I used to when GH was in place. But long story short, yes, it can indirectly cause sinus issues. All right. Next question here is from Patrick A. From the School of Anabolic Bodybuilding Members Community. Patrick asked, is there a reason to run low-dose HCG while on cycle? Well, yes and no. Depends on how much you care about your bowls, my friend. If you are at the point of life where you don't give a fuck about your bowl size, your testicular health, your sperm production, I would say fuck it and just go on without it. I think most guys, especially guys that are running PEDs, eventually get there where they're just like, yeah, I don't give a fuck about this and just move on. It's one more shot I have to do. It doesn't contribute a whole lot and I just am done with it. And you get to a certain point where you're so shut down, especially for guys that are over 40. I don't know how much of a benefit it really provides at that point. Now, if you're younger, you care about fertility. You care about maintaining the ability to make your own testosterone. You maybe at some point plan on coming off. There is a compelling reason to use it. I used it a lot in my 20s. That was back then. We did these stupid protocols where we would go on for a period of time. Oh my God, I was so dumb. I think about it. Back about it now, we would do these eight-week dumbass 12-week cycles. I don't remember. Eight to 12 weeks. And then we would do a whole post-cycle therapy, come off, use HCG, Novodex, and Clomaphine for six weeks and feel like fucking dog shit, eight weeks, whatever it was. I think it was time on, time off. We would do eight weeks on, eight weeks off, or 12 weeks on, 12 weeks off, something like that. Lose all your gains and then go back on. So if you were to use it, from what I understand, most people were running something like 500 micrograms or 500 units, I think, right? Yeah, 500 units. I'm looking at my notes here. Yeah, 500 units is what most people are doing three times per week. Something like that is typically what most people are doing. That would be the way I would run it. Just low-dose, a few days a week if you care about those things. But otherwise, if you don't care about it, just leave it out. There is another potential scenario where you could benefit from using HCG. And I've had situations where guys have completely crashed their estrogen, especially when running Equipoise. HCG will raise estradiol conversion. So if you want to run some HCG to get estrogen back up, it is a tool that you can use to get estrogen back up. So that is a potential situation where you could use some HCG. Let's see my dog getting in here. He wants to be a part of this Q&A. Hi, buddy. But, yeah, I mean, you know, that would be another compelling reason. But otherwise, I would probably just leave it out. And, you know, it's also a downside, too. If you're running HCG, you have to think about, too, that if you're a high estrogen converter, it's going to make estradiol conversion even worse. So that is another potential problem with running HCG. But it's really up to you. If you care about how big your balls are, I know some guys think women care about that. I don't think they give a fuck. As long as you're hitting that the right way. If you're giving her everything else she needs, I don't think they care about the size of your balls. But you do you. There are a lot of guys that purely just take it because they want their balls to be bigger. To me, I don't give a fuck about the size of my balls. I'm 52 years old at this point. That ship has set sail. Don't give a fuck. I'm not having any more kids. Done with that. So for me, man, no compelling reason to use HCG. But for each, we have our own reasons and possibilities, scenarios that would change the decision-making equation there. Make your own decision. What works best for you? All right. Next question here is from YouTube follower Trocodile. I think that's correct. He says, I am 52 years old, cutting on TRT and Masteron. Should I wait until I finish the cut before adding HGH? Or is there any value in adding it now? Well, yeah, there's value in adding it now. I mean, HGH is lipolytic. It's anti-catabolic. It has benefits as far as joint connective tissue health go. It's going to help with skin elasticity as you're losing weight. Yeah, there are compelling reasons to use it. For me, I start any cycle with replacing the bioidentical hormones first. To me, that's the baseline of putting together a competent intelligence cycle. The two hormones that become deficient as we age, especially past 40 and especially after 50, your body's probably making very little to no human growth hormone right now, is adding in HGH. So I would start any cycle off with testosterone and HGH, especially as we age. And we can see the results that HGH have had if you look around, if you pay attention to what's going on. Cheap and easy access to HGH has been around now for a decade, decade and a half now. You can see it in Hollywood. You know, these guys that are 70 years old look like they're 50. These guys that are 50 and look like they're 35. What do you think they're doing? I mean, that wasn't going on a while ago. You know, these guys are living cleaner lives. They're not smoking. They're not drinking like they used to. They're using growth hormone. I mean, Sylvester Stallone would be an example. If you want to look at it, guys, fucking 80 years old. Well, I think he's going to be 80 this year. Don't quote me on that. But I mean, who would want to look like that when they're 80 years old? I'm, you know, he got caught red-handed with HGH. He doesn't deny using it. Athletes. You see now athletes playing into their 40s. That didn't happen before. You see it in the bodybuilding world. There used to be, once you hit 40, you were done in bodybuilding. Now, shit, there's guys competing in a really high level up into their late 40s, early 50s. Fuck, I'm 52 years old. Now, granted, I haven't been using HGH the last year, but I plan on going back on it. But I would start there. There's certainly, you know, I'm not telling you what to do. This is not my medical advice. But to me, as a 52-year-old man, I think having growth hormone in play makes a whole lot of sense. All right, next question here is from Atlas9344. After significant weight loss and upcoming loose skin surgery, I'm assuming you're having a tummy tuck or many tummy tuck, should you wait until fully recovered before starting a cycle? Or could TRT during recovery help preserve muscle? Well, it's not medical advice, my friend. But I would think crashing your hormones, I'm assuming that you're on something right now, and not being on TRT or hormone replacement therapy is going to make things way worse post-surgery. Testosterone and growth hormone are going to certainly help with your recovery. They're going to be anti-catabolic. They're going to promote anabolism in recovery. Speed up your recovery process. If you drop all that out, you're going to set yourself up for a hormonal crash. Now, listen to your doctor. Your doctor may want you to come off a few weeks before surgery, a few weeks post-surgery, because of the increased risk with anesthesia. That's something that you would have to consult with your doctor about. But I would talk to your doctor about your hormone replacement therapy. See what your doctor suggests. But to me, it would only benefit. I will say this, post-surgery, you do have to be careful with doing injections anywhere near the surgical site. Do not want to do that, man. You do not want to risk having an abscess or an infection anywhere near the surgical site. Do not be a dumbass. I've heard of people doing that where they inject peptides and growth hormone into the surgical area, and then they end up with an infection and have to get opened back up and not a pretty scenario. Be really fucking careful with that. Inject them somewhere else. Put them in your fucking shoulder or whatever. Once again, not my medical advice, but I would consult with your doctor. But what I did post-surgery, I stayed, especially when I had my tummy tuck done, my skin removal done, I stayed on a low-dose growth hormone. I think I ran two units of growth hormone. I came off for a few weeks post-surgery. There is some anecdotal evidence that potentially having growth hormone and some of the healing peptides in place too soon after surgery can increase scar tissue accumulation. So you have to be careful with that. But I think I waited maybe three weeks, four weeks post-surgery, and I started my growth hormone back up. I left my TRT in place the entire time. I believe if I remember correctly, I was running something like 140 to 200 milligrams of testosterone a week at that time. I was just on TRT. It wasn't blasting cycles. And I ran that through my recovery. That sped up my recovery. I used some healing peptides, BPC-157 and TB-500 at that time. Now, I probably would incorporate some GHK-Cu. I have my recovery protocol up on my website if you want to go there and download it. It's for free. I think it's called BPC-157-TB-500. You can go over there and download it and see what recovery protocol I used post-surgery. This is my protocol that I use post-surgery if you're interested. But anyway, good luck with your surgery. Take it slow. Be careful. Listen to your doctor. And enjoy your new look afterwards. And congrats on the weight loss. All right, next question here is from Joshua H. From my school, Antibiotic Bodybuilding Members Community. Joshua asks, What are your thoughts on using imeglubin instead of retitrutide during a push phase? He means a bulk off-season phase. Could it provide similar benefits without suppressing appetites? Yes. Potentially. I have not heard of anybody using it. I have not tried it myself, so I can't give you any first-hand experiences with it. I don't know of any of my clients that have used it in an off-season phase. But yes, imeglubin is a mitochondrial enhancer that does seem to improve pancreatic function and increase insulin sensitivity. It doesn't have appetite suppression like, say, a GLP-1. What the novel GLP-1 drug, retitrutide. I don't know if we're allowed to say it anymore. The R word. GLP-3, I guess I just said it. So it works through different mechanisms. You're not going to have the same sort of appetite suppression. You're not going to have the same effect on gastric emptying. But it does seem to improve insulin sensitivity. It does seem to improve mitochondrial function. It does seem to increase pancreatic function. Now, look, here's my thing. More drugs aren't always necessarily the answer. But if you're in a situation where those factors are a problem, it is a tool in the toolbox that could be considered by somebody. I have never personally tried it. I don't know of anyone else who has done it. But usually, guys in an off-season setting with something like that will start off with probably berberine, an over-the-counter supplement that's going to be a little more predictable. We know what the risk profile is of berberine. Metformin would be another potential tool that could be used in an off-season setting like that. Or even just a low-dose GLP-1, something that's not going to smash your appetite, could be something that could be potentially used. But I guess it would be case-dependent. I mean, if your insulin sensitivity is good, if your pancreatic function seems to be good, if your A1c is in check, if you have good glucose response, if you're monitoring your glucose levels throughout the day and you seem to be getting good pumps in your workouts, I would think it would be fine. But the God's honest truth is, I don't know of anybody that's used it. Maybe there are. Vigor Steve could potentially have some information up on that. I have not tried it, so I can't give you any firsthand experience on it. I would go dig around and see what other people are saying about it. But yeah, I mean, it's a potential tool that could be used. But I would, once again, these tools, more drugs aren't always necessarily better. I use the right tool for the right job. If everything is functioning properly, then why add another piece to the equation? That's sort of my take on this stuff. Sometimes less is more when it comes to what we take. I like to experiment and try new things. Believe me, I fuck around with stuff all the time. But in this situation, I would say less is more, would probably be the better approach here with this situation. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. Remember, I've got the sale going on the Science of Anabolics and PEDZ course by Kurt Havens and I. It's great. 60 hours of plus. Of videos on performance enhancement, science-based performance enhancement, married with the bro logic that we use in bodybuilding. In 100 plus modules, you're going to love it. $100 off. Biggest sale of the year so far. Go grab it. Spring 100 is the code if you want to get it. And I'll see you guys on the next episode. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you.