 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey guys, Big Paul here today and we are going to talk about a Pro Bodybuilders Contest Prep Cycle. If you thought your head exploded when I went over the off-season balking cycle. It's really going to go BOOM this time when we talk about Pre-Contest. This is when Polypharmacy comes into effect and you're throwing everything but the kitchen sink at it. Now I will say this, I've seen a lot of different Pre-Contest protocols. What I'm putting up today is just going to be a general representation of the types of stuff that I see used on Pre-Contest Cycles. Pre-Contest Cycles for Pro and Top Amateur Athletes. Keep in mind, like I said on the last one, these are generalizations. There are outliers in every category. There are some guys that use less, there are some guys that use more. I literally know a dude that got on a national stage and used nothing but Test and Trend. So it happens. I'm not saying that's what the normal is, but I say this, that contest prep is usually when people are throwing the kitchen sink at it. We're going to dig into all that in just one second. So Pre-Contest Cycles. So Pre-Contest Cycles. Most pros are doing and most top amateurs are doing 16-week contest prep. Some guys do a little bit less. I have heard of people doing 12-week contest preps. I've also heard of people doing 20-week contest preps. If you're really out of shape, you might need a 20-week contest prep. If you're using less fat burners, going into less of a caloric deficit, then yeah, you might need a 20-week contest prep. If you're a person that stays super lean year-round, you know, some people are freaks and just never seem to get into a high body fat range, you may only need 12 weeks. When guys start their contest prep at 16 or 20 weeks out, whatever the case may be, let's use 16 as the example. Generally, it's just a continuation of the off-season. They're going to continue whatever their off-season blast was into contest prep. The only thing that changes during the first phase of the contest prep is caloric changes. They drop calories and they may be adding some extra cardio in there to start the process of creating a bigger deficit. It's usually around the 10-12 week mark, somewhere around the 12-week mark, that the other compounds come into effect. So somewhere around 12 weeks out, usually, we're going to start adding in fat burners. We are going to change the compounds. Usually, testosterone gets dropped throughout contest prep. It lowers. It's just what I've seen. I know some people run things differently, but a lot of guys run lower testosterone as the contest prep progresses and replace it with DHT derivatives to keep a drier look. Somewhere around the 10-12 weeks out, that's when tests will probably get lowered. The off-season compounds will change. Let's just assume that they were running Equipoise or Primobolin for the off-season. They might lower that amount and then add in some Masteron to make up the difference. Masteron seems to be a choice contest prep drug. Now, I hear people say that Masteron and Primobolin are interchangeable. You can make that argument. I have found that Masteron is a bit better for hardening physiques up than Primobolin is. That's just my anecdotal information. And, you know, so your typical pro, I would say somewhere in the 10-12 week range, they're going to be running tests. Equipoise, probably Masteron is their third compound. Usually around 8-10 weeks out or 6-8 weeks out is when the TRAN comes in. I'd say it's probably closer to the 10-week mark for most people. And when guys add TRAN in, I've seen doses vary wildly. Usually it's somewhere between 300-700 mg per week of TRAN. Most TRAN is dosed at 100 mg per cc. So guys closer to the 300 range are doing 1 cc every other day. The guys that are doing the 700 range are doing 1 cc every day. I personally think you're insane if you run 700 mg of TRAN per week. But I've heard of dudes doing it. And it typically seems like it's the Men's Physique guys that love to run the high doses of TRAN. That's just what I've heard and that's just what I've seen. You can call me crazy or whatever you want. But most pros are probably going to be in that 300 range for TRAN. Proviron gets added in as well. Proviron is great at hardening your physique up, lowering SHBG. I usually see Proviron run somewhere between 50-100 mg per day. I know Milos Sarchev was the... I think he was the first person I've heard talk about using Proviron on contest prep. I think that was sort of his thing that he got started back in the 90s in running Proviron as a hardener with contest prep. Somewhere around the 6-8 weeks out, Anivar and or Winstraw gets added in as well. This is the shift to the DHT derivatives. A lot of guys now run a combination of Anivar and Winstraw. Anivar is good for Neural Drive, for increasing strength or keeping strength up as you get later into the contest prep. And then Winstraw has body composition effects. The total dose of those two is somewhere between 50 and 100 mg per week. Probably closer to the 100 mg a week. I see guys that just run Winstraw and don't run any Anivar at all. I think the old school way of doing contest prep was just test, Masteron, TRAN and Winstraw. All run in equal doses. That's what I recall seeing. So it was something like 50 mg of Winstraw a day. 50 mg of TRAN a day. 50 mg of Test a day. And 50 mg of Masteron a day. That was sort of the old school contest prep protocol from what I recall. Growth hormone is also run usually somewhere in the 6-10 units range. I personally think that's probably too high for contest prep. When you're in a caloric deficit, you're not really getting the IGF-1 benefits from growth hormone. It's just a really expensive fat burner. But that's what I hear is run. Anti-estrogens are slowly escalated through contest prep. Generally, when you get towards the end of the contest prep, you are going to bury your estrogen. I know burying your estrogen is not great for your lipids. It's not great for cognitive health and a whole other host of things. But it's a temporary situation. And a lot of times if you have to get that last little bit of estrogenic fat off, like lower back fat, chest fat, you're going to bury your estrogen with Arominex. Some guys also throw Tamoxifen in there. And I think the reason for that is the dudes that have a bit of gyno. That helps dry the gyno up towards the end of contest prep. So Tamoxifen may or may not be added in as well. Some dudes still run insulin on high days. I have found that my insulin sensitivity gets so high towards the end of contest prep that if I use insulin even when I'm running super high carbs, I get hypoglycemic. So I don't know what guys are doing there. I have heard of dudes using insulin to peak when they do their carb load going into a show. But you also risk spilling over when you do that. It depends on your insulin sensitivity, how many carbs you're pushing, how you handle all that. Typical fat burners that you see on contest prep and it varies when people start them. But generally I see a taper of fat burners starting somewhere around 10 to 12 weeks out. And it's going to be a combination of ephedrine, caffeine, Yohimbine and Clinbuterol. Doses can vary all over the place, but people usually use some sort of ECY stack for fat burning, ephedrine, caffeine, Yohimbine. The ephedrine most often is just running the 50 milligram range a day to 25 milligrams twice a day. I have heard of people running up to 100 milligrams per day. I think you're crazy if you do that. Caffeine is somewhere in the 400 to 800 milligrams per day range. Yohimbine is 5 to 10 milligrams per day. Yohimbine has a tendency to make you feel sick. Some guys can't tolerate Yohimbine. And then the Clinbuterol, most pros are running Clinbuterol somewhere in the 100 to 200 micrograms per day of Clin. I found once you get past, much past 100 micrograms that it just causes all sorts of cramping issues and whatnot. So it might be a bad idea to run it higher than that, I would think, if I was coaching a pro. And a T3, I have one here as 25 to 100 micrograms of T3. Usually that's added in in the last six weeks or so. Most often, I think a lot of the modern coaches are being more conservative with the T3 and really just running a replacement dose, which is somewhere in the 25 to 50 microgram range. You get towards the end of contest prep and your energy levels drop and your thyroid seems to downregulate. So it probably makes more sense just to run a replacement dose. If you run T3 too high, you just end up melting muscle. T3 seems to take fat and muscle off in equal amounts. I know some guys need that to make weight classes. Maybe some of the guys in classic physique and things like that. And then diuretics. This is the...honestly, this is the one where I think people end up killing themselves and causing damage is running...getting too aggressive with the diuretics at the end. I have heard of people running diuretics up to a week out from show, which to me is insane. You're already depleted. You shouldn't need it if you're in shape at the end. And the trap you get into is once you start running diuretics, you have to keep running diuretics up through the show. So if you run into a problem, you can't pull out of them without putting a bunch of water back on. You're going to have a water rebound if you pull out of them. I know that a lot of modern coaches now don't even run diuretics with their clients at the end. Some of the guys that are promoting safer use protocols stay away from diuretics. If you're in shape, you should not need them. But I think where the diuretics traditionally have come in in the past are the guys that get really aggressive with the carb ups. I've heard of some coaches, especially with bigger competitors, getting super aggressive with the insulin use and doing carb loading a couple days out from the show. And then a lot of times you'll end up having spill over and then they try to clean it up with diuretics. See Big Ramy this year. I think that's likely what happened with Big Ramy at the Olympia this year is that they got too aggressive with his carb load. He spilled over. Then they tried to clean it up with diuretics. And what happens? You end up with a soft and a flat look, which is not pretty. His physique this year was not pretty. So that's my guess would probably happen. They got a little too aggressive with his carb load. Tried to clean it up with diuretics. He flattened out and was soft at the same time. Not a good look. All right, guys, that's pretty much it in a nutshell. I like I said, these are just generalizations. This is when people run the shit ton of stuff is on contest prep. And you can see why contest prep can get risky. Contest prep to me is the most dangerous part of bodybuilding. And when you hear of people dying recently, it's been usually at the end of contest prep. And most often it's with the abuse of diuretics that causes the issues at the end. And I personally don't think diuretics are necessary if you're in shape. You should be able to dry out just with a little bit of water manipulation. That's all you really need at the end of contest prep. And I know there's going to be some people that are going to come after me and say, I'm insane that this is full of shit. This isn't true. That's fine. You can believe it or not believe it. I really don't care. But these this is pretty much the toolkit for contest prep. Once again, I'm not saying that everybody's running everything that's on this list. But these are these are the compounds that are typically used on contest prep. Different coaches have different approaches. Some are more aggressive. Some are more conservative. It really just depends on who the coach is, what the client is, how they respond to things. I know some guys are conservative. Some guys are more aggressive, like I said. All right, folks, let me know what you think in the comments section below. If you think I'm crazy, let me know. And thank you for watching. I appreciate each and every one of you. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.