 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey guys, Big Paul here today and we are going to talk about Pro Bodybuilders offseason Cycle. The Pro Bodybuilders offseason Cycles, what a Typical Pro offseason Cycle looks like. Every time I talk about this, inevitably somebody gets butt hurt, says I'm full of shit, the guys have taken more or taken less or whatever. I'll tell you, I coached some pros, I talked to a lot of pros, and this is typically what I see. Now I'm not saying there aren't outliers, there are outliers in everything. There are people that take more. There are people that take less. And the one thing that I will emphasize here, it's like going out to drink with your friends. And there is that one friend that will have 20 beers when everybody else is having six to have a good time. Now, do you exponentially have a better time and get more drunk from drinking 20 beers? Or is there a saturation point, maybe at six or eight, where you're having just as good of a time? Steroids are sort of the same way. You hit a point where there is a curve where you go up and you hit a maximum effective dose. And then after that, side effects just pile up. There's not much additional benefit as far as muscle growth goes and just more and more side effects. And you can always spot the guys that take more and go above that threshold where the curve bends backwards. Those are the ones that don't live that long. I don't want to name names, but you know the bodybuilders I'm talking about. Everybody likes to cite, well, Nasser took this and Dallas took that. I guess I am naming names. They died. Okay, so they aren't a good example of what your typical pro is taking. And honestly, the amounts that I'm going to talk about, I consider to be pretty crazy. It's more than what I take currently and have ever taken. But this is typically what I see. We're going to dig into all that in just one second. All right, so this is a typical off-season cycle. I think a lot of times when people freak out and think guys take more, they're seeing contest prep. And then the last month of contest prep, that's when you throw the kitchen sink at things. And that's when things look really crazy. But you're talking about a four to six week period out of the entire year. Guys would be dead if they ran what they run at the end of contest prep year round. So that's not what a typical off-season cycle looks like. I'm going to break it down for you here. This is usually what I see. I'm not saying that I know everything. But this is typically what I see with guys that are at the pro level. This would be probably, really it's not much different between men's physique and open guys and classic physique. Although it seems to be that the men's physique guys are the ones that abuse the wrong stuff more frequently year round. At least in my experience. So the guys that run and train year round and doing stupid shit like that. Running Anovar or Winstraw year round. Doing just dumb stuff like that. I don't see that as frequently in some of the bigger competitors. A typical open class or 212 or classic competitor would run something like this. Everybody runs a testosterone base as far as I know. There are people that do Nandrolone only cycles. But I really don't see them on the pro level. Pretty much every pro I see runs a testosterone base. And that testosterone base is typically somewhere between 750 and 1500 milligrams per week. I know that's a pretty wide range. But what guys often do and what coaches have guys do is they'll push the testosterone up as high as they can tolerate. Without having side effects. You find where that sweet spot is for you. And you stop there. For me that's somewhere between 750 and 1000. I have pushed higher than 1000 on tests before just to experiment. And I feel like shit. I hear people saying this pro ran 2500 milligrams of testosterone. This pro ran 3000 milligrams of testosterone. I can promise you if you run that much you will have the test flu. And you'll feel like absolute dog shit. And if you feel like dog shit you're not going to train hard. And if you're not training hard you're not going to grow. So you sort of have to find that sweet spot. And then you fill in the gaps with other substances. I'm not saying there maybe hasn't been somebody that's run testosterone higher. The pure logistics of it are just mind boggling. Anyway if you're doing a gram a week. Or let's say if you're doing a gram and a half a week. At 1500 milligrams per week. You're running a full cc of tests every day. I mean that's a lot of tests. It's a lot of oil you're injecting. So I don't know. Maybe you guys are running more. I haven't seen it. I've never seen anybody. I've never seen anybody run more than 1500 milligrams of tests. In my experience. I have not run across that myself personally. Then they'll run a primary anabolic on top of that. Most of the modern safer use protocols call for using Prima Bolin or Masteron. Usually Prima Bolin. Masteron I consider poor man's Prima Bolin. If you can't afford Prima Bolin. Masteron is sort of a substitute for Prima Bolin. It is a bit less anabolic than Prima Bolin. But they have similar effects. And they are very similar. But Prima would be the primary anabolic that guys would run. In the older way of doing things. People would run equipoise as their primary anabolic. At least that's what I have seen. So it would be Prima or equipoise with your testosterone. I most often see that run at somewhere between 75% to 100% of what the testosterone is. Another effect with Prima Bolin. When you run it with testosterone. It sort of works as an AI to keep your estrogen in check. So you have a drier cycle. And you may not need an AI if you run Prima Bolin with it. I've heard people say that equipoise does that. Equipoise does convert to estrogen. I believe at a 10% rate. Maybe it's the DHB conversion that causes some lowering of estrogen. But it does seem anecdotally that equipoise lowers estrogen as well. Most guys, not all, will run a third anabolic with this. I have seen guys that run just two. And the third anabolic is usually going to be Trin or Nandrolone. I am not a fan of running Trin in the offseason. The people that I have seen that have ended up with kidney issues are the ones that run Trin year-round. Trin also has some pretty strong neurotoxicity. I save Trin for contest prep. Trin, I can't sleep when I run Trin. I feel like shit when I run Trin. It does make me look good. But I don't know how you can grow in an offseason if you're running Trin. Trin and you can't sleep. And you feel like shit. And you're sweating all the time. I think guys often use Trin in the offseason to keep their body composition in check. It's a way of staying leaner and harder without following a strict diet, to be honest with you. So, I think that's why guys will run Trin in an offseason. So, a total load that you see with most open class pros in the offseason is going to be somewhere in the 2-3 gram range. Now, that's not to say, like I said, that there are guys that run more and there are guys that run less. I know there's going to be a handful of people that are going to call bullshit on this and say, I'm lying. I don't know why I would be motivated to lie about this. This is what I see. The guys that I work with, that is typically what they run. The pros that I talk to, this is what they run. Sure, there's probably some nutbag out there that does way more. And that guy's not going to live long. Okay? So, that's just the simple truth of it. And I will tell you, and I've seen it over and over and over with people I've talked to, a lot of times it's the gym bros that run the stupid amounts of gear. Now, this is a growth cycle. Keep in mind, you don't need as much to maintain. I hear, you know, I heard Chris Bumstead talking about only running 500 milligrams a test in his offseason. I'm sure Chris Bumstead hasn't run 500 milligrams a test his entire career. He had to blast at higher amounts at some point to put growth on. But it is possible. I'm not saying that he's telling the truth. But it is possible that that's what he uses to maintain. He's not gaining size. Now, Chris has not gotten any, really any bigger over the last couple years. He's gotten more defined. He's polished his physique. And it really doesn't take that much to maintain. I know guys don't believe me on this, but I have run 250 milligrams a test for months on end and been able to maintain my 270, 280 pound offseason body weight. No problem. So, now, like I said, I'm going to put the caveat in there. You're not going to grow on that once you hit a certain size. If you're a beginner, you will grow on that. But the truth is, is that you need to push doses to grow, you know, to achieve growth at a certain level. The bigger you get, the more it takes. So, if you came out of the gate as a beginner bodybuilder and tried to run these doses, it would be analogous to eating 8,000 calories a day. It's not going to do anything for you. It would be analogous to try to be 175 pounds and trying to bench 400 pounds on the bench press for growth. You're just going to get hurt. So, more muscle, more it takes. It's really that simple. Growth hormone. This is another one where I hear all sorts of bullshit that's just not true. I've heard people say, oh, these guys are running 20 units of GH a day. I challenge you to try to run 20 units of GH a day and let me know how you feel. I get much past 6 or 8 units. I can't feel my hands. My hands go completely numb. I've gone as high as 10 units myself personally before. My insulin sensitivity went to shit. My fasting glucose levels were at diabetic level. And my hands were so numb that I couldn't even hold a dumbbell. So, if your hands are so numb, you can't even hold a dumbbell. If your fasting glucose levels are extremely high, you're not having effective nutrient uptake. You can't train hard. If your hands are numb, there's just no point in going that high. Not to mention, I've seen it over and over again in blood work. There really isn't much more of an elevation in IGF-1 levels past 6 to 8 units a day. So, you're probably just wasting your money if you take more than that and just piling up more side effects unnecessarily. Also, there is the pure cost of it. Most bodybuilders don't make any fucking money. So, how do you think that somebody is going to afford 20 units of GH? I did the math on it one time. And a pharmaceutical GH would be a couple hundred grand a year to run that much GH. So, I promise you, most pros are not running 20 units of GH. I don't know where this BS came from. I know people are probably going to be angry with me for saying it. But, I would say your typical pro is running somewhere between 6 to 10 units of GH in the offseason. Sure, there might be some idiot that's running more. That idiot is an outlier. We're talking about the norms here, not the outliers. This is what a typical pro runs in the offseason. As far as oral steroids go, there are some guys that still run orals in the offseason. Most of the modern safe protocols call for not running orals in the offseason. I don't think orals provide really, when you look at what they do, they don't provide any additional benefit over what you could get out of your primary anabolics. And all they do is cause more side effects and more problems and more issues. So, the issues that you run into with orals in the offseason is it blows your lipids out of whack. And you're already eating a ton of food, so your lipids are going to get even worse. And we want to be mindful of cardiovascular health. And having skewed, extremely skewed lipids, crushed HDL, higher LDL from running orals is not a good thing. There's also the issue with the liver stress. The liver is pretty resilient, so it's pretty hard to fuck up your liver. I'm not saying that you can't do it. But when your liver is stressed, your appetite goes to shit. So, anybody who's ever had high enzymes, you will know what I'm talking about. When your liver enzymes are high and your liver is stressed out, you do not feel like eating. You feel tired. You feel like shit. And if you feel like shit and you're not hungry and you can't eat, you're not going to grow. So, to me, there's really no point in running orals all offseason. Now, they can come in in spot duty. I have used orals in the offseason in spot duty. And I've seen pros do that sometimes. Something like Anovar or Anadraw here and there pre-workout to help with pumps and strength motivation. That is a possibility. I know everybody has this fetish for D-ball and loves D-ball. I really don't see many pros running D-ball at all. None that I talk to to run D-ball. It's only Jim bros that run D-ball. And Jim bros think because Arnold Schwarzenegger ran D-ball and the guys back then that they should run D-ball. D-ball just has nothing but bad side effects. There are some guys that can tolerate D-ball well. But when people that I talk to, the steroid that causes the most side effects and the most problems is D-ball. You have issues with gyno. You have issues with bloating. You have issues with high blood pressure. And these are all things that you don't want to experience in the offseason. It's not to say there aren't some guys that maybe run D-ball. I don't run into them. I just don't see them. I don't talk to them. It's only Jim bros that run D-ball that I run into. For estrogen management, this is another area. It seems like most Jim bros overuse anti-estrogens and tamoxifen and things like that. And most pros aren't running them in the offseason. Now that's not to say there isn't a time or a need for it. You want to keep your estrogen in a decent spot. You want to keep it within the normal ranges. And sometimes an AI may be necessary for that. But overdoing the AIs, once again, is going to skew your lipids. Overdoing your AIs will make you feel like shit. Anybody who's ever crushed their estrogen will know what I'm talking about. You feel like absolute ass. Your joints hurt. You have no energy. You have no sex drive. And if you feel like that, you're not going to train hard. And if you don't train hard, you're not going to grow. So most of the modern protocols now, as I mentioned earlier, call for testosterone to be paired with primobolin. And primobolin is very effective at lowering your estrogen and pulling it down into normal ranges. I have found that when you run testosterone at a one-to-one ratio with primobolin, that often your estrogen will stay within normal ranges. That's just been my experience. That's what I've seen. And I think that's what most pros, well, I know that's what most pros do. Primobolin seems to be the preferred anabolic of a lot of pros now. A lot of guys run equipoise too. You know, so I see that quite a bit as well. And also, when you crush your estrogen, it's another thing. Your IGF-1 conversion goes to shit. I know there was the recent kerfuffle over the liver king, but if you notice, he was running 10 units of GH per day into multiple secretogs, and his IGF-1 was in the shitter. I mean, it was lower than what it would be for most natty guys that I see. And I speculate the reason that that happened is because his estrogen was crushed from taking one straw. That would be my guess. I'm probably running an AI. So if your estrogen is crushed, your IGF-1 conversion will suck, and basically you're just wasting your money on your GH. Most pros are running insulin. That's just a fact. People talk about the dangers of insulin, but most pros do run it. And I would say that a lot of guys, not all, are running usually the bigger dudes. Maybe not some of the smaller physique guys. I don't see the men's physique or classic physique guys running basal insulin. But a lot of your open class large bodybuilders are running a basal insulin like Lantus throughout their off-season. Prophylactically to help keep, you know, help deal with, you know, fasting glucose levels and eating shit tons of food and taking a little bit of pressure off of their beta cell, preventing beta cell burnout in the pancreas. And then they sprinkle in some rapid or fast-acting insulin on top of it. Some dudes are running it pre and post-workout. I run it a little differently, but it seems like the typical protocol that guys use is pre and post-workout. I am running it only on high days, but that seems pretty typical. I'm not going to go into doses on insulin because really, insulin is one of those things. It's not like anabolics where more is better. There is a right dose for insulin and it's matched to what your glucose response is to the insulin that you take and the food that you eat. So typically your insulin is matched to the food in your insulin response or your glucose response. So you have to measure your glucose levels, make sure they're staying in appropriate ranges, and you also have to match it to whatever your carbohydrate intake is. For insulin sensitivity management, a lot of pros are running metformin. Some newer guys are running semaglutide, but semaglutide will really crush your appetite. Metformin can also affect your appetite as well and cause some stomach distress. But I see a lot of guys that are especially running higher doses of GH are using metformin to counteract the reduced insulin sensitivity from the GH. Now, I'm not saying everybody, but a lot of them are. As far as blood pressure management, a lot of guys are taking blood pressure meds. It seems to be when you look at what kills bodybuilders chronically, not acutely, is mostly cardiovascular disease and kidney-related damage from uncontrolled high blood pressure over the years. Most people do not check their blood pressure. I think guys have gotten ahead of the curve on that now and are more proactive about managing their blood pressure and making sure their blood pressure stays in place. Doctors love to prescribe ACE inhibitors, more specifically lisinopril. It seems to be that ARBs work better for androgen-induced RAS stimulation. So a lot of guys I see now run a telmosardin. That seems to be the most common blood pressure med that guys do. But you should work with your doctor on that. I see most pro-bodybuilders now are being more proactive about their cardiovascular health than running that. I also see some guys running either statins or ezetimibe for managing their lipids because lipids can get skewed when you're running anabolics. Typically, if you keep your estrogen in line and you stay away from orals, which a lot of guys have figured out now, you will stay healthier in the off-season and your lipids will stay more in range. It's when you crush your estrogen and when you're hammering the orals is when your lipids get really out of whack. Guys are also cleaner with their diets now and treating off-season more like a contest prep where they're sticking to a strict diet. So that helps as well. All right, guys. I don't know what to tell you. This is what I see. This is the guys I talk to. This is typically what they're running. I will say when it comes to doses, and you'll see here, people are asking me, how do you come up with these doses? Where you come up with the doses is you run an upper range of what you can tolerate without blowing your blood work out of the water or having massive side effects. So that's why guys run multiple compounds. You'll see, you know, you run your test base. You run your test. Pro bodybuilders are going to run the test up to the upper limit of what they can tolerate. Not past that. If you go past that, it becomes unproductive. You pick multiple, a lot of times guys will run two anabolics because there's an upper limit of what you can run on the anabolics without having side effects. So Primo, you can run really high doses of without much as far as negative side effects. Same thing with Masteron. And then guys will run a secondary anabolic with that to fill in the gaps, you know, so that you hit the upper limits, you know, like trend. There's only so much trend you can take before you feel like shit. Like, once again, I don't endorse running trend in the offseason. I think it's probably a dumb idea if you're concerned about your long-term health, but I know there are guys that do it. And there are a lot of pros that do run trend in the offseason. That's just the truth of it. So guys, this is what I know. Well, this is what I've seen. And I've seen a lot more than 99% of people have. I actually talk to real pros. I actually train real pros. I'm not some dude sitting in my bedroom on the internet that's just speculating and say, well, this guy must be taking that because I'm taking this. And I think a lot of times gym bros think that more gear is the answer when ultimately the difference between the guys that are at the pro level and them is they're more disciplined. The pro guys are more disciplined with their diet. They're more disciplined with their training. And yes, the steroids work. The anabolics do work. But they do not make up for lack of discipline. So if you lack discipline, it doesn't matter what you take. That's the lesson I want you to take from this. All right, guys. Let me know what you think in the comments section below. If you think I'm full of shit, if you think I'm completely wrong about this, I want to know. And if you have questions, also pop them in there. And I really do appreciate each and every one of you watching this channel. Rock on. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.