 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. We'll dig into it in just one second. All right, first question we got here is from Jorge Anderson. He says, insulin without HGH. HGH is way too expensive for me. east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east east Is it worth it? So, you know, just a couple notes I looked at. Like, I just always like to look at whenever it's something as far as, like, an additional to their protocol. Like, what is the current situation for him is my first thought. I mean, I'm sure we can talk through, like, the benefits of HGH and how well that works synergistically with insulin. But how old is he? Where is he in his training? What is he currently doing? Because he's talking about this kind of, you know, is he on HRT? Is he, you know, using certain PEDs? So, and then how well is his nutrition and his training? Because I think that factors a lot more into it. Like someone, like, you know, those of us who are competing and on a strict plan, they're going to get a lot more out of that than maybe someone who's just kind of general gym guy working out. And if you're looking at where I can put my money into my food and some of my just building good foundation and things like that versus HGH, then I would say, like, focus on those building blocks first. And that's something maybe a little later in your progression to add in versus right out of the gates. That's kind of what comes to mind for me looking at it just with the limited information we have there. Yeah. And I think people, for me, I have my own take on insulin. And I don't, I think people, a lot of people in bodybuilding use insulin the wrong way. I see all these dudes that use it pre-workout. I guess they go off of the old Milo Sarchev way of doing things. For me, what insulin brings to the table is allowing you to eat more food and be able to utilize that food. And if you don't have, like you said, if you don't have your diet buttoned up, it don't make fuck all the difference. Right. You know, so, you know, and of course there is the synergy with HGH and insulin. But, you know, and I've seen dudes run insulin without HGH. But one of the things I tell, like my clients, I tell them to start off with, monitor your glucose levels. You might not even need it. You know, if your endogenous insulin production is high and you have good insulin sensitivity, you probably don't even need it. It's not even really going to do anything for you. But I think we're like in advanced bodybuilders where they have declining insulin sensitivity and they're power shoving food and they're trying to get bigger. That's where you can get, to me, I don't know. I don't know what your take is on it, but that's where I've seen the value of it. And I see like it seems to have more impact in older bodybuilders than younger guys. Like for younger guys, I don't think most of them need it. I don't even think they need HGH. HGH, honestly, you should be, if you're in your early 20s, your body should be cranking out HGH on its own. Right. Yeah, I was going to mention too, like, you know, if you're not at closer to your max of your genetic potential, you probably have a lot of room there just to grow from your natural insulin sensitivity and the food you're shoveling in. And because most people we see, you know, it's just, especially in their offseason or their growth phases, it's just not really thought out or it's a lot of junk or it's, you know, things that just don't metabolize as well or don't really maybe fuel muscle growth as well as, you know, a more organized plan is. Like, you know, you've talked about a lot in your show, like using rotations, right? Like you can mimic, especially for younger guys who are up and coming and building, they can kind of almost mimic that not to the same level per se, but, you know, just the physiology of like having better insulin sensitivity from being depleted before a high day. Yeah. And then loading up your high day and then maybe that's, maybe it's after like a weak point training or I know a lot of like, you know, the protocols you and I have both done is, you know, on back days or leg days, we're doing our high days, but maybe a guy has a lagging area that he's working on and he wants to do that as well. But nonetheless, the point is, you know, there's a lot of insulin sensitivity that you can kind of first do if your diet's in a, looked at in like a weekly progression. And as far as, you know, your total caloric needs and your, all your macros on like some kind of a cycle type approach with that, I think you can get a lot out of it. And then later on, maybe that's where you have to make that decision if you want to add that in or not. If you're younger guy, gym guy, you know, probably not going to get as much out of it. If you're state level competitor, just kind of up and coming again, same thing, probably not going to get as much out of it. And like a lot, there was a pro actually that I was working with recently. It's a little bit off topic in his really twenties. And the question I asked him, he was using another compound, but the question I was asking him, if you're looking at his blood work is just like, okay, let's think about this. How much did you get out of using it? I believe it was super draw actually. But so it, you know, I know it's a different compound, but the thought process is the same. You know, you're in your early twenties. How long do you want to compete? Is that out of 10 to 15 years? I'm like the damage that just did to you for the little gain you got versus something, doing something else that maybe was less toxic on your body. You're not going to last, you know, 10, 15 years. And so I would almost, you know, take that same approach with some, some other compounds and things is like try to maximize that genetic potential or using some more, more of a core kind of approach with it. Yeah. I mean, there's always a cost versus benefit analysis that you have to run on everything. I, I, it's another thing I tell guys that they just don't even think about, you know, like you said, running toxic compounds when, I mean, when you look at it, if you look, if you look at the studies on it, there's really not much difference between muscle protein synthesis between the various compounds. So why not run the safer ones? And it's the same thing, like with blasting insulin, you're going to blow, blow out your insulin sensitivity too. So, right. But you know, me, I'm almost fucking 50 years old. And I, you know, I, I've definitely come to the conclusion that my body does not make enough insulin to keep up with the carbs. I'm probably pre-diabetic in some states. So what I do is not the same as what somebody, you know, 22 years old should do. So it varies where you're at in your training, but I would agree. I would get your diet buttoned up first. Yeah. And monitor, like you said, monitor, you know, your blood sugar levels first, right? Cause you don't even know. Yeah. Yeah. That's step one for guys. Like I want to, want to use insulin. I'm like, well, what is your fasting, fasting glucose level? They're like, I don't know. And I talked to dudes at the gym that I was just talking to a guy last week that was running. And insulin is 90. Did you even know what a glucose meter was? And I'm like, dude, come the fuck on, man. You got to be checking your blood sugar. If you're going to be running that stuff, you may not need it. You may be hypo. You may be high. You don't know. Right. So, and then I would say managing insulin sensitivity is probably step one in monitoring your glucose. And then the next step would be adding in some exogenous insulin. So, but if you don't understand the basic mechanisms of how it works and you aren't monitoring it, you shouldn't be using it. Right. So, all right. That's all I got on that one. Let's see what we got here. Super blood wolf moon. What a name. What is a good number of step counts to cut if walking is the exclusive cardio used? I walk. I don't want to ruin Justin, but he told me to do the HIIT cardio the last cut. I didn't do it any, man. I just walk. So the cat's out of the bag now. Sorry, Justin. There was no HIIT cardio. I just walked. You know what he forgot to tell me was I had three weeks left out from my show and he forgot to tell me I dropped the HIIT training. And my next training, I just wrote in there like feedback. I was like, HIIT's getting pretty challenging. He's like, oh, I'm sorry. He's like, you know, you're a week and a half beyond doing it. You can cut it now. I'm like, great. Thanks. My legs struggle up when I do HIIT cardio. So I don't know. I mean, some people respond well to it, but, and that I got shitty knees. So, but I don't know. What do you think is a good, I don't know. I don't know if there's an exact answer to that. Yeah. I mean, you know, I just, when I saw that question, you shared it beforehand. I just tried to take a look at like paces and stuff. I mean, it depends what they're trying to do. You know, 30 minutes at about, I think 4,000 steps is like two miles. You know, the general like health recommendations, like 10,000 steps a day. So it's kind of hard to, to really nail that down. I mean, I think I just try to look at the, the steps they're doing or the speed they're doing. You know, obviously you can work in incline and then what's the goal of that cardio. So if they're just doing like a steady state, like what's that, that list cardio, you know, that you can kind of, you can do more different ways to calculate this based on your breathing and things. But, you know, if you just do your, um, 220 minus your age times a percentage, you know, you can kind of get pretty dang close to that heart rate versus the steps and find that sweet spot is kind of what I've done. I've noticed 60 or 65%, something like that. I can't remember. Yeah. Right around there. And then you can cross check that with like your breathing, you know, like how many breaths. Um, it's like a, like an AT test, like your anaerobic threshold. You know, when you, when you cross over it is essentially when you can't get through a, uh, a sentence of about roughly six to eight words or so, uh, without taking a breath, you know, like whatever. So as you're going through it, it's just, it's just a good way to kind of test. Like, you know, I love talking on YouTube channels, whatever. Like if I can't get that whole sentence, you know, then I'm probably, you know, I'm probably a little bit higher than that. And you can cross check your, your heart rate with how that feels. Yeah. For cutting too, man. I don't know how you feel about it, but I, I, I probably am in the minority here, but when I have guys do cuts, I, I have them do the least amount of cardio possible. I only increase it when I need to, cause it seems like, uh, to me, you're sending mixed signals to your body. You start doing a shit ton of cardio. I've seen a lot of guys shrivel up, you know, it's like, there's their muscle. Now there's a difference between doing, we have to differentiate. There's a difference between doing cardio for, for health and for, you know, physique enhancement, you know, so for physique enhancement, if you're trying to maintain size, especially if you're a bigger competitor, uh, I, you have to be careful because I've seen guys shrivel up before they lose all their size when they, they hit the cardio too hard. But I always tell my guys that I'm working with, if, if I'm trying to cut on you, you got a choice, you can do more cardio or you can eat less food. It's really not energy balance at the end of the day. Yeah, that was my, that was my approach was I was willing to get in the habit in the morning, just do the old fast paced dog walk in the morning. And then I would hit, hit, do hit, I should say a couple of times a week, but it allowed me to have more calories. And, you know, you and I both are over, you know, over six feet. So, um, uh, you know, sometimes, uh, the, the wear and tear between doing two leg training days a week and a calorie deficit on top of all that cardio is like, is beating me up. So I, and I actually worked in a little bit more, uh, bag work into some of the hit training I was doing just to kind of mix it up. First, it was more mentally than after a couple of weeks. I'm like, Oh, this is actually like helping my, my joints recover a little bit. You know, obviously some of the guys out there are not, uh, I'm in the, I'm in the 40 club now. So I know you got, you got a little bit on me. I can't, I can't complain too much, but I'm, I'm the, I'm the master's level now. So I got to think of these things. I'm almost 50, man. I think this last cut I maxed out, uh, I didn't do much cardio at all this year. I remember seeing that. Yeah. Yeah. I think I maxed out at 30 minutes walking six days a week. That was it. Um, I was, I was jealous. That's for sure. I was watching the details of your plan. Cause I'm like, I'm, I'm hitting up Justin. I'm like, how do I get that? I just have a, I have a crazy fast metabolism. I mean, like last year I just shriveled up and I don't think you realize how fast my metabolism is and, uh, I, it just got out of control and we were doing, I was doing two 45 minute sessions a day last year, but I was also 185 pounds on stage versus two, almost two 40 this year. So it's a big difference. Um, yeah. So I mean, short answer here is whatever it takes to get cut. I know that's, I know that's stupid, but I, you know, I have the variables I adjust when, when, when I look, you know, I try to aim for 1% body loss. Per week, you know, so if you're 200 pounds, I try to shoot for two to three pounds per week and we can, we can, we have drugs, we can modulate. We have cardio. We can modulate. We have calories. We can modulate, you know, at the end of the day, it's whatever it's going to create in that energy balance to bring that weight off. So you pick your poison. That's what I tell people. Um, all right. Next question here is Jorge Anderson. Uh, if 80 milligrams of Telvisartan is not cutting, uh, to lower blood pressure, can you stack another BP metal on top or replace Telvisartan completely? Yeah, it's, uh, it's not generally, it's not something I would say is a area of my expertise. Um, I, I would have to defer to a clinician or physician specifically, but you know, I have seen like the angiotensin, uh, receptor blockers being used with calcium channel blockers for blood pressure before. Yeah, there's X-Forge, I think is one that has, uh, it's Valsartan and, um, amyloidopine, I think is in it. Yeah. Yeah. I think like, I know a fair amount from lifestyle changes for blood pressure and things, but I think selfishly because I haven't necessarily had the problem myself. Um, as far as when you get into dosages and medications outside of, uh, some really low dose stuff that I've had to use for a minor arrhythmia I had that's just more of a genetic thing and it's, it's rather benign. So outside of that, um, but that's just kind of what I can see from, from what's out there being used to different, uh, blood pressure situations. Yeah. I mean, I've run, God, I've been on every fucking blood pressure medicine known to man. I've had high blood pressure since I was in college, 170 pounds. It's, it's a, it's a genetic thing, I guess. I don't, I don't know, but, uh, I've run everything and the most effective thing I've ever used was X-Forge, which, which is the one I talked about, but sometimes it gets, my blood pressure gets too low on it, but it is, it is a calcium channel blocker stacked with, uh, with, um, uh, an ARB in it, but the ARBs directly address, uh, well, I mean, I guess, uh, ACE inhibitors would too, but directly, uh, address the renion and angiotensin aldosterone pathway, which is what exogenous androgens seem to exacerbate. But my guess would be if he's not, um, if the Thomas Sartan's not cutting it, then maybe he's got water issues. You know, I've seen people that have to be on diuretics too, to get their blood pressure down too. Sure. So I, you know, there are some that have a hydrochlorothiazide in them. I think I've seen on, on BP medicines. Uh, but I don't know, maybe there's something else going on too. Uh, I know the calcium channel blockers, I believe, don't they use those to bring down pulse and that lowers blood pressure that through that pathway? Yeah, I believe so. Like I know for myself, just, uh, even it was also on that. Yeah. I want to say it was, um, a part of it for me was kind of, um, uh, like I said, it was just a benign kind of a PVC. Uh, I have, uh, just an arrhythmia that it was helping with, uh, stabilize that. And, um, actually one of the things they put me, I'm not sure if you ever had this before, but was a, um, a beta blocker. I don't know if you have any experience with that and that, I don't know. I was just not myself. I was, I don't know how other people respond to it, but I was just super like lethargic. I felt like it just kind of rocked me pretty good, pretty low, low dosage too. But yeah, I have an abnormal Q wave. Um, I've always had it since I was in high school. They never could figure out why I had all kinds of park scans and stuff done. And they had me on a beta blocker for a while. And it's the same way, man, I felt like shit. I couldn't take it. Um, the weird thing is, is like the last couple of times I've had, uh, um, um, and, uh, was EKG or is, is that correct? That's correct. Yeah. ECG or no, EKG, right? EKG. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. Done. It didn't show up, which is weird now that I'm older. I don't know. My, my doctor couldn't figure it out. So whatever, you know, but, um, yeah, I, I, I, the big guns for me, like sometimes when I'm on a block on a blast, I do have to switch back over to X forge to, with the calcium channel blocker to bring it down. But usually 80 milligrams of telmosartin cuts it for me. Might want to check his estrogen levels and see if they're too high. You know, I bloated up and carrying a bunch of water too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Between, you know, like you've mentioned between that and, and again, just, you know, dietary water retention, like, you know, I see people, you know, are just blasting away with Doritos and beer and pizza. Not that this guy is, but just, you know, it's like, uh, you know, are we working against, uh, the problem here? We're kind of just, even without those things, you'd still have some issues. So. Well, there's certain, uh, anabolics too, that I've seen that people take that seem to blow blood pressure out more than others. Like Anadrol seems to be a horrible offender. Anadrol and D-ball both. Like you'll, you'll see dudes bleeding out their eyeballs doing deadlifts, taking Anadrol med. And, you know, and, you know, I don't know if he's, I think it was Eddie Hall when he did his, uh, world record lift that he was bleeding out of his ear. I'm like, I wonder how high his blood pressure was. Oh man. I don't even want to think of that. Yeah. It's scary. All right. Next one. I got here, uh, fish man, Rob, Rob's one of my clients. He's a, he's a frequent question to ask you. Uh, uh, if you were just bodybuilding for your own personal reasons, what, what would you do differently? If anything with your training blocks, phases versus competing? Um, I mean, what would you, if, if you're not competitive, what would you do differently? I, you know, I think for me and I, I, I need to still do more of this. I actually am posting some stuff on my YouTube soon. I went to see a mobility specialist. Um, so I think for me it would be, um, mobility work, um, stuff more, a little more geared towards athletic performance. Um, not necessarily like CrossFit per se, but multi joint movements. I think one, it would cut down my time to it increase my caloric output and three dysfunctionally. I just wouldn't be banged up. Cause it's, you know, I usually hammer legs on Saturday and I'm screwed up till Tuesday. And then I hit my hamstrings and glutes and, and, uh, a little bit of lower back on Wednesdays. So it's like all week I have something down there hurting. And it's like, you know, uh, I think I would say more just in just working on quality of movement. Um, I still could be doing more of that now and get a lot of benefit out of it. So it's, you know, not necessarily a good excuse, but I think that's what I would shift more towards. Cause I think, especially, I don't know about you, but like where I am, uh, you know, unless I'm trying to, you know, compete at another level to put on a lot more size, like I'm going to be able to retain a lot of the size that I have. Uh, I've been around the same, you know, besides when I was working towards competing around the same size, I wouldn't be concerned about that. I think I could kind of, you know, retain, if not even get a little bit out of it, but also just improve movement, quality of movement, things like that. I honestly, for me, I, the, the big thing I would change, man, I get tired of eating six meals a day. Oh, that's true. Fucking hate it, man. I have to force the food down and be in two 70, which is where I'm at right now. Two 70 to 80 in the offseason. It's usually what I go at six. One is not very functional, man. I went for a hike the other weekend and I, I, I had to put my hands on my knees about four times up the mountain. And my girlfriend told me she didn't know CPR and I was on my own if I had a heart attack. So I, I, I would definitely be lighter. Um, I would cut some weight and I wouldn't eat as much. Uh, that would be, I love training. So I don't know how much I would change, change with my training. I like being in the gym. I like training. I would do other stuff. Like I, I, I definitely miss sports. Like I have cut out and I miss cycling. I love cycling. I used to cycle a lot. I used to do a lot of distance cycling. Um, and jujitsu. We talked about that before. Uh, but those things are not conducive to, uh, making a push at masters national. So I've kind of sacrificed those. I, I, like I told you earlier, I have a crazy metabolism and I just shrivel up if I start doing any, any sort of endurance activities. You know, I was a basketball player when I was younger, I was like 170 pounds when I graduated college. Well, like I was saying earlier, like luckily I wasn't competing, you know, training, uh, for any kind of competition, but doing the Krav Maga, like once I got back up to the, there's a certain level I was trying to sort of get a test out and certify for, and, you know, got a little, I would just call it like that tennis elbow feel, but it just definitely any, any certain movements I couldn't do. So it was like, Oh man, like, cause I wanted to work that in for prep for diet, but I'm going to have to back off some of the striking, but I still want to get the cardio, some of the cardio out of it. Cause I just get so bored, like sitting on a treadmill, staring at a wall. But, um, so yeah, no, there's a couple of things, but I do, I do agree with the food because my hardest is probably like the sixth meal. It's just so late and I'm just like lazy. I don't want to cook it. I'm like, I'd rather just go to bed. Oh man. There's many, many times I'm just like, fuck, do I gotta eat again? Uh, I don't, I don't think people realize how hard that is, man. When, when, especially if you're trying to push size, it's miserable, man, it can get, it can get really miserable. And I don't, I don't, I mean, I think I have a decent appetite, but there are times that I have to push the food down. Um, I, I, I, you know, to your point, the biggest thing I would like that I miss is just being more functional. Like 270 pounds is, you know, spending over and tie my shoelaces sometimes sucks, you know? So, uh, I don't know. I, I miss being functional and having mobility and, and being light and fast. I don't know. You know, I'm almost 50 years old. I don't know how fast I would be. I'm not going to be dunking a, dunking a basketball anytime soon again, but I don't know. That, that would be the big thing. The food and just being more functional, being able to do, uh, you know, play sports and do other things. All right. Next one I got here. Soviet slug is another one of my frequent commenters. Uh, let's see if you went completely natural hypothetically, but still trained and ate right. How much muscle do you think you would lose? Yeah, I think that, you know, the thing that comes to mind there is just that, I guess the first thing from, you know, a hormone standpoint is if someone, uh, there's, you know, completely natural, but did they follow a protocol to kind of get their natural hormones, you know, working again? So if things were, and what were those levels and how high were they, I think would help mitigate against that. Um, yeah, it's, you know, it's kind of challenging to say, I mean, I think with, I guess he's, if you have, you know, good nutrition, as I think he's talking about, if you're still training and eating right, you know, you can retain quite a bit. I think you're definitely going to like lose the, uh, recovery factor to train as hard and as frequent. You're going to lose, you know, some fullness, you know, good amount of fullness and things. Um, I think it would, if you did all those things, right, it would, it'd probably be a, a slower decline than maybe others who just kind of ripped a bandaid off and just, uh, stop everything and their training kind of go South. I mean, you know, ballpark, I guess, maybe, maybe 10, 20% of the course of, six to 12 months, maybe, I don't know. Um, what are your thoughts on that? Yeah. I mean, I have, I've, I have come off completely for years at a time. Um, and I, you know, for me natural at this point is TRT. I don't think, I don't think there's any recovering my, my hormone profile at 50 years old, but I, you can maintain a surprising amount of tissue on, you know, pretty low dose testosterone. Right. If your diet and your training's buttoned up, I, I was just arguing with somebody about this one on my, my, my, uh, Instagram, he was telling me I was lying about being on 250 milligrams of test right now at 270 pounds. That's all I'm on. I'm not taking growth hormone, nothing. Um, and he was telling me that's impossible. And I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I don't know what to tell you, man, but, but it's the truth. Right. Uh, I, I'm not saying that more gear doesn't work, but it, it, it doesn't take much to maintain. Now, I, I think that you have to push to add size, especially as you get older, but I don't know. I mean, you look at some of the, look at some of the retired bodybuilders of where they're at. I mean, Jake Cutler still looks pretty great. And from talking to him, he's at least what he, I talked to him last year and he seemed to indicate that he's like only running like 150 milligrams of test a week. Right. That's what he said. I don't know if he's full of shit or not, but. Well, and that's, that's a good point. Cause I think to clarify, yeah, if you're going completely natural versus TRT, there is a difference there for sure. But, uh, and I agree with you, you can definitely retain a lot. And I think it, not that everybody who talks about what they're using for a con for a offseason or whatever is accurate, but there are a lot of bodybuilders that like specifically physique competitors are at the top of their weight class where people are like, there's no way he's only doing that. And this and that it's like, yeah, but he's already got the size. Like he's, you know, there's only fine tuning. You can't really put on too much more to fit into that weight class or whatever the case is. So. Yeah. I mean, Bumstead just talked about how he only runs. Like basically TRT. Um, um, I don't know how the dude makes weight unless they're full of shit. I think I saw last year he had to cut something like 20 pounds in the last couple of weeks. Yeah. Uh, to make weight. But, you know, I don't know. Some of the old, I mean, you look at Ronnie Coleman, the dude's in a fucking wheelchair and he's still huge. Yeah, that's true. That's true. You know? So I, and, and I know like Dave Palomo talked about how like he had to deliberately, uh, I guess he had a heart issue. Um, and I saw him talk about how he like had to come off everything and, and like basically eat once or twice a day to get all that weight off of him. Um, but once, once you've accumulated the tissue, it's not that hard to maintain it. I don't think. And now, now if you were just straight natty versus an enhanced, I think there's only so far you can take it. I mean, you probably can go another 20, 30% over your natural body weight with, with enhancement. Sure. But I don't know. It's hard to quantify. I think once you've accumulated real tissue, it's pretty easy to maintain. I think what a lot of guys get confused about, like you see young guys that say, do these stupid dbol cycles and come off and lose everything. Well, that's not real contractile tissue. It's just bloat. Right. You know? So there's a difference between losing water weight and losing real contractile tissue. So real contractile tissue, once you have earned it and cemented it in, it tends to hang around. Yeah. That's good clarification for sure. But everybody has sort of a set homeostatic point, I think. And, and it, it seems like with years and years of PED use, you sort of set that homeostatic point higher. I noticed like definitely my body composition is completely different than what it was when I was younger. It's not the same. Like I, it's easier for me to stay lean. Um, I, you know, I can get away with eating some shit that I couldn't eat and just whatnot. But I don't know. That's kind of a long, I kind of got off track there, but, um, I don't know if that answers this question or not, but, um, I think you can maintain a fair amount if you're trained and eat smartly. You're not going to maintain everything. Right. Uh, let's see. The next question we got here is from AJ Sakuya. Um, your opinion on high dose metformin, 1500 milligrams plus for fat loss or nutrient partitioning in the cycle. Um, in the absence of exogenous GH or insulin, I heard it's powerful enough to make you huge. I don't know about that. I also heard it inhibits growth due to its effect on IGF-1. Would love to hear your expertise on this one. Yeah, I know, I know you have a, uh, quite a bit of experience, um, uh, with that. And you've talked about a lot in your channel. I'll kind of give an initial thought and just kind of unpack it from there. You know, I, I kind of look at it as, as far as effects on IGF-1 is it's almost like the, I don't know, the, the, the coffee cup emptying the pool, you know, type effect where it's just, it's pretty, it does do that, but it's relatively minimal. When I look at 1500 milligrams, the thing I get more concerned about is like GI distress. And can that person hold down the food? And are they having a bunch of. Yeah. You better strap yourself to the toilet seat. Exactly. Exactly. I've tried, you know, I've tried 1500 milligrams before and it was not pretty. Yeah. I, I, I've actually seen some really in just general population, some really, uh, significant improvements just from 500. So, you know, and it's all over the map because I hear people, 1500, 2000, there's a physician I worked with for a long time that she said, you know, anything under a gram is like spitting in the wind. But then on the other hand, I knew general population people at 500 milligrams, they saw something out of it. I think, um, uh, Ben Pollack, uh, actually, uh, had a YouTube about what he was using for, I want to say it was when he's doing strong man. And he said, you know, he was using 500 milligrams metformin that it's anecdotal, but you know, um, so yeah, that I, I guess that would be my, my thought on it as far as it, you know, powerful enough to make someone huge. I haven't seen that. I, I heard that once on another podcast, but I don't know anything that supports that. And I'd be interested to see where that, where that comes from. Well, I mean, I, I think this is my, my, my two cents on it. If, if you have impaired glucose sensitivity, if you're, uh, you know, that it's definitely going to make a difference. You know, if you're, if you're not uptaking nutrients, you can't grow. You know, so any, any improvement on, on insulin sensitivity is going to, going to help you help you grow. So I, I, I, to me, that's the effect that we're, you know, that that's the beneficial part of it. I don't know that as far as I know, there's no direct growth mechanisms associated with metformin. It's just the increased insulin sensitivity. I have seen improvements in body composition, uh, when, especially in myself, you know, when I, when I started taking it, um, but I, you know, like I said, I also think I'm sort of in some state of pre-diabetic type diabetes, sorry. Uh, you know, so obviously if I'm glucose disposal agent agent agent agent is improved, if the carbs are going to the places they're supposed to go, I eat the muscle tissue, uh, I'm going to have improved, uh, body composition. I think, I think that's a good point. You make those for context, you know, I, I was more referencing from the people I see that are inquiring off and just, I'm just randomly taking it, you know? So that's a good point because it's like, well, as we were saying earlier, you know, uh, monitoring blood sugar, seeing if there's issues there, then. And that's going to really, you know, determine the impact it has, um, as well. So yeah, I don't think it's a, it's a good point. And have you, you, you've used berberine with metformin? Yeah, I use both. Yeah, I use both. Yeah. You notice anything, uh, any pros or cons from doing that? I, I know Justin's in love with berberine, but I, I feel like I get more out of the metformin. Yeah. I'm honest with you. I've, I've monitored my glucose levels and they, they seem to have, and also with the metformin too, I read some studies. I did a video about it, uh, where metformin, um, uh, people after a while become, uh, leptin stops working. They, they, their leptin sensitivity goes, goes to shit. And evidently, uh, metformin improves leptin sensitivity too. So you, you know, you, your hunger signaling gets all screwed up in, in obese people, people that are chronically obese, evidently your body's dumping out leptin all the time and you lose leptin sensitivity. If I paraphrase, I'm going to sell in the study and that metformin seems to improve leptin sensitivity as well. And it has effects on appetite suppression through that mechanism. Um, you know, so, and I, and I found, I, I have found that my appetite is suppressed when I take metformin, um, you know, have you ever used the cream kind? No, I didn't even know there was such a thing. Yeah. There's a, uh, compounding pharmacies make like a, like a cream, uh, kind. And I, I believe it's a, a 10% is the dosage. So for example, you know, a hundred milligrams is equivalent to a, a, a gram through the pill. I want to say, uh, is how it shakes out. So that would, that would eliminate the stomach distress, right? That was why it was created. Um, it's a much smaller percentage of people have that. So I've actually had family members that did switch to it and unfortunately still had some GI distress. It wasn't, um, quite as bad as with the pill, but I also noticed like when you're taking it, if you're, you know, if you're taking it with food, it's supposed to like decrease the chance of having those issues. But, uh, yeah, I just, there's just people that just love the effects of it, but just could not keep doing it. Um, I've personally rotated with, um, uh, the pill form versus the, like the cream form as well. I have to check out the cream. I didn't even know there was such a thing. That's interesting. Yeah. I don't know. A thousand milligrams seems to be good for me. Uh, I, you know, like with, with dudes that I coach, uh, you know, if you have good insulin sensitivity, you don't need it. I don't think, uh, you know, I mean, maybe, maybe, you know, maybe on, on the cut, there is some performance enhancing effects with the improved ghrelin sensitivity and appetite suppression. I don't know. I mean, that's just kind of me speculating, but I, it definitely suppresses my appetite a bit, but I usually, I see people start off around 500 milligrams and then work their way up to a thousand or 1500. I've done 1500 before. And now I don't know. It was a little dicey. Well, and there's also, um, and I'm not sure what, uh, have you used extended release or like the more? Yeah, I've heard the XR is, uh, better and easier on your stomach. Yep. I think that affects the dosage too of what people are using, or you can do more acute, um, uh, dosaging around certain meals or whatever the case is. Like, um, I, I've, you, I've seen used, um, uh, there's like a, a compound out there with metformin and some different, um, branched-chain amino acids in it and a little bit of sildenafil, I want to say, um, supposed to like kind of help with the absorption of it, I guess. And that was like a more immediate one. And then you can, uh, in my experience in a clinical setting, it's, you know, prescribed, but others have used it, but we're with an extended release as well as like an overlay throughout the whole day, but then they'd have more of an acute, uh, dosage that they would use at different times of their diet or whatever the case was. Interesting. Yeah. I'm interested in some of glutide too. I've seen a lot of people using that instead of metformin. Um, I've heard, I've heard good things about that, but I've, I've never messed with it. I don't know anything about it really. Yeah. It, it, it will definitely shut down appetite. That's for sure. Um, a lot of people use it like when they're doing fasting or any weight loss. I mean, there's a lot of benefits. I actually know somebody who, um, uh, you know, was not a competitor, um, but, but dropped over 40 pounds. And that was really the only main thing they changed just because of how it controlled appetite and gastric emptying, emptying and all that fun stuff. Yeah. So I saw some studies on it that it had some pretty significant impacts on weight loss, but I don't know how that would be for a competitor. So, but I, you know, the metformin for me is a way to counteract, uh, the effects of GH on insulin sensitivity. So I think that's why, you know, I, if I recall correctly, that's why bodybuilders originally started using it as a way to, to counteract, uh, you know, declining insulin sensitivity from GH use. That's, that's also kind of on a side rant, but I had dudes asking me about the bubble guts that people get. They think it's from insulin. I don't, I think it's from, from being insulin resistant and accumulating, uh, visceral fat. I've seen it with guys that use metformin. They don't get the, get the big old bubble gut, like the dudes that, uh, uh, that are just running insulin and GH together. So I don't think it's the insulin that's causing it. I think it's insulin resistance. Hmm. Um, that's just my theory. Yeah. You know, for what it's worth, but it's just me speculating, but all right, man, that's though I got, uh, Joe, you have a YouTube channel up, right? Yeah. It started a YouTube a little while ago. Um, at the moment, the name is a talks with Joe. So I'll have different guests on there or I'll pull up like a research article and just kind of unpack it and walk through my highlights from it. Kind of give the cliff notes versions every once in a while, sprinkle in activity. Like I mentioned earlier, like it might be Krav Maga or I have some videos I'm going to post soon from a mobility specialist. I met with it's, it'll be a little fun. And also educational. He talks about like how to warm up and, and how to cool down and stuff like that. Just, uh, just as far as different, uh, techniques and stuff. So, so yeah, just kind of having fun with that, getting that going. My, uh, upcoming master show. I haven't nailed down a date yet, but I'm, I'm planning to vlog for that just for, just for fun and share on stage, man. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Of course. Yeah. Kind of working through. Maybe I'll see you at masters nationals. I got, I, yeah, I have to qualify first and then, uh, then we'll definitely, uh, definitely, uh, make a run there. But, uh, yeah, so that's kind of the game plan. Uh, just, you know, get that going, just having fun with it. Like, I think, you know, you, you kind of, uh, planted that seed as I started to see what you're doing, just giving back to the community and sharing info and hoping, hoping to be a good, reliable source out there for people. Yeah. I thought it'd be fun to make myself a Guinea pig for everybody else. I don't know how smart it is at my age, to be honest with you. And I think this might be my, well, we'll see how it goes. This is this. I might have one more Emmy after this one, but this might be my last show. We'll see. Then I might hang it up and go back, go back to jujitsu again. Yeah. Well, guys check out Joe. He has a wealth of knowledge. Definitely, definitely knows his shit. Um, um, I'll put a link to his, uh, channel in the video description so you guys can go check it out. Um, but anyway, I appreciate you coming on Joe. Thank you. Yeah. My pleasure. Thanks. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you. Thank you.