 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A. I got some good ones up today. It's been a crazy week. I'm recording this at the last minute. So hopefully this all makes sense. But I have some really good questions for you. We're going to dig into them in just one second. one. all...!.. this. this is.!.. this. this is.!.. this is. this.!. this is.! this is! this is reference to carb cycling. for those of you that don't know, how much of a surplus would you say you are eating? 500 to 700 calories or more? And would you recommend the high days be the day before the large body parts? All right. So the high days, the way we do the high days. It is different when you're in a massing phase than it is when you are on a cut. On a cut, we are doing high days once per week. And generally that high day, actually the high day on the cuts often tends to be higher than what you would run in the offseason. Because, usually at the back half of a cut, not at the front half. Because you get really depleted at the end and that's your opportunity to refill glycogen. And we want to use the other days for fat burning. So the surplus in, it sounds counterintuitive, but so the surplus in a cut can be pretty crazy sometimes. There were some high days during my contest prep this year where I estimated that my high days were in excess of 7,000 calories. And I estimate that my maintenance calories are somewhere between 3,500 and 3,800 calories. Somewhere in that range. I get below that and I start losing weight. So they can be pretty crazy. So that's over a 3,000 calorie surplus on contest prep. Which is nutty when you think about it, but you're sort of tricking your energy management systems in your body. You're not violating thermodynamics. So what ends up happening, a large bodybuilder, somebody my size, I go 270 in the offseason, I'm 236 on stage, can store over 1,000 grams of carbs as glycogen. Sometimes even more than that. I mean there were times that I would eat 1,500 grams of carbs or thereabouts on contest prep. There was times where Justin gave me unlimited high days on contest prep and I didn't get any weight. My weight would bounce a little bit the day after just from water retention, but I would go right back to baseline 48 hours later. So, but what ends up happening, it's not that you're not storing those excess calories as fat, they're being stored as glycogen. So, it's in a way of keeping you full while stimulating your metabolism and burning fat during contest prep. Now, in the offseason, there are periods of time where I'll run three high days a week. Usually it's two. And those high days are not as high as they are during prep because I am in a caloric surplus pretty much every day except for the low day. And I only run one low day per week during the offseason because I train six days a week. To answer the second half of your question, is it the day before large body parts? No, we run the high days actually on the high, on the large body part days. So, there would be insulin deployed during that day. I generally run Humalog at meals one, three, and five. I'm not telling you you should run Humalog, but this is how I do it. I run Humalog at one, meals one, three, and five on the high days. I do six meals. So, I'm getting Humalog in every other meal. I keep my fats as low as possible because any excess fats when we're in a high carb state with insulin are likely going to be stored as adipose tissue, which we don't want. We want to preferentially burn it or store it as glycogen. And that's how I run the high days during the offseason in their two to three days per week. Now, the reason we don't run them higher like we do during contest prep is because I am in a caloric surplus the other days. So, I'm in a caloric surplus essentially six days per week. So, I don't need as much glycogen to fill back out. I shouldn't be completely glycogen depleted when I get to my high days. So, I don't need as much carbs. The object of the high day is to fill up glycogen during the, during contest prep and the offseason and to have a little extra for a surplus for, for adding a new tissue during the offseason. So, that is generally the premise of it. I know it was a long winded answer, but it is, carb cycling is a bit complex. So, hopefully that explains it for you. Alright, next question here from this is, this is asked, if asked as a question, do you have any anecdotes about the different cosmetics appearances when a person gets down to 6% body fat with or without a DHT derivative? Any experience with just pulling testosterone out towards the end? Well, you name it, I have tried it. I have done cuts with testosterone. I have done cuts without testosterone. I've done cuts with Nandrolone only where I did Nandrolone and well, really, I used to run this crazy cycle. I have a video up about it if you want to look up my crazy Nandrolone and Tren cycle, but I coach and worked with before. And it's actually a very effective cycle. It keeps you dry where I would run Nandrolone, Tren, and Anovar. It sounds insane, but it works. So, I've definitely cut without testosterone before I have done it. I got very dry. And I thought I looked pretty great, but not as great as I did with the other ways of doing things. The issue I've run into when not using TES, and I don't know if everybody else has this experience, is I get very flat looking. TES seems to fill me out, so I prefer to keep as much TES in as I can tolerate towards, you know, to the end of a prep cycle. Usually, I'll cut it a little bit at the end to help dry up a little bit, but it's a fine line. You've got to walk between it. I have also tried it without DHT derivatives. I need DHT derivatives to get hard, although you can get pretty hard with Tren. But the DHT derivatives just seem to give you an extra bit of polish that you can't get without them. I don't know. And it could be all a placebo effect and all in my head. But I have found that if I want that hard, grainy look, I have to run DHT derivatives. So, I will run Mastron, typically. I'll run a primobolon on contest prep. I'll run Anovar at the end. I used to run Windstraw, but I've subbed Windstraw out for Halotessin, although Halotessin is not a DHT derivative. But that's generally what I do to get that hard. And Proviron, so I'm throwing the kitchen sink at it. The proverbial DHT kitchen sink at it at the end. So, that's how I do it. I'm not saying it's the right way to do it, but that's how I do it. I think that gives me a nice chiseled, hard look at the end. I've seen some natties. Some of the most in-shape, ripped, hard-looking bodybuilders I've ever seen are natties. They, they, they, so clearly you can do it without it. Um, you know, take a look at like some of the Natty World Championships and bodybuilding. Those dudes get absolutely fucking ripped. And hard. And dry. So, clearly you don't need, um, PEDs to get ripped hard and dry. They, they, they do it down. I know they take longer with their preps and there's a lot of water manipulation that goes on and yada yada. But, um, I, I think actually it's probably harder to get dry and grainy while on PEDs because of the water retention that they can cause. So, that's just me speculating. Um, but hopefully that answers your question. All right. Next question I've got here is from EPF 55. He goes, what are options to deal with elevated blood pressure? He goes, I get increased blood pressure with, even with, uh, 80 milligrams of thalmastardin. And I've up my doses to two, up my dosages from 250 tests to, when adding 200 milligrams of, uh, Primo weekly. My BP went from 125 over 70 to 146 over 80 after a few weeks on the test in Primo. Are there some people that are more insensitive to increased dosages? Does your BP change from one or the other when you're blasting or cruising? Uh, yeah. So I found, uh, for whatever reason, Primo seems to elevate my blood pressure too. Uh, but it, it tends to go back down. It seems like it, it, it bumps up at first and then it, then it goes, it goes back down. Um, so I would ride it out in one, you know, I'm not saying one 46 over 80 is great, but it's not like you're on the verge of death. You want that top number to be below one 30 and the bottom number to be below 80. So, I mean, but you're, you're okay. You're, you're starting to get into the hypertensive zone, but that, you know, that's, you know, you're running pretty conservative doses of PEDs, 250 tests with 200 milligrams of Primo. Um, I would say, I would say that it might be estrogen and water retention, but you, you, with the Primo and that low dose of tests, you shouldn't be really converting much estrogen, but you may want to get your estrogen checked. Um, uh, now I have had some issues when I run really, really, really high doses of stuff and I'm eating a shit ton of food. That's another thing here too. This could be diet related to your diet could be shit. Um, so I would, I would check that. Or if you have higher body fat, that could be an issue, but there is what I call the nuclear bomb option of, uh, of, um, anti hypertensive drugs. And there's a drug that I have used sometimes in offseason called X forge. Um, and X forge, um, has a calcium channel blocker and, um, an ACE inhibitor in it both. Uh, it has, um, uh, it has amlodepine and, uh, um, valsartan in it. That's, that's the, um, the, um, ARB, um, that's not ACE inhibitor. It's an ARB. Um, sorry. Uh, so ARB, not ACE inhibitor. So yeah, that, uh, X forge. And there is also a version of X, X forge called X forge, uh, HCT, which also has a diuretic in it. Um, so you get all three and if that doesn't bring you down, I don't know what to tell you. Um, you do not need that with where your blood pressure at is that, that's not like, I mean, I've seen people with, you know, 200 over 100 and just some crazy numbers before. Um, hell I've had mine up, uh, um, you know, 160 over, over a hundred before. Um, not since I've gotten in better shape, but when I was a lard ass before I got back into working out and this was off gear, just before anybody starts throwing stones at me, I wasn't even taking any gear. I was just a fat ass. Um, I would get up crazy, crazy high like that sometimes. It's actually better now than what it was when I was not taking gear and when I was fat. Uh, but I, I think I was retaining a bunch of water and my estrogen was through the roof. Um, you know, it's just a fat and probably 25, 30% body fat, which doesn't help. Um, so X forge is an option, but I would take a look at your diet. I would take a look at your estrogen levels. Um, and you know, see what's going on there first. I, I think, you know, I, I think one 46 over 80 is not the end of the world, but ideally we want it lower. Anyway, I hope that answers your question. All right. Next question here from Carter Flumin. Carter asked thoughts on pausing and of our end of draw or something like that. Um, you know, something like two days on two, three days off versus four to eight weeks straight with an oral. Um, yeah, I've done that before. Um, I used to like running worlds like that where I'd run them only a few days a week, pre-workout, like just on weak body parts. Um, I love anadrol and I love the strength that it gives you, but anadrol fucks my stomach up. Um, it also seems to aggravate gyno in me, even though it does not convert to estrogen. It, there's a lot of things. A lot of people don't know this, but anadrol seems to have some sort of direct interaction or indirect interaction with, with the estrogen receptor. And it can cause gyno in some people. I've seen it many times. Um, so yeah, I used to, I used to take, you know, a couple of days a week. I would, I thought about doing it again this fall, but I'm, I'm getting old. It's not a smart idea at my age. Um, anadrol is really hard on you. Uh, but if you ran 50 milligrams, say three days a week, pre-workout. Yeah, sure. You could probably get away with that. Uh, anavar. I used to run a lot of anavar. I would run a hit of work. There was times I'd run anavar year round pre-workout. Same deal. I'd run it three or four days a week. Just run like 30 milligrams. Um, I don't remember the study, but I did see a study. I think it was, they, they monitored women taking anavar. Up to as high as 30, uh, milligrams per day. And they showed no liver or very, very little liver stress. Their liver values were in the normal range. Uh, I think it was up to 30 milligrams per day. You push past that. And then, um, although anavar seems to, if I recall correctly, somebody can correct me on this if I'm wrong. And as anavar gets processed largely through the kidneys and the liver both. But, um, out of the orals, anavar seems to have the least impact on the liver. I don't see liver values go out unless you're running really high doses. So I would probably choose the anavar over the anadrol. But, um, depending on what your goals are for it, for force production, strength, there's not much that beats anadrol. Um, it almost makes it worth it, uh, to take it, you know, take the risk with anadrol. If I were young in my twenties, I'd probably roll the dice a little more often with anadrol. I'm not, so I don't, you know, another issue with anadrol is blood pressure goes through the roof. I see dudes where they look like a fucking tomato in the gym. I can, you know, some of the dudes over in the power lifting area, they look like goddamn tomatoes when they're lifting. Um, they get super red and I can tell that they're running a bunch of anadrol, you know, high red blood cell count and topped off with high blood pressure. Uh, you know, you see dudes getting nosebleeds doing deadlifts and busting out high blood vessels, blood vessels in their eyes and shit like that when they take, they take anadrol. So just something to keep in mind, but yeah, certainly you could do it. I just don't like orals anymore in a mass phase because they crush my appetite. I just don't want to eat when I take orals. And I think a lot of people experience that. Um, I think I would rather just take a higher dose of Prima Bowling or something, but that's me. Um, anyway, on to the next one. All right. Next one is from Zam Monster. Uh, best injectable anabolics for people who struggle with acne. Uh, the best cycle I've seen for people with acne, um, is an androlone only cycle. Um, acne is weird. I don't exactly understand all the mechanisms with how acne works, but it seems to be that it can either be caused by cancer. It can either be caused by DHT and estrogen both. So it's sort of a crapshoot of what, which it is. It, and I've seen people who take nandrolone only and they don't seem to have problems with acne. Uh, and I speculate that is because, uh, nandrolone does not convert, um, to directly to DHT. Uh, it converts to dihydronandrolone if I remember correctly. And nandrolone, uh, very slightly aromatizes. I think it's only like a 3%. So it barely any of it turns to, um, turns into, uh, turns into estrogen. So it's, it's pretty, pretty much, you don't, you're not going to get any conversion to anything, uh, with it. So it, I've seen people that, that seem to respond well to it and you, and don't end up with acne with, with nandrolone. Um, I don't know. I mean, it seems like a lot of the DHT derivatives cause, cause guys to get acne. Um, Tess certainly does. Um, so they're not a lot of choices. Uh, also some of it can be personal hygiene. I've seen guys that they're just fucking pigs. Um, what is it? Uh, so the solid acid, um, wash you can get that you can scrub your back with if you get acne. I've been lucky. I don't get acne. Um, but I don't get acne. Um, I, I've never gotten acne. I don't, it's just a genetic thing. I guess I can take whatever I want and I don't get acne. Now my hair falls out. You know, you guys can see that. Although I went bald when I wasn't on anything. Dudes are all the time giving me shit saying, uh, that I lost my hair taking steroids. I didn't take steroids for like 12 years from like age 33 to 44, 45. I didn't touch anything. I was completely off. Um, and my dad's bald. My dad went bald when he was in his forties and my dad's never taking anything. Um, so I think I would have gone bald regardless. I probably could have done some things to averted it, but I was already bald by the time I started. I was not bald when I took anabolics in my twenties. Um, and then I was bald, bald by the time I started taking them again in my mid forties. So just something to consider. It's largely a lot of these things, acne, baldness, things like that are, are genetically dependent. All right, guys, that's all I got for you today. Hopefully you enjoyed this one. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.