 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Ladies and gentlemen, Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A. We got some good ones on deck today. I have questions here from various YouTube users and people from Instagram. I get blasted with almost too many questions now. I can't hardly keep up with them, but I get some really good ones. I picked the best to put on here. So if I didn't get to yours, I apologize. I try to get a nice mix of questions I think that would be entertaining and people will enjoy and learn from. So today on deck we have Classic Physique Cycles. We have Building insulin Protocols. How Justin Harris Built My Metabolism Up. Is Life Long Basal insulin Use Safe?lonlonlonlonlonlonlonlon! All right, first question I have here today, and I get this one frequently, and I haven't really addressed it yet. Can you please make a video on a classic physique bodybuilder's PED cycle? I don't know that it's worth a full video. Maybe, maybe not, but I'll tell you in a nutshell, it's the same as a regular bodybuilder. There's really no difference. We have the same phases. And I have several classic guys that I coach. They run the exact same cycles that the bodybuilders do. Men's physique guys might be a little different, but for the most part, they run the same shit too. The one thing we have to keep in mind with classic physique guys, especially as guys get bigger, that we have weight classes that we have to make. So, actually, a lot of times, classic guys, once you get up to a certain size, you probably don't need to take as much shit as an open class bodybuilder does, because you don't have to maintain all that size. I did a video a couple weeks ago about Chris Bumstead and him talking about his cycle. Now, granted, I think Chris kind of tap danced around the truth a little bit. There was some truth and sprinkled in there with some bullshit, but he claims that he's only taken 200 milligrams of tests in the off-season, which, my guess, is just his cruise until he goes on his off-season blast. But Chris has already achieved the level of size that he needs to compete, and he doesn't need to get any bigger. So, maintaining size when you have true contractile tissue, not bullshit bloated Jimbro tissue, but when you have real muscle, is not that hard to maintain. And you probably could maintain it on TRT levels for a certain period of time if your diet and your training are on point. But until you get to that point, your cycles are probably going to be exactly the same as your buddy who's competing in regular bodybuilding. There really is no difference. I mean, we're both trying to put on size. We're both trying to achieve a similar look. So, there's really, really no difference. On contest prep, it's probably exactly the same. I don't run classic guys any different than I do regular bodybuilders. It's the same cycle on contest prep. And, you know, if we have somebody that's going to have trouble making weight, we might be a little more conservative. You don't need to run as much. So, that is an advantage. If you're at the top or you're at the top of your weight class for classic, you can get away with using less gear. So, that is a nice thing. It might be, you know, once you reach a certain level, it probably is healthier than an open class bodybuilder who's constantly trying to hold on to that massive amount of size. Hopefully, that answers your question. It's really the same. All right. Preston Hart asked me, how do you build an insulin protocol? I've never really used it before, so I don't know much about it. Well, first and foremost, I would suggest going to my insulin playlist and watching the information videos on insulin and how my insulin protocol works. But, in a nutshell, I think 95% of people out there and coaches do insulin completely the wrong way. Everybody likes to do this pre- and post-workout bullshit where that's the only time they use it, which makes zero sense to me. And, I think it came from Milos Sartre's way of doing things, which is really tied into his training program. And, there's just a bunch of other stuff. And, he's shoving carbs during the workout, which most people aren't doing there. It's kind of a bastardized version of his protocol. I'm not saying that his protocol doesn't work. Clearly, it works. But, I think there is a better way to do it. And, if you think about what insulin does, insulin, and I'm going to get people that argue with me about this, too, but, essentially, insulin just is a storage hormone. Every time I say it's a storage hormone, somebody beats me up and says it's not. If you look at the fucking clinical definition of it, you go to the Cleveland Clinic's website, it says storage hormone. I know there's some other gurus out there that say it's not. But, what insulin does is signal the cell to open up to nutrients, store those nutrients. So, here's why we take insulin is so we can uptake more carbs, more amino acids, and stimulate, hopefully, more glycogen storage and more muscle protein synthesis. So, the glycogen storage part of it probably does happen more so around the workout. So, I can see the advantage of taking a shit ton of carbs around your workout and doing pre and post-workout. I can see that. But, as far as muscle protein synthesis goes, that happens 24-7. We don't know when it's going to happen. It just happens. So, if you're limiting your insulin use to a three-hour window out of a 24-hour day, you've only gotten something like 15% of the day covered. I think if somebody's covering the majority of the day, that they're going to have more opportunities for growth from the insulin. Also, keep in mind with insulin, it's kind of like a use it if you need it sort of thing. Young guys who have a great insulin sensitivity and a fully functional pancreas probably don't need insulin. And, they're not at the size yet where they need insulin to get those extra nutrients down. You know, when you're a 40-year-old bodybuilder who's trying to jam down 1,000 grams of carbs and get up to 300 pounds, that's a different story. Your insulin sensitivity is probably not what it once was. Your pancreas is probably not cranking out enough insulin to keep up with the carbohydrate demand. So, you need exogenous insulin to deal with that. So, it really is kind of, insulin is not one of those things where more is better. It is the appropriate amount is right. That's where people fuck up insulin. They end up taking too much, they go hypo, and then they end up eating a bunch of shit garbage with it, and then they get fat. They also eat too much fat when they're taking insulin, and it just makes them fatter. So, most people, the way they do insulin just makes them fat. So, the thing I always tell people is that your insulin should match your blood glucose needs. So, when I'm using insulin, I measure my glucose pre-meal, my glucose levels, and I let that dictate how much insulin I need to use. I generally like to start people off on Lantus or just low-dose Humalog. Lantus is harder to fuck up. It's almost impossible to go hypo on Lantus. I'm not saying it can't be done, but it's a 24-hour basal insulin. So, it's really difficult to go hypo on Lantus. It's easier to fuck up Humalog. But anyway, check out my videos. You know, I could spend two hours talking about insulin. I'm not going to dig into it too much. But at a high level, your insulin use should match the need. It's not the other way around. You shouldn't push insulin and then adjust your carbs to meet the insulin. It's not going to give you more growth. It's just going to make you fat. That's where people fuck up. All right, next one I got here from D Harrison. D Harrison says, it would be great to hear from you how Justin Harris built your metabolism up and got you eating a shitload of food, yet coming in peeled. Yeah, I mean, I did eat a lot more food on the contest prep this year. It's just a slow incremental thing. I get people that come on as clients, and I think they have this thing in their head where they're going to just come out of the gate eating a shit ton of food. And that's what I'm going to do. And I think they get disappointed when I don't give them a shit ton of food right out of the gate. And we only make small adjustments. We're adding 25 grams of carbs here, 15 grams of carbs there, a couple grams of protein here. But that adds up over time. And that's how you build your metabolism up. That's how you build up yourself in the gym. Think of it as progressive overload with dieting. You wouldn't, if you came to me as a newbie lifter and you said, I want to bench press 405 for reps like you do. So I'm going to start with 405 today, even though I'm 160 pounds. What do you think is going to happen? You're going to break yourself. You can't handle 405 yet. And, you know, it's going to take years to work yourself up to that. And it's the same thing with food. So the way you work your way up to 405 is to add two and a half pounds to the bar every couple weeks for the next, you know, several years. And eventually you're up there. It's the same thing with the food. It is progressive overload. It is small changes over a period of time. And you build your metabolism up. And as you add more muscle tissue, your metabolism gets higher. You know, think about it as like a car. You know, when you're 160 pounds, you're like a Toyota Prius. And you don't require much gas. And when you're 270 and you're relatively lean, you're like a fucking Mack truck. You know, it gets eight miles to the gallon. So you need more fuel to get from point A to point B. That's pretty much the way it is. So part of it is building up muscle tissue, building a bigger engine over a period of time, and incrementally raising your food slowly over a long period of time. I didn't come out of the gate with Justin eating a bunch of food. It was slow, incremental changes over a period of time. We also got super lean. And believe me, he starved the fuck out of me for my contest prep last year. I was not eating much food at all. And that set me up for that crazy rebound that I had. And then we started slowly pushing the food up, pushing the food up, pushing the food up. You know, over a six, eight month period of time. And next thing you know, I come into contest prep where, you know, my maintenance calories were probably 4,000 plus a day. I'm just guessing. But, you know, I wasn't gaining any weight eating, you know, 4,500 calories or whatever it was I was eating. So you can lose weight, you know, if I drop down to 3,500, I'm at 1,000 calorie deficit at 3,500 calories. That gives me a lot of runway to lose weight. So it's just small incremental changes over a period of time. And that's one lesson that I wish I could impart on people, that they get so impatient with bodybuilding. They expect to see results in two or three months. This is a long game, guys. You have to play the long game. You have to look at this in years. You can't expect to have, you know, crazy results in a two or three month period of time. You do have those magical moments where it happens. But those, you know, those are far and few between. And it doesn't happen to everybody. I wish I could spell out a formula where, you know, where you could have that rebound that I did. You know, I can set the plate for you to present the opportunity for it to happen. But it doesn't happen for everybody. So you have to plan on this just being, it's like running a marathon. It's one step at a time, one mile at a time. You've got to pace yourself. And it takes time. People get very frustrated when they don't see results in a couple months. It doesn't work that way. It takes years. So you have to be patient. You have to slowly, incrementally increase food, weights, everything over a period of years. And then you see results over a period of years, not in months. Hopefully that helps. All right. We have another insulin question here. It's insulin Week on the Q&A. EPF55 says, is it safe or beneficial for lifelong use of basal insulin like Lantus accompanying TRT or metformin? Um, I think if you're just on TRT and you're not a bodybuilder, you probably don't need the basal insulin in the background. I don't know. I don't know that there's much benefit if you're not power shoving food. If you are a bodybuilder, physique competitor, athlete that's going to be eating shit tons of food year after year, running growth hormone, um, you know, doing these things, um, then I think it is beneficial to use a basal insulin like Lantus to help take pressure off your pancreas. Some people disagree with that. But I've seen studies on the prophylactic use of basal insulin and then it does have, um, positive benefits on long term health, um, and people who, who are eating a ton of food. Um, um, you know, ultimately it is exposure to insulin that makes you die, you know, lose insulin sensitivity, which gets you in the spiral that leads to diabetes. But there's also another side of it too. Sometimes people just burn out their fucking pancreas from eating too much food. So, um, and I, I, I see that a lot in bodybuilding. Um, I'll see guys where we're using things like metformin, berberine don't seem to affect their glucose levels. And when, when I see that, that tells me, you know, logically thinking about it, that they're probably not making enough insulin to keep up with it. It's, it, it doesn't seem to be an insulin sensitivity issue. You can get a glucose tolerance test to put that, to put that to test. But, um, so I, I, I do think in certain situations, you know, if you're a big open class, super heavyweight bodybuilder and you're pounding shit tons of carbs year round and you're running growth hormone, uh, running a basal insulin in the background might be of a benefit. If you're just Joe Blow gym grower, that's 175 pounds, that's just running some TRTs, trying to stay fit, um, eating a carnivore diet or whatever the fuck you're eating. Um, you don't need it. So, um, it, it really, it really, once again, going back to the insulin, it, it, the insulin use matches the, the need for it. So if you're pounding a shit ton of carbs, um, you may need it. If you're not, then you probably don't. There's really no benefit to adding it. All right. Next question here. Safest anabolics besides primabolin. Um, I recorded a video on Monday about my, um, or put it up on Monday about my favorite offseason cycle in the safest compounds. Um, using the safest compounds. Um, the safest performance enhancing compounds. Usually I look at the ones that have the longest track record of human use that were approved for human use. Um, and that have been relatively well tolerated in the bodybuilding community over the years. And you don't see a lot of negative outcomes from it. Um, uh, you know, and to me, those are testosterone. I know that's not specifically an anabolic, um, nandrolone and, um, um, primabolin. Anovar. Um, Masteron seems to be relatively safe. Um, those would be the safe ones. H, human growth hormone. Um, for the most part, if you run it in moderate to low doses is, is pretty, pretty safe. Um, those would be the safest ones in my book. Um, if I were just a gym goer, like let's say if I gave up the bodybuilding thing, I would probably, to me, I would probably just run testosterone, a little bit of GH and some, um, you know, primabolin. Um, or just testosterone, a little bit of GH, um, metformin to manage my glucose sensitivity. Um, you know, that's what I would run if I was just trying to be safe. Low doses. Um, you know, uh, the devil is in the dose. You know, the higher the dose, the, the more risk there is with, with these things. So, um, you know, occasionally I might run some nandrolone. And some nandrolone, while relatively, seems to be relatively safe, doesn't agree with everybody. A lot of people end up getting anxiety, erectile dysfunction, um, having, um, you know, estrogen upregulation issues with nandrolone. So nandrolone can cause problems for certain users. Some people are just fine with it. Um, so that's just something to keep in mind with nandrolone. Um, but, uh, you know, the, the safest ones are going to be the ones with the proven track record of human use that have been approved for human use that have been used for a long time. Uh, you know, uh, there's been so many studies done on testosterone and growth hormone. If you just wanted a basic way, the thing to do, that probably is what I would do if I was just a longevity person. Just testosterone, a little bit of GH, maybe some metformin call today. All right. Uh, this question I got hammered with last week for some reason. I don't know why I had so many people reach out to me on, on Instagram and other avenues. By the way, guys with Instagram, I am very infrequently responding to messages on there. So, uh, unless you want to hire me as a coach, probably don't waste your time, uh, messaging me on Instagram. I am not responding to people looking for free advice. I've got so many people hitting me up on Instagram. It's almost impossible to keep up with. If you want to get in contact with me to coaching, the best way to do that is below. I have my contact information down there, but I am probably getting anywhere between five and 10 people messaging me a day on Instagram. Now it's almost impossible to keep up with. I can't answer everybody's question. I'm not trying to be a dick about it. I, you know, ask questions in the comment section. I do my best to respond to those. Uh, but private messaging me on Instagram is probably not a good way to get ahold of me. I feel the most part. I ignore people on there. I just can't reasonably keep up with it. It's, it's, it's impossible for me to do. All right. So people have been asking me, can you gain muscle in a deficit? Uh, people want me to prescribe a cycle that's going to make them gain a bunch of muscle in a deficit. In theory, you could gain muscle in a deficit. Um, you know, I, it's, it's possible, but it's not optimal. Uh, there, there are compounds like trend. Um, uh, you know, as far as I know, I think maybe Anovar, um, that have been shown where you can actually accumulate new muscle tissue in a deficit, but it's not going to be much. Um, if you're a brand new lifter, you're a newbie PED user. Yes, maybe you can accumulate some, some muscle in a deficit, but long term, um, you know, after you get over those newbie gains, I don't see it happening. You don't see people, many people growing into bodybuilding shows and they're taking tons of gear going into bodybuilding shows. Occasionally there'll be that rare genetic freak. I know everybody likes to talk about Kevin Lerone. We grow into bodybuilding shows, but he never got any bigger than what he was. So he basically just got back to where he was. So I don't know. Um, if this is the way I approach the phases of the off, the phases of bodybuilding. I have a fat loss phase. I have a muscle hypertrophy phase. I have a health and recovery phase, which would be my cruise. And then a rebound phase coming out of contest. That's it. I don't try to do two things at once. If you try to do two things at once, you're going to do both of them suboptimally. And to me, it makes zero sense to spin your wheels doing things in a suboptimal way. Um, so I would either be losing fat or gaining muscle. I wouldn't try to do both at the same time. You're going to be one of those dudes in the gym that looks the same year after year and makes no perceivable progress. If you're cool with that, go right ahead and go for it. Um, I know people are going to argue with me about it and say they can do it. It's, it's, you can do a little bit, but it's, it's very, you're, you're not going to add any appreciable stage weight doing it that way. It's just not possible. If it were possible, people would be doing it. Um, pro bodybuilders would have already been doing it and they're not. So you're spinning your wheels. You're wasting your time doing that. All right, guys, that's all I got for you today. I really appreciate you watching. Uh, if you have questions or comments, put them in the comment section below. And if you need to get in contact with me, the contact information is below. If you want more information on my services, head over to anabolicbodybuilding.com. Thank you for watching for coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at big P3RD at gmail.com.