 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright guys, Big Paul here today with an anabolic Q&A. I have not done a question and answer in a while. Well, I've been really busy. I'm going to try to record more YouTube videos in the new year. Things have been hectic around here, but I'm getting back to it. So we're going to have some questions today. I got a ton of them from people. We're going to dig into these in just one second. All right, first question I got. I'm not even going to try to say this username. Dude asked, did you cycle during your jiu-jitsu training years? What would you take if you were going to cycle for jiu-jitsu? I was just a recreational jiu-jitsu guy. I go to class a couple days a week. It was just something I did for fun. I wasn't a competitive jiu-jitsu player. If I were going to be competitive and I were training a ton, then I probably would use PEDs for it. I did not use PEDs at that time when I was training jiu-jitsu. I took a break from PEDs from the time I think it was about 31, 32 until 44-ish. Then I started back up with just some TRT. So maybe at the tail end of my jiu-jitsu time, I was taking some TRT, just 200 milligrams of testosterone, nothing crazy. But while I was doing jiu-jitsu the bulk of the time, I was natty. I was not taking anything. So if I were a competitive jiu-jitsu guy, if I was doing tournaments, if I was going to class every day, if I was rolling a ton and beating the shit out of myself, I would certainly think some enhancement would be productive for keeping yourself healthy. So we want to take a step back and think about in jiu-jitsu what we would need for enhancement. One of the big things in jiu-jitsu for anybody who's done jiu-jitsu or MMA is just the wear and tear that you put on yourself from that sport. Beating the shit out of yourself from rolling or sparring. Having endurance to get through a sparring or rolling session. So there's some considerations to make with what your choices of PEDs should be. So I would think you would want something that's going to enhance endurance. Something that's not going to bog you down when you're training, make you feel like shit. You're going to need something to help with recovery so you can keep yourself on the mats and keep training. And we look at what different PEDs do and what they bring to the table. Off the top of my head, I thought, hey, TRIN would be good for aggression. But anybody who's taken TRIN knows that it really ruins cardiovascular endurance. Your pulse goes up. Your cardiovascular endurance just goes down the toilet when you're taking TRIN. So if you're on the mats a lot or if you're doing jiu-jitsu tournaments, then I would think TRIN would be a terrible choice. We would want something that would maybe enhance red blood cell production. Thus giving us more endurance on the mat. Something like Equipoise, which is famous for increasing red blood cell production. I would imagine, I don't know if this is the fact, but I would imagine that that's why they probably use it in racehorses. Is for the enhanced red cell production so they can perform better when they're on the track. I would think for jiu-jitsu for endurance purposes that Equipoise would be a good choice. I've heard, I don't know a lot about this world, that cyclists like Equipoise for increased endurance. I've heard that. I don't know if that's true, but that's what I've heard. I would think a base of testosterone would be helpful. I, and then, you know, something like HGH to help with recovery, joint health, connective tissue. Maybe a sprinkle of Nandrolone in there to keep your joints feeling good. And I would keep the doses relatively low. I don't think you would need a ton. That is the thing for bodybuilding. We want to get big. For jiu-jitsu, probably being big is not a good idea. We want to stay flexible. We want to stay light on our feet. We want to have endurance on the mat. So pushing huge doses is not conducive for that. And I know this, when you push large doses, you feel like shit. You start to get lethargic. You start to get tired. That also would not be good for jiu-jitsu or MMA or martial arts in general. So I would think just off the top of my head, maybe a low dose TRT, testosterone. Maybe sprinkle in a little equipoise or a little Nandrolone, some GH, and call it a day. Now, another thing I think, and this is not specifically PED related. If I were going to go back and do jiu-jitsu again, I would probably use some sort of intra-workout nutrition. And one of the things I noticed when I was in jiu-jitsu is that everybody smells like ammonia. And the reason they smell like ammonia is because it, usually it's from being in gluconeogenesis where you're breaking down proteins for carbohydrate, for fuel essentially. So that ammonia smell is not good. And I would think that running some carbohydrates and maybe some essential amino acids while you're rolling, while you're on the mat, having that to the side to sip on, would be beneficial. Something like a highly branched cyclic dextrin and some amino acids in that drink might keep you healthier and keep you from losing size. Keep your energy levels up while you're on the mat and you won't smell like a dirty sock. You won't smell like ammonia from rolling. So I, that would be just my two cents. I would also think with nutrition would be critically important too. Nutrition always outweighs PEDs in my book. PEDs help. They certainly work. But I would think you would want to keep your nutrition on point as well. And I wouldn't necessarily have exactly a bodybuilder diet, but something similar, maybe a bodybuilder light diet. I would think a moderate fat, moderate carbohydrate, higher protein diet would be good for jujitsu. I know the Gracie's have their own weird wacky diet, the Gracie diet that they do, which is just utterly nuts if you look at it. No disrespect to the Gracie's, they've done a lot and I admire everything they've done, but their diet is a little Froot Loops, if you ask me. But I would think eating more like a bodybuilder would be better. I, Mike Dolce has a book out. I think he is a guy that did nutrition for a lot of MMA guys and it's, you know, the Dolce diet, I think it's called. But, um, I don't know if he's still the guy to go to, but, uh, he had some pretty good insight on that type of stuff. So that would be my approach for jujitsu, MMA, martial arts, uh, that I would take. All right. Next one from Tommy McGivern. Tommy is always commenting on my stuff. I appreciate you, Tommy. Uh, he asked if equipoise always raises hematocrit. Um, I've run a ton of equipoise and I don't get high hematocrit. My hematocrit does not go up. I, the hematocrit thing is a weird, weird thing. Almost everybody on PEDs has raised hematocrit to a certain degree. And it seems like whether you're taking 250 milligrams of tests or even less for TRT, all the way up to a gram, you're going to have raised hematocrit. But it doesn't seem like it gets any higher once you get past the TRT doses. At least I haven't seen that. And I do think doctors tend to overreact to the high hematocrit. Uh, I'm not saying that it is not something that you should be concerned of, but I, you know, I think doctors do tend to overreact to it. Once you get past about 53 is when I would, would start taking action to correct it. Uh, that's my two cents. I've heard from medical doctors saying that you can go as high as 55 before they get really concerned. 53, I probably would be concerned. There's some things if you're worried about the thick blood causing problems, adding some fish oil and adding a low dose baby aspirin can help with clotting risk. If you're worried about that with the EQ, I, I look a lot at a lot of blood panels and I do see some people that get high hematocrit from EQ. And I see some people that don't, I also think hydration plays a role in that. I have a home hemoglobin meter. And when do most people go get their blood work done fast it in the morning and they're dehydrated at that time. And when they go, when you're dehydrated, your hematocrit is always going to be higher. With my home hemoglobin meter, I have measured my hemoglobin throughout the day. And after I've been hydrated in, in the middle of the day, it is much lower. My hematocrit sometimes will be 52, 53 in the morning. And by lunchtime after I've hydrated, it's down to 47. So I don't know how much, uh, I would read into it, but you know, just work with your doctor, keep an eye on your hematocrit. I don't know that EQ is a guaranteed for raised hematocrit. My, I run, okay, whatever, what I do last year, 600 milligrams of EQ a week. And my hematocrit was in the high forties. It might was fine. So I don't know that EQ is a guarantee for high hematocrit, but I, I have seen it happen with people. All right. Pump five, six, eight, seven ask, what is a good blast cycle for size for a guy in their fifties? I would play a conservative. The older you get, the more conservative you have to be, you know, obviously a base of testosterone, work with a doctor, with a TRT clinic, be on a base of testosterone. A little bit of Nandrolone can be nice and go a long way and help with joints as you get creaky when you get older. Um, I would also say some human growth hormone and their HGH is an old man's best friend. In my opinion, it helps with joint and connective tissue health. So does the Nandrolone. And I think those three things, just keeping things very basic, working with your HRT doctor. If you're, if that's what you're doing, running a test base with Nandrolone and HGH is a good idea. That's how I would do it. If you wanted to sprinkle something else in there, Primo Bolin might be an alternative to the Nandrolone. If your joints feel good or you could run both of them. My overall advice though, would be to stick with compounds that have been approved for human use, have a long trusted track record of safety and use human grade, human grade, pharmaceutical grade, uh, gear. That would be my advice and pay close attention to your health. Work with a doctor to make sure you're monitoring your health and you're staying healthy. You also should manage your blood pressure as you get older. That is an important thing to keep an eye on. Uh, having an ARB or an ACE inhibitor in there, uh, that's prescribed by your doctor to deal with your, to deal with your blood pressure to make sure you keep your blood pressure in check. Another pathway that a lot of guys miss when they get older and they don't think about it. It's not just anabolics, but food efficiency, nutrient uptake efficiency, making sure that you are insulin sensitive, insulin sensitive in running something like berberine or metformin to help with insulin sensitivity. Um, and maybe even a little bit of insulin in there as well to help with nutrient uptake. So when you have your nutrient uptake in check, I've found when you're, you're running, you know, something to keep insulin sensitivity high and then maybe running a basal insulin with it, that you can actually keep your anabolic load a little bit lower and synthetic androgens are what we know to be the most toxic thing that most bodybuilders take. So keeping that androgen load lower and working on multiple pathways for growth would probably be ultimately a safer way to go. That's my two cents. All right. Josh M is one of my clients. Uh, he asked me about with my training, my periodized high volume training, which is essentially a Renaissance periodization program where you ramp up your volume over a five to six week block. He was asking if you get sick in the middle of the block, should you just start the mesocycle over again? Basically do a deload and ease back in or just jump right back into where you left off. So after being sick, I like to ease back in. I don't know that I would start the whole block over again, but I don't jump right back into where I've left off. I found that when I do that, I just end up getting hurt. So I'll just take a couple of days when I get back into the gym with my lifts and maybe do half the volume that I was doing before. I'll run through one round of workouts and then maybe a second round of workouts where I ramp the volume up and then I go back full blast again. It's typically what I do. So I'll take a week, a period of a week and then ramp back up sometimes less than a week, depending on how sick I was. But I had the flu recently and then it turned into pneumonia. And I think it was my own fault that it turned into pneumonia because I jumped back into the gym too quick after having the flu. And I went full speed ahead and tried to do a full workout. And then I got sicker. So when your body is already stressed and is trying to recover and you add another stress to it, you're just digging yourself further in a recovery hole. It's just my opinion. And then you end up getting sick. So I would ease back in and be intelligent with it. All right. So I'm not even going to try to say this username. It's just a bunch of random numbers. But he asked, how low did you have to go with your macros and calories to get in shape for your contest? Your contest picks that are all over your channel. How did you retain such size while cutting so much? Well, I think the big difference that I made this year versus the year before is I did not let myself get super fat now. I made sure that I could see my abs at all times in the offseason in the less fat that you have to cut. The more muscle you hang on to during your cut, the fatter you get, the more you're going to have to sacrifice as you go down. So I think overall I dropped something like 30 pounds, 35 pounds during my 16 week cut. So about two pounds a week is what I did. And I never really had problems losing weight. I, if anything, I lose too fast when I get going and then I end up dropping muscle. So this year what we did different is we got super aggressive with the high carb days. Justin had me, there was times where he had me eating unlimited carbs on my high carb days during my cut. I was eating 15, 1600 grams of carbs on my high days. If you can believe that it was an insane amount of carbs. And then on my non high days, the low days, I mean, we got down to zero carbs on my low days, which I really this year on my contest prep would only do one low day per week, which is your off training day. It just means I'm not lifting. It just means I'm not lifting. I'm still doing cardio that day, but I was down to zero grams of carbs. Um, and I got pretty low on the fat. We didn't do zero fat this year. I think I was doing seven grams of fat per meal on my low day. So 42 grams of added fat on my low day. My, my, my protein sources at the lowest were around 300 grams of protein, uh, per day on my, uh, on my low day. And we were doing zero carbs. It was just vegetables essentially. So it was vegetables. My meats were as close to zero fat as I possibly could get. So it was just eating chicken breast and cod for the most part on contest prep. That that was what I went with on contest prep this year. And, you know, so you're looking at 300, that's 1200 calories and you know, 40. So I, you know, my low days were down below 2000 calories, probably like right around 2000 calories. Just ballpark guess. And my medium days, I don't think I ever got below 150 or so grams of carbs on my low days. I, or my medium days had kept some fat in on those days. So they were like around 2,300, 2,400. And then my high days, I don't even know. I mean, you know, probably five, 6,000 calories on my high day. So it was one high day per week going into the, you know, on the contest prep. I did not do a shit ton of cardio this year. Like I did before. I think we maxed out at 40 minutes, 6 times per week of cardio. And I did lists this year. I did not do the HIIT cardio this year. And Justin will probably murder me for telling people that because he likes doing HIIT cardio. But I just walked on the treadmill, 3 miles an hour or like a 3 incline, 3 and a half miles an hour, something like that. So, and then I also did not use T3 this year. I will tell you the T3 will take the fat off of you, but it seems to me that it takes equal amounts of muscle off of me as fat. So I stayed away from the T3. So we went easy with the fat burners this year. It was just over the counter stuff for the most part. Just caffeine, yo-himbine, um, uh, ephedrine. It was just over, over the counter stuff for the most part. And I just, you know, like I said, I think the key difference was I did not let myself get fat in the offseason. I see so many people that use the offseason as an excuse to turn to a big fat, turn into a big fat turd and let themselves get out of shape. And I think that you're just making the contest prep that much harder. You're going to sacrifice that much more muscle when you're trying to get in shape. All right. Last question here is, I think this is Michelle 5, 1, 6, 0. So thoughts on stuff like way to carry sled drags, rope climbs, et cetera, locomotion under load for bodybuilding. Personally, I think they're great. Strong men and athletes use them a ton, but I don't see bodybuilders use them at all. Why is that? I'll tell you why that is. They really don't have a place for hypertrophy. Um, this is a big thing that I think that bodybuilders get confused on. And strong men train like strong men, power lifters train like power lifters. And for whatever reason, bodybuilders can't figure out or want to be bodybuilders. Jim bro bodybuilders can't figure out how they want to train. They don't know the proper way to train. And they just, they just are all over the place. They train like they're doing CrossFit. They train like they're doing strong man. They train like whatever. I do see dudes doing that stuff. Uh, but it's not productive for bodybuilding. So you have to take a step back and think about what we're trying to do with our training for bodybuilding. We are trying to stimulate muscle hypertrophy. And to stimulate muscle hypertrophy, it is time under tension and providing a stimulus that's going to cause an adaptation. I don't think, you know, weighted carries and things like that. While they may be great for endurance or athletic performance, I don't think they provide the type of stimulus that we want for hypertrophy. They're also really rough on your joints and connective tissue. And for bodybuilding, we are trying to save our joints and connective tissue so we can focus on hypertrophy. I think that more bodybuilders or want to be bodybuilders need to focus on training like a bodybuilder. If they want to look like a bodybuilder. If you want to be a strongman, then be a strongman. If you want to be a powerlifter, then be a powerlifter. When you train with specificity for your sport, you will have better success. Now, I'm not trying to belittle anybody who wants to do that stuff. If you don't care about being a competitive bodybuilder. If you're just in the gym to have fun, to look better, to feel better, whatnot. Train however you want. It doesn't really matter. Whatever floats your boat, whatever gets you happy, whatever, you know, makes you feel fulfilled is fine. But if you're trying to be a bodybuilder, if you're trying to stimulate, if your primary goal is to stimulate hypertrophy, then train for hypertrophy. I don't know why guys can't get this. You don't see powerlifters trying to train like bodybuilders. You don't see strongmen trying to train like bodybuilders. So why would a bodybuilder train like a strongman or a powerlifter? It just has never made any sense to me. Bodybuilders seem to be confused about how to train like a bodybuilder. Alright guys, that's all I got for you today. I hope you enjoyed this. Leave a comment in the comments section below. I want to give a quick shout out to my sponsor, First Attachment Nutrition. Head over there to buy your supplements. They have all good high quality supplements formulated by the man himself, Justin Harris. I have a link to their site in my video description below. Use my discount code AB10. Thanks for watching guys. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you. Thank you.