 preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference preference And subscribe to my channel if you want me to keep pumping these out. The YouTube gods like it when you subscribe for the algorithm. Makes my stuff show up higher in the listings when you subscribe. Also, if you want to get in contact with me directly, you can do so by following me on Instagram at Paul K. Barnett. Also, my email address is down below as well. So feel free to shoot me an email if you have any questions you want me to answer directly. Okay, let's get started. First question here. If I run a testosterone cycle for 10 weeks, any dose of 400 milligrams per week, what will my PCT be? Okay, so a couple things here. I don't think 10 weeks is really long enough. I mean, I don't know. You're just kind of getting cooking at 10 weeks. That's when I start feeling in my groove of the cycle, you know, with strength. And usually the wheels start falling off around somewhere around, you know, 14 to 16 weeks. I try to push it out to 16 weeks. I've taken them out as far as 20. 16 seems to be kind of the sweet spot, I think, personally. So I would stretch it out to 16. This also depends on your goals, what your goals are. If you're trying to be a bodybuilder, I feel almost bad about encouraging this, but I'm going to suggest it as an option. I'm not going to encourage you, but you should consider blasting and cruising. The problem with coming off is that you, just in my experience, you end up losing fucking everything. You feel like shit. The PCT drugs make you feel like shit. You don't want to train. It messes your head up. You get depressed. I don't know. That's just my two cents. But if you want to come off, I would stay a long longer. Probably 16 weeks. For PCT, I would do some HCG and Nobodex. Just keep it simple. I hate Clomid. It's just an estrogen bomb. But that's my two cents. HCG and Nobodex. It can take up, you know, studies have shown, after you've been on, test is so suppressive. It can take up to six months to get your full testosterone levels back to normal. So, once again, if you're going to be only off for like six, eight weeks, it's not even worth coming off. Just cruise. That's my two cents. But, anyway, let's move on to the next question. Next question here. So, how have your diet, training, and gear practices changed throughout the years? And how have your beliefs changed? Well, let's see. I started training when I was 16, 17 in high school. I bought Arnold Schwarzenegger's Encyclopedia of Bodybuilding. And I did Arnold's crazy-ass high-volume split, followed his diet. I didn't gain shit from it. It wore me down. I, you know, it was, I was like, I'm doing what Arnold's doing. What's missing here? I'll tell you what was missing. D-ball and prima-balling. I didn't realize until I was probably college, you know, halfway through college, that that, you know, I used to think steroids were evil. And, you know, it was cheating. And, you know, you had poor ethics if you did steroids. And then to come to find out my hero did them, Arnold Schwarzenegger. And that's why my training program with him didn't work. So, you know, towards the end of college, I did my, just playing around. I don't know. Somebody gave me some, some Anadrol. I think it was. I don't know what it was at that time. Either Anadrol or D-ball. I don't know. I don't know. I just took a pill every day. I got a lot stronger. I got gyno. And I knew that I was on to something then. And, you know, but they were really hard to find. You had to know somebody who knew somebody and get trusted in a circle to get anything back then. So I really couldn't find anything. You know, so I was pretty much natural from the time I was 16 until about 24, 25. And then I had some injuries and I took a couple years off training. I did switch to a Dorian Yates style training, more of a HIIT style training, which worked better for me at that time. And then I stumbled onto Dante Trudell through the forums back then. Intensive Muscle, I believe it was. And I started working with Dante. Dante trained me and I switched to his high intensity training program. And followed his protocol with gear usage. And I used back then primarily just testosterone. Maybe a little bit of Trin, a little bit of Nandrolone. But that was pretty much it. And then I had some really bad injuries in my early 30s. I ruptured a disc in my back. I was in a car wreck and broke my fucking neck. I had a bout of cancer and I just said, fuck it. I'm not. I'm done with the steroids. I got up to 300 pounds at one point. I said, I'm done with the steroids. I'm coming off completely. I'm not working out anymore. And I think it was around 32, 33. I just completely quit the gym. Completely quit. And I did not lift the weight for 10 years. I got into doing jujitsu. Did that. Sorry, my dog's barking. Got into doing jujitsu. And then it was just a couple years ago. 45, 44, 45. I got back into it after divorce. That woke me up. And I had to figure out a new way to train. I always wanted to compete in bodybuilding. I was a bodybuilding hobbyist when I was younger. And so I told myself I was going to do a show. And I started training. I bit by the bug again. I've always been lurking on the forums and reading and researching. But anyway, so I got back into training. And I had to find a style of training that worked for me at my age. With beat up joints and multiple knee surgeries. So I went with a high volume, high rep scheme training. And it's been working fairly well. Anyway, that's it for enough about me. Next question. Do you have any experience with thyroid downregulation after a cycle of T3 and T4? I do, in fact. During my last contest prep, I probably got a little carried away with the T3. It went up to 100 micrograms. And it melted all my muscle away. I looked like a skinny, you know, high cost survivor afterwards. And, you know, I got my blood work done a couple weeks after the show. You know, of course, my T3, T4, everything was just crashed at that point. And I wanted to see, you know, how, you know, 100 micrograms is a lot. I was surprised to see after about six weeks I got my blood work done again. Everything was back to normal. So guys seem to rebound quickly from using thyroid hormone. Women seem to not. Women, it seems to cause a lot of problems with women for whatever reason. So women have to be very cautious with it. Guys seem to bounce back. I don't know why that is. Somebody that knows more than me could probably explain that. All right. Next question here. What do you think of generic GH versus PharmaGrade? Oh, I've tried both. I had a script from HRT Clinic for PharmaGrade GH. And I've tried the cheap ass Chinese blue top stuff. I've had my blood work done after using both. And there was no difference in my IGF-1 levels. Absolutely none. It was exactly the same. So I don't know why you would pay all that money if your IGF-1 levels aren't any higher on the PharmaGrade GH. So I think it's probably a waste of money. Honestly, I have a friend of mine who works in the pharmaceutical industry. And he was telling me that most of the GH, well, the stuff made in China, the pharmaceutical grade, there's only a couple of factories in the whole world that really make it. It's extremely complex to make. And the factories that make it, he said where the generic stuff comes from is the whole make, the pharmaceutical grade shit, and then have some of the powder left over. And then they just fill it up in the bottles for the generic. So it's the same shit as the PharmaGrade. You know, the only difference is going to be it's maybe not measured and weighed to the same degree. And the quality control maybe in the packaging is not the same. Also, with shipping with PharmaGrade, it's going to be refrigerated and handled with care. If you're with the generic stuff, it may not be handled with the same care. So that might be why the potency sometimes isn't as strong as PharmaGrade. But all in all, it's the same shit. I've also tested it with the ROID test as these GH testing kits. And it's test positive as legit GH. So I don't know. I don't know why you would waste your money on the expensive pharmaceutical grade stuff. Unless you're like vying for a pro card or competing at the top level of the professional bodybuilding. That's just my two cents. I know pro bodybuilders that use generic GH. So I'll tell you that. All right. Next question. This is a doozy. I've been on D-Ball for three weeks. 50 milligrams a day. 25 milligrams on off days, which is one to two days off. 400 test enanthate a week with it. I feel good, but it's not doing what I expected. My strength is okay, but I've been stronger naturally before. I'm looking for that cartoonish look. I don't want to use trim, but I do have NPP. I've had it for a few months now. I've asked a couple guys what they prefer, and they always say D-Ball. What do you think? Well, if you guys have listened to my videos, you know I think D-Ball is trash. I don't know why people love it so much. It just bloats you up. Makes your blood pressure go through the roof. Makes you look like shit, and you get this red puffy look. Essentially, EQ is injectable D-Ball, so why not just take EQ? Also, EQ converts through 5AR to DHB, so you get the bonus effect of having the DHB with it as well. To me, EQ is a better choice. I know everybody likes D-Ball because that's what Arnold's favorite drug was. I don't know. I would do something like test and equipoise test and test and nandrolone over test and D-Ball. Also, to get that cartoonish look, that just takes years. Those guys have been training for years, using compounds for years. They're also probably using insulin, using GH. That's what gets you what they call the 3D look, and you have to have the muscle size to achieve that. So it's more than just D-Ball for a few weeks. It takes years of running gear to get that look, being perfect with your diet, taking the right compounds, training hard, having good genetics. I mean, that's part of it, too. Some people don't have the genetics to have those nice, bubbly, round muscles. They just don't have it. All right. Next question here. Can you explain volume, particularly reps and sets per muscle group? I don't see a lot of videos explaining. Listen, I was curious about your take. I mean, for me, volume is simple. I don't count working sets towards volume, but it's really just time under tension, how many sets that you're using as working sets per body part. There's a lot of studies out there. I suggest checking out Renaissance Periodization's channel. Dr. Mike Isretel, I've read a bunch of his books, I've watched his videos. He is the man when it comes to volume training, and he knows his shit. He's going to explain it way better than I can, but I would highly suggest checking out Renaissance Periodization. He has an entire section on hypertrophy training, and he has a book about high-volume hypertrophy training that's excellent. I can't recommend it enough. Go check it out. All right. What do we got here? Next question. This guy says, fuck Anivar. I did 25 to 50 milligrams per day, and it gave me the worst muscle cramps I've ever had. I had to eat magnesium like it was candy all day to offset this. I remember trying to go to sleep and accidentally flexing my bicep while turning over in my sleep, and it locking up my bicep. The worst cramp I've ever had. Now, T-ball, that shit is perfect. Well, I'll tell you something about Anivar. Most UGL Anivar is not Anivar It's fake It is D-ball most likely Sometimes it is Anadrol Usually D-ball because D-ball is dirt fucking cheap And D-ball does give you some nasty pumps and cramps You know guys don't take it on deadlift days Because it gives such horrible low back cramps I've never had cramps like I have when I've taken D-ball I bet you you got D-ball not Anivar Real Anivar shouldn't do that I mean you do get good pumps But I don't think that was Anivar you got dude I think you got some fucking cheap ass UGL stuff That was fake and probably D-ball That's my two cents Alright what do we got up here next Is there any RX or supplement On your list which will limit or remove plaque Or help reverse clogged arteries Or blockages I've also heard some people mention things like vitamin D K2, niacin Curcumin And can help remove plaque I don't even know what's the best Or how to compare things So yeah a couple things here I mean once you're too far gone The only thing that's going to reverse it is getting the stent put in But there have been studies The Cleveland Clinic I would suggest checking out the Cleveland Clinic They're the foremost expert on cardiovascular health in the United States Specifically Dr. Caldwell Esselton I've read some of his books Yes I'm a nerd and I read books about cardiovascular disease Because I am that dorky Dr. Conrad Esselton did a study where they had people on a super low fat diet And they reversed plaque buildup in people with a combination of using lipid Or statins And a low super low fat diet It was almost a complete vegan diet really You know there's several clinical studies done In particular Lipitor and Crestor That over a long term use at high dose Can reverse some blockage Now proactively I take things like I take fish oil Fish oil will help raise your good cholesterol I take niacin at night Niacin will help as well I take a prevestatin I take a low dose statin every day It's more of a preventative thing I try to eat a relatively low fat diet I don't eat a very high fat diet I stay away from saturated fats There's very minimal saturated fat in my diet I think that will get you in trouble A lot of guys go crazy with the balking You know I see these strong men that are eating bacon And fucking sausages and cheeseburgers all day long Those guys are asking for it They're going to clog up their arteries So I would say a combination of statins Fish oil Low fat diet Staying away from oral steroids Oral steroids crush your fucking lipids You know So I mean you know Just You know those are just some things I would do Check out Dr. Caldwell Esselton's book It's really good Let's see Another question here Would you agree To bodybuilding beginners To try products That do not shut down Normal body functions Like HGH insulin DHEA Anti-esteroids And serums Blah blah blah blah Etc Well first of all Not everything has a negative feedback loop insulin doesn't I don't know that anti-estrogens Have a negative feedback loop You know So You know That's not true My My advice for beginners Is not to take anything Learn how to lift Learn how to Eat Get a couple years Under your belt Figure out what the fuck you're doing Before you consider gear That's what I would do And do a lot of research Make sure you know what you're getting into Or Get a good coach That's an expert That can help you Help guide you If you're ready to go Down that route You know Also Don't be afraid to ask your coach questions And challenge them You know Ask why I think There are a lot of coaches out there That are fucking idiots You know Not trying to slam them But I see some Protocols that they prescribe for people And I'm like What the fuck is this It makes no sense to me I think they just do weird shit To try to make themselves seem Like they're doing something different Unique New That Makes them seem smarter Than what they are I don't know But Don't You know If you do get that Get that far down Ask your coach Questions And if a coach Doesn't want to answer questions You got the wrong coach Which is better arimidex or Novodex Well First of all There are two different Types of drugs One is an aromatase Inhibitor And the other is a selective Estrogen receptor modulator So they do really Two different things arimidex Blocks the aromatase enzyme From converting Testosterone Into estradiol And Novodex Blocks the Estrogen receptor At the breast tissue So they really do Two different things I don't know That one's really better Than the other They do two different things And they can be applied At two different times You know So they're not universe They don't They don't One's not a substitute For the other In my opinion Anyway That's all I got For today I hope you enjoyed My video If you have questions You want answered In a future Q&A Put them In the comments section I will make sure I get them on Peace