 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A. I have some good questions today. I'm not going to go over them all right now, but a couple that caught my attention were how Nandrolone helps with joint pain, how high to let your body fat go on a bulk before it's too far, and then actually Equipoizal and Kidney Toxicity. I get a lot of people ask me about the Equipoizal and Kidney Toxicity. And there's a guy out there now that's, you know, scaring everybody with Equipoiz. We're going to talk about that and dig into that in just one second. All right, first question I got here from Jonathan. He says, on carb cycling, if someone trains equally hard five days a week and rests two days a week, carbs would be equal on training days or not? And how much lower on off days? Then if someone is doing maintenance volume one day a week or full body, how low would carbs go on those low days? I'm not really sure what he's asking here. It's a little all over the place, but I kind of get the premise of it is how would you adjust for your carbs based on energy output, which is what we do with carb cycling. You know, based on the intensity of your workout, you're going to adjust your energy output or your calories up and down to match your energy output. So typically with the style of carb cycling that I do with Justin Harris, he has been doing the high, medium and low days. And a low day would be where we, our calories are probably at maintenance or slightly below maintenance. I would, in my, in my situation, I would say that they're slightly below maintenance. And the reason you're doing that is because you're not doing shit on those days. I mean, you're just sitting around doing nothing. You might do a little cardio or something. So one would, would logic to reason that you don't need carbs. Carbs are just used for fuel in the body. Protein and fat have other, other purposes in the body and cellular repair, vitamin transport with, with, with chemical reactions, et cetera, with, with, with the fats. So carbs are just a fuel source. Really, you could probably go no carbs on those days. And we do sometimes on contest prep. Um, but in the offseason, we don't, we, we keep enough just to have, um, uh, a net energy balance of probably zero or a slight deficit. Um, so, um, on the, uh, training days. Now you are right. Your energy output is definitely not going to be the same on a day where you're training arms as you are, um, training legs. Like if you're doing heavy squats, I mean, you know, hammer curls are not going to burn up as many calories as, as, um, doing a, you know, five plates, one squats or something. Um, but at the end of the day, we, it's, it's about the net energy balance for the whole week. So it's sort of, it's sort of averages out over the week, but typically what we'll do, we'll run a couple of high carbohydrate days, um, per week. And usually those high carbohydrate days, you're in a pretty serious caloric surplus. And on those super high carbohydrate days, um, you know, for me, a lot of times it'll be over a thousand grams of carbs or somewhere right around a thousand grams of carbs. I usually do those on leg training and back training. Um, those are some of the more intense workouts. I do a push pull legs. So none of my workouts are really soft. It's not like a bro split where you have arm day, which is really just jack shit. I'll be honest with you. And I do high volume. So I'm burning through a lot of calories, but if I were doing two high days per week, I would, I would do it most likely on back and leg day. Um, and then the rest of the days are medium days. Those are in a slight caloric surplus, uh, typically in the offseason. Um, and, uh, those would be just your normal training days, non leg, non, um, uh, non back days. So that's, that's how it would go right now. I'm running three high days per week. I don't, I do not run the high days back to back. Uh, uh, because you, you're really at that point, you're probably just going to be spilling over and storing that stuff. The extra carbs is fat. Um, they're extra calories. Uh, so it's probably pointless to do so. Um, but anyway, that that's typically how it's structured. All right. Next question I got here is from 555551975. What a username, dude. Hi Paul. I'm 46 years old and I'm actually on self prescribed TRT since two years ago. I'm taking 250 milligrams of Sustanon weekly. I keep the size well, but for the summer I would like to be a little more defined, a little more grainy and dry. What could I add? That's not an oral. Thanks for your time. Um, I mean, good old masteron. Um, I mean, masteron will harden you up. Uh, could always go to the trend train. If you can tolerate it. Um, I mean, low dose trend or masteron probably masteron trends, probably a little too much. Um, if you're not competing, honestly, I, I over 40, if you're not competing, all kidding aside, I would just stay away from trend. Uh, there's no need for it. Uh, masteron is pretty good at, at, at hardening you up. Uh, so is Prima Boland. Uh, masteron seems to be a tad better. I don't know. I mean, it could be just in my head. I know they're very similar in action. Um, but I would, I would run some masteron, uh, maybe like three, 400 milligrams per week. Um, it's just, you know, not trying to tell you what to do, but that's just, if it were me, that's how I would do it. Um, and then just keep your, your test the same way that should dry you up nicely. Um, and then just clean up your diet. I mean, really at the end of the day, hardening up is more diet than it is the drugs themselves. Um, but the masteron, you know, having, having that in there will definitely harden you up a bit, but you got to clean up the diet, getting a deficit, um, do cardio, uh, and, um, you know, add the masteron and masteron and, and, and, and test test is a good combo. If you got the budget, you could actually swap the masteron alpha Prima Boland. Um, I really like Prima Boland a lot, but there's just so much of it. That's fake. Um, just a lot of shitty fake Prima Boland out there. Uh, but anyway, that, that would be my two cents. I, I, I would, I would test masteron, clean your diet up, do some cardio. Um, we're already getting a little bit into summer now, but, um, you know, that, that would do it. Um, if you want to, you know, fat burners, you can just do an over the counter thing. Just, uh, I use go pills from first attachment nutrition. Uh, I got discount code on my thing below. Um, and then, uh, they're designed to be used as an ECY stack. So I stack those with, uh, um, with a federal and I just get broncated at the pharmacy. Um, or, you know, there's bazillion different places you can get a federal, but it's, it's really an ECY stack. And so that way it's all over the counter stuff and that'll get you leaned up, man. That's probably what I would do. Okay. So next question here, I got gains. He goes, uh, your thoughts on EQ and kidney toxicity. Have you seen any effects on eGFR, creatinine levels or, and, or done a check for C, uh, C, uh, C statin C, um, from, from Equipoise. I have never seen Equipoise affect my, my, um, my, uh, liver or kidney values. I had an ultrasound done on my kidney because I had a bad kidney infection last winter and I was kind of in a panic and I was running close to a gram of Equipoise. And they said, my kidneys look great. Um, now that's not to say it can't happen. And I know, um, there's, there's, there's some people out there that are thrown fear, you know, citing some old study that, you know, showed, you know, the, it may cause stress on the kidneys. I, I believe the study they were talking about, um, I, I have it here. It was, uh, evaluation of anabolic steroid induced renal damage, sonography and bodybuilders. Uh, what, what, what it showed was that the kidneys were actually swollen during, during blast, um, in, in that, um, metabolic values of, of, of, um, creatinine and, and other things were out of range, um, from running the, um, the Equipoise. But what they failed to mention is that everything returned to normal after secession, um, and everything resolved. Um, so, um, I, I don't know, it, it seems to be that it's overhyped and a bit cherry picked by people. And, you know, it is a bit, the results were a bit anomalous. I have looked at a ton of blood work from people and I have never once seen, um, kidney values be out of whack from, from Equipoise. Equipoise. That's not to say that it can't happen. And I'm not, I'm not giving you a license to go do it and test the limits, but I, I, I'll tell you, I think where people fuck their kidneys up, um, on, and what they should be more concerned about is abusing trend. I see so many people abusing trend and just fucking themselves up with trend. I have seen people with fucked up eGFR readings taking too much trend. That I have seen. Um, and that, that is very real. I also think people don't take their blood pressure seriously. And most of the time when people have kidney damage, it's from long-term sustained, um, high blood pressure, being dehydrated. Uh, things that you do at the end of contest prep that can, can cause kidney damage, such as water manipulation and using diuretics. That can definitely cause kidney damage. Um, so I, I, you know, in, in the high hematocrit and high blood pressure that are a result of taking, um, Equipoise may contribute to kidney stress. I mean, hell all, all, all antibiotic, you know, AAS do, do contribute to some kidney stress. So, uh, but I, I think if you keep those things in check that you're, you're, you're pretty, pretty safe. Um, and it's, you know, it's also dose dependent too. Um, you know, I, I find Equipoise to be one of the, uh, milder compounds to use as far as side effects go. Um, I wouldn't put it in my green light zone. I mean, I think the safest compounds are probably, uh, test Nandrolone and primavolin, um, and some GH. So if you wanted to just keep everything safe and, you know, a safer, let's, let's go with that. People get upset when I say safe, safer. If you wanted to use a safer model of anabolic use, I would, I would run test Nandrolone and, and, uh, and primavolin with some GH that, you know, everybody freaks out about, or about, um, about, um, insulin, but insulin's relatively safe. If you know what you're fucking doing with it. Um, you know, there is an acute risk of death, but it's pretty low. Uh, but you know, so those would be the things that I would use that are relatively safe. But anyway, uh, that's my two cents on the whole equipoise thing. I think it's probably been overblown. I have not seen it in blood work working with people. Um, I think probably the most dangerous things that people do for their kidneys is running high blood pressure, taking shit like Anadrol and Trin. Trin is definitely running Trin at high doses year round is really fucking stupid. Running Anadrol year round at really high doses is stupid. Um, way more, way more dumb than running, um, equipoise. I'd be more worried about that. Or, you know, dbol, running dumb ass dbol year round and high doses. Um, those are probably worse for you than equipoise is. All right. Next one I got here is from Smont. S M O N T. I think I'm curious about how high you let your body fat get. I like to start auto cycle around eight to 10% and finish the bulk around 15 to 18%. I don't measure my body fat that often. I, I like to get it done before contest just to see where I'm at. I don't trust most body fat readings anyway. I don't know how fucking accurate they are. I got a guy right now. You'll know who I'm talking about that I'm working with. That is absolutely fucking peeled. He's only like a couple of weeks away from being stage ready and his fucking scale is body fat meters. Body fat meter says he's 24%, which is, which is obscene. He's, he's like, he might be, he might be 6%. Um, you know, so, you know, I, I don't know. I don't get too hung up on body fat. I look in the mirror. If I, if, uh, I, you know, my rule of thumb and the one I've always kind of operated by is I want to see outline of abs. If I can't see an outline of abs and it's time to pull back a little bit. Um, and you know, you do reach a point where insulin sensitivity, that, that's probably more important to pay. If you're paying attention to your, your glucose levels, your fasting glucose levels start to rise. Um, and they get too high, you know, and they get up, you know, and that a hundred and, you know, it's 120 range. Then, then it might be time to back off. I'm more concerned with that. I do think there's a point where, you know, I'll get guys that come to me that are, you know, 30% body fat and want the bulk. And I think that's unproductive. Um, it, you know, if you're, if you've got, you know, fat rolls on your back and, and, you know, on your stomach, then you probably should trim down. If you're a physique competitor, not everybody's a physique competitor. If you're a strength competitor, who gives a fuck, right? You know, so it's all based on your goals. But if you want to be a physique competitor, I, you know, the, the reason why I like to keep it lower, it's not so much to do with the P ratio stuff, which I do think is a thing. People get all upset when I mention it, but it has more to do with, um, it has more, more to do with just staying in striking range of being contest ready. So if you're 30% body fat and you want to do a bodybuilding show, that is a lot of work to get all that off. And you are 100% going to lose some muscle on the way. There's just no way around it. You're, you're going to, you're going to fuck yourself. You're going to fuck yourself. Um, anyway, um, that's all I got on that one. All right. Last one I got here. Tyler asked, um, uh, he goes, he goes, why does an angelo make people's joints feel better? And what's the lowest dosage you can use to get that effect? Um, could someone be on a hundred milligrams of TRT and have like 20 or 30 milligrams of deco week and, and have a greased up elbow? You know, what's funny is I've, I've looked for studies on this and there's been study after study after study done on it. And everyone I've looked at that it's been inconclusive. They, they can't find anything conclusively, at least not that I found. If you guys have found something, uh, that shows that it conclusively helps with joints. Um, you know, let me know, but I couldn't find any studies that conclusively show that it helps with joints. This is a, this is an example of where bro science, uh, might beat out, uh, real science. And you gotta remember these fucking studies, man, it's hard to control for a lot of the variables in there. And, you know, there's not that much stuff, not, not that many human studies done on AAS's and people. Um, so it's very limited in, in some of it's speculative, some of it's correlative. It just, it's not very conclusive. A lot of it's done on animals, you know, fucking rabbit or a rodent. It's not a person. Um, you know, so you have to take it with a grain of salt. Um, I can tell you 100% from running Nandrolone, there is a difference. I feel so much better when I run Nandrolone. And if it's a placebo, which I've seen some scientists insinuate, it is one hell of a fucking placebo. It is a good one. Um, you know, and, and I hear people talk over and over and over again, how it lubes up their joints. I, I feel it. I've read that it may be, you know, maybe it's an increased production in synovial fluid, but then I found a study that said they saw no evidence of increased synovial fluid. Um, you know, I've heard people say the collagen production thing. I found another study that said that there was no evidence of increased collagen production. Maybe it's just because it's a wet compound and you're just, you know, or, or, or maybe it's something in the progestanic effects of it that, that are unique. Um, I, I don't know. And it seems like the scientists don't fucking know. Um, so really we're just guessing what we do know is that it does make your joints feel better. You know, the, any bro will tell you that. Um, I, I agree with it. I, I, I, I like to run a little bit of Nandrolone in the offseason, the background, even if I'm not like last year. I think I ran like a hundred milligrams in the background. You know, I was doing an EQ and test cycle, but I just ran a tiny little bit just because my head, my, my, my shoulder was really bothering me to help with my shoulder. And it made a difference. It really made a difference. Uh, it helped with my shoulder a lot. Maybe it was in my head, but whatever, you know, I'll take it. All right, guys, that's all I got for you today. I hope you enjoyed this one. Leave your comments in the comment section below. I appreciate each and every one of you. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. 3