warning this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A. In today's episode we're going to talk about a few things. We're going to talk about keeping sperm count up while on cycle, what foods make you more vascular, when you should raise doses as an advanced lifter, and how to recomp as a fat person. Before we dig into all that, I have a 20% off deal going right now on all my content, my paid content that I have on my site, the Science of Anabolics and PEDZ course, 20% off, and the cycle cheat sheet, the PED cycle cheat sheet, that is also 20% off. Head over to the website and type in HOLIDAY20 for the discount code. There is a link in the video description below to both the e-course and the cycle cheat sheet. I think you guys are going to like both of them. If you haven't picked it up, go get it now while it's 20% off. And enough of that. Let's dig into thesEQuestions in just one second. So, all right, first question we have here is about gyno. This one is from MarkFest83. Mark asked, would you wait until a cruise or a cut to treat any gyno with Relaxafine or treat it while androgens are still high and using arimidex? Just trying to figure out which is the most efficient thing to do. All right, so with gyno, first of all, if you haven't had gyno surgery done, I would strongly consider it if you're going to be a bodybuilder. It just sucks having to fight that battle all the time with gyno. Also, before using other drugs to treat gyno, I would remove the offending compounds, the ones that are causing the gyno to flare up. That would be my first choice. You know, so for example, some compounds that I find that tend to be terrible for gyno, D-ball seems to be the number one one. I have recently run a little bit of D-ball just to get my estrogen back up. Ran it for a few weeks, got off of it after abouT3 weeks. My estrogen got back up into normal range, but D-ball seems to be the one of the biggest offenders for gyno. Deca is another one. Deca is, if you're prone to gyno and you take Deca, you're running the risk of having some gyno. The ultimate combination for growing boobies, man boobies, is the Deca-D-ball combo. I know the old school bros love the Deca-D-ball combo, but I would assume that those guys weren't genetically predisposed to gyno. I have had terrible gyno in the past. I ran a lot of D-ball when I was younger, and I had a piece of gyno that was as big as a hot dog in my left peck that I had to have removed. It ran all the way up the side of my peck. It was like this freaking long, and it started when I started taking D-ball with Deca. I didn't know any better back then. I just knew that that's what the old school bodybuilders ran, and I just figured I had to run it to get big. man boobs be damned. I would start off with removing those compounds. Look, if you see a little nub that flares up, and you don't have much gyno, get on top of it right away. Do not let it get out of control. Drop whatever the compounds are that are causing it, and then treat it right away with either tamoxifen or raloxifene, and probably letrozole are the best combo for getting rid of it. Now, once you have a lump there of any considerable size, I would say anything bigger than a pea, if it starts to get to marble size, there's probably not much you can do at that point. Surgery is going to be the only thing that you can do to get rid of it. You might be able to shrink it a little bit. I know on contest prep, if I throw tamoxifen at it and letrozole at the end, I have a little bit of gyno left in my right peck. I can usually shrink it up pretty effectively on contest prep at the end if I'm smart with it, but those compounds are not the greatest to run. They make you feel like crap, and then I worry about the clotting risk also with tamoxifen with some of the serum. So that's another thing to consider as well, but I would just, honestly, if you're serious about being a bodybuilder, and if bodybuilding is something that you want to do competitively, even if you shrink that gyno, it's still going to be noticeable on stage. Your peck is going to be blurred out. The outline, the side of your peck is going to be blurred out. I would just get the surgery done. Then you don't have to worry about it again. All right, next one up is from my friend Josh Perry. Josh is my favorite commenter on the live streams. Josh makes me laugh all the time. Josh asks, for total beginners, would doing full body workouts, if you can recover every day, would be better for hypertrophy or something different in the routine? I kind of paraphrase what he's sayinGHere. I'm assuminGHe's asking about full body workouts. Yeah, so here's the thought on this. There is some evidence that when you're first beginning, that maybe a full body workout every other day, or even every day, could be better for hypertrophy. If your long-term goal is to be a bodybuilder, I probably wouldn't do that, and I'm going to tell you why. I think it's better to get into a bodybuilding style routine. You're going to grow no matter what when you're a beginner lifter. You're going to get those virgin gains. Doesn't really matter what you do in the gym. I would focus on learninGHow to lift like a bodybuilder. I would get my form perfect. I would focus on some sort of progressive overload as a beginning lifter, and I would just run a regular bodybuilding routine. Now, if you don't care about that, if you're not trying to be a bodybuilder, then sure, go ahead and do a full body routine. I've seen programs where people do the full body routine, but I would say for me, I would say most people, I just start them off on a push-pull legs routine. Get them in there, like when I've worked with young lifters. I've taken my kids in with me to lift at times, and just show that person how to lift, how to do the form correctly, how to feel the muscle, how to activate the muscle. Sometimes it can take you decades to really learn how to get the form down to where you're getting the most out of that specific muscle. There's some muscles that people connect with more easily than others. I remember shoulders were always just an easy one for me. My shoulders always felt like they were on fire when I was doing these sort of shoulder presses or lateral raises, so I had no problem connecting to those. Muscles that were hard for me, my biceps, I always had a hard time feeling my biceps. My lats were another one, and lo and behold, those were sort of my weaker body parts. Legs were always easy for me, I always felt legs when I trened them. So I would say for a beginner lifter, do a regular bodybuilding routine, work on perfecting your form and progressing your weights. I would keep a logbook, work on pushing the weights up, getting your strength up. Then at some point, you're going to hit the intermediate level where things are going to get a little more challenging and you might have to make some tweaks. And then as you progress into the advanced level, that's just a whole other ball of wax. All right, Tom Landstorm, I'm going to paraphrase his question here. He's asking about post-contest prep, when is it okay to start pushing gear back up again as far as your blood work, liver enzymes, etc? What do I think about when is it okay to start mashing the gas pedal down? Coming out of a show, your liver enzymes are going to be up because you're cranking the orals up at the end, running all these fat burners, you're probably in a depleted state. Blood work's usually pretty fucked up at the end of contest prep, let's just be honest about it. It's not pretty sometimes. Now what I found is that you can leave testosterone in place and leave something mild like masteron in place, not at crazy high doses. I will go about half what I would normally run, which for me would be somewhere between 500 and 750 tests. I've heard bigger Steve said that he's even pushed up to a thousand. Then something like 300 to 400 masteron and I'll run that on the rebound and that's enough to get some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, to continue to grow. I'll leave growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in place, speaking of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. That's enough to get some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in the rebound phase and you will see an improvement in blood panels. I've seen it every time I've done contest prep and I come out and I've seen it with my clients, that if they just back off the orals, back off the fat burners, pull down the cardio a little bit so they aren't overtrened and start eating a little more food and then in that six to eight week rebound window, you can leave some tests in either prima or masteron in place with a little bit of GH and the blood panels will come back most of the time to almost a baseline level. As long as you're running moderate doses, more than TRT, but not quite a full-blown contest prep blast. So somewhere, usually the total load of antibiotics would be about half to one third of what you run on contest prep. So like for me, you know, let's say if I went up to two and a half grams on contest prep, I would come back down to something like 1200 milligrams total. Exactly, like 750 tests and like 500 masteron or primable, something like that. And I find that blood work gets back to normal. You get some nice gains during that rebound phase. Everything balances back out. All right, next one up is PP Bra. PP Bra asks, what are your recommendations for recomp cycles for fat people? All right, if you're fat, you're probably not going to recomp. Recomps are sort of like the pink unicorn in the fairy magic tale forest. They can happen. I have seen recomps happen, but they're uncommon. They're very rare. I've had them happen to myself. I will say this, for recomps, you have to be at a relatively decent body fat. I think if you've been running low doses of gear or moderate doses of gear, and your body fat is probably 12% or lower somewhere around that range, and then you turn the gear back up, tighten your diet up, start doing a little cardio, then you can catch a recomp where your body composition starts to improve at the same body weight. Kevin Levrone was famous for this back in the day. You can look him up if you don't know who he is. He was a top-notch bodybuilder in the 90s and early 2000s. Kevin would basically fuck off all season, get a little soft. Body fat would get a little higher. Nothing crazy. Kevin was always relatively lean. He would usually lose weight, and then he would gain weight back going into shows. He would recomp. He would actually gain into shows, and people talk about him gaining. It's because he was probably off and not really trening, and not really taking any PEDs. Maybe he was off completely. From the way he looked, he probably did come off completely, but I would say that's the only way that you're going to truly recomp. Now, what I would do if I had a bunch of weight to lose, I would keep it super simple. Just some test, either Primobolan or Masteron, and some GH, and just go on a good diet, do some cardio, and try to lose one to two pounds of fat per week. If we're losing two pounds of fat per week, that's a thousand calories a day of net negative energy balance, and I would keep cranking that until you're down around 10% body fat. Now, if you're a non-competitor, you probably don't need to go much lower than 10% unless you want to push a little bit further, but that would be my recommendation. I wouldn't take it further than that. I probably wouldn't even try to chase a recomp. If you're above 12-15% body fat, it's just not going to happen. I've also found that the guys that tend to recomp are dudes that are advanced lifters. If you're a newbie, or if you're an intermediate guy, you're probably not going to catch a recomp, so don't go chasing it. If it happens, fantastic, but don't go trying to catch a recomp. Your effort in the most efficient pattern, or the most efficient way possible to get from point A to point Z is just focusing on fat loss, so put your effort there first. What food sources have you realized, this is carb, but I'm just going to say food sources that make you the most vascular after eating. Well, to get vascular after eating food sources, you need to be lean first. I'll tell you that. If your body fat's a little higher, getting that carb pump is not really going to show you much of anything. Now, as you get super lean towards the end of contest prep, or at what you're below 10% body fat, let's say, for me, I find high salt, high carb meals tend to make me the most vascular. I will, if I take some insulin, eat some rice, some gummy bears, dump a shit ton of salt on it, and go that route, I'll get super vascular. Sometimes a high salt, high fat fried food meal, like if I go eat McDonald's when I'm depleted on contest prep, at the end of a high day, I'll get super vascular. Now, you can't do that all the time, it just doesn't work. And I see guys trying to chase this dragon when they're peaking for shows, they're like, holy shit, I looked great after I ate that fast food meal, and it only lasts for so long, and then you start spilling over. That's why most guys and most coaches don't try to have people looking super vascular on stage, a lot of times they'll be just a tad flat. You can't get vascular without water either, you need to be well hydrated. And really, vascularity is just an increase of blood volume. And what are we going to do to do that? Water follows sodium, and sodium, if you look at the sodium potassium pump, it pulls water out of the cell into the vascular system. So being well hydrated, eating a salty meal, having some carbohydrates, it's going to increase blood volume and vascularity. All right, I got two back to back fertility questions. I'm just going to combine these both into one. These are these two, the one is from paintballjunkie65. Actually, he's got two here. He said, is it safe to take anadrol while trying to conceive? Is there any other compounds I should avoid while trying to conceive? Sperm count is not an issue for me while I'm testinGHCG. He said, vigorous Steve always preaches aromazine over aromadex, but I read and heard that aromazine causes sperm motility issues, while aromadex actually improves fertility. I know there are other reasons to choose aromazine, but I would appreciate your input regardless on the fertility. So paintballjunkie, if you're trying to conceive, if that's your number one goal, don't take anadrol. I wouldn't take anything that's going to be super suppressive. You know, the old tried and true combo that all the bros used to do was HCG, tamoxifen, and Clomid. That seems to have worked in the past for bros that are trying to get the girl pregnant. I would not, I would just, you know, run really, really low dose TRT, maybe even come off completely. You can probably get away with it on TRT. I looked, you know, I trust Steve, you know, Steve's a very smart guy. I could not find any information that says that aromadex or aromazine had any major effect on sperm motility or sperm count. Now that, you know, he would, he would know. I know, I know Steve was trying to get his wife pregnant. Indirectly sperm count may be affected by an AI because, you know, if you're a natty and you take an AI, it's going to stimulate LH and FSH and lower estrogen, improving sperm count by raising testosterone levels. But even in a guy here, probably doesn't make fuck all of difference. So I would say you would want to keep your estradiol on range. Probably the old tried and true combo of HCG, tamoxifen, and Clomid would probably be your best bet. If you wanted to increase sperm count, you could probably use some, some luteinizinGHormone too, if you wanted to. But other than that, man, that's all I got to tell you. Ronnie Coleman had like 12 kids running a bunch of cycles. I had kids. I didn't do anything. It just happened. So, but I would stay off anything super suppressive while you're trying to have, have your kids. Keep, keep it down to just basically lowest dose TRT you can get away with. Even potentially come off completely would probably be the best bet and get your own natural testosterone production back. But that would be my suggestion. The old tried and true combo. Keep things low. Don't take anadrol. All right. Next one up is from commissioned. He asked, is there anything you can do to combat the stuffy nose while on Cialis? I'll be honest with you. I fuckinGHate Cialis. I can't take it. It gives me headaches, makes my nose incredibly stuffy, gives me a nauseous stomach. I do not react well to it. I would say if you're getting really severe nasal congestion for that's lasting for days, I would consider Viagra. If you need it. I know a lot of bros are under this illusion that Cialis is great for blood pressure and it doesn't do a whole lot to lower blood pressure. It does help with vasodilation, which probably downstream is helps with health and increases nitrous oxide production. And there's some other benefits to it. But if it's making you feel like crap and you can't breathe, it's probably not worth it. There are some strategies to dealing with the stuffy nose. Just some Afrin, some nasal spray, decongestant nasal spray. That's what I'll use. My nose gets stuffed up all the time. Anyway, a little bit of decongestant nasal spray will help. Potentially Benadryl, I've heard can help. What happens is the increased blood flow. What happens is it causes the nasal passages to dilate, the blood vessels to dilate in the nasal passages and fluid leaks into the surrounding tissue and causes a swelling of the nasal mucosa. I'm sorry. I'm looking at my notes. I wrote down. But anyway, that's what causes the stuffy nose. You can use nasal decongestant spray to deal with it. But I would say if Cialis is causing problems, maybe a lower dose. See if that helps. I think a lot of times, especially if guys are buying the stuff from UGLs, the stuff is dosed way too high. I've seen some crazy doses of Cialis. Start with like five milligrams every third day or something like that. It has a 72 hour half-life, a very lonGHalf-life, something like that. It's like three days. And five milligrams goes a long way. Same thing with Cialis. IMean, sorry, Viagra. I've seen the UGL dosing of it around 80 milligrams, even higher in some. IMean, you're going to have a boner for three days like that. If you need that much to get a boner, you probably got problems. 40 milligrams of Viagra is usually plenty. 20 probably work. Same thing with the Cialis. Five milligrams is probably most for most people every third day. 10 milligrams. So yeah, don't take the 20 or even 40. I've seen 40 milligram doses. So I would start off there. Try a lower dose, five milligrams. See if that gets rid of it. If you have problems with it, maybe Viagra would be a better option. Then if you still have issues, use some nasal spray. All right. I'm not even going to try to say this username. Sayon, Kumbayawaza, whatever, Kumbayawa, 3886. Of course, there's got to be a 3886 at the end. I wanted to ask that as an advanced lifter, is it necessary to increase your PED doses to see new gains? Can we just keep running, say, 500 milligrams and focus on diet and trening and continue to progress? Or will everything eventually flatten out? IMean, more works. IMean, I guess in theory you can continue to progress, but you're probably not going to progress at the same rate. It depends on what your goals are. I have seen some dudes make some pretty significant progress on lower doses, but eventually things slow down. And the bigger you get, the more androgen receptors you have. So the more androgens it's going to take to saturate those receptors and continue to get a similar response that you did on the lower doses before. So if you're an advanced lifter and you're using 500 milligrams, it's probably not going to do shit. For me, 500 milligrams is sort of TRD dose at this point. I don't know. I cruise on somewhere between 300 and 500. And that's sort of a maintenance dose for me to hold on to what tissue I have. If I want to gain, I need to push up over a gram. And as you get bigger, you'll find that you need to take bigger doses to push up. Now with that said, I do think I, you know, for me, I'm an advocate of the minimum effective dose, whatever you can get away with and continue to progress. And it also depends on your goals. If you're not trying to be a super successful bodybuilder, then don't get crazy with it. Just enjoy yourself. Run a moderate to lower dose. If you're a guy that's trying to compete at a high level, if you want to turn pro and get a pro card, then you're going to have to get aggressive with things at some point. That's just the way it is. I don't, you know, I hate to break the news to you, but there's only so far you can take things on 500 milligrams. I'll say this. I don't think there's anybody on the Olympia stage that's all that has only run 500 milligrams. That's their top dose. Now there might be some guys that have backed things down and don't need as much as they used to. I've heard some of the classic guys say that they don't run that much. I don't know, you know, if you believe them or not, IMean, whatever the case may be, but those guys do have weight caps. Most of them end up having a hard time getting in under the weight cap. And when you get to that situation, you probably just out of necessity need to run less than what you were before to get bigger, to make your weight cap. Otherwise they end up being open bodybuilders, especially if they have great genetics. If you have good genetics and you push the doses up, you're going to continue to get bigger and probably not be able to make the weight cap for classic. That's something to consider too. Now the average Joe, if you want to continue to get bigger and to grow at some point, you're going to have to push the doses up. I don't think 500 milligrams is going to cut it forever. All right, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. Let me know what you think in the comment section below. Go get that sale on the anabolics e-course. I'm going to run that up through the end of the week for New Year's. I don't know, it would be January 3rd or something like that. We'll sunset this deal, but get it now before you, before it goes away. Good chance to get everything for 20% off. I appreciate each and every one of you. I can't give you the double hook with my right hand because that finger's still messed up. You can see it here. So I'll do it with my right hand. This is my off hand. Take care guys.