 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. is that we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to we have to before you start. Some people just like to pre-exhaust thEQuad, but doing the hamstring, I have a lot of programs that I've run where I lead with a hamstring exercise before doing quads. It feels really good. Well, I'm old and I have fucked up knees, so there ain't a lot of choice. I just do what I can, but yeah, I do the same thing. So I actually got that from John. That's where I got that from. So I'll start off with hamstrings, then I'll hit some leg extensions to get my quads warmed up and my legs loose, and then we'll finish off with some sort of either hack squat or leg press movement. So rep scheme and sets on this stuff. During contest prep, I pull back a little bit. Like when I'm in a calorie dumps and I pull the volume back a tad and probably keep the intensity, I try to remind myself my job is to not lose muscle, not get hurt, and lose fat right now. Got to stay in the game. Got to stay in the game. Got to stay in the game. You can tren on contest prep. You're not going to be able to compete tight. It seems like most bodybuilders, when you see the pros that get hurt and tear muscles, when is it always happening? When it's within a month of the show. Yeah, within a month of the show. That's when guys get tore. IMean, Nick Walker just popped his hamstring. So I try to be careful. I'm not saying tren like a wimp, but you should have some intensity in your workout, but you want to walk the line. Also managing fatigue while you're in a calorie deficit as well. So I start off with the spinning leg curl. This one, just warming up. Nothing crazy right now. My hamstrings kind of suck because I had two ACL replacements. And they harvested hamstrings for both of them. He's anabolic bodybuilder. I would say if you ever have to have an ACL repair. I'm the real PT Palmer on PC on Instagram, but he's on YouTube. He's recording right now. Oh, no, you're good. You're good, man. He's a great channel, man. I would say if you ever have a... Yeah, man. Take care. ACL repair. ACL repair. I would get the cadaver tendon or the... It's all a tendon, not the hamstring. It's been rough getting my hamstrings to come back up. But as far as... As far as rep schemes and sets, I'm doing somewhere like three to four sets per exercise and something like 10 to 12 reps on this stuff. Yeah. All right, Chris, you took your pants off, man. So that means shit's getting real, man. Yup. It's gettinGHot in here. Quad post down. I was telling Gary and Ricky before this, the video guys, that the rule for looking at my ass in the gym... You can't look at it in the gym. You can only look at it on Instagram after I film it. So that is the rule. Social media rule. No looking at my ass in the gym. My ass in the gym only on social media. You can look at my ass anywhere. I can look at your ass anywhere. That's why we took the pants off. All right, so next up, we got the prime leg extension. This thing is like the most popular ride in the amusement park. You have to wait in line for it here at the shop gym. There's always somebody waiting for the prime leg extension. This is the best leg extension I've ever used. It's definitely the best plate loaded one I've ever used. Easily the best plate loaded and like top two that I think I've ever used in general. Yeah. These prime machines you can load at different points for whether you want to load on the top of the movement or at the bottom. I usually pop it in the middle just so I get balanced throughout. You can also adjust to see how far back the thing goes. The leg length, it has multiple adjustments. The prime stuff is awesome. It should be a prime sales. This thing like you can put this into some really extreme stretch positions. So if you're big on like team full range of motion, as far as leg extensions go, this is about the best stretch on a leg extension you can get in thEQuad. Put a little bit of weight on the top pin and it's just absolutely maniacal. You tell me I need to go, I need to go a little further down. Oh, no, no, no. Let's go further down. It's up to you. But yeah. Oh man. You got to get in it first and then like pop it back there. My size 15's aren't fucking fitting in there, man. I got some big ass feet. I don't know. Let's see. Yep. You got to like crank it back. There we go. Thing's a monster. Yeah, you're going to want the seat back like two. I'm going to need to seat back a little bit. There we go. Try there. Perfect. Something I always tell people, something I always tell people when you line up on leg extensions or hamstring curls for any machine, you want the joint that's doing work to line up with the pivot of the machine. You don't want to be fighting the machine's resistance as well as the weight. You will lose the battle against the metal. Yeah, this machine's nice and smooth. Yep. I usually do about 15 reps, 20 reps at least. All right, Chris. Next up, we've got leg press. I just added leg press back into the mix a couple weeks ago. I was doinGHack squats for a while and I just felt like I needed to give the hack squats a break. I got old, fucked up knees. I've had five knee operations, two ACL replacements. So my knees are 50 years old. I got to do what I can do. But I'll do hack squats or leg press for my compound heavy movement on quads. I don't do squats anymore. I just don't feel like the stimulus to fatigue ratio is worth it at this point in my life. Actual fatigue and risks to my spine and shit like that. I completely agree on the bar golf squat, man. Like for me, it just doesn't line up that well on my legs. I'll Smith machine squat. I'll hack squat all the time. I'll reverse band hack squat. I'll leg press. And if I get a pendulum, I'll put that in the mix. Yeah, the pendulum's really good too. But sometimes it hurts my knees. You'll see it too as bodybuilders age. A lot of pro bodybuilders, they don't do any barbell squatting. It's all hacks, pendulum, or leg press pretty much for their heavy leg movement. Foot placement's another thing to consider on this too. A lot of people don't understand foot placement on pressing leg presses and hack squats. Lower on the machine, like if you place your feet lower, it's going to be morEQuad focused. Feeding up a higher placement up near the top of the rack is going to be, or top of the platform, is going to be more glutes, adductors, hamstrings. 100%. Today's quad focused workout. I do split my legs up into two workouts. I have a quad focused workout, and then I have a hamstring and an adductor glute focused workout. So today's morEQuads. I always found that when I try to do a full leg session, like with both muscle groups, whatever went second, just did not get the same work as whatever went first. You can't get full intensity. Yeah, I eventually came to the conclusion that I couldn't hit all angles and everything in one workout. Yep. One, because it's just a lot of fatigue and you can't really hit everything. To me, it's, I had to split it up to get everything in, but that's sort of how I structure my leg workouts. Next up, we got the Atlantis. This is a brand new calf raise machine. We just got here at the shop gym. It's really nice, man. For calves, what I found, IMean, I got pretty big calves. What I found works for calves, this was a trick I learned from Dante Trudell a long time ago. Dante used to tren me, I think like from 2002 to 2005 when he actually used to tren people. Most people use way too much weight on calves and don't get enough full range of motion. So the part that I found that really, we know that on most exercises, the loaded stretch portion of the exercises where most of your growth hormone hormone hormone occurs. And what is it that you see every bro do on calf raises? Bounce like crazy. Bounce like crazy. Sprinter calves. Yeah, and they don't get all the way down, right? So really we want to get a deep stretch on these and then drive up. I think that's the key to getting big fat round calves. If I can get in here. I have sort of limited range of motion on my calves because I broke my ankle many years ago, but you can see I purposely drive down as hard as I can. Let me get up. Not this bullshit. Yup. No bouncing. Down. So any lift that you guys do, if you come down fast, you're going to get rebound force out of your tendon. The Achilles is the biggest tendon in your body, or at least one of them. Calf is far from the biggest muscle. Don't use the rebound force. Make the muscle work. Alright folks, I want to take a look at this. I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, the Scientific Principles of Anabolics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. Video is printed by Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Rachel Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.