WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Because he gaslit me after it and he said that my gear was fake. Yes guys, he told me my gear was fake. It wasn't the two hours of fucking cardio that I was doing. Oh man, this is a spicy meatball folks. Quentin Beastwood came out and went straight after Matt Jansen and kind of blew the lid open on what's going on with him and Matt Jansen. This is the first pro I've seen come out and talk directly about their dissatisfaction with Matt Jansen. We've all heard the stories from behind the scenes, rumblings, rumors, etc. But this is the first person to ever come out and actually say something on social media. I'm going to do a react video. We're going to listen to what Quentin says and I'll kind of give you my thoughts as we go and we're going to get into this in just one second. So happy for these guys. Congrats Keon. Many months ago in May I did my first show in almost two years. I took two years from the stage to come with more tissue to be the best that I can be. It's funny, I'm sure there's videos out there of me saying this or maybe I posted it somewhere, but I wasn't focused on beating Derek. I wasn't focused on catching up the guys like Nick. I wanted to catch Andrew and Samson. That's who I was aiming for because in my heart to me they were always the best and it was just a matter of when they put it all together they would be the best and that's what I was chasing and every time I trened hard I had them in mind. Also you know there's similarities. They're my countrymen. My dad's Nigerian. They're from Nigeria so definitely I see the size that they had or I saw the size they had and I knew that that's where I had to be if I wanted to be very successful at the world level. I wanted to be one of the best in the world. Well he's not wrong about that. If you want to be the best you got to aim for the best so I guess this is kind of where the whole story goes of where he started with Matt Jansen as his coach. Matt has a reputation for putting on size on people and getting them to the next level and a lot of times guys when they want to go to the next level they want to work with that high name coach. That coach with a high reputation that's had a proven track record and you know it makes sense I understand. Man I put so much into that like put so much into the offseason. I was fucking damn near dying in my sleep you know like I had to get a CPAP because I kept choking in my sleep. I wasn't breathing properly. I was pushing the weight so hard because the coach I had wanted me to do that. The coach he had I believe was Matt Jansen and yes when you get big it's just how it is. It's uncomfortable. You feel like shit. You have to use a CPAP. It's not pretty when you're bulking and gettinGHuge in the offseason. You have to do some crazy shit. Bodybuilding is a crazy sport and for those of you young guys that want to get into it that want to be huge I've been up as high as 300 pounds before. I'm taller than him and let me tell you 300 pounds is not a fun place to be. I like being around 240-250. It's where I'm at right now. A lot more comfortable with that. I can catch my breath. I can sleep better. It sucks being that big and I'm not a big fan of pushing food that hard when you're that uncomfortable because I do think that there's some pushback but you know I really believed in and trusted my coach so I did everythinGHe said and honestly we made great results during that offseason. My coach is Matt Jansen or was Matt Jansen. I fired his ass. Okay he fired his ass. I think this is where the heat picks up here. He clearly sounds upset so let's see what he's got to say. Because he did a shit job during the contest prep and I was criticized about firinGHim. People are like well why did you fire him? You should have given him another chance. Listen motherfucker I was worse than I was two years ago. You know I took all that time IMade all these sacrifices you know and these sacrifices come in many shapes and forms. You know I lost money because I'm paying for well he's not wronGHe does look worse than he did two years ago that is for sure and this is a weird dynamic with coaching clients sometimes. Sometimes things don't go the way you think they're going to. You can do everything correctly. I've had it happen where you push all the same buttons you push with another client and it just doesn't go as well. Some people respond differently. It's not anybody's fault and there's some nuance to coaching and that's why I think a lot of coaches get themselves in trouble. I don't know what Matt's protocols are. I'm not familiar with Matt's coaching at all so I'm not claiming to know what he does. But I think a lot of guys have a formula that they use for everybody and it works for some people and it doesn't work for a lot of people and I used to do that when I was younger. I've been trening slash coaching people off and on since I was in college. I took a break for a while. I worked as a personal trener from what 1992 to 96 something like that. Got my personal trener certification nutrition certification. Used to do diets for people. I used to help people out you know just periodically but I didn't like really seriously do it until the last few years. But I would help people out here and there. I'm not as experienced as some and I have more experience than a lot but I've been around for a long time and I kind of know what works and what doesn't. But I will tell you when you try to have a one-size-fits-all formula for people it doesn't work. You really have to figure out an individual body. There's some problem solving involved and you have to figure out what works for that person in their unique body and make adjustments and come up with a plan for them. And sometimes things just don't go the way you think they're going to go. I've had my first contest prep with Justin Harris was awful and I did give Justin another chance because I trusted him. Justin took accountability for for some of it and he told me he was sorry. Some of it was my fault. I you know it wasn't it wasn't all him. You know it was you know we we worked together and Justin's a humble and hard-working person and we got it right. We've had two or actually with three really good preps since then. So we've done four preps together and I got a pro card. You know so I don't know if making a judgment after one prep is good. A lot of times guys get emotional. Usually when I'm at the highest risk of a client firing me is after a contest prep. And it all almost always has to do with how they place. If somebody places well they can look exactly the same and if they place well they may go look for a new coach. That's generally when I not when people fire me but just when I pick up clients too. Most of the time when I pick up new clients it's after a contest prep. They're fed up with the coach. They didn't like how the result was and they want to try something different. I get it. Whatever it takes to be a great bodybuilder. I put in money. I invested money into this. I invested my time, my energy. I wasn't going out. I was a fucking bodybuilding robot. All I did was bodybuild. That's all I fucking did. I worked my fucking tail off all to show up to stage and be fucking smaller. Now when it first happened people thought oh it's something wrong with him because this guy gets it right with every client. Now let me tell you the difference between a great coach and somebody that's just a great marketer because I don't believe that you can be a great coach. Like if you have a guy like me and you fuck up that badly like okay guys guys like this isn't like you just kind of missed. It's not like okay shit we came in with the added size but we just were a little too soft in the glutes or you know stomach was a bit bloated from you know maybe the carb up was too aggressive. This was not that. That's the kind of error that is okay you know but I lost 10 pounds of muscle. IMight put up pictures throughout the video so you could see how bad the fuck up was. All right well he says he lost more like 20 pounds. He was 20 pounds down. Usually when I see this happen, usually when I see this happen with coaches is they've gotten people too fat in the offseason and then they have to overdo the cardio on the prep or overdo the diet. Guys are over dieted. There's this attitude with a lot of guys that they'd rather bring somebody in ripped and smaller than they would just a little bit fluffy. I've heard guys joke and say you never get fired for making somebody too ripped and I see a lot of guys that over diet. They've been guilty. There were some guys on the pro stage at the Olympia that were over dieted I thought. I'm not going to name names but you know it's just my humble opinion. It's a fine line to walk and when you overdo the cardio, when you overdo the diet, that's a risk especially on big guys. Some big guys lose tissue. Now I've heard Samson say I don't know he was eating a couple hard-boiled eggs or something for breakfast and he didn't lose any size but he's a freak. So what works for him doesn't apply to most people. I know for me I have to keep my food pretty high. Justin said I'm very unusual and there's some people that are outliers and you know there's some people that like I would say for a big guy you have to be very careful with cardio. You have to be very careful with over dieting. But I've heard a lot of guys say but I lost weight that I should. I had no business losing and I was leaner years before. Like two years ago I was leaner 10 pounds heavier than I was this year. It's just the body, the human body works in different ways for everybody. Now for a guy like me and I do I need to take accountability for some of this because I was willing to do whatever. I'm one of those stupid fucking clients like I just listen if I trust you as my coach I listen to everything you say. Like okay we're gonna do it and I trusted his reputation and I trusted his expertise because I thought he knew what he was doing when in fact. Listen he must have never worked with somebody like me. I don't know but I thought it was just a me thing and I definitely took it a little bit personal because he gaslit me after it and he said that my gear was fake. Yes guys he told me my gear was fake. It wasn't the two hours of fucking. Uh-oh we've heard that gear is fake story before. I don't know where I've heard that one. He said he was gaslit. I don't know was he? Was he not? You guys tell me but the gear is fake story. I've heard that one a few times. Where we heard that one else? Where else have we heard that one? Cardio that I was doing because you were afraid I wasn't going to show up in shape. It wasn't the two hours of cardio. It was my gear was fake. Now there's your accountability after people are wondering why I fired him. I'm like well how do you continue to work with someone we can't agree on what the problem was. The problem. There you go. I just said earlier the two hours of cardio. There's nobody his size that should be doing two hours of cardio and prep. I'm sorry. You don't need to do unless you're 30 or 40 percent body fat. You don't need to be doing two hours of cardio and prep. You're just going to wither away when you're a big guy doing that much cardio. That's way too much cardio. It doesn't matter how much gear you take. That's too much cardio. You're going to be fatigued. You're going to be small. You're going to be depleted. You're going to be flat. You don't see endurance athletes with big round round bubbly bubbly muscles like you don't see marathon runners. That's like basketball practice. You don't see 300 pound basketball players was it was a miscalculation. You know it was a complete miscalculation for weeks months of the prep. You know just pushing pushing pushing ignoring feedback of my knees beinGHurt and you know not being able to get a pump in the gym like I was I was operating just off of passion for bodybuilding and my love for the sport and I just had that like I had that fire in me so even as bad as I felt I'm the kind of person that because I love doing this that that and when you get that kind of feedback this is important when coaches like I always try to ask guys when they're on prep and I think good coaches will do this how are you feelinGHow's strength in the gym how are your pumps now sometimes it's going to go away that happens when you get in the end and you're depleted that's just part of the gig but it's important stuff to monitor you sort of have to manage the fatigue and sometimes with big guys like him you're going to have to do refeed days every four or five six days plan in a high day or sometimes even two high days to keep them full and filled out that passion drives me when I had no energy to do anything that passion would wake me up at 4 30 a.m 5 a.m that passion would wake me up and I'd hiT3 rounds of posing send to my posing coach you know and my posing coach was Joey Belt was he was incredible man he was there for me he was there for me every time man I've he's getting all choked up you can see him holding back the tears uh so clearly he's very emotional about it man he's put a lot into this I really feel bad for the dude uh that sucks it sucks to be in that position um IMean you can see that he has a passion for sport geez man I this this sucks the way from a point that him and I started working together we got really close and um yeah like anyways I'm getting carried away I'm making this video because Nick did not make it to the Olympia Nick didn't make it to the Olympia guys and people are gonna criticize him as you know I was criticized heavily too for my appearance at the show um people are criticizing Nick and listen like we're public figures so you know criticism is fair however you you're telling me his coach didn't realize something was off oh his body's not responding well we heard the fake gear story about Nick that his gear was fake sounds familiar right you you just realized his body wasn't responding bro like his body wasn't responding at 14 weeks out 12 weeks out 10 weeks out at what point do you realize oh shit this isn't gonna work you know so that's the thing it was the same problem with me to where when you're a client when you're a solid client like I am and like I know Nick is you're just locked in doing your work you're just doing your fucking job if your coach is telling you you look great this is the gear you're gonna do it you're gonna be great whatever your coach is telling you this shit you believe it so sometimes you as a bodybuilder like I'm like a 310 pounder and like I always think that I'm small I always think that I could be bigger now some people are going to hear me say that and understand it because they feel that way about themselves some people are just going to think I'm crazy but it's just normal with bodybuilding that's why a lot of people don't coach themselves because it's hard to be completely objective as a bodybuilder but that being said when you have a coach and when you really trust in a coach your coach is your set of eyes so something's wrong your coach is supposed to point it out his coach didn't point it out you know so from people that I know that saw what he looked like yeah IMean he hit the on the nail on the head there it's impossible to coach yourself sometimes I've run into this where you're just you just can't be objective about yourself there's been very few bodybuilders that have been capable of doing it Dorian Yates is one that comes to mind I think John Jewett coaches himself which is impressive as fuck you know so it's yeah I get what he get what he's saying you never see in the mirror what's actually there and big guys often think they're small it's part of the body dysmorphia that goes along with the the sport we we never see what's really there and also sort of what drives bodybuilders to be great the top guys they said that he was better off pulling out they said that's how bad he looked that he made the best decision by pulling out and to me if you have a high level athlete and you can't even bring them into the show because of whatever the fuck you put them through or because you failed to notice something especially when you the guy moved to your fucking state to your city like guys right there you know what I'm saying um it lets me realize the problem that I had wasn't personal like this guy's just not locked in you know he's not locked in um listen a lot of that fucking target shit was marketing man like it was marketing um he's he's a formula guy he has formulas that have worked in the offseason yeah parts of our offseason were great I'd rate the offseason working with him as a 88 which is like an a-plus in Canada great great offseason well no no maybe 80 because when I was at 320 he pushed me he said I was too lean so he basically pushed me and wanted me to have burgers I feel like a prognosticator here I said that guys get themselves in trouble with using formulas that formulas don't always work that you sort of have to see what's going on with somebody's body and react and adjust accordingly like I think like the top guys in the sport you'll hear the top coaches like you hear Chris Asito, Hany Rambod, guys like that that seem to do very well with consistently bringing guys in shape they they seem to be more reactive and respond to how the body is looking what's going on with their athlete and make adjustments they don't have a set formula now you can have general principles you run by but he brought up that very topic I talked about earlier where you know having strict formulas of what works and doesn't work sometimes can end up in a bad spot with some people now it works for some it doesn't for others you do have to be able to adapt and adjust problem solve I think that's important for a coach so anybody wants to get into coaching you have to learn how to be a good problem solver when you're looking for a coach you have to have somebody who's willing to take feedback from you anytime a coach says trust the process that's when I'm like nope nope nope nope to me when somebody starts saying trust the process that means they probably don't know what the fuck they're talking about now I'm not saying that's the case here with Matt I don't know you know I've never worked with him I don't know Matt I don't know anything about him but when people just say follow the plan trust the process you know there's times that peoplEQuestion stuff irrationally but you should be able to explain why you're doing a certain thing and why they should be following what you're telling them to do you should have some logic and reason behind it but if they can't explain why then that's a problem this should be a collaborative effort between coach and client and the client gives feedback it is a team effort it's not my way or the highway I don't like when people operate that way there's on every trening day to put on more body fat and then when we did the prep one of the excuses at the end was that you know oh we pushed the offseason too hard and it was hard to get in shape it's like well you fucking said that you told me I was too lean and I have screenshots I have the actual whatsapp conversation I'm just not the kind of guy that's gonna like air out text and shit unless somebody starts running a mouth and they want to go there then of course I have proof of him ignoring feedback and um yeah all that shit ignoring feedback telling me that he thinks the gear is fake like bro maybe it was the two hours of fucking cardio you know how could you go to something that can be proven that you haven't proven but you say that that's the reason now there's a lot of other high-level athletes he's worked with that he's done this to in the past a lot of amateur athletes again there's a formula sometimes it works with athletes sometimes it doesn't and sometimes athletes don't make it to shows this isn't the first time that's happened but for some reason people could keep that shit on the hush hush people keep their shit on the hush hush and they only speak about and promote what he does well but the reality is I was duped like I bought into the fuckinGHype to me the hype was fake uh I think he he is a smart guy I think the problem is his ability to adapt adaptability as a coach like terrible garbage like when you see my body flattening out you're a high-level coach maybe you don't maybe you don't know how to deal with it perfectly but like troubleshoot you know like troubleshoot instead he kept pushing and then just tried to gaslight me and for me that's what I don't respect and I bet you listen I haven't asked Nick what the actual problem was I just know what everybody else knows I know the rumors are fake here I'm telling you he has told this shit to that's exactly what I was saying a high-level ability to troubleshoot I think that's what separates great coaches from average coaches once again I'm not saying that that's the case with Matt that's his take on it I don't know this is what he's saying but a high-level coach should have an incredible ability to troubleshoot and figure out problems I can confirm I'm not gonna throw names under the bus because you know I'm not trying to bring people in like that but I can confirm at least 11 other people that he's told had fake gear because things didn't turn out the way that it should have but um Sean Clarita he made an excuse after pre-judging Matt made an excuse about Sean saying the judges asked for that no no the judges didn't ask for the guy to be fucking flat you know they didn't ask him to show up flat they wanted him to be a bit tighter and come in with a more controlled abdomen I think that versus the look that they brought are not the same thing like you brought this guy in like me now he has a lot more muscle maturity and density than I have so you know he still looks decent holy crap 11 other people I've heard those rumors too that they've gotten out there I I gotta be careful what I say but I had somebody who with has knowledge and inside the camp that told me that there was some fake gear with Nick this year so it makes you wonder if that's actually the truth if it was fake gear now once again not I'm not passing judgment I don't know anything this is just what Quinton's saying um I think that's enough of this let's look through some of the comments there was some there's some spicy comments on this video that he put up um our man for real says I was actually the only person who called out Matt on his prep um you know so so you know I I don't know if that's true but I I'd heard that before Phil Viz who's also a coach coaches a lot of pros um Phil is very outspoken and speaks his mind if he thinks something is out of sorts Phil speak up and say so but Phil said I've been saying this for years he used to text me often he's not a good coach he latched on to the genetic freaks and it's all marketing all a facade Nick Walker had already added 20 pounds of muscle before they linked up he was on his way anyway Clarita always on his way show me one person who wasn't on their way that changed their trajectory when they got to the top one it doesn't exist I'm so glad people are seeing this now he's done a lot of other bad things and it comes down to what I've got a freaking binder of evidence and testimonials and screenshots and I bet you tons would come out of the woodwork if he tries to sue anyone send them to me I'll provide them rock hard evidence to destroy that suit fast then it'll be in legal writing what he did that's a pretty bold statement thank you for speaking up to you thank you for having the guts to do what so many others are afraid to do that was from Phil uh the screenshot it got deleted and I'm gonna bring it up here but there was a uh um Brett Wilkin responded um Brett is also one of uh one of Matt's clients Brett is um you know not everybody feels this way about Matt there's some people that support Matt and think Matt's great and uh Brett is one of them and Brett responded to here he's like hi Phil my name is Brett Wilkin I am a two-timEQualified Olympian athlete in the open division my track record under Matt Jansen in the open bodybuilding division involves the following two second places our second place second place first place first place and a sixth place at the Arnold Crescent I'm disappointed you decided to leave me out of your rant here so I am certainly for sure you know this but hey continue on with the hate brother in the comments sections that's what they're for um there was some back and forth between Phil and Brett Brett later deleted the comments I took a screenshot of it thank god before I had a feeling that he might regret that later on uh so yeah those got deleted but there's some there's some spicy comments in here uh you know so I don't want to get too far into it but this this um Aman I don't know what this one is the dude's been too busy running marathons and biking finally a pro speakinGHis mind hate when everyone in bodybuilding keeps quiet and scared to speak up the truth all right so the bottom line is here look this this is just what one person's saying about him we've heard the rumors we don't know if it's true or not I hate talking trash about other coaches I think it's poor taste I I try to avoid it um but there's a lot of people that are speaking out right now I you know who knows if any of this is true or not uh you can certainly see the emotion on Quinton's facEQuinton seems to be very emotional very upset he seems to be very fair in his assessment of things it sounded like he just wanted somebody to take some accountability and say hey I screwed up let's try to do a better job the next time it was my fault it's not you simple words like that can go a long way with a client it's you know ultimately gaslighting and blaming them or blaming other things for why something goes wrong is never the right approach when you're a coach you should always take accountability where you can sometimes it is the client's fault but it's it's that people don't follow the plan people don't listen people are stubborn a lot of bodybuilders that don't listen especially the high level guys I think they know better than everything you know you you see that frequently generally the people that do the best are the ones that are the most compliant but sometimes they aren't it is a two-way street though the client should push back on the coach when they feel things are going the wrong direction the coach should respond to that appropriately the coach should be able to adapt and problem solve and make correct assessments to correct course that's all something that a coach should be responsible for a coach should never gaslight a client to make them mislead them to think something was their fault and then sometimes you can do everything perfectly and it just doesn't work that happens I've been a part of that myself I you know I've had it happen you know I know Justin my coach is an excellent coach and we had a prep that just didn't go well it just happened there's more things I could have done differently and there's things he could have done differently we corrected it on the next prep but we both have the humility to take accountability for what we did and we got it fixed and we had better preps afterwards so it does take some humility I will say this you've heard the grumblings about this coach from people there's been the rumors often where there's smoke there is fire sometimes it's unfair sometimes it's unfair but you never heard anybody say anything bad about John Meadows John Meadows worked with a ton of high-level people you never heard a bad word said about John Meadows you never hear anything bad said about Hany Rambod people can hate him because he's successful but you never hear a bad word say said about Hany said about Hany his clients love him his clients are happy with how he works he seems to be invested in them he seems to take care of them so the best out there often don't have people complaining and going around talking crap about them and you know I you know for for Matt's sake if Matt if you're listening to this I you know this is nothing personal but I would say try to come at this with some humility and listen to what you guys are saying and fix it it's just that simple uh you know look I you know maybe maybe the problem is when Matt's in maybe the problem's not maybe he's overextended that's possibility too I think sometimes people have a hard time saying no to more clients to more money to more potential for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and they take on too many clients and they spread themselves too thin and then they can't give everybody the attention they need and I've done that before myself I've overextended myself in business not just with bodybuilding coaching but I've overextended myself and other things I've done you know I worked in IT for for years and you know take on too many contracts and then you can't deliver a quality product so you have to find the line of where you can deliver a quality product and continue to keep your reputation intact but ultimately your reputation is the most valuable thing you have and you need to protect it at all times so be careful work hard be humble these are things that you know anybody who wants to coach can probably do and like I said I don't know anything about Matt never met him never talked to him never worked with him um and I wish him all the best in the world I hopEQuentin finds a good coach that he can gel with sometimes it's just a bad match you know it's like a bad marriage sometimes you marry the wrong person it's not that the other person is at fault it's just the bad marriage and you need to move on and find a better marriage and I know emotions are high right now and that's sort of how I think about this what do I know I'm just some doofus on the internet I don't know anything let me know what you guys think in the comment section below what do you think about this whole coach Matt Jansen thing with with Quentin Beastwood what's going on here what do you think about it I appreciate each and every one of you thank you for your support