 kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk kalk The other weekend I was, I was working out and Chris, Chris rolls up to me and he's like, you, your guy looks like those gems. And, uh, we got to talking and Chris, uh, in his classic iron fitness page on Instagram, he goes around and reviews different, uh, gems all over the country. And it was a really, really cool concept and neat thing that he does. And I, I, I, I've scrolled through his page and looked at some of the stuff and it's, it's really neat. And I wanted to have Chris on the talk, talk about it. So if you guys are looking for neat gems to go to across the country, I'm, I'm sort of a gym junkie and I like trying out new gems. Classic iron fitness is the place, place to go. Tell us a little bit about how you got started with this, Chris. Um, actually it's me and my, my best friend, um, Jason, we were workout partners way back like 30 years ago when we were in the Navy. Um, and he kept going to the gym. He's huge, kind of looks like you. Um, I quit going to the gym, got fat, um, coach on my kids sports teams. And then about three years, three or four years ago, I got back in the gym, started going to different gyms, loved going to different gyms, really enjoyed the flavor of locally owned gyms. Um, cause I tried a lot of gyms when I was trying to lose weight and stop being fat and never stuck to it. And then I found some locally owned gyms who became like a family and I stepped with it. And, and then during COVID, a lot of those gyms really struggled and they, they've done so much for us that we wanted to do whatever we could to help promote them and give back. So we thought, well, since it's so hard to find them a lot of times, like you can do a Google search in your area and not even find some of these really awesome locally owned gyms. And so we thought we'd do whatever you could to help people find them. And Jason travels a lot for his job. I like to travel a lot in the summer. So we like to find cool gyms and we thought we'd help other people find them too. That's a really, really, really neat thing to do. Believe me, I've been through various phases. I'm, I, I'm in my, I'm in my bodybuilding phase now, but I was fat years ago. I've been in and out of the gym and, uh, and you know, some career and kids and stuff takes priority sometimes, but I just kind of got back into the gym recently, but yeah, it, I'm going to show people your, your page here. It's, it's really neat. Some of the stuff you do, like you go through each, you know, so here's the golds here in Northern Virginia. Let's find, I think you guys were at the shop recently. Here we go. Yeah. And the shop is where I go and it's just a neat locally owned gym. It's an, it's one of those ones that you might miss. Although it seems like all the bodybuilders and powerlifters in this area know about it, but you, you write a nice little synopsis about what, what the, uh, what, what the shop is about and you go through and rate each thing. Yeah. We started, sorry to interrupt you. No, no, go ahead. We started, um, giving a designation to gyms because you can't rate a fitness center against a bodybuilding gym versus a powerlifting gym. Um, so the second slide is always whether it's a fitness center, a bodybuilding gym or powerlifting gym. And then, um, we give a date prices, weekly passes in this day and one month or eight. And then we read everything on plates instead of stars. Does that just make sense? Yeah. That's really cool. Yeah. The shop is a very neat, neat gym. I've been there for a while. Great, great for bodybuilding. It's great atmosphere, uh, bodybuilding and powerlifting. But yeah, the, and you, you missed out on all the new equipment too. They just brought in a bunch more stuff last week. Yeah. A bunch of Padana and, um, that is so awesome. Yeah. They got a bunch of banana stuff. That's really, really nice. Um, I know, I know that stuff's crazy expensive, uh, Padana and Atlantis. They brought in a bunch of new Padana and Atlantis equipment, but this is really neat how you do this. And you go through and take pictures of everything. Just really, really, really, really cool. Yeah. We always try to show at least a video of us working out at the gym. Um, not that, not that anyone needs to see us working out, but just to prove that like, we're not just driving by, we're actually going to gyms and we don't review any gym. We haven't actually worked out at. Well, I can attest that you were there. I saw you, we met. And then you have the color coding too, for the different regions. That's pretty neat too. Yeah. So people can find like where by the end of this year, hopefully by the summer, we're going to have a, um, a website up. So, cause right now, like the first gym, one of the first gyms reviewed was, um, Beth Francis powerhouse in long Island, New York, which is honestly one of the best gyms in the East coast. I mean, but to find that gym on our Instagram page, you have to scroll through now what's 110, I think reviews. So hopefully once we get our website up this summer, it'll be a lot easier to find our reviews. Man, you should start a YouTube channel. I'm telling you, YouTube's where it's at right now. Uh, the people would eat this up on YouTube. If you went in and just did a, you know, had a video crew with you or just even videoed it yourself and people would eat this up. Yeah. You have the color code chart and then, um, yeah. And have nice little explanations here of what, how everything works. I see. This is pretty, pretty neat. This is pretty straightforward and really, really, really, really cool. You guys have a ton of reviews up too. Yeah. And we just started last April. My God, how many gyms have you been to? I've probably been to 80 gyms myself in the last year. That's nuts. That's awesome. And, um, in two weeks I'm flying out to Kansas city where Jason is and we're going to drive up to Cedar Rapids, Des Moines, and then, um, Omaha and Lincoln. So we're going to hit those four cities like back to back to back. What's been your favorite gym so far you've hit? Um, overall, my favorite gym has probably been DMV iron. DMV has some neat stuff. Just because I'm, I'm a junkie for those that I'm a, well, I'm an atmosphere guy in order for me to love a gym. It has to have a great atmosphere. DMV has an amazing atmosphere, but I'm also more of a junkie for those. High end brand new. Don't get me wrong. I love the old school equipment, but DMV has a lot of this brand new stuff from Atlantis and Panada and Arsenal and, um, some of the pendulum stuff and stuff. You just don't see everywhere. And it's just such an amazing experience going there. Now, that being said, if you've never been to Madhouse gym in Atlanta, that place is an experience. They probably, I went there to do back and they probably have 80 or pieces of back equipment. Like I would say that was my favorite gym, except the fact that it was just almost overwhelming the amount of equipment that they have. It's a madhouse in Atlanta. I'm trying to find that one on here. It would be an orange pretty far down. Yeah. Um, what there's a, there's a, God, I can't remember the name of it. There is a famous gym in Chicago that has supposed to have just like an incredible, incredible, uh, collection of, uh, equipment. God, I can't remember the name. What's that? Quads? Yeah. Quads. Quads is on my list of gyms to try to get through the summer. Yeah. I've heard, I've heard quads. It's like, if you're, if you're a gym junkie, you got to go to quads. Yeah. Quads is supposed to be good. I was, but I'm, I'm hoping to get there this summer. Um, I'd love to get to, um, Matt Wedding's gym in Columbus, Ohio this summer. Yeah. I've heard that one's great too. Yeah. Um, uh, I think, uh, is elite FTS. Is that one in, um, uh, Columbus as well? I think so. I think so. Yeah. Um, that's Dave, Dave Tate's gym. Yeah. And then like, I just, I did a trip to Nashville, uh, between Christmas and new year's. I got to go to Brandon Curry's gym. Oh, I didn't know he, uh, I didn't know he had one. Well, he, he has an office there and he works out there. I think he's part of the ownership group. I don't know if he technically owns the gym. Yeah. That's Madhouse. Madhouse is, I walked around there for about 10 minutes, just not even knowing where to start. And one of the guys who probably works out there all the time was just like, dude, you just got to pick something. He's like, I know it's overwhelming, but. See, this is one of those places that you would probably just walk right past and not even know it was there. Yeah. Cause it's, it's in an old grocery store, like a huge old grocery store. Man, they got stuff like crammed in together. Look at that. There's like no space between anything. That's crazy. Yeah. And I, I love like old school equipment and you know, you rarely find change ribbon equipment. And they had like eight pieces of change ribbon back equipment that I use. Like. Yeah. The, like the old Nautilus stuff. Yeah. Yeah. They had. And you know, there was like the lap pullovers. Mm-hmm. You see rarely. Occasionally you'll see one in a gym. They had six different ones. Yeah. That was, uh, that was Dorian Yates's favorite. I, I actually, when I was in college, I worked as a personal trainer. I started off working at a Nautilus gym. I worked there for four years. I think I started my senior year in high school and then I worked through college while I was in college and we had to learn the Arthur Jones method and worked with all that old Nautilus equipment. And I don't even think Nautilus is around anymore. Are they? I think they're gone. No, but like I was in a gym in Nashville, Quantum. And I, I was like, I had to ask them because it looked like they had all brand new Nautilus equipment in there. And I'm like, how can this be? But they had bought an entire line of old used Nautilus equipment and had it repowder coated, had it completely redone. And it looked like brand new Nautilus equipment. It was amazing. And where was that at? In Nashville. That's really cool, man. Yeah. That would bring back. That would. That would bring back some. That would bring back some memories. What was the name of that gym? It was Quantum. It was. Quantum. QT. Yeah. They go by like a four letter acronym, but it's Quantum. Oh yeah. QTMN. I found it. Here it is. Yep. Here, here they are. Yeah. So it's, it's a, it's a more of a fitness center because the whole upstairs is all about like cardio and stuff like that. But downstairs it's all like completely redone old Nautilus. Yeah. I see the, I see the Nautilus stuff. That is really cool, man. And it, it looks just, it looks brand new. Yeah. It looks, look at that. That is cool as shit. Like it's, it's got leather on the, on the seats and like even the handles. I don't even know how they got those handles look like that. That, that is somebody who loves gym equipment that did that. Yeah. Yeah. It took a lot of like time and effort and like care to make an old piece of Nautilus equipment look like that. That is really, really neat, man. What are some other gyms you've been to that you really liked? Well, I'm, I love atmosphere because I feel like, you know, having lots of equipment is cool, but even, even when you don't have lots of equipment, if you walk into a gym and you're like, that's a, this is a bad-ass feel, you just get a really good workout. And I was at a gym in Baltimore called Grind, which is actually in the national, in the, down in the Inner Harbor area. It's like above the Hard Rock Cafe. So you're on like the third floor above the Hard Rock Cafe and all the windows look out to the Inner Harbor. But the really cool thing is up above, because it's such a unique gym up above, there are these huge giant posters of all their trainers and people who go there and work out all the time, like working out at the gym. So you see all of these like really like awesome people, like really going hard at the gym that you're at. That's really neat. Yeah. It just created a really cool atmosphere. And then I was at, it's a really small gym, Iron Heritage, down by Kings Dominion. And it's really small. It's in like a little like strip mall, like downtown area. But I was there in the morning, the owner who's a bodybuilder, she was there working out while I was there. They had a really cool atmosphere. It was, it was a good little gym. And they had a lot of like really cool old equipment you don't see anywhere else. I love going to a gym and being able to use equipment that I can't use anywhere else. You know? Have you been to RVA in Richmond? Yeah, RVA is really cool. I haven't, I didn't get a chance to meet Brandon. Brandon seems like a really quality owner. You got RVA right here. Yeah. RVA is a really nice gym. Yeah. I've heard good things about them too. I've never been there. It's, it's almost like DMV. It's just a little bit smaller, but it's kind of on the same sort of philosophy as DMV. Really well organized. That's the other thing is like, you know, we, we judge gyms on organization. Like you can go to gyms and, and they can have great equipment, but if you can't find it because it's disorganized, what's the point? Yeah, no, you're right. I think everything, or I feel like everything at the shop is fairly well organized. Oh yeah, it was fairly well organized. I've been to DMV a few times. Everything there is very well organized as well. Yeah. I haven't been to the new location yet in. I have not either. That's on my list of things to do in the next few weeks. Yeah. It's in, it's in a false church, I believe, or by, by the Eden center, I think. Yeah. Yeah. It's. Um, it's in like a strip mall behind it's in the back of a strip mall. Yeah. Yeah. I believe it's there. I mean, the other one in Alexandria is kind of like in an industrial park. Yeah. That's one of our philosophies. Like if you're going, if you're driving to a gym and you're wondering where you're going, or if you're actually safe, where you're going, it's probably gonna be a really good gym. Then it's a good gym. Yeah. Going down to the back alley. I, I, the first gym I remember working out, I started lifting when I was in high school and I don't even think it's around anymore. It was this place out in Winchester. I grew up out in Winchester, Virginia, but it was called, uh, the jungle. And some people, some people from there would probably remember it, but it was just this hardcore power lifting gym. And it was like a club. You literally had to like apply to get into it, but it was, it was a really neat place to, to work out. There, there's a power lifting gym in Calvert County called Silverback. That's like that. Like there's no, you have to like, you have to be a member. I think they screen their members. Like they're very selective about who gets to work out there. Cause it's such a cool atmosphere. Um, the owner's a, is a veteran and I spoke to him and he was just like, I missed that camaraderie I had when I was in the military and I just wanted to create that kind of an environment around power lifting. He created this gym and did a great job at it. Um, and while they, it's a private gym like that, he still let me come down and get in a workout and, and, um, so I could post up a review for them. It was a cool little, cool, um, atmosphere there. Well, this is a neat thing that you guys are doing. I really appreciate that somebody is doing this. I, um, I've been traveling a fair amount lately and it's nice to know. Like, I have no idea where to go when I go to a new town. I just kind of ask around, uh, in, you know, kind of my bodybuilding community or friends, I'll ask around where's a good place to go. But this is really cool. Yeah. It's, um, it started out as like a hobby and it's become more of a passion project. So, um, we're enjoying it. I'm telling you, make some YouTube videos. It would be a hit. It would be a smash. So that's, that is our goal is to do whatever we can to make sure more people find these gyms. And it's, to us, it's more about like helping people find these gyms and it is about us. That's really cool. Well, man, if it, uh, I'm going to post this up and, uh, I'm going to put your information on my, um, Instagram page and also put it up on the video link here so people can find you guys. And, um, I, you know, for everybody who follows my channel, check, check classic iron fitness out. If you want to find a cool gym to go to in your area, just come follow us. We've got a bunch of new reviews coming up. We're going to start posting probably at least two a week. Um, we're trying to, we think we can keep up that pace for the rest of the year. So if you want to keep seeing great gyms, just come check us out. That's an awesome thing you're doing for the weightlifting community. Thank you very much. I appreciate you coming on, man. This is really awesome. And, um, guys go check out classic iron fitness and I appreciate each and every one of you following. Thank you very much. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.