warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks. Big Paul here today with Chris from Gym Informer. Gym Informer is a review website and social media outlet that goes into local gyms and tells you which ones are good for us. Meatheads. Chris and IMet at the shop gym in Ashburn many moons ago. Um, Chris has fantastic content if you're looking for a good place to go work out and whatever town you're in or if you're just traveling, what's going on, Chris? Hey, how are you?  thanks for having me on. I appreciate having me back forever ago that we met now. Yeah, it was a couple of years ago, I think. Yeah, it was about two years ago. I think, I think I had been, um, reviewing gyms for about a year when we met. So yeah, lots of change since then. And you've gotten a website up and going now with reviews. Um, website looks fantastic. Um, tons of stuff on the website folks. So if you want to head over to gym informer dot com, keep in mind there is a, we found on here that there is a fake websites, um, road, you know, and it's meant trying to mimic it, but it's actual gym informer. I'll put a link in the video description below. So you, yeah. And then the copycat is, if you look at them, they're all AI reviews. So our, ours are all reviews of gyms that we've been to. There's video content. You can see me actually working out of the gym. I've never reviewed a gym, but I haven't actually worked out. I don't see how you can review a gym if you've never worked out there. I see vintage iron in my hometown. I grew up in Winchester, Virginia. Oh, that's a great place. Yeah. Yeah. I've, I, I've never been there. I think a little, yeah. Will's got a great little gym there. It's not a little anymore. It keeps expanding it. I have to go check it out sometime. Yeah. At this point, um, just about to hit 300 gyms that I reviewed. Um, that's fantastic. And what's some, what are some of the best ones in the country that you have been to? Uh, well, we're going to be post. Well, it's crazy. Like different areas have different pockets. Like we're spoiled here in the DMV area because we have some of the best gyms in the country, um, between what's currently the three DMV iron gyms. If you like that, I call it the new school vibe with the blacked out walls, the blacked out ceilings, you know, the, the cool graphics, um, everything in the gym matches. Like, um, the owner Leo does one of the best jobs in the country of putting a gym together from a new school vibe standpoint. Um, and then you get out to like the shop and Ashburn. IMean, that place is 30,000 square feet of an old school vibe gym. If you like just the tiny bit of grit, like this is a super clen gym. It has just that tiny bit of grit where like you go in there and you feel like you can really get after it because it's not polished. You know, I don't, I personally don't like a polished gym that I feel like I'm afraid to sweat in. You know, I like that little bit of grit where you go in and like, yep, I can get after it in this gym. And the shop has that. And it's got that mix of old school equipment, new school equipment. And then, you know, if you like old school, getting up to exile in Baltimore, still, I'm considering the DMV is, is a crazy gym too. IMean, that place is huge. Exiles. Cool. I've been up there before. That, that is a cool place to work out. We are very lucky here in the DC Metro Baltimore, DC Metro area. We have some great gyms around this area. I, when I travel and I try to look for a good gym in town, so I'm just like, man, is this it? Well, and it's funny, like, because I think we're, IMean, there are people who've started to try to kind of copy what I do or copy what we do and like start post reviews, but they'll post reviews of like the biggest gyms in the area, the biggest gyms in the country. Um, and I think we're the only people that like, I went to a 2000 square foot piloting gym in Clinton, Arkansas, you know, Clinton, Arkansas has like 2,500 people, but you know, this is a cool little gym that the owners found. They saw a need in the community and they created this, um, this gym. They actually were in a coffee shop and a gym out of the same building. So the whole time you're working out, it smells like coffee. Um, and it's super cool. And they've met a need in a community that didn't have a gym. People were driving 45 minutes to go to a gym. And you know, IMean, nobody else is going to go to Clinton, Arkansas, interview this little 2000 square foot piloting gym, but you know, on our website, you can find stuff like that in the middle of nowhere. Yeah. You go to the cool places, the places I want to work out at. I kind of like that old school vibe. Uh, that's just me. I have been, I started off in a dirty power lifting gym when I was a teenager. That's kind of my, and I do like DMV iron. I go work out there frequently. Uh, but the shop is my, my home gym. And it's, it's, uh, it's a different vibe there. I know Jason has a great job there. Yeah. Jason's my man. Um, and I, the don't get me wrong. DMV iron is great too. I go there too. It's fantastic. Top end equipment, everything there is great. Um, so there, there's some cool gyms though in, in the, in the U S. IMean, we've got, um, quads in Chicago. That's a, that's a cool place. Um, I was there this summer and the new owner, I wouldn't say new owner. Like Sharon is Dave's wife or was Dave's wife. Dave passed for anybody who's familiar with thEQuality. Yeah. Dave passed. Um, and now Sharon runs, runs the gym. She was his wife. Um, they have two daughters. Her daughter's helper run the gym. She is the nicest person. Like when I was going there, her and I texted back and forth for quite some time. She met me at the gym before the gym even opened. So I could walk around the gym before it even opened. IMean, it's 40,000 square feet in downtown Chicago. Like it, it takes a minute to walk around that gym. They might have the most amount of equipment I've ever seen packed into such a small, yeah, it is, uh, it is, that place is, that, that place is, uh, crazy. Um, you know, I'm going to pull some pictures up, but yeah, it's, it's nuts in there. Yeah. That gym is crazy. And it's still that, like I thought when I go to gyms, I try to talk to the members that are at the gym. Cause you know, they'll tell you the story like a little bit more. Cause you know, I'm there for a couple of hours working out and reviewing the gym. You talk to the members and they'll tell you like, Oh, well yeah, the owners are great and they fix everything or they're always giving us new equipment, always updating things. Or they'll tell you like, yeah, like that Smith machines been out of, been out of service for like six months. You know, they'll give you the, they'll give you the load app. But when I was at, at quads, like, you know, it's a Midwestern gym. So like it's had that Midwestern hospitality. I grew up in the Midwest. I love it there. And everybody there was friendly. It was great. Yeah. It's a cool place. I don't know how you can fit more equipment in a place than that. It is. Um, it's, it's, it's pretty wild. I, I, I was lucky enough to go see Dave Tate and work out at his gym in outside of Columbus, elite FTS. Um, although that's private, uh, I was, when I went to the interview with Dave, I'm like, where's everybody at? Was there nobody working out? And he's like, no, this is just like, it's like my play gym. Nice. Have you been in there? I have not been in the elite FTS gym. I, um, I've been in pros gym in Columbus. I just reviewed two gyms. Why I was out at the Arnold, um, the Colossus, which is a smaller piloting gym. And then spark society, which is a smaller bodybuilding gym. They were both super cool. Um, yeah, I've worked out at the pros a few times. Um, that is definitely an old school vibe. Definitely an old school gym that place. Uh, it smells like mildew in there and, uh, you'll see every, you definitely see every, everybody was in there working out. Arnold even came through briefly. Um, IMissed him, but, uh, my friends were there earlier and, um, this is not this year, but last year and Arnold rolled through. Yeah. IMet Joe Bennett in there. Um, I don't know if you know him. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. IMet Joe Bennett in there and IMet Ronnie Coleman in there. Yeah. When I was in there, Kai Green was working out. Dr. Mike was in there. Um, there were a bunch of, there were a bunch of people that you had Dr. Mike on your show, didn't you? Yeah. I've had Dr. Michael in a couple of times. Nice. Yeah. Dr. Mike's great. Um, yeah. And then, you know, up in outside of New York city, you got Bev's. Oh yeah. But that was the, that was the first gym that I ever reviewed. Like, Oh really? When we decided we were going to do gym reviews, we were like, okay, like if we're going to do this, let's start at best. Like that's, and I'm probably gonna go back to best this summer because when I did Bev's, I wasn't doing like the full on video reviews that I'm doing now. And so the content of Bev's is a lot more limited in the review than what it would be now. If I went back, that place has also got a lot of shit jammed into a small place. You know, Steve's great. We've had Steve on the podcast. Um, he's a man of few words, but it was great havinGHim on the podcast. Steve's great. And had IFBB judge. You know, there's kind of green. Yeah. Steve, Steve's great. I know a lot of people go there to get feedback from Steve. Um, a lot of pros go up there to practice. Yeah. When we were, when we were there, there was a, um, a flex magazine cover. I can't for the life of me. Remember who was on the cover of the flex magazine, but it was a huge like poster of a flex magazine on the wall. And the guy on the flex magazine was like working out right next to us. IMean, that's always super cool. IMean, we weren't going a lot. So he was trying to get his workout in, but it was cool. I love that. Dorian Yates story where he said that he went to golds in Venice. So I've never actually worked out at the golds in Venice. I thought about it when I heard it's kind of disappointing, but, um, um, I went there or I Dorian was talking about going there to work out one time. And he asked the pros workout for free. And the girl said, yeah, are you a pro? And he pointed to the mural on the wall behind her of him standing up there. And he's like, yeah, that, that, that's me up there. Got it. Realize it was him. Yeah. I, um, I went to, I was in Vegas last September and that is definitely a bodybuilding town. Oh yeah. Vegas is almost every gym I went to was a bodybuilding gym. It's funny. Like you go to most areas and you can find like a bodybuilding gym or two bodybuilding gyms at the most. Most of the time it's like fitness centers with like some with a lifting area. Well, like Vegas was packed with bodybuilding gyms, which was super cool. Have you been to a dragon's lair yet? Um, yeah, I went to dragon's lair. Um, it wasn't my favorite gym in Vegas. It's a cool gym. Probably some of the coolest artwork that I've seen in a gym flex definitely carries that theme all the way through the gym. Um, yeah, I've heard torture is the place guys. Um, torture is a little small. I loved it there. Um, the owners are super nice. It's all new tech equipment. Yeah. And it's got that. It's pretty neat. It's super clen, super new school vibe. If you like DMV iron, you'd love, um, torture. Um, the, the place that wasn't even on my list when I was going out there was the lift factory. Oh, okay. Um, and when I got there, three or four people were like, are you going to the lift factory? I'm like, I haven't even heard of it. Like you gotta go. So I called up the owner and I'm like, Hey, like people keep telling me I need to come to your gym. He goes, I'll meet you over there. So I go over there and meet the owner. It's like straight old school. There's not like two pieces of equipment in that gym that match. Everything's like bought here, bought there, bought there. Like you can tell that I was like, they pieced it together based on what they really wanted. They've got murals of like old school bodybuilders and powerlifters all over the gym. It's gritty. It's grimy, not dirty, but it's definitely like old school. Great. Like it was cool. Doesn't Jake Hutler have a gym out there or does he, or am I dreaming that? Um, I think he works out at all of the gyms. Like a lot of people associate him with the fit club, I think. Yeah. Fit club. But it's not his gym. Okay. He works out there a lot, I think, but he's also been, he's been in the fit club. He works out at the lift factory. There's a mural of him at the, at both places cause he works out there a decent amount of both places. So IMean with him being, he lives in Vegas, so I think he's, he probably pops around and just goes wherever he feels like going that day. Nobody's going to tell Jake Hutler he can't work out there. I know. Well, he was at DMV Iron recently. I saw some people post some pictures of him up from there. He was there working out. I don't know why he was in town. Um, yeah, these guys, I run in a gym is, is an expensive, difficult thing. I think it's hard to make money if you have, you have to really know what you're doing. It's like every gym bro wants to open up a gym, but they don't realize how much work goes into it. Oh, a hundred percent. Like, and we just started when I was, I started doing interviews of gym owners for a podcast. So that was our original podcast was I think we've got about 68 episodes where if you're interested in learning about any of the gym owners of the gyms that we reviewed, um, there's 68 episodes of gym owners telling the story of their gym, how they became gym owners. And the last question I had to ask them, what's that? That's fantastic. Yeah. So the last question I always ask them is, do you have any advice for anyone who wants to own a gym or is thinking about opening a gym? And a lot of the advice seems to be the same, um, across the board from like multiple gym owners will say the same kind of things. One of the things I kept hearing was, um, make sure that you have a second source of income for multiple years and don't rely on the gym for your primary source of income for three to five years so that you can take every dollar the gym makes and put it back in the gym to grow it to where it needs to be, or it'll never get to where, where you want it to be. Yeah. It's a lot of overhead, a lot of expenses. IMean, just the rent alone, um, is, is ridiculous, especially here in Northern Virginia. I, I, I work out with Jason that owns the shop gym occasionally. Um, yeah, he told me what his rent is there. It's, yeah, he told me too. And it's crazy. It's a lot of gym memberships. You got to sell just to cover your nut. Yeah. It's a frightening amount. Yeah. I think that comes out every month. Yeah. Yeah. And that, that, that's comes due whether people pay their memberships or not. So when people complain about their $80 a month membership, realize it takes quite a bit of those hundreds of those to just pay the rent. Yeah. Utility bills, things like that. Staff. Um, I've once in a while thought about starting a gym and then I'm just like, nah, it's not for me. It's too much work. I get that question all the time. IMean, basically, obviously, IMean, when you've been to 300 gyms in the lasT3 years, people, it's obviously assumed that there's quite a passion for gyms. Um, so if you're always like, when are you going to open your gym? I'm like, that's not going to happen. Like, it's not my dream to like open my own gym. My dream is to go to everyone else's gym in the entire country. Well, I'm sure you'd be good consulting people on how to open a gym and what they should look for. That would be, um, that would be good. That's probably the next step. Like we've already talked about that step of offering, you know, offering, you know, consultations. And like, I've already, if I were going to open a gym, I'd give you a call. Yeah. I've already been asked by a couple of guys who were opening new gyms to like consult on their equipment list and things like that. I've gotten to bEQuite an equipment junkie and understanding the old school equipment, the new school equipment. And you know, I think the best gyms somehow figure out a way to mix both. I don't, you've been at DMV and the shop and they do an amazing job on both sides of like having some of the old school pieces, having some of the new school pieces and it kind of meets the needs of everybody. And really it gives you quite a variety. Yeah. That's what I appreciate, appreciate about Jason at the shop. They have a nice variety of new and old. It's a nice mix in there. Some of the, they have some old Nautilus and hammer strength stuff. And there's some old, like I forget the brand, but the booty blaster they have, those were from like the early nineties. There's all kinds of cool stuff. And then they got the brand new brand new stuff in there. I worked at a gym throughout college selling gym memberships and doing personal trening. I did that for like five years. And so I got the inside on it. I know, I know the work that goes into it. Just the sales part of it, you know, building up enough memberships to make the gym sustainable. That part is difficult and challenge. It's a, it's a, it's really, it's a seven day a week job. You can't take off. Oh, a hundred percent. And, and I'm always selling gym owners all the time. I'm like as much as I'm an equipment junkie as I am. And as much as I love equipment, the equipment might get people in your gym, but it's not going to keep them there. Like if you don't have a great atmosphere and a culture and a great community, people aren't going to stay. No. Yeah. But if you, if you build that community and you have a great culture, like people aren't going to want to leave your gym. No. And that's starts with the members, you know, who you have in there and what, what the field, the gym is like. I've, I've been in play. Well, IMean, you can look at golds would be a perfect example of a gym that lost its soul. I don't remember. IMean, they were the hardcore bodybuilding gym. Back in the day. And now it's mostly a fitness center. Yeah. They tried to turn into a fitness center and that I think the company went bankrupt for a while. They almost shut down, um, completely lost their way. And it, it was not good. You know, they went from being the bodybuilding gym to trying to be 24 hour fitness. Well, I think they tried to battle. I think they tried to get into a battle of ballets. Yeah. A long time ago. And that wasn't a way to go. No, it wasn't a way to go. Yeah. I like it now that people that run gyms seem to know their identity. Like the, the two great gyms that we have here in the DC area, DMV and both, um, the shop, they both know their identity and they live that identity. I love that part that they, that they have, um, things. And it's cool when you, like, if you're, if you're a traveler, you travel around the country, like each part of the country has different, like gyms and different vibes and they're cool. Like you go up to new England and new England has so many like old factories. Cause it used to be such an industrial area. And a lot of those factories are shut down and closed. So you have these huge, like 20, 30, 40,000 square foot spaces that are wide open with these like pre-made cool vibes because they're exposed brick and exposed metal beams. People have like taken those buildings and put gyms in them and they're super cool spots. Yeah, that's really cool. Um, what are some of your favorite gyms though around the country? Like ones that probably in like in new England, my favorite gyms were probably, it's hard to be like, you have to put like Montanari brothers on the list. IMean, it's, it's the super gym for a reason. Like I got to walk around with the oldest, one of the Montanari brothers when I was at their gym, he was super cool. I think his name is rich. Um, CT Barbell was super cool. The owner there, Jay, he has built like a really cool old school bodybuilding gym vibe. Um, one that wouldn't even hit most people's radar probably, um, steel beach. It's, it's three story gym. Like the top floor is all bodybuilding. The middle floor is like a fitness center and the bottom floor is like power lifting. So like that's super cool. You get out to the Midwest. Obviously you've got likEQuads. Yeah. You know, you get out to the Midwest, you've obviously got quads and America's gym. Like Brian's done a really good job in America's gym. I'm just North of Chicago. St. Louis has some really cool gyms. Um, actually Springfield, Missouri, one of my favorite gym owners. He's goT4 race fitnesses in Springfield, Missouri, and each one of them has a different vibe. And, um, Silas is one of the coolest guys I've met. Um, North Carolina has got some good gyms. Like, so yeah, I thought, I thought about for my retirement job, opening a gym, although I don't know if that's a good retirement job, not around here or wherever I end up settling. So, you know, who Doug Miller is? Um, he owns like core nutritionals. It sounds familiar there. They were at, did you, when you were at the big trensformer background, that supplement company? Oh yeah. The Justin, my, my, um, my, uh, he's my coach. No, no, not, not, not Justin, the actual trensformers. Oh no, I didn't see the company. Yeah. They had to, they have a big background of actual trensformers. Um, that's up in the company is Doug Miller's. Um, he's got two gyms down by Charlotte that are super cool called project Coliseum. I've heard of that. Yeah, it's, they're super cool. And then I've gotten to become friends with, um, with Jesse Jennings, who is probably the best muralist in the country. And if there's a gym that Jesse's been in too, like it just raises the bar. That was, have you heard of the fit club down in South Southern Virginia? Yep. Um, so Will and I are friends and he was telling me that cause he's got some of the best gyms in the country in these little tiny towns. Like he's got a, he's got a gym in still Virginia, a town of like less than 5,000 people. And he's got 800 members in a, in a town less than 500 people, IMean less than 5,000 people, which is crazy. That is crazy. But he's also got like, what's that? Is that the fit club in Virginia? That's jacked. Okay. That's Bev Francis right there. Oh, is it? Yeah, that's Bev's. Okay. But, um, but fit club down in Virginia, he, he's got like Kanaan equipment, Atlantis, like all, some of the best names in the, in the equipment industry in these little tiny towns. But he was telling me he brought in Jesse and had Jesse paint a bunch of cool murals around the gyms cause he's goT4 now. And he said that he got more feedback and more positive and positive vibes from the members on paying Jesse to come in and put murals up that he did from the last, like dozen pieces of equipment he bought. What was the name of the artist? Um, Jesse Jennings. It's grizzly bear designs on Instagram. He's like, he does amazing work and he started to come. People are starting to realize how good he does. He did all the murals at vintage. I don't know who did the, the murals at the shop. There's some good. He did. No, but somebody else at the shop. Yeah, those are good. Mm hmm. Yeah. Okay. I see this guy. Oh wow. These are crazy, man. Yeah. Jesse does like really good stuff. I'm going to give this guy a follow. This is, let me pull some of these up. Yeah. These are, these are wild. Yeah. And if you go like down at, um, pressure Coliseum down in their Statesville, North baseball location, which is just North of Charlotte. The leg room is like kind of down some stairs and you're kind of like down in almost like a pit. So when it's in a room by itself, so it's this huge leg room. And so Jesse painted an entire three 60 Coliseum scene around the leg room. These are cool. Shit. Yeah. That's amazing. Mm hmm. Yeah. Those are amazing. I love, I love this. Yeah. That definitely gives the gym some character. Mm hmm. See bump. Yeah. This is really cool. Yeah. He does a really good job. And that's the thing. I'm, that's the thing I'm like, um, that's one of the crush of Jim's. That's the crush at Jim and Morrisville. I haven't been to that one yet, but that's the one in Morrisville. I'm pretty sure that's what it is. That is so cool. Yeah, that, that's the kind of look I would want. That is really cool. Mm hmm. Yes. And then, you know, it just, it, it, it allows the gym owner to create an experience, not just like a place to work out. IMean, people, I think after COVID people are starting to come back to locally owned gyms again because they're just not accepting like just your standard. I don't care about you Jim anymore. You know, throwing a bunch of equipment in a room and saying, pay me to come here and work out. Is it enough anymore? People want to have like an experience when they want it. When they go to the gym, they want to walk into a gym where they're like, yep, this is the place I want to work out every day. Not just, okay, this is a place I can go and sweat. You know, they want to be a part of a community. They want that culture. They want an experience and they want to pay a little bit more for it because you know, those sorts of places give them that thing that they're not getting from a lot of corporate gyms. Yeah. I don't want to work out at a corporate gym. No, IMean, I talk a lot of shit about LA fitness and I finally said, I'm like, you know what? I have to stop talking trash about them if I've never been. So I went to one left in the middle of my workout. Yeah. I was trying to do a leg day and I'm like, this is awful. Like most of the people are standing around on their cell phones. They're pretending to work out. They're getting in your way. Like it's almost like a coffee shop, not a gym. I've been to LA fitness a few times. It's pretty bad. Yeah. I'm like, I don't want to go to a place where people are pretending to work out or like telling their wives, they're going to the gym. So, you know, but we're goinGHome for another hour. That's what I felt like while I was in there. I'm like, no, no, thanks. Yeah, no, it's not great. Well, it's, well, maybe it is for some people. It's not my vibe. I'll say that. Yeah. I, and I laugh at their slogan, like are there, their sales page to like, you can go to an LA fitness in, in Southern Maryland, or you can go to an LA fitness in Dallas, Texas, and they're all the same. You get the same gym no matter where you are. I'm like, great. Everywhere in the country, I can get a crappy gym. You got a ton. It looks like you guys got a quite a, quite a ton of stuff up on your YouTube channel now. Yeah, we've got, oh, that's the Instagram, right? No, that's YouTube. Oh, that's YouTube. Okay. It's just a different view. Yeah. So there's, no, no, sorry. Sorry. I've got, um, I thought it was, there we go. Yeah. So there's two different podcasts. The one with the more white background with the gym and former logo going across it's our gym owner interviews. And then the one with the black background that says inside the gym, that's the new podcast I just started. And that one's more so an opportunity for me to try to like give back some of the knowledge that I've learned of going to 300 different locally owned gyms in the lasT3 years. And I have, I have on, um, gym owners that, that I've gotten to be friends with and I've talked to, and I felt like they were really good at certain things. So I had them on and they like explain things that are kind of taught what they were really good at and different topics like that. We've had on some legendary equipment builders like, um, Tyler Hobson, who's responsible for the pendulum line. Um, Rogers, um, we've had on, um, Kenny, who's the guy from TK star, um, Tom Eilerman, who's the nebula guy. So, IMean, some of those legendary equipments, like we've had those guys on, I had on, um, Joe Ellis, who, um, you can, you can say whether you like it or not. A lot of some people hate the hoist rocket line, but he, he was the one who came up with the idea for the hoist rocket line and him on the podcast. So it's been pretty cool. That's fantastic. Folks, give them a follow on a gym of former Jim dot informer on YouTube, right? Yes. It's Jim dot form on YouTube and Jim dot informer on Instagram. You're on both. Um, I appreciate you coming on Chris. This was fantastic. Give, give him follow. I'll put a link in the video description below for both the YouTube and Instagram. If you're looking for a great gym to work out in your area, this is the place to find it. And I'm going to check out the podcast. I haven't done that yet with, I'd love to hear the insight on the business of running a gym. Um, that's interesting to me. I'm a business junkie. And if you're looking for a gym and it's an area that I haven't been to yet, feel free To shoot me a DM on Instagram. Um, I've given Jim recommendations to like WWE wrestlers who travel around the country already. Um, just because I haven't been there yet doesn't mean I have a research that area. And it doesn't mean I don't already know the great gyms in that area. So even if I haven't reviewed yet, I probably have the research on that area. Fantastic. Thank you, Chris. I appreciate you coming on. All right. Thank you, Paul, for having me on. I appreciate it.