 ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket ket It's been really surprising. Really surprising. I just went up to, let's see, I'm running 1250. This is my first week on it, so we'll see what happens. I'm running 1250 tests in 1,000 primo is what I'm running right now. That's pretty good. That's pretty good. So the most tests that I've ever done before was 1250. And over the last three months, I've been pushing it up every couple weeks by 250, 500 here and there. And at this point, at this week, people are going to get mad. I don't recommend people do this, okay? I'm testing the waters. This is all new shit. It's all right, man. We ran the disclaimer. So right now. This is hypothetical, folks. Yeah, hypothetically. This is my, yeah, yeah, this isn't real. So this week, I'm up to 3,000 tests and 1,000 masteron. It's awesome. People are going to be like, you're on four grams of gear. What the fuck? But I got my blood work done at 2,000 tests, 800 masks. Everything looked fucking good. So I was like, okay, let's just push things up. I'm going to get blood work done here in a couple weeks before we go on vacation. See what everything looks like. Then we'll make a decision, back off, go from there, and see what's up. But like I said, I'm pushing stuff up. And I'm just looking to see where are the fucking side effects at this point, you know? And I'm just not seeing any negatives to doing it. I'm telling you. I'm leaning heavily into testosterone. So I mean, I think that that's what's saving me here. But it's crazy. I've never, it's over two times the amount that I've ever used for tests alone. And I'm shocked. I'm telling you, man. And this is what I've seen from playing around with stuff. Like, I don't know if guys don't believe it or what. But the shit that I see that nukes blood work and fucks people up is running a ton of orals and trend. If you stay away from orals and trend, you can run pretty high doses. And if you use testosterone with a DHT-derived anabolic, you know, either Masteron or Primabolin, you can run really high doses with no side effects. And I think a lot of the nasty side effects that I got from testosterone and I think a lot of people get from testosterone before was the estrogen conversion. And if you modulate that with a DHT-derived and stay off the AIs, you can run really high. That's why I laugh at these dumbasses that are running high doses of trend. I'm like, dude, I bet you if you ran something like what you're doing, like a high dose of testosterone with the DHT-derived, which is essentially what I'm doing. I see Masteron and Primabolin as interchangeable to me, honestly. I mean, they're really, you know. I switched to Mass because Primo was just becoming a bitch to get, you know. So I was just like, yeah, I'll just switch to Masteron. Yeah, it's tough to get. But, I mean, their, you know, method of action is almost exactly the same. It's not really a big difference between the two. I haven't noticed much of a difference. I do see sex drives a bit better with Masteron. And I think Primo is a little more anabolic. But if you're running – I know when you're up to these kind of – Yeah, yeah. It doesn't matter. Here's Roman. Steve just missed him. What's up, Roman? There he is. What's up, Roman? Hey, how you doing? Good. What up, dude? We were just talking about pushing our doses up. Chase is running three grams of tests now. Really? Yeah. Yeah. I just pushed up to – Justin told me I was on baby doses. So I'm up to 1250 testing 1,000 milligrams of Primo. So we'll see how it goes. I just started this week. I'm doing 1,000 tests. 1,000 Primo. 1,000 – I don't know. I dropped out the EQ. I'm every day 75 trend. And I just started Windstraw. How much do you run in the Windstraw? Is it injectable or oral? Injectable. I started yesterday. So 50 milligrams yesterday. I think I'm going to do 50 per day. Yeah. I don't like running Windstraw super high. It makes my joints hurt. I don't know if you experienced that or not. But now that I'm old, it just makes my joints – I have actually been using Anovar instead of Windstraw and PrEP. Mm-hmm. But then again, it's pills. And, you know, pills is – Right now, my – So my diet is basically over. I'm three weeks out. So I'm back at 1,000 carbs a day. I'm not going to – Probably not going to go down again. So I got to have an appetite. Yeah, that's the issue with orals too is it crushes your appetite. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.