Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today with the one and only Larry Pollack. What's going on, Larry? Good to be here. Larry, man, your stories are the craziest I've ever heard. IMean, I feel like you're the only person that kind of shares the inside pool on what bodybuilding was in the 80s and 90s. And I feel like these stories need to be told and need to be shared so people understand what things were like. We were talking about it beforehand, but bodybuilding is just such a weird collection of odd people. We're all a little fucking crazy. And it's these guys that we used to see in the magazines that were all put up on a pedestal. It's kind of cool to see the real side of them and all. It's just some really brilliant people that have these crazy personalities and do crazy shit. And it's fun talking about that stuff. I think a lot of people are too worried about their image or worried about what people are going to think about them. So they hold back. They don't tell things. I think back in the day, a lot of it was motivated by, and correct me if I'm wronGHere, but that's just kind of my assessment. These guys were beholden to their contracts with the magazines and sponsorships, and they didn't want to lose that shit. So they probably held back what was going on. You know, maybe that was their excuse. But I remember, even when I started back in the 80s, no one talked about it. It was a big secret. I even trened around top pros at World Gym and Golds, and it was still a secret. People were scared. I'll tell you one thing. There's an eight-time Mr. Olympia. You can figure out who this is. And I trened with him. And there was a short period of time I was trening at a YMCA when I was like, I don't know, 15, 16, something like that. And there was a guy there, and I guess he was a reporter for a local paper. I didn't even know he was a reporter. And he asked me, does this guy take gear? And I'm like, yeah, of course he does. All bodybuilders do. And I didn't know that he was interviewing the guy the next day. And so then I guess he must have asked him if he took gear, and the guy denied it. And the guy said, well, Larry said you did. He was so pissed at me. And I didn't think anything of it. I just thought, well, like, of course everybody's taking it. IMean, back then it wasn't illegal or anything. We just thought about it like vitamins. You could just go to the gym and walk up to the counter, and they had D-ball and whatever. It was right there. I remember, I don't know, I started trening in the late 80s. I think it was. I was like 16. So yeah, late 80s, early 90s, I started trening. And I remember going into the gym, and guys did not, like you said, did not talk about it. And you sort of had to earn the trust of these guys. I remember it was a couple years before. I knew there was something going on. Well, at first, when I first started trening, I thought everybody was natural. I remember doing Arnold's workout. I read his encyclopedia bodybuilding and doinGHis workout. But I wasn't gettinGHis results. I didn't realize the D-ball and DECA were the missing piece of the equation. But then sooner or later, somebody told me about it. And I remember it took a couple years before guys would open up and talk about it. Like, they had to know you. They had to trust you. It took a while. You had to earn their trust. I think there was a stigma about it. Maybe I was kind of stupid about it because I know when I competed with Sean Ray at the Team America, before the competition, they were interviewing all of us for, I don't know what it was for, ESPN or whatever it was. And they asked me, they said, do you take steroids? And I'm like, yeah, of course I do. Everybody here is taking steroids. And they just looked at me like, oh my God. And I remember, I don't want to say his name, but you can figure out who it is. He's a guy who won the Team America and became a world famous bodybuilder after that. Right after me, they interviewed him and he's like, well, no, I haven't had to do that so far. And I'm just thinking, liar. You're full of shit. Yeah. I feel like a lot of those old guys played down what they took too. I don't know. I don't know how much of it's true, but you'll hear these guys saying, yeah, I only took 300 milligrams of Deca and 10 milligrams of D-ball. And maybe that was true. I don't know. Well, some of that might not be true, but a lot of it is because back then we thought 300 milligrams was a lot. Yeah, that's true. No one ever heard of taking grams of gear. It just wasn't a thing. And we were all kind of a little scared of it, I think, because we're all told it's going to ruin your liver and this, that and the other. And it was kind of new. So other than bodybuilders, no one really knew much about it. They weren't talking about it. And so, yeah, I don't think people I know for fact, people didn't take nowhere near the dosages that they started taking in the 90s and now, of course. Yeah, it's crazy. Now, I think some of it too. One, there's a culture. Everybody talks openly about it now. And then I think some of it, the UGL gear might be watered down too. When we talked in milligrams, the idea of taking grams, we never even thought about that. I don't remember ever even hearing about that until I would say it was like early 2000s. I was competing in some show in Culver City, Veterans Memorial Auditorium. And IMet this Italian dude who was competing with me and he was pretty jacked. And he was staying in LA for a little while. So he started trening with me. And then he told me the secret is like four grams of test. And I never even thought about grams of tests. It just never occurred to me to take anything like that. But he said, that's what they do to get big. And apparently, Europeans were already on that thing. So I did try it, I think for just a few weeks. And I didn't feel good on it. And I didn't feel good on it. I didn't feel like IMade very good progress either. So I just, I didn't do it anymore like that. Well, there comes to a point where you get sick. IMean, it's where you just don't feel good. And if you don't feel good, you can't tren hard. The first I ever heard of people, the rumors I heard of people taking grams, I remember it was probably in the early 2000s, people talking about Nasser. That was the first time I ever heard of, there was always the rumors floating around what he was doing. I think he was more open about it than other guys were. Maybe, I don't know. You knew the guy, right? I didn't meet him until 2005. 2005. When I was actually driving down to Mexico, because I used to get thEQuality vet and dental stuff down there before they shut that down. And on my way down there, I stopped at the World Gym. And I was trening there. And I ran into him. And then he offered to tren me. And that's when I first met him. And then during that whole prep, I was like, driving back and forth between LA and San Diego, and just staying in a hotel in San Diego, so I could tren with him. And as payment for trening, I was supplyinGHim with GH, because I had the gentropin kits from China. Well, that's a good payment for treninGHim. Yeah, that story you told on your podcast recently, folks, if you haven't subscribed yet, you should check Larry's channel out. I'll put a link in the video description below. But it was excellent, the one with the Synthol and his protocols and stuff. That was crazy. Some of the stuff you talked about. You know, I knew about Synthol. And I knew people did it. I heard about it. But again, like, no one was coming out and telling you like, this is how to do it or what. So he was the first one that told me like, you know, where to put it and how much to take and all that kind of thing. Yeah, I was shocked by the numbers, how much you were talking about how much it was. I've dabbled with it. I've never really run a whole lot of it. I played around with it a little bit. But you know, it's not something that I've missed with a lot. But yeah, you're right, guys. I, you can clearly see it. Like when I was backstage at North Americans, I don't know, two weeks ago, you know, you can see it. Well, I gotta say I did that because I was in prep and he was telling me what to do. And I'm like, I guess whatever Nasser says, I got to do it. So yeah. But anybody who does that on like a consistent basis, they have a mental illness. Like to sit there and I remember just laying out, I lay out all the syringes preloaded, all set up, you know, and so I'd sit there, I don't remember if I took a sedative or not, I probably should have, but, and she would just sit there and inject me and it took like an hour for her to do it. I was doing a couple cc's in my bicep and my tricep, but I thought that was a lot. Well, IMean, this is what he told me to do, so I did it, but I, I know that people like, you know, Boston and the people that, you know, continue to do it on a regular basis, like I said, you got to have some kind of mental illness, like sit there, I don't like taking shots, I'm like, I only shots I take now is like insulin needle with a half cc, no, I'm sorry, a one milliliter insulin syringe with a half inch tip. And that's as big a shot as I'm going to take anymore because I'm just tired of poking myself with, I can't imagine sticking a 22 gauge inch and a half needle in myself anymore. It's just something I don't want to do. I was sick of it after contest prep and I didn't do anything for abouT4 or five weeks. I just took off completely and it was the same thing. I just get tired of doing shots and it's just been running like one, one, once or twice a week. You know, some people, I remember Dave said, some people just like taking shots. I'm like, I don't know what you're talking about. I do not like taking shots. Yeah, I hear guys talking about, you know, taking multiple, splitting up multiple doses throughout the day and going on stuff. I get tired of the shots. I freakinGHate them. But especially if you're using big freaking needles and with synthol, you don't have a choice. You have to use like a long inch and a half, 22 gauge needle. Inch and a half, 22, yeah. That's what I've heard. At least, yeah, probably an inch and a half if you want to get it. Otherwise it leaks out. Well, yeah, it's got to go deep underneath the muscle. It can't just go like half inch in. It's not going to work. Yeah, it'll leak out. I've seen it leak. Well, you can see it. You can see it when it leaks out. Yeah. It looks all blurry. There was one, I've seen some people, I don't want to name names, but I saw a guy at North Americans where his shoulders were just all deformed looking. They did not look right. They were just like, I don't know, somethinGHappened. I don't know if it's scar tissue or overdid the synthol or what, but like they were just out of whack. They did not look right. You notice that guys nowadays, like the top pros, they don't have any striations anymore in their shoulders or triceps or anywhere and they're bigger than ever. I'm thinking maybe that they're just loaded full of oil that it's like some of it's leaking out under the skin and it's blurring all that definition. Yeah, you can tell. That's why I would never do my shoulders because I have big shoulders. I don't want to lose my striations in my shoulders, but you can see the guys that do it in their shoulders. It just looks like a bowling ball in there. There's no definition, separation, striations. I think back in the 90s, like Dorian with his side tricep and his arms were just, his triceps were cross striated. You just don't see that anymore. Well, even in the 90s, you had Flex Wheeler and his shoulders were like bigger than his head, but they were just like big giant balls. Yeah. He ran a lot of synthol right from what I heard. You can see it. Yeah. And you have to wonder, and I've speculated about this, if that doesn't contribute to some of the kidney problems that guys have. Well, you know, no one really talked about this because I don't think anybody really knows, but think about this. You're putting such an amount of volume of stuff in your body and your body has to filter and absorb that crap. And not only that, it stops blood flow. If you've got like all this plastic and oil and whatever, like jammed in your muscles, I'm talking like a lot. It's a point where it's making your shoulders and arms, you know, several inches bigger. There's no blood flow getting through there. No. So, you know, the muscles like dying and there's got to be like waste products and all this kind of stuff going on. Yeah, it has to be necrotic. I was talking to somebody who was telling me about like when they've gone in and done surgeries to clen the stuff up and the tissue is just all dead. And they're scooping it all out. Yeah, it can't be good. Like, you know, you're talking about like with Rich, like you could see his arms, like his arms didn't move when he was relaxed at all. No, he flexed it right in front of me. And the first thing I noticed is like it didn't change shape. Yeah, it was just like the same whether it was here or up. It was the same or there was arm was extended. It was almost the same. Yeah, that's wild. Yeah, like you said, that's got to be some sort of mental illness at that point. Well, that guy, IMean, just I'm not trying to talk shit, but OK, he would wear an outfit every day. And the whole thinGHad to match like if his theme was green, he had green, green shoes, green clothes, and then he'd put in green contacts. Like he had this like, like, like an outfit he'd put on. This is how weird he was. Like, I don't know. I don't really trip that much about like, you know, being color coordinated just to go to the gym. I just wear my sweatpants, my black T-shirt. Yeah, exactly. I'm the same. I'm going there to tren. I'm not trying to like show off or something. But everywhere he went, he had like he had like a thousand pairs of shoes and he like matching outfits for everything. And then different colored contact lenses to match the thing that he was doing that day. That's wild. Yeah. IMean, bodybuilding is full of these characters. That's part of what I love about it, though, too. I love the weirdos. It's full of interesting people. That is for sure. Well, you know, you think about it like I think chicks are worse than some of the guys even. Yeah. IMean, think about the amount of time they spend all day like making themselves up and dressing up and putting makeup on and everything that they do just to go out of the house. Yeah. I don't know. Bodybuilders are pretty bad. Some of us. Not me. I just like, you know, I own the gym, so I just put on my sweats and a T-shirt or tank top or whatever I'm wearing to tren and go. Where's your gym at? It's in Ventura. Yeah. Underground Performance Gym. I have to come out when I come out. The whole thing is actually really is underground. Like we're not used to be an old Sears building, and this was like the basement floor of the Sears building. So like right above us is a Spartan final. But it's big. It's like a city down there. That whole bottom floor. There's a there's a ballet academy. There's a jujitsu studio. There's a it's like an improv night show thing. And then there's us all down there. And my gym is like 12,000 feet. That's awesome. Yeah, I've always wanted to own a gym. I know it's a pain in the ass, but I know it's a lot of work. Once you get it going. Like I have it's 24 hours and it's automated. So it kind of runs itself. That's awesome. I guess the having staff is the hardest part to be honest with you. That's the hardest part of any business. Yeah, just, you know, dealing with workers and I honestly if they had robots, I'd get rid of all their humans. That's coming soon. It's not going to be that much longer. Well, I just, you know, you have to deal with all their issues, whatever it is, you know. Oh, trust me. I know I ran a business for 20 years. So I know all about dealing with employees. It's stressful. But like I was a marketing manager for about 12, 13 years. And every day I had to put on a suit and tie and go to office and put on this like whole act, you know, as part of my job. Yeah, I don't miss the corporate world. I'm glad to be a full-time bro now. So yeah, I did that and I didn't mind doing it. Like I actually like to do it. I put on my suit and tie and go do these do my thing out every day. But then when I stopped doing that, it's like if I don't have a reason to put on a suit and tie, I don't what I'm not going to put on a suit and tie just like go to the gym. Yeah. Yeah, I don't miss it at all. So I was going to ask you, I know you, you, if I recall the story correctly, you lived with Mike Mintzer, right? Was that the story? You guys were roommates. How did you meet Mike? So. there was a guy named Brian. He was a big steroid dealer in LA. And I don't know how I got introduced to him, but I did. And he, there was a guy above him. And that guy above him wanted to kind of be like off the radar. And so they kind of wanted to make me like the guy. So they, they like put me in charge of all of Santa Monica and Venice and everything. And I was just like, I was like, 18, 19 at the time. And they just introduced me to everybody because they wanted me to, they wanted me to be the person to distribute to all of them. So they, Brian brought me over first, he brought me to meet Ray Menser. We met at a gym. And he was a total dick. She was huge. She was like, I don't know, 20 something inch arms and probably close to 300 pounds. He looked like anyways. And I remember we met at this gym and we're going to tren. And he says to me, he says, you think you know something about bodybuilding? You don't know shit. And I'm like, okay, I'm just a kid, you know? And then he's like, we're trening and he points to his arm. He goes, you see that? You know what that is? I'm like, what? He goes, it's a muscle fiber. He was a weirdo. So then the following week, Brian brought me to meet Mike and total opposite. Mike was this like cool guy, real friendly. But I was shocked when IMet Mike, he was like pot belly. His arms were like maybe 12, 13 inches. And hair was all like disheveled and everywhere. And I'm like, this is the guy I'm thinking, you know, this is the Mike Menser I used to see in magazines and everything. I couldn't believe, you know, it was him. But he was cool. I don't know, we got along right away. So at the time, I was living with going back and forth between my mother's and father's. And I wasn't really getting along with that. They had gone through a divorce. And my mom was like, stressed out. And he said, Do you want to move in with me? And I'm like, yeah, sure. And I didn't realize moving in with him meant that I also get to pay the bills. Yeah, at the time I was, you know, selling gear and I was working in nightclubs bouncing. So then he's like, Oh, yeah, rents do. Oh, we need to go grocery shopping. And he had no money. Like all he did was write articles for Weider. And he didn't get very much money for doing that. So yeah, I was living there. But that I got him to tren with me because I was getting ready for teen America. And I wanted him. I wanted him to tren with me. So he did. But in order for him to tren with me, I, I had to get him his meth. And I had a friend of mine who was a Hells Angels down in the valley, who was a meth dealer. So our routine was we start off in the apartment in West Hollywood. And then we drive all the way to the other end of like, I think it was Northridge in in the San Fernando Valley to the meth dealer, get the meth from Joe. Then we drive all the way back to Studio City where there was a Nautilus. And we go to the espresso shop right next door to the Nautilus. And we take a double double espresso and these there were five milligram dexedrine spanchels were like this fast acting amphetamine. I remember those. Well, first we started the apartment with an ovatrol, which was like sort of like an Adderall. And then Mike would do the meth. I never did the meth because I just I didn't like it. But I liked it. I liked the dexedrine because they only lasted like an hour. So basically, you get all wired up, you go tren and then as soon as trening was over, the thing would wear off. Um, but he liked the meth. So we go tren there like crazy people. Like we walk in there. I remember being so, so wired up. It's like you're almost like shaking. And then we tren a high intensity and like on the Nautilus equipment and stuff, mostly Nautilus. It was a Nautilus Plus. And then then afterwards, we go to the Good Earth restaurant. They had a chain of them down there and any, you know, whatever. The ultimate pre-workout dexedrine meth in shots of espresso. Mm hmm. Yep. You need C4 when you have that. Yeah, it was. I think it was a little overblown. But the amphetamines. IMean, we tren crazy hard, but honestly, I can tren that hard today with with like nothing. So what was the trening like? Was it like he described in his book? Or was it different? A little bit different? No, IMean, we did, you know, straight, like we do a warm up set, and then one set to all out failure with four strips and negatives. And we do probably two, three different exercises for a body part, depending on what we're doing. So figure total, you're probably doing like, six sets for a body part. Warm up set plus all intensity, like just sets of failure. It wasn't this thing that they came up with later where he was like, we did tren every body part once a week. And we did split the body parts up. It wasn't like, you know, we'd go do back one day and we do chest on another day. And then we do like, shoulders and arms on another day and legs on another day. So we're trening probably four days a week. Later, he came up with this. I don't know if he really said this or, or if they just say that, you know, he's trening a body part, like every 10 or 20 days or something, whole body workouts. We didn't do that. Yeah, I remember him saying that in his book. And then like the all out one set per body part. I think I just got the impression that was not how he really trened from talking to people. Well, there's a lot of people that hated on him. Even still to this day, because they were in the Arnold camp. So they'd be they say like, Oh, he didn't really tren like that. Well, yeah, he really did. I trened with him for a year. And we really did. And I actually grew from trening like that. I got bigger. But I did feel like I felt like there wasn't, it wasn't enough exercises to hit all the different body parts. Like, you know, you do three exercises for back. IMean, yeah, we grew bigger, but I feel like you need more exercises to hit your whole back because there's just so many different parts of it. Yeah, there's crazy amount of muscles in your back. Yeah. So I think, you know, like something like biceps, triceps, shoulders, even you could you could probably get away with two or three exercises and make good results. But I think some of the bigger body parts that need just more volume, not more volume and sets necessarily, but more volume and just total number of exercises to hit all the different parts of the muscle. Like right now I sort of tren similarly, I I'll go, you know, after my initial my first exercise, whatever it is, I'll probably do like three or four warm up sets before I get to the heavier sets. And then I'll do like two heavy sets, one straight set, and then one drop set. And then the next exercise, I go straight into one heavy set and one drop set. It's like one heavy set to failure and then a drop set. Yeah. So I do tren sort of like that. I just don't go. Yeah, it's the same thing. I do like one heavy set to failure, maybe a little higher reps, like 10 to 15 rep range. And then the next set, I'll increase the weight. And then that'll be like either a set to failure with like four straps or I'll do a drop set. IMean, that's pretty typical. I know a lot of people tren that way, where sometimes people do a top set and a back off sort of similar kind of thing. Yeah, I've done both ways. I've I've just found like at least I think there's a point where the muscles trened and you know, you keep you just if you keep going more, just you're not stimulating any more growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, it's done. Yeah, IMean, I think it depends too. Like what I've seen is like you can either if you are trening with high intensity, you got to keep the volume lower. If you're not trening like all the way to failure, you might need a little more volume to make up for it. But it seems like people get big both ways. I've seen, you know, Dorian clearly got big trening, trening that way. Ultimately, I think if you take enough PEDs, it doesn't matter that much. Hmm. I don't know. I find regardless of the PEDs, my trening is the main driving factor in whether I'm getting bigger or stronger or not. Yeah, for me, it always seems to be diet is probably the most important part for me. At least that's what I found. I'm not saying the trening doesn't matter. It certainly does. It's very important. You got to do everything correctly. You kind of got to figure out what works for you. Mike, how long did you live with Mike? Oh, probably eight or nine months. Eight or nine months. Yeah. Did you keep up with him after that? What's that? Did you keep up with him after that? No. So what happened? I get there and I come inside and there's this it's a biGHouse like old records on the wall and there's a long table with like like it's like I want to sit like you know like it look the place was built like one of those old tables like you'd see in like the the king days with a oh yeah you know like a long table like a banquet table 40 chairs next to it so at the end of this really long table there's Mike sitting there with this like little Richard Simmons dude with the frizzy hair I don't know if it was Richard Simmons I don't know who he was but the guy's like rubbing Mike's arm and I'm like like what the hell's going on I'm like okay Mike do you want to go and the dude starts coming up to me goes show me your muscles and I'm like what do you mean so he starts coming at me and he starts grabbing my chest like he's grabbing tits and I'm just like freaked out I'm just like whoa so I'm backpedaling and he's like coming at me and there was a stairway behind me and I like literally jumped backwards off the stairway like down 10 flights of stairs and anyways I looked up the stairs I'm like hey Mike are you coming and he he doesn't come out so then I I just left I got in my car I called my father and I told him like what happened and he's like yeah just get out of there you don't need you don't need to be involved with that shit so then later Mike came back and he's like yeah you got to move out and I'm like okay so that's when I went and got my own place and um yeah shortly after that um I got I got colitis I competed in Latin America like a few weeks after Latin America I got colitis and ended up in the hospital for like six months and uh that really did a trip on me because I went from like I was going to be a pro bodybuilder to now I'm laying in the hospital for six months on total Tpn they're feeding me through a tube a total parental nutrition so like so that my colon could rest but that didn't work anyways I ended up having my whole colon removed oh wow and had a pull-through surgery luckily they just developed it at the time but I got it and so I got this done and uh actually after they did the surgery I probably could have gone back to bodybuilding but in my head I I kept trening but I just I don't know why I just thought competitive bodybuilding was done for me so I really didn't know what I was gonna do so I was just trening and then I started getting in trouble and anyways long story short I got involved with some stripper chicks and got in a bunch of trouble ended up in prison how did that happen I got involved with some stripper chick and IMoved her in with me and anyways we were living in a place and I don't know she left the bathtub running when we left and we came back and the whole apartment was flooded so we had to get out of there and my friend the hell's angels the same guy that that was a meth dealer he had like a trailer in front of his building and he said we could stay in it but it had no running water no electricity nothing then they were gonna hook up the water like the next day so there's not even like a toilet or anything to use and they were gonna cook dinner and she took my car to go grocery shopping and she didn't come back and so anyways she didn't come back and then my friend got pissed because you know she left with a car and he finally locked up his building and him and his girlfriend went back to sleep and I was up the whole night just like we didn't have cell phones back then so there was a payphone that was probably like five blocks away from where we were and I was like walking over the payphone like all night calling trying to figure out where she was with my car finally I found out she was at a bar with some girlfriends of hers that were like drug addicts and a friend of mine a bouncer he told me that they were there and the next day I found out you know who she was with and IMy friend the hell's angels he knew somebody that worked in the phone department and I got a telephone number that where she was and they ran the address for me and so I went and borrowed a car and I called him and I told him hey I'm I oh she had my car and it had a trunk full of steroids and those steroids were supposed to be delivered like the previous day to somebody so I went over there to get my car and I told them that I was coming and they told me like somebody from something was gonna kick my ass these girls so anyways when I got there I knocked on the door and they were just inside laughing like they thought like it was funny so I literally took one step back and I like walked through the door like I just like the door shattered and they ran in all different directions and then a couple minutes later the police showed up and I'm like okay the police are here I guess we're gonna go and talk to them so they arrested me right away and first they just arrested me and charged me with like breaking and entering or something like this it was some small charge it was like a five thousand dollar bail and I bailed out immediately but one of the girl's stepfathers was like the head detective at the west valley station there so the next time I went to court on this they changed the charges to attempted murder attempted kidnapping attempted all this attempted shit they in the process of while they had me originally arrested me they raided my car and they found the steroids and they also found a gun in there then they went to my apartment they found more steroids and more guns and so then they were they were just all over my ass at that point so yeah they charged me with all this attempted attempted assault attempted kidnapping attempted murder attempted burglary all this attempted shit and they took and they revoked my bail and put my bail at first it was one million then two million dollars so that I couldn't get out and she actually came to court and testified for me and said it's not true he didn't do it all this stuff that they're saying I was supportinGHer at the time so she realized like after the whole you know her gettinGHigh with her friends and then they ended up fuckinGHer over that now she's fucked because like now she doesn't have me taking care of her so even though she went to court and said it wasn't true they just they just hammered me and I had an attorney at the time that I had paid him thirty five thousand dollars which was a lot of money back then but then I was when I was back in jail I couldn't pay him anymore and he knew that because I had no way of getting money I'd already paid him and he said I'm not going to trial with this so he basically quit on me oh my god mm-hmm and I'm like and I and they're telling me I have to take this deal and I plead guilty to all this stuff and I'm like yeah but I didn't do all this stuff I don't I'm not gonna plead guilty to it and he's like well I can't go to I can't go to trial on this and he's like you have to take the deal and I remember standing there and uh they're reading these charges and he's like take the deal take the deal and I'm like no and he's like you have to do it you have to do it and I was just 20 years old so I didn't know any better so I took the deal because they told me like if I didn't take this deal I was gonna get life or something so they just basically scared me into taking it and that deal was like I think it was 12 years and eight months of which I ended up doing like six years on it that's crazy so then I uh I went to I was in L.A. County Jail fighting that case for a year and then after that I went to Chino Reception Center and then they sent me to Corcoran which is like one of the worst prisons in California at the time and I was there for I don't know maybe a year and a half and then my mother's husband at the time was a psychologist and he knew a psychologist in CMC, California State, San Luis Obispo, and they had a medical dea. So they got me sent over there on what they call a 90 day op, which was like an observation and they got me to stay at CMC, which was a really good thing because CMC was what they call a programming institution that, like, like Corcoran was like a battle zone. It was a, they called it Gladiator Camp. Straight up riots and, you know, fights nonstop every day. But CMC, you know, people were programming trying to, you know, they had a lot of lifers there trying to like, get paroled and whatever. So they had college there. And it was just a much better place. And I'm lucky I, I lucky I went there because if I spent six years at Corcoran, I don't know how I would have turned out. But when I got to CMC, I, they had a powerlifting team. And they had a really good gym, like a full on indoor gym there. And they have the outside weight policy as well. But I got to tren with the powerlifting team and that powerlifting, this Christian powerlifting association would come in every couple times a year and run powerlifting meets and I always won the powerlifting meets. So that's what I did. I, and I went to, they had a, they had a college there, it was Chapman University. And it was actually ran out of Cal Poly San Luis Obispo and the professors would come in in the evening and they went to college courses there. So I actually went to college the whole time I was there. And I worked as a rabbi's clerk in his office. And yeah, I just lifted weights and went to school and, and did his paperwork. That's how I got through that time. That's awesome, man. So then when I got out, I immediately had a job working in a law firm. Even before I got it was lined up, doing bookkeeping for them. And then I got a couple few other jobs. And one of the jobs was for vector marketing, selling cocoa cutlery. When I got out of there, I actually trensferred, I had a few classes to make up to finish my degree from Chapman, I had to go to Cal State Northridge to finish up. So when I was at Cal State Northridge, they were advertising for jobs. And there was this nice selling job for cocoa cutlery. And I at that time, I was like, I'll do anything, I just need to make money. So I actually took the nice selling job. And I actually did really well in it. I didn't even know how well I was doing. I ended up being number one sales rep in the nation my first summer. And I wasn't even trying to do that. I was trying to make money. And then like two weeks before the end of the summer, they're like, you know, you're you have a chance to make All-American, which was their like number one sales rep of the nation. And keep in mind that the all the people I'm competing against were like, young college students. And I was already like late 20s at this point. So my mentality was like way different. I would I would just sell like crazy. And so then from there, I ended up becoming actually, let me back up when I was still selling the when I first started selling the knives. What they did is they had you go to people you knew, like friends and family and whatever. That's how you get started. So you could get leads. So they had us make a list of like everybody, you know, and like, I didn't know a lot of people at that point. So one of the people on my list was Mike Mentzer. So I actually made an appointment with Mike Mentzer. And I hadn't seen him in years. And I went over there and I did a knife demonstration for him. I was trying to sell him some knives. They were good cutlery. IMean, they're like cooking cutlery, you know, I remember this. And he's like, forget the knives, look at your body. And then I'm like, Oh, geez, really, Mike, seriously. So like, he was hitting on me. Oh, man. So that's, that's when I didn't talk to him after that anymore. Yeah, I'd heard that about him. Yeah, I didn't. You know, I guess I knew when I was younger, we were like the house with the Richard Simmons guy, but I didn't really know what was going on, like, with that whole situation. But then when I was there, you know, he was like hitting on me in his frickin place, you know, and I'm like, geez. Yeah, I'd heard the stories. So, well, there was a lot of weird stuff went on back then. Yeah, IMean, that was just par for the course back in that in Venice Beach, wasn't it? Well, you know, we'd rent everything. And, you know, I used to go to the photo shoots, because Mike had me set up deep when bodybuilders would come in from Europe, they needed a driver, because they didn't have a car. And I had a car. So you had me driving like Barry Demay and Edward cow, I can all these people, we'd like I drive them to the photo shoots. And it would just be like me and the photographers and we'd are there. And we're always like, Why are you always here? Why are you always here? I'm like, I don't know, I drive. I was just a kid. But then we'd be like, I'd be watching you'd be like, let me put on the oil. Let me put on the oil. And you'd be like rubbing these guys all up. It was pretty creepy. And they just be standing there and he'd be like rubbing oil all over on the stuff. Yeah, I heard he got a little friendly with the massage oil. Yeah. Or the Yeah, that's that was the stories that you hear. Well, I saw I was there. I saw it. So I knew it was up. So yeah, those were the old stories you heard. That's hilarious. So what happened to you after all that? So then anyways, I was did really good selling the knives and then I qualified to become a district. First, I was a branch manager for one summer and then I qualified to be a district manager for them. And then I was a district manager for 10 years with vector marketing. And my job was to recruit and tren salespeople. And I ended up being like top five in the And I ended up being like top five in the nation for 10 years straight as a manager out of 300 offices. And I did really well there. But finally, I had earned a promotion every year for 10 years, and they just they weren't giving me the promotion. They were promoting people under me over me that hadn't accomplished as much as I did. And I kept thinking, you know, it's like, as long as I keep producing, they're gonna have to give me this promotion from district manager to division manager, but they weren't doing it. And finally, I went to the vice president. And I said to him, you know, like, so, so what is the deal here? You know, I've heard of this promotion, like, multiple times over, you're not giving it to me. And he goes, Well, you're just missing one thing. And I'm like, what's that? He goes, the intangible. I'm like, what do you mean? What does that mean? He goes, Well, what do people think about you? And I'm like, what do you mean, people think like, okay, what people first of all, it's not the customers, because I don't meet them anymore. It's not my sales reps, because they're kicking ass. So you mean you people, what do you people think about me? And that's when I realized what it was, I didn't kiss ass the way they wanted me to. I, you know, they, like some of their things they would do, like they, they had a base pay and a commission. And the base pay was like the switch and bait. Yeah, bait and switch, you know, they, they get people in with this base pay, and then they basically switch them on to commission. And if you didn't earn the commission, you'd get fired. And so they would really push the base pay, and not push the commission because basically, the the managers were too weak and lame to try to sell people on being able to sell on commission. And I don't really believe in that, because I was good at selling. So I would, I would push the commission. And I would produce the best sales reps because of that. And my sales rep kicked ass. But they didn't really like that I didn't go along with their kind of way of doing things was a little shady. And I always tell them like, I don't know why you have to lie like that. You know, I'm beating all you guys and I push the commission. I don't push the base pay. IMentioned that it's there. But I don't like I don't make that the main thing. IMake the commission the main thing because that that's really where they're going to make the money. So yeah, I just didn't go along with their shit. And because I guess in the corporate world, you know, you know, they want people to kiss ass and do what they're told, and fall in line. And I just never was that person. Yeah, there's only one boss I like. And that's me. Yeah, I can't work for other people. Even after that, I went to work for a company called Carrico International. And they wanted me to do the same thing like that I did for vector for them. And I remember the first summer, we started kicking ass and I and I shipped my first like $100,000 week in orders. And then they're like, Oh, we have a problem. Like we can't fill these orders. We've never seen so many orders come in. I'm like, Okay, so what does that mean? He goes, Well, we can't pay the commissions out until you know, we get the product and we get in and we and we ship it. And I'm like, Well, you can't do that. My sales reps sold the stuff and they're expecting a paycheck. You can't like hold their paycheck when you know, they're not because you're you're backordered on product because you guys are lame. And so that was the end of that. That didn't a couple weeks of that and we're like, I'm like, I can't do this with you guys. Like you're not the company that I never had that problem in vector. IMean, everything was like, orders were turned in. Product was shipped that week. Checks were shipped the following week. Everybody got paid. There was never any of that. and this company, they, they claim to be all that they couldn't do it. So then after that, I left that company, and I went this, this other company was opening a chain of gyms. And they brought me in there as a trening manager. And I started as a trening manager, and their, their actual manager was a total lame ass. So I remember, you know, from the trening manager, they wanted me to be the manager, except they weren't putting any money into it. I knew from working with Vector, you have to advertise, because that was my job was marketing. And I'm like, you guys aren't putting any money into advertising. I said, at least let's like print up flyers, and let me go hand them out. You know, I'll go pass them out around town, you know, get people coming in. They don't want to spend money on that. So I realized that that place was going to fold, and they did. So then I was like, just working as a trener at different gyms in down in, this was down in like Orange County, Costa Mesa area. And at the time, I was still getting quality vet and dinkel from Dr. Cohen was making it. And I would bring it back up, and I would sell that stuff. And then Dr. Cohen got busted. In 2005, it was Operation Gear Grinder, and they shut down. They shut down all of Mexico, totally shut it down completely. And so there was a big dry spell, there was like nothing, there was no good gear out there. Like thEQuality vet and dinkel that was around, it dried up really fast. And then you just started having a bunch of fake shit floating around, but there was nobody, nobody was filling that void. And I realized like down in Mexico, there's nobody doing it. So then I got this idea, like, I should go down there and do it. I figured it's legal over there, and you could do it. So I went down there and opened my lab, Stallion Labs, and it just blew up. I remember Stallion Labs, it's funny. Yeah, it blew up. So that year, we were like, I think we made an anabolic, was it Bill Llewellyn's anabolic book? So we were featured in his book several different places, and we were like, on the message boards, I was board sponsor for Outlaw Muscle. I remember getting on Outlaw Muscle. And we were the number one lab for a year, and it just blew up like fast. We went from, I went down there with like $10,000 in my pocket, and by the end of the year, we were shipping $100,000 a week. That's crazy. Yeah, the money was coming in so fast, I just didn't even know where to put it. And then Raw Deal went down, and I saw everybody at Raw Deal getting busted in the United States and everywhere. I was watching it on the news, and actually retained Rick Collins before I got busted. I called them, and I, because we had gotten a letter, an appeal box in the States, saying they want, from the DEA, saying they wanted to interview us, and Rich Piana already tried to set me up. And so I knew they were looking for me. I knew it was just a matter of time they were going to come. So Rich tried to set you up? Oh yeah, he was one of my distributors. And the whole time, like when I was in Mexico, I would just, we'd mail everything, and we never met anybody in person. We'd just mail everything. And you know, they'd send money, the Western Union, and we would just mail everything to them. And then, anyways, Rich's like, I don't want to do the mail order thing anymore. I want to just meet in person. And I'm like, no, I'm out of the country. I can't meet you in person. Like, why? There's no reason for me to meet you in person. Like, what for? And he's like, well, I just, he goes, we can meet at a gym down like in Orange County or somewhere, and you know, you could put the stuff in a locker, and you know, I'll put the money in another locker. And I'm like, no, man, I'm not doing that. Like, this is stupid. Like, what are you trying to do here? And then right after that, we get the letter in the mail. Not only that, but so I had all this money coming in. I didn't know what to do with it. So I went down to Belize, and I opened a Belizean bank account. And IMade a huge mistake. There were some problems with Western Union getting money through there because they were starting to track it all because there's too much coming through. So I told my distributors, I only had like five distributors. I told them, you know, just now from now on, just wire the money to this Belizean bank account. Well, as soon as I told Rich, literally the next day, I get a call from the Belizean bank account bank, and they said, you have two weeks to get your money out. If you don't get it out in the next two weeks, it's going to be confiscated. And I had put I don't know, about $300,000 in there. And I had to get rid of it from there. So I just wired all the money to Hong Kong and bought product because I didn't know what I had nowhere else to put the money. And I just had like enormous amounts of cash that I couldn't deposit in any regular bank. So I sent it all to Hong Kong and I just to my suppliers. I had two suppliers over there and just bought a shit ton of raws and gentropens. Then I, anyways, I called Rick Collins and I told him, hey, you know, all this is going down and, you know, I want to retain you. And he's like, well, you don't actually have a case yet. So I can't really represent you. I'm like, yeah, well, how about I just give you $10,000 and you just hold onto it just in case, because I feel like it's going to happen. I didn't know like how or where it was going to come from, but I saw everybody else getting busted before me. And I told him, you know, I'm down here in Mexico and he goes, well, just sit tight and just ride it out. Anyway, while this was all going on, there was like about two weeks of just real quiet, no bust. They like already busted everybody but me. And then the cartel came and got me. Holy shit. Yeah. That's scary. Yeah. So what happened was the USDA contacted the Mexican police because I was outside their jurisdiction and they had no charges on me yet. They hadn't actually like had a case on me. They knew like what I was doing down in Mexico, but they had no proof of me doing anything other than whatever Rich said. So they couldn't go arrest me down there. So they just told the Mexican police. And I don't know if people realize it, but the Mexican police and the cartel are one in the same. And what IMean by that, like they're the same guys. Like during the day, they're police and that night they go do like cartel shit. So they just came and got me one night in the middle of the night, like 30 dudes with full on like SWAT outfits with masks on, M-16s with laser sights and the whole shit. So they got me and they basically held me for ransom. Well, first of all, they got all the money that I had. They raided my safes. They managed to get all the money and then they wanted more money. So they, I think they got like $3 million out of me. Oh my God. And then they wanted another million. And I'm like, well, you got all my money. I'm like, I don't know what to tell you. Like, they're like, well, your family has money. And that's the way they do it down there. They kidnap people for ransom. And if the family pays and they'll let the person go, if the family doesn't pay, they kill them. And I'm like, my family, they're like, well, your brother owns gyms. I'm like, he owns a gym and he doesn't have hardly shit money. Like, they're like, your family owns jewelry stores. I'm like, no, they don't. And so what happened was there was a guy that was working for me, some Mexican worker. He was just like a bottler. And I fired him like six months earlier because he was like on meth. And he got busted doing something, working with a cartel at the border, like smuggling illegals or whatever he was doing. And he, he's the one that brought him to me. And as soon as they mentioned, as soon as they mentioned jewelry stores, I knew it was that guy, Frank, because what happened was when my ex-wife at the time, when we started making all this money, she all of a sudden want to get married. So one of my cousins is the diamond dealer up in LA. So I went up there to buy a diamond ring, but he didn't own the jewelry store. He was just a diamond dealer. And like, he was like a second cousin, you know, I just knew him, but it wasn't like my immediate family. And so I guess he told them that my family owned jewelry stores and I'm like, well, they, they'd actually don't own any jewelry stores. So I don't know what to tell you guys. Like there's, there's nothing for you to get there. So anyways, I knew that I knew my time was running out because my brother was talking to him, but he was like not doing a very good job of, I think he offered him $5,000 or something. They asked for a million. He's like, I'll give you 5,000. Yeah. So it was pretty nasty in there. They were torturing people, bringing people in and out. And I saw them kill one guy, like the night before we left. Holy crap. And so then after that, I'm like, shit, I need to get the fuck out of here because I, there was a guy that I was talking to this guy, Oscar, who came in about the same time I did. And he was trenslating for me because he spoke Spanish. And whenever they would speak in Spanish, he would tell me later, like what they were saying. And I'm like, we got to get out of here because we're going to be next. And he's like, oh, don't say that. I'm like, what do you mean? You saw what they did to that guy last night. And so I'm like, look, we can just sneak out of here. so he thought you know there was two guards that were like in the room in front of us and they had machine guns we knew because we could hear them like playing with their machine guns all day but they were just kids but at night they would go to sleep they weren't supposed to i guess but they were they would go to sleep and i knew because i had to get up and use the restroom because i i didn't have a colon so and they told me to you know when i had to use the restroom i should whistle so i'm like whistling whistling whistling nobody's coming well finally i have to go so i'd look out there and they're just sleeping out there and so i take myself to the restroom so when i told oscar i said you know when they're sleeping we could just like walk right out and he's like no it's too risky i'm like well stayinGHere is too risky i'm gonna go so i walked down this out the back way where the restroom was and it went down like a stairway and it went into a garage and i saw like body bags down there so then but like it was like electric rod so i couldn't get out of it so then i came back up and then i walked right out they were sleeping in the room in front of us and i like literally tiptoed right past this guy's nose down a stairway and i went down into there was like a courtyard there with a big tall fence and i was it was like probably four o'clock in the morning or whatever it was pitch black and i was like looking for where to get out and the only thing they had was like an electric rod store and i didn't want to push it because i didn't want to make noise but then all of a sudden oscar comes behind me and he was a real skinny guy and he was so skinny he could get his hands out of the handcuffs and and he's like help me out from this fence so i i lifted him up and he scaled the fence and when he went down on the other side he like jumped down and he made a loud noise jumping down and then dogs in the neighborhood started barking and oscar looks at me through the fence the dogs start barkinGHe just takes off running so i'm like oh fuck they're gonna wake up so now i don't have a choice and i'm just like in my underwear with his i had the blindfold but i had just a little rag on my head it was the gauze that they put around our face so we couldn't see so i pushed the button on the garage door and i uh scooted underneath there and i just hauled ass down the road barefoot and everything in my underwear and i was chasing after oscar and we ran down this road in the middle of the night and there was a taxi there and then we were running to the taxi waving and the taxi took a look at us and just drove away so then we ran down and down the hill and down through some streets and then in a bit like a well i guess it was a bus station and i don't know where oscar went he disappeared somewhere in the bus station and i just was like running down this highway trying to flag down cars but they weren't stopping and then uh there was a taco stand and the other taco stands are open like all night long and there i walked i ran in there and there's like a bunch of dudes just sitting there eating tacos and i i come in there i'm like american i need help kidnapped and they're like sit down have a taco and i'm like no no no no i was kidnapped and so i talked to these guys and they're like do you want us to call police i'm like no no no don't call police and the guys the people down there they know what's going on so these guys are like okay IMight take me to the border i'll pay you they're like all right come on they said they put me in the back of this van and they like asked me which border i want to go to i told them odomesa because that's like the shorter border to get through so they drove me up there and i don't know where the hell i was but it was like an hour drive to the border i get to the border and i get out and i run up to the border and i'm like literally like underwear with hand i still have the handcuffs on and gauze on my head bleeding all over the place and i'm like american citizen let me in and the border guy's looking at me really weird like like why are you dressed like that i'm like i was kidnapped and then they the two guys that brought me there they started like arresting them and i'm like no no they they're good guys they they they brought me here anyways they took me they finally got a blanket took me and took the handcuffs off and brought me inside and first i'm talking to fbi and they're asking me like what happened and i i told them about the kidnapping but i didn't tell them about the steroid part and then the mexican police come and they're like we want you to come with us and go show us where the house is done and where the kidnappers are and i'm like no i'm not going down there with you i'm not doing it and uh they're like well we'll protect you i'm like no who's going to protect me from you i'm not going back in there so the fbi is like we can't make him go i'm like yeah i'm not going screw you guys so then uh right when i'm finished talking with the fbi all of a sudden dea walks in and they just come right in and grab me and they're like he's coming with us fbi is like hey what's going on there and he looks at me he's like there's something you didn't tell us and i didn't say anything and then dea just threw me in the back of a car and they were driving me up to their headquarter somewhere up in san diego and when we're on the way driving up there they told me you know you weren't supposed to come back there was a bodybuilder dead in the morgue and he was beaten unrecognizable and uh we thought it was you but you weren't really supposed to come back and then they you know they asked told me a bunch of bullshit i was like fuck off so i got up there and they they had arrested my wife when she i guess when i was in the border they called my wife and my brother told her told them that i was there and then when they came down they arrested my wife and then when we got up i got to the dea headquarters i don't know for whatever reason they put me and my wife in a room together and they told her that i was like really dirty and all this shit um but i told her i'm like don't say anything and she goes i didn't i already told them i want my lawyer so then they said to me you know you could help yourself you could help your wife i'm like what am i being charged with they go well it could be this it could be that i'm like it could be i said i want my attorney and that was it they said he invoked his right that's it no more discussion so uh after that i went to court in san diego like my wife bonded out like 250 000 my mom put up a bail for her and then they wanted no bail on me uh because they were saying i was like a flight risk and all this kind of crap but i had a good attorney there and my mother was there and she ended up putting a property bond on her house to get me out and then i was ordered to stay at her house in camarillo as a condition of my bond so i went there and also the condition of my bond i had to get a job so i went around camarillo looking for a job a camera it was kind of like a sleepy town like old retirement town and there i couldn't find anything i wanted to do there so i just opened a gym and that's when i started in the gym business i just i opened the gym just to have a job so i did that we ran the gym for like three years while i was on probation and then finally they i always told my wife at the time you know if anything goes down i'll make sure that you know you i'll you don't get in trouble so they finally after three years they came and they said hey if you take this deal for 24 months we'll let her walk and i i really didn't want to take a deal for anything because they really didn't have a case on me they never they never caught us with anything not one pill not one vial nothing it was just conspiracy to distribute so anyways but i told her i'd do it so i took the deal and i ended up going to ti and i did 14 months on the 24 months because with halfway house and time off and whatever ended doing 14 months that's a crazy story i guess it's better than being dead yeah yeah i was probably this close to being dead that's insane man so anyways i got into ti and went to halfway house for i don't know eight eight or ten weeks or something like this and then at the time i got a job at golds in la and then moved up to golds and thousand oaks as a trener because of a requirement of the halfway house that you have to have a job so i immediately got a trener job and then i just i IMy goal at that point was just to reopen my gym so then in 2014 i reopened my gym in ventura and yeah we've been running it ever since that's crazy man what a crazy story yeah sometimes i look back at things in my life and i'm like did that really happen i would imagine man that's that's that's nuts and i remember i remember i remember the whole gear grinder thing there was a they came in my gym and arrested a couple guys that were selling stuff they were distributing i don't know i remember they yanked them right out of the gym when i was working out i remember i remember that and then i remember there was nothing for a while like you couldn't find anything yeah i remember a quality vet dried up and that's kind of about the time that i stopped taking stuff man because you couldn't find anything yeah there was nothing yeah they went well a dr cohen and with quality he had quality dankel and animal power those are his three things that he produced and he made it to look like it was three different companies but it was really all him making making these different products and they said like dankel was from australia but it was all made in mexico prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin, prolactin. But anyways, they were supplying 75% of the U.S. market at the time. I ran a lot of quality vet stuff, I remember. That was good. It was good stuff. It was high quality. It was good stuff. But yeah, they took him down and then everything dried up. So that's when I started my thing. And whatever happened to him? Did he just? Well, he owned a lot of property. And I guess what happened was they set him up, they had him go, they had him go to meet somebody in the United States for like a business meeting at San Diego, and then they arrested him there. Yeah, that's what I kind of remember. And I remember that they get him in the country. Yeah, they got him in the country, arrested him. And then they basically told him, you know, if you agree to shut down all of your stuff in Mexico, we won't confiscate all your property here. He owned a lot of property in the United States, and we'll let you keep your property and just stop doing it. So he just stopped. Yeah. IMean, what choice do you have at that point? And you know, he was apparently kidnapped by the cartel like several times while he was runninGHis thing down there. They kidnapped him for ransom several different times. I guess what do you do? You just tell them you're going to pay them off, work for them? I don't know. Well, my main distributor was a guy on Revolution named Caesar. He owned a pharmacy on Revolution. And while I was down there, they kidnapped him. And they had him for like six months. And I thought he was dead. And his wife was like running, his wife was running the store and raising money for his ransom. And she finally raised enough money that they let him out. And I remember when he came and saw me the first time, like he had been locked. He had been in a bathroom, just like in the bathroom, handcuffed, sitting on the floor for six months. Holy crap. And I remember he was like, really white because he hadn't been seen. And he was squinting because he hadn't been in daylight for like six months. He came and saw me like the day he got released. I'm like, I thought you were dead. He goes, yeah, me too. But that's what they do down there. That's just like part of their business, what the cartels do. Yeah, man, you don't want to mess with them. No. That's crazy, man. That's crazy. Go ahead. That's nothing. He lived through all that, man. I can't even imagine all that. That is insane. Yeah, I don't know what I was thinking about going down there. I just, you know, at the time when I went down there, I was like 250 pound bodybuilder. I just thought, you know, I could do anything. IMean, we do dumb stuff when we're young. You don't think the consequences through. Yeah. Oh, I didn't. I knew about cartels, but I really, I didn't really understand how Mexico worked until I lived there. I've been going down there my whole life, like driving down there to Chihuahua and to Rosarito, picking up gear and stuff. But I, until you live there, you don't realize what it's like down there. IMean, they run everything down there. Yeah. And everybody there works for the cartel, like literally everybody. So like if, like I had a housekeeper, like I hired this like lady just to be like a house clener. And she was like trying to blackmail me within a week telling me like, you know, if I don't pay her more money, she's going to tell the cartel where I'm at. Holy crap. Yeah. Holy crap. That is nuts. And the cartel will pay people like, some kind of fee for like bringing people to them that they can kidnap and extort. Yeah. No, thank you, man. Yeah. Down there. It's like really, really bad. That's why I'll just stay here. Yeah. Well, those are some insane stories, Larry. I got to wrap this up, man. I really appreciate you coming on. This is amazing, man. If people want to get ahold of you, how do they get ahold of you? Oh, they can either reach me on my Instagram and it's, should I just blank it out? What is it? HellboyLA or, or the gym account, which is Underground Performance Gym, or they can go to the website, which is UndergroundPerformanceGym.com and they can just email me through there. And I'll put your contact information in the video description below. Also folks subscribe to Larry's channel, man. You guys are doing a really good job with the channel. I like the production quality is great. It's very entertaining, man. It's, I've really enjoyed what you put out so far. Yeah. I've been trying to, you know, put out just like real information. You know, I, I don't know why, but a lot of people, they're just like scared to talk about things. You know, it's like they'll, they'll talk about things, but not really. I think it's best just to be yourself and be authentic and just throw it out there. I agree. Like, you know, IMean, everybody knows what's going on. So I don't know why people are like still dancing around it, like trying to pretend like this, it's not happening. Sometimes I wonder if I'm smart, not smart or not, but I, I, I just tossed it all out there the last couple of years and it seemed to, people seem to enjoy it. And I don't know for better or for worse, it's out there. Well, IMean, once upon a time, it was a big secret amongst pro bodybuilders, but that was, you know, 40 years ago. Now, like everybody knows. There's still a lot of guys that don't exactly tell the truth though. People are like, you know, don't want people like they pretend like they don't take gear. It's like, come on. Everybody looking at you knows. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, he didn't look at you and you know, and people know people, I don't know who you think you're fooling or anything. Yeah. That's really, I don't know. I guess they want to protect their living and they're afraid to get in trouble. I don't know what it is or they're, I don't know. I don't know. It's, it's, it's, it's, you'll hear the guy say, you know, they're doing this and they're really doing, you know, what's really going on in there. You know, it's just, it's like, come on. You know, I can understand from like, you know, at the time, like when there was gear grinder and raw deal and they were like really going after people for steroids with all balkans and all that. But I don't think they're really like, I don't think steroids are high priority. IMean, yeah, they'll bust you if they come across you and whatever. But I don't think people like looking like, I don't think the government has time to go chase down like recreational steroid users. Yeah. Bodybuilders. IMean, bodybuilders are no threat to the, to, to do a community. IMean, we got an opioid crisis going on and there's all sorts of crazy shit going on right now. We were stuffing bodybuilding going on. So bodybuilders, I don't think we're high on that list of priorities. And you know, my hope is by talking about this stuff, we can maybe get it decriminalized at some point. That would be nice. Sort of like the way marijuana has had it. And you know, most States now have decriminalized it. Not most, but probably the third half. And you know, hopefully it would be the same thing because it's really doesn't pose a threat to anybody. Not only that, but if, you know, then people could actually really go to a real doctor and get their blood done and get the testing done, you know, and, and do things the right way and you know, not have to be shady about it. Believe me, I'd rather have real pharmaceutical great stuff and be able to have somebody help me above board and not have to worry about that, that, that end of it. I'd rather do it that way. Although it seems like TRT clinics now are a little more liberal and progressive with some of the stuff, but it's still not the same thing. Yeah. There's still limited on what they can do. Yep. All right, Larry, I appreciate you coming on, man. Thank you, sir. Very much. I appreciate you having me.