 these cortviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia UGLs back in the day and went to prison and served his time. And he's going to let us in on all the inside about UGLs. And we'll talk about other stuff too. What's going on, Ryan? No, it's great to talk to you. Like one thing I wanted to say first is that I think it's great what you do, the education you provide, you know, you're helping thousands upon thousands of people. And this is stuff that we needed to know, like that, you know, back in the early 2000s, late nineties, we didn't have this, you know, this type of education that you give people. So I really appreciate what you do. And I know thousands of people do. So thank you. Yeah. I appreciate that. I'm trying to save young guys for making all the stupid mistakes that I made. We were talking about it beforehand. Like there was just no information on this stuff in the nineties or early two thousands. And I was, you just got whatever the dude at the gym had. As far as I know, all new, then all steroids were the same. Like you hand me dbol, all I had to draw that guy. Like it was just steroids. That's, that's all I knew. Exactly. Correct. The younger people don't understand how hard it was to get steroids back in the day. Like it was not hard. And then, and then, you know, over half the time you were getting something fake. You're either getting just vegetable oil or, or a fake pill. And so it, you know, it's the, the market has changed. The, the environment has changed. Now it's easy to, to find good, good quality gear. It's like ordering from Amazon now. It's so, it's so much easier. You know, it's, it's better though. It's, it's a lot better. Like I was telling you this before too. And the time I went to prison, when I got out, the, the whole air had changed. People were talking about it. And you know what? I attribute this a lot to you and some of the other guys that, that just come out and just start really talking about this and you normalize the conversation. But, but people weren't talking about this publicly, even when I went to prison and then I come out into this new world where the average person is a lot more educated and it's easier to become educated. I think talking about it and normalizing it more will eventually lead us to decriminalization. It's exactly right. You know, that's, that's my hope. And I'm an advocate for decriminalization. Prohibition never makes things better. It just doesn't. We learned that in the twenties with the prohibition of alcohol. Yeah. It just, you know, I've talked about this with Rick Collins. I don't know if you're familiar with Rick. Yeah. One of my co-defendants used Rick. Yeah. I mean, Rick, Rick talks about this frequently and how it just makes things worse. You, you just create a black market and you create crime. They push people into the black market. Absolutely. And that most bodybuilders, the guys that, you know, they're just, they're higher income people. They're upper middle-class guys. They're not criminals in other aspects of their lives, but because you choose to engage in the sport, you're potentially a felon for possessing PEDs and doing a bodybuilding show. It's, it's absolutely ridiculous. These guys aren't knocking over liquor stores. They aren't out robbing, you know, robbing whatever they're, they're taxpaying citizens. I'm going to do a bodybuilding show. They're just regular guys. You're absolutely correct. And you know, the, the lack of education within the medical community too, and the, and the, the strict regulations, it, it pushed people into the black market. A lot of, most of my clients, many of my clients were people who were already, who are, were already on TRT. They just couldn't get the proper dosing protocols. Or there are people who went to their physician to, to get TRT and they were turned away. So it's, you know, it's, it was the failure of the medical community to actually understand these compounds and understand how beneficial they can be that pushed so many people into the black market. They, they created the government and the medical community created this. Yeah. They, they created this and it's, it is nice. And finally, it does seem to be that there are some TRT clinics. I know that's what you do now that are more forward thinking and open-minded about this, this type of stuff. But I paid for an expensive concierge doctor and like some of my blood work was off and he's like, I think you have something wrong. And I'm like, no, I'm just running gear, man. It's like, I'm not, I don't, I don't have liver failure. There's nothing going on. And I explained to him and he told me that he wouldn't treat me anymore until I got off of everything. It's like, and he fired me as a client and I'm paying this dude three grand a year for a concierge service. And I'm like, are you fucking kidding me? That that's the attitude you get from the medical community. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. And that's, that's not helping you. That's like it, you know, it becomes more about defensive medicine. It's, you know, and this, this like goes throughout all of medical practice, not even necessarily just in this field, but it's let, what can I do to not get in trouble? Not what's best for the patient, not what's, you know, not what will actually help my patient, what will make me look good to my peers and what will make, what will not allow me to get in trouble? It's just, it's defensive medicine. Well, I understand it from the doctor's perspective. They don't want to get sued. Yeah. Right. Yeah. So I'm right. They don't want to lose their license. So they're incentivized to play it conservative. And that's true. But like, you know, again, prescribing testosterone will not make, get anybody, have anybody lose their license. And as we know, now the studies are coming out that it's actually cardioprotective. There's no correlation between cardiac issues and, and, you know, the use of therapeutic doses of, of testosterone. So, you know, all this evidence is now coming out and to, to, to show that it would actually been more defensive of them to give people testosterone. They're healthier. They, they don't have the, actually the cardiac issues, the diabetes and all the other problems that, that come. And, you know, so I mean, I understand what you're saying, but it's also nobody's, no doctors are getting in trouble for prescribing testosterone. It's not, it's not. They just don't understand it. Yeah. They just don't understand it. Well, they don't learn about it in medical school. It's not in the paradigm. Like, you know, we, we put people into this machine, medical students into this machine that spits out providers at the other end. And in that machine, there's nothing, there's nothing on testosterone. It's not in the paradigm. It's not in the curriculum. And they'll tell you that they'll tell you. Yeah. We come out, we didn't learn anything about this. You would be shocked at how many consultations I do with medical doctors. Oh yeah. They come to me to ask me questions about this stuff and they literally know nothing about it. It's wild. I, I, I do it all the time. I, I treat, yeah, I've guided plenty of medical doctors. I used to have medical doctors and when I was doing it illegally, yeah, plenty of medical doctors are getting from me. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's wild. So let's talk about the UGL environment a little bit. I know you were at the forefront of it when it transitioned. We, we talked about it beforehand. How I remember it and people, people now have a hard time believing it, but like guys on one back in the day, they only wanted to run real pharmaceutical stuff. If you didn't have a bear test of iron, I didn't want it. Well, or at least the name brand stuff. Right? So there's like at the time was different and a lot of you can attribute a lot of that to the amount of fakes that would happen. Because back when it was hard to get testosterone, fakes was fakes were lucrative because people, there was such a market for testosterone and there was a low supply. So you could actually sell fakes and make money. So like everybody was concerned about fakes. Like, you know, the whole bodybuilding community, everybody on these forums, like that was the primary discussion on all the forums is what's fake, what's real. And, and so only people would only trust a few named brands, right? Remember at the time, what was it? British dragon like Denchel. Oh man, I'm going to have a brain fart on some of these, some of these other brands. Oh, QV. Remember quality vet? Yeah. Quality vet. That was from Mexico, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. But there was only a few brands that people would accept. And if you had anything outside of that brand, then they would not only would they, would they, they wouldn't just ignore you. They would berate you and, and, and, you know, go over the internet, just, you know, use acrimony to be angry. And they would get angry at anyone trying to sell anything except for one of these main name brands. Well, that's basically why we only took what the guy at the gym had available in his bag. Like we, we were talking about it. You know, I ran a lot of Deca and dbol cycles. Yeah. Right. You couldn't find us. You couldn't find tests. Yeah. That's like, so, and yeah, like, so this is where the legend of deca dick became born because people would take whatever they could get in the nineties. You just took whatever, like you said, whatever the guy at the gym had in his bag and people would just run just deep, just Deca, you know? And as we know now, there's a few reasons why Deca alone can cause erection, erectile dysfunction. And so the legend of deca dick got born and people still think that today, like, Oh no, like, because you know, one of my main things is Nandrolin is incredibly beneficial. Right. And when you add it to, to a TRT cycle, there's all sorts of reasons why you would add it very beneficial for multiple reasons. And when I talk to the average, to the average person about, I think this might be a good, it might be good to add Nandrolin into your protocol. They're like, Oh, I don't want to get deca dick. I don't want to get a erectile dysfunction. It was like, don't understand that. No, when it's properly blended with testosterone, you're not going to get that. Yeah. I mean, it's, it's usually, at least what I see, it's, it's just, but most of the time when we see erectile dysfunction, it's usually an estrogen issue, either too low or too high. Yeah. It can also be progesterone because it's progesterone. Progesterone. Yeah. And so some people are sensitive to progesterone, but yeah, it's like a cult of, it's a few different reasons, but yeah, usually just the lack of estrogen. Yeah. It's usually, it's usually an estrogen issue. So what got you into making stuff? What sent you down that path? So I guess the story starts when, when I was younger, I was, I was skinny. I was underdeveloped when I was younger. I used to get picked on because I was so skinny. So I started lifting weights. And I, you know, from there, I never looked back on lifting weights, but I would still have to work out twice as hard to, to get the same results as my peers. I was again, underdeveloped. Underdeveloped. You know, I wasn't confident. I kind of let people walk on me. I wasn't that well respected. I now know I had low testosterone my whole life, but you know, back again, 20 years ago, they wouldn't even test somebody in their twenties for testosterone. They would say the medical community is there's no way anybody in their twenties could have low testosterone. So we're not even going to test you. So, you know, it wasn't even, it wasn't even close to an option. So I started in my early twenties, I started taking testosterone and it absolutely, it was like a magic bullet. It dramatically improved my quality of life. I immediately put on about 32 pounds, a hundred pounds on my bench in about five weeks. Like I just responded, you know, I was, I hyper responded to it. And then in my life was just got so much better, you know, not only from feeling better from the confidence, the drive that testosterone can give you, but also, you know, now I always had a bodybuilders mentality and I always wanted to say, to use, to use modern terms. Like I identified as a bodybuilder, but I didn't look like one. I worked out like one, but I didn't look like one. And now I actually looked like my work ethic. So, you know, the, the whole, you know, I'd walk into a bar and like the crowd would part out of my way. You know, I'd actually bump into somebody and they would, they would look at me and see, you know, my impressive stature now and, and apologize to me. I remember I was a plumber when I was in college and I was terrible at my job. I hated it. But after I started this cycle, my boss gave me a raise for no better reason than I stood before him looking stout all of a sudden. So it's like my whole, and now everybody wanted to befriend me. Everybody respected me. You know, again, I had gained all this confidence. It was just a different world. I don't know. Cause I know like you've, you've probably always been big. A lot of bodybuilders has always kind of always been, you know, bigger people. And I don't know when you started noticing like the, the difference in the way people treat you or, you know, when you start, you walk in a room and everybody kind of looks because they're impressive looking. Right. But for me, it happened like that, like from nothing to all of a sudden, you know, now I kind of look like a bodybuilder and, and the change was just stunning to me. Like, so I had to figure out at the time I was actually a science major and I was, I majored in biochemistry. Oh, cool. So, so I had to figure out what is this? Like, why is this happening to me? Why did this testosterone do this to me? I just took a really small cycle. I took sustenance and five milligrams of dbol a day, maybe 10, 10 milligrams of dbol a day. But, and, and I had to figure out like what, what does this do to me? So I just started reading voraciously. And then I started tailoring my degree towards the study of hormones. Cause I, like this was, you know, I, I couldn't stop reading. I couldn't stop just taking in all the information I could. And then pretty soon people came to me to, because they wanted to look like I did. So I started helping people. And after a little bit, everyone kind of in my small city that I lived in knew, if you want to look and feel your best, just come to me and I'll help you. And so I just, you know, started helping people. And then eventually I was like, well, you know, I'm helping so many people. It's becoming some work. So I have to monetize this. So I started like nailing down supply chains, figuring out where the quality stuff was. I got this really, really good source from China. And then one day, one of my clients, one of my customers mentioned to me, this online forum, a source forum. And, and he said, like, you should do this. These guys are doing what you do. And they, their prices are, your prices are actually better than theirs. So I went onto this forum and I started looking and I'm looking at all the prices and I'm looking how this whole thing operates. And I said, I can do this. I could, I can compete with these prices. Like, you know, I can do this. So, you know, it was an arduous process because I didn't know anything about computers at the time. You have to, I had to get a server from a different country so that if the, if the federal government did want to start looking in, they would have no, no jurisdiction to go into a foreign country. So, you know, I had to set up all these, all these different kinds of security measures. But after it was, so it was kind of an arduous process, but after some time, I, I actually became a source on this, on this forum. And I started out hoping, hoping, because, you know, at the time I, I didn't make much money. I was living paycheck to paycheck. I couldn't even afford to go out to eat. Like, you know, I just wasn't doing that well. And I was hoping, hoping that I could make two or 300 extra bucks a week. Like, that would have been, that was like, I would have been good. I would have been more comfortable then. And I was hoping for that. And I didn't think it was going to happen. I thought that was overzealous. And this, this thing online just blew up. Within six months, I was bringing $30,000 a week. After that, I went to $50,000. That's a multiplier of 200. It was insane. Like, it was absolutely insane. I did not even dream that that would happen. And this was before cryptocurrency, right? Yeah. Well, okay. So cryptocurrency existed. This was around 2010, 2011. Okay. It existed, but nobody really used it. I never used it. Nobody else did either. It didn't become popular until like probably 2015 or 2016, like right after I got busted. I never, I never had money. I lived paycheck to paycheck. I couldn't even afford to go to Applebee's. To eat, right? And one time I had $100,000 cash at my house. Like, I was just like holding onto it. And I'm just, and I got scared. I got terrified. I'm like, oh my God, this is too much. I'm going to get caught. I was like, I got to quit. Like, this is too much. Like, you know, I had a plan to quit. I was like, I'm going to, I'm going to tell all my clients, I'm just going to fill all the orders that I have. Tell everybody I'm done. You know, I can't do this anymore. And I got terrified. Like, I've never been prone to panic attacks, but if I ever had one, it was right then. And then I started thinking, honestly, you know, a lot of people try to, somebody who does something what I do or what I did, a lot of people just try to wrap it up into this simple explanation. Say you were greedy, and that's why you did what you did. You just put it in this neat little greedy box, and then you can throw it off, and that explains it. But that wasn't it. It wasn't about greed. What really turned the corner for me was about helping people. I used to get emails every single day. I still do. But I did then as well with people thanking me, thanking me for making them a better father to their children, a better husband to their wives, and a better supporter of their family. Because now they have the energy to go out and work and actually be confident enough to do better and get better jobs, right? So I used to get people to thank me every single day. And, you know, in that moment when I was scared and I was about to quit, I thought about having to go tell, you know, at the time I probably had like 2,000 clients. I was still early. To tell these 2,000 people that I couldn't serve them. I couldn't help them anymore. I'm sorry I can't help you. I can't help you live a better life just because I'm having a little anxiety at the moment. And then when I just thought of that and I thought about helping all these people and telling these people I couldn't help them, it just, like, clicked the light on. I said, fuck this. I can do this. And I just put my head down, hired a bunch of people because I couldn't do it myself anymore. It was too big. I just started hiring a bunch of people, and I set up this whole nationwide system. That's crazy. Mailing system. And, yeah. And it took off from there. You know, when I was in prison, I had the opportunity to read voraciously. And I read, like, the story of Google or the story of Phil Knight from Nike, Jeff Bezos from Amazon, having a brain fart. The guy who owns Tesla. Elon Musk. Elon Musk, yeah. They're all incredibly interesting biographies. Yeah. And everybody's story has, there's a lot of coincidence and luck, but, you know, as well as a ton of skill. And, but everything just comes together. And that's kind of what happened with this as well. So, at the time, when I first started, again, the zeitgeist at the time was nobody, nobody would buy anything that they didn't recognize, a brand name. And they wouldn't buy it from a person they didn't recognize either. So, when I first put my list up on the forum, people laughed at me. They're like, look at this, look at this joker. What was your brand name? Well, so, my company was originally BD Supplements because I resold British Dragon. And it's funny how, how I did that too. Do you remember, I don't know if you remember, there was a company called IP Pharmaceuticals. Yeah, yeah, yeah. IP China, right? Yep. That was my source, but they had really good stuff and it was dirt cheap. When I, when I first started buying stuff from them, this was just for personal use. They, they would sell it, they would put it in a test tube with a cork on the top and they would mail it to you that way. And we were taking Sustadon from there, but it was really good. It was like potent. It worked. So, like my friends and I would have these test tubes with a cork in the top and we'd just uncork it, draw the stuff out. That's wild. This was like early 2000s. But this stuff was good and they, and they pressed their own pills. They had these like little micro pills. So, they had Anadrol that was a little tiny thing that looked like a, a nastrozole pill today, right? Just these tiny things. And, and it worked. It was all really good stuff. So, you know, they had good stuff. So, in 2008, when the real British Dragon went down, they just started slapping BD labels on their stuff and selling it. And a lot of people knew this too. So, again, it was right at the time where, where people would only accept brand names they knew. And British Dragon was one of the trusted names. So, when they started reselling British Dragon, all of a sudden I had access to that. And I, I had learned how to talk my, talk the guy down. So, I was paying cheaper prices than almost anyone in the country just because I talked, you know, I was with him for so long and I talked the price down. So, I just had these British Dragon, you know, vials at a very, very cheap price at the time. So, I was reselling British Dragon. And I called my, my company BD Supplements. At some point, this guy was flaky sometimes. Sometimes he would just disappear for a month, right? So, I couldn't have that. And he did that a few times. And, like, you know, my supply would go down. You know, and I was ordering huge supplies from him. And I'm like, I got to do something about this because, you know, if this guy disappears or something, then I'm done. So, I was looking into other brands that I could resell. And they were all just expensive. And I would have to raise my price. And my thing, like, one of the things that made me so successful is I went into the business with quality products, good prices. Like, I undercut the rest of the market. And fast shipping, good customer service. Like, a lot of, at the time, the, they were just using snail mail, like, the rest of the sources. So, it was taking two weeks to get a product. Like, I was the first guy at the time to say, I'll just cover the priority charge and ship everybody. Everybody got their products in two or three days. And that actually drew a lot of people to me because, again, now everybody does that. But at the time, the guys, they just, they weren't thinking, you know, better business. And they were just kind of thinking snail mail. And they were kind of dicks to, you know, I, like, a lot of the, a lot of the sources. Like, when you have a bunch of sycophants, like, who, you know, and a lot of these sources become sycophants because they got thousands of customers that they have what they need. So, so they're, you know, they're, they kind of praise them with adulation and everything. So, so you have these, like, sycophantish people. And that makes people manic. So, you'd have all these sources that were kind of manic. And they were treating their customers like they were way above them, you know. So, so if a customer had a complaint, they would actually berate them and yell at them. And I could see this over the boards. Like, these, these other sources treating their customers kind of like shit. And I vowed I would never do that. So, it had a lot to do with great customer service, fast shipping, good price, and quality products. Which is a simple business concept, but steroid dealers at the time were not masters of business administration. So, their, their businesses were a mess. And I just came over here and cleaned up the good business practices. And, and there we go. Don't tell me that drug dealers are flaky. Yeah, it's, yeah. I mean, to be honest with you, it's a lot better now. But I'm telling you, nobody else was doing that priority shipping at the time. Oh, I remember. That was huge. And, and now everybody does it. So, so another thing I did. So, I had this British Dragon, right? And my supplier is getting flaky. So, I know I got to do something. And, and at the time, at the time, I didn't know how to make stuff. I know, you know, after that, I, I learned how to make my own stuff. And I made, you know, I've made thousands and thousands and thousands of vows. But at the time, I didn't know how to do it. But there was one guy in my town who did. And he was like a competitive local dealer. Like all the, we live in a small city and all the dealers knew each other. And we're all amicable with each other. And so, one day I just took this to him. And I'm like, and I, like, because I didn't tell anybody what I was doing, you know, because the, one of the, the local, the local game was going to get me busted, right? Because if the local cops caught on and was doing so, I made everybody in my operation. You have to keep quiet because the local game is what's going to bust us. I actually stopped selling locally, too. Because I didn't want, because the nation, the nationwide business was so, you know, obviously so much more lucrative. So, we just kind of, I just went into hiding locally. And then we just distributed nationally. So, I had to go to one of these dealers and I just, these other dealers who I knew made his own stuff. But he didn't, he just knew how to make his own stuff. And he was just selling glass vials without a label on it. And, you know, a lot of people didn't trust it, again, at the time. But I knew that I could professionally label these things and make it look better if I could get this guy to tell me to make it. So, I just took this business opportunity to him and he bit on it and he just started making huge vats of this stuff. And we're bottling it and labeling it. And at first, I was just going to sell it next to my BD stuff. And I didn't think it would do well, right? Because, again, it's not a brand that anybody recognizes. It was just our own brand. And, again, at the time, there had been a few UGLs that were successful. But it was right in the beginning. So, it was right in the beginning of the emergence and acceptance of UGLs. Now, that's all there is, right? But then it was, they weren't, it wasn't too many around. So, then what I learned when I put, so the name of the product was Matrix. Matrix-led steroids. And you can still Google that today. You'll get all these reviews, all these really good reviews. When I put it up on my site, on my list, right, I didn't expect it to sell well, again, but it did instantly. Everybody just went for those. Because I actually, it was a little cheaper. I sold a little bit cheaper. And I learned that I was the brand. Like, I had created my own brand. People trust whatever I would put up there. Because I was careful to make sure that I put up good products. And people started trusting me. So, whatever I put up there, people would buy. And they took to Matrix immediately. And then the label, the name Matrix, started running through all the forums. Everybody was talking about it on every forum out there. And it just became, it became huge. And then, so shortly after that, sure enough, that British Dragon guy disappeared. And if I hadn't, and it was right in time. It was only a few months later when I introduced the Matrix. And if I hadn't done that at that time when I did it, my business would have crumbled because that guy disappeared. So, it was coincidental. I'm looking up this stuff. Yeah. Oh, yeah. If you Google Matrix Lab steroids. Yeah, I found it. It's interesting, man. So, that's kind of when it took off, really took off. Yeah. So, yeah. So, my profit margin with the BD was like 400%, I think. And I did these numbers. I think this is right. But it's a hell of a lot cheaper to make your own. You know, you can make a, and that's another thing. I used to sell only 20 milliliter vials because I didn't, I think the 10s, you know, for, you know, for us, like a 10 milliliter was a waste of time. So, I only sold 20 milliliter vials. Yeah, I'm going through. Sometimes I'm going through 10 milliliter vial tests in, you know, a week and a half. A week, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's crazy. So, I only made 20 milliliter vitals. And I made things a little stronger when I could. And I made sure that actually everything was dosed a little bit high just to make sure that it was, you know, quality. And I'll tell you the story in a little bit, too, about how we did quality control, about how I came down with the powder sources that I did. Because that was pretty crazy, too. But that also allowed me to be even more successful. The profit margin. Yeah. So, now my profit margin was, like, over 1,000% because, you know, you can make a vial. I can make a 20 milliliter vial for, like, $5. That's wild. And the prices were cheaper, but the profit margin was higher. So, now we're pulling in more money. And it was crazy. I mean, it was just crazy. It just blew up. Like, I couldn't even. What do you do with all this money? Like, stupid things. Like, yeah. So, at the time, there wasn't a, you know, I couldn't put it into a bank. I couldn't, like. So, I did, you know, besides extravagant vacations, about every six weeks, I would go out and just take a bunch of friends and go on these extravagant vacations. I started buying houses and then remodeling because, like, I can, you know, what I could do, I couldn't buy a house outright. So, but I could get a finance, an owner finance. Owner finance. And a lot of times what I do is just pay them all the cash for the house and just say, here, put it on an owner finance and I'd pay it off really quickly, right? But then I could also remodel with cash. So, I started buying houses and remodeling them and then renting them. And that, so that was a big thing. And then these extravagant vacations. And I had 12 people in my operation. So, like, all the money that came in, like, it wasn't all mine. So, you know, these guys all made good money, too. And I'm sure that sent red flags off. Well, no, because I did it in a way that it. viaviaviavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viavia.viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia hard to collect. It was a stupid problem to have, but it was a problem. Like I couldn't collect all the money that was coming in. And it came, it started to come down to, there was a couple things I did. I could collect Western Union cash. The problem is each person can only collect like $30,000 a year before they won't let another person pick up more than like 30,000. So I had to have an army of people picking up Western Union. Then I don't know if I remember those Green Dot cards or then there was Reload It and there was a whole bunch of different companies that had all these little cards. So I started using those like somebody in California could pick up a code, pay for a code. They give it to me and I'd put it on this card. Right. So that was an anonymous way for me to, to get money. Problem is like those cards only hold so much money and you can only do so much cash through those, or they don't shut the card off for potential fraud. And I had to learn all the amounts that you could do on these cards. So what I used to do is I used to go pay people, I'll pay a hundred bucks, get me one of these cards and give it to me. Or some people, I would just say, give, get all these cards and they'd, they'd have like 10 different cards in their name. And I'd give them like 6% or 10% to just pull the money and give me the cash off of the, off of the cards. That sounds like a logistical nightmare. It was to collect money. That sounds like a nightmare. It was, it was, it was, it was crazy. What eventually got the eye of law enforcement on you. Okay. So in, so it was, it was kind of funny at one point I moved out of my small city and I moved to the greater New York city area and to a penthouse, right? Overlooking Manhattan. It was gorgeous. The, the day I move in, right? I pay all the money. The day I move in, one of my shippers called and said, one of the boxes leaked and the post office is opening it. Now, so, so they're explaining this. I have to explain exactly how my operation ran. And I, I made a, I made some mistakes here, which I fixed the later. I had chemists all over the country, right? I had shippers all over the country. The idea was like, I didn't even know some of these guys. I actually, I actually found a lot of my employees through customers. They just wanted to work and I wouldn't just be like, Oh, you want to work? Okay. Come do this. You know, I talked to him for a while and, and slowly started giving them responsibilities. And, and a lot of them worked out really, really well. Um, so I had these guys all over the country doing a specific job. And the idea was to compartmentalize everybody's job. So if, and each person doesn't know anybody else in the operation. So if one person gets busted, it doesn't bring down the whole operation. So I had chemists making stuff in one country, I'd send them powders from China. They'd make everything. And then they, they'd put it in these big boxes and bubble tape it and wrap it really well, and then ship it to a, to a shipper that's in a different state. And then, you know, the shipper would fill all the orders. So one of the things I did wrong is in the beginning, I had the chemist send the package directly to the shippers. And what I learned later is that I had to have them send to a receiving house that was empty. Right. And I changed that later. So anyways, one of these times the chemists send it to the shipper and some, I mean, they must've destroyed this box, but some vials broken, it leaked through. So the post office now can open it to make sure it's nothing hazardous. They open it, they find everything that's in there. They go to the house where it was supposed to go. And the shipper, we actually were warned. So we got most of the stuff out, but there was still a little bit of powders and shipping material in this house. So this person, this, this person, so there's two people there and they, they scared the shit out of one of them. One of them was somebody that I had, that was a personal assistant of mine. And this was the problem. This is where the problem was, was it was a personal assistant of mine kind of because they were a personal assistant. They started being able to get to know a lot of the members of my operation and started to be able to connect dots. And then they wanted a job because they saw how much money, more money they could make being a shipper than a personal assistant. Right. So eventually I gave this person the job and the cop scared the crap out of her and she blew, blew in everything she knew. So she kind of blew in the hole. The other person just shut up and said, no, I'll get a lawyer. I bought him a lawyer and, and you know, but, but the other person already blew in everything. So what happened at that point though, now that would eventually get us caught, but it took them a long time. Again, I had a lawyer for that person. And that lawyer was talking, you know, with the police with, about the whole situation. And eventually they decided that the feds were not going to pick that up, pick that case up. So it was just local. So we just stayed out. That was New York state. So we just stayed out of New York and continued the operation. It wasn't, that was it. A couple of people got felonies, a couple of low level felonies. Nobody spent a day in jail. That was it. So we just kept going, you know, after a while, the rest of the crew is like, come on, let's, let's keep going. It's done. We'll just stay out of New York. No big deal. Okay. So we kept going, but eventually the feds did pick that up. And like two and a half years later is when we got busted from that. But that started their investigation. I mean, if you had packed it all up at that time, you think you would have walked away? That's the interesting part because I don't think so because, because they picked everything up and had an evidence. Well, now I'm thinking about it. Maybe it may have been hard for them to get it actually, because you know, one of the, so what I learned later is one of the main reasons that we got caught was they were able to decipher the web of phones of text messages and through all the burner phones that we had and everything. If we used a service like Wicker or Signal that has disappearing messages or even Snapchat, I don't know if they would have been able to catch us because that, that was really on all the evidence they had was the text messages. Nothing else because they even like, they had a couple of cops buy packages, but what does that, what does that mean? Like, it was all anonymous. Like a cop receives the package, but they don't know from who. That is wild, man. They didn't have a ton of evidence. They, I mean, they didn't have a ton of evidence that led directly to people. I mean, one of the problems is with conspiracy charges, they don't need much evidence. So all they need is they had 10 people indicted. If nine of them pointed to me and said that guy was the leader, then that's all the evidence they needed. That is completely wild. It was crazy, man. It just seems like it just sort of spiraled out of control on its own. It did. It just got so big so fast. And then, like I said, there was a, I was working in an emergency room at the time and I would, I was go to the emergency room all day, come home, do emails and pack orders all night until 5am and then go to, you know, go to sleep for a few hours, get up and have to do the whole day over again until, you know, finally I couldn't do it on my, on my own. I had to quit. I quit the day job, obviously after a little while. And then, and then I just had to start hiring people. And then that's when I developed this system of let's keep everybody isolated and in different States. So like, so the, the jurisdiction, it would, it would have had to be a federal operation to catch us because a state operation, we were just too spread out. They wouldn't have been able to do anything. So, so like back at the beginning, I'm sure you had no idea that it would end up there. No, I, I told you, I hoped I could make 200 extra bucks a week. That's what I was like. And I thought like that, that's probably a little crazy to think I could make that much. That is, that is crazy, man. That is crazy. And so like, what, what happened when they, when they, when they came and knocked on your door? I mean, when, when did it all go down? Yeah. So I was in my penthouse and overlooking Manhattan and at 5am, somebody started pounding on the door. Now I had just got back from Vegas. And so I was like, I was not doing so well. I was still really hung over. It was a Wednesday, uh, September, September, I'm trying to remember what was September 17th, maybe, or no, I think the arrest was September 20th, September 20th, anyways, of 2015. So I was, I just got back from Vegas. So it was still hung over a few days later and somebody's pounding the door at 5am. My girlfriend at the time got up to go, to go to the door and I just kind of slowly put some clothes on. And then I heard the pounding again, like in my mind, I'm like, is this, am I really hearing this? Is this, my dogs are barking. And then, so I slowly put clothes on and now I'm getting mad. I'm like, who the hell is pounding on my door at 5am? I'm about to go show them that they're not to do that. Right. So I put my shirt on and I'm, I'm storming out there and I'm mad. And she comes back and she says, they have their finger over the people. I can't see who's out there. So I was like, Oh, I'm going to, I'm going to go take care of this. And I go out there and I rip open the door. And it's just a line of cops with a gun pointed at my head. Oh man. That had to have been a shit your pants moment. I mean, I just like, it all came together pretty quickly. In the back of your mind, you had to have known it was coming at some point, right? I did. I knew it could come to that. You're kind of, you're always kind of looking over your shoulder, right? So like, I remember like just even seeing cops, like pull down into, you know, we lived by the Hudson river and cops, you know, pulling in there and I'd always be suspicious out of each one. And, and to be honest with you, none of that was probably anything, but like you, you just start getting this feeling like this is getting too big. Cause it just kept growing, kept getting bigger and bigger. I can't imagine the paranoia and anxiety that could have been fun. Especially I was on so much test. I had high estrogen and my anxiety was even worse. Were you relieved? A small part of me, it was like, yeah, I don't, I don't have to deal with that anymore. I mean, it sucked really bad, but I guess that that was a small benefit is that I don't have to look over my shoulder anymore. And that's what's great about what I do right now too, is like, I don't have to look over my shoulder and it feels so much better. Yeah. I mean, I can't imagine it's a fun way to live your life. But I had, I also had a lot of fun. Well, I'll last it. It was great, right? It was, it was, it was like, I even like, I, I even published like short chapters of my story and I haven't finished it yet, but it is online. Memoirs of a Steroid Kingpin. Like people can go look it up because I started writing a book because somebody wanted to pay me to write a book. Yeah. You got to write a book. I would think. So I did, I wrote like, it's like, it's partially done and you can read the chapters that are out there. And in there, I talk, I talk about, you know, I talk a lot, a lot about, I really try to, instead of just telling the story and the glitz and glamor, like I want to get out, I really wanted to dive into the mindset of somebody who does one of these operations, like exactly what I was thinking at the time. And, you know, also some of the business aspects of what made this so successful, like what was the reason behind it? And we're running it like a, like a, like a, like an entrepreneur or what? Like a business man. Yeah. I ended up making a lot of moves that were incredibly beneficial. Oh yeah. And I forgot to like, so another way that I deferred the money was for the, for all the powders I was paying these, I was collecting the money myself and then paying the Chinese people all these money for the powders. Right. So it was the transactions. And then it was hard for me to collect all that money. So one way that I was able to defer a lot of the money is, you know, this seems simple, but it's something you don't think about. And this simple thing actually saved, saved me tons and, and work to collect all this money. But I just started just having clients send it directly to the Chinese people. So, so that it was bypassing my hands. So now I didn't have to worry about collecting it and it went right to them and they were just keeping an account. So now I could just pull powders out. You know, I was getting 10 kilograms a week in powders. Holy shit. How do you, how do you get all that through customs? You just, well, they, they did it. They were good at it. They, and if, if one gets caught, which it rarely did, honestly, 10 kilograms a week and it rarely got one caught. And if it did, they just rescind it. That's wild to me. And I had, so that was another thing. Like I had, I paid tons of people just to pick things up. They were just receiving houses. So I had like an army of people who, you know, I'd paid them a hundred to 200 bucks a package just to, just to receive it and drop it off to me when they got it or to drop it off to one of my chemists usually. That's wild. That's really wild to me. And holy crap. And so like, how long did it take to get through the, did you cop a plea or did you have it? Yeah. I just felt guilty right away. Like I know how the feds work too. Like if they, if you start giving them too much trouble, they'll start weaponizing your family. Or your friends or your family. And in order just to keep everybody safe and to, to, you know, I just, I just immediately just said, okay, you got me. I mean, I was guilty. Like, you know, that's one thing that's important to understand. Like the, I am a con, I knew it was illegal when I was doing it. I am accountable for those actions. And, and, and I do, you know, I do understand that. I can see where it would be easy to slip down that. I mean, it would be hard to walk away from it. Like you had a whole enterprise going, people depending on you. And, you know, people were, you know, not just the end user customers, but the people that were making money as a result of you. I'm sure that had to come into your mind too. Yeah. When, when, when you're thinking about things, I, I, it's interesting. I read recently that when the feds come knocking on your door, they have a 95.4 or 99.4 success rate that only, I think it was 0.6%. Don't quote me on that of, no, but it's not because the people are necessarily guilty or, or, or, or fully guilty. Right. So, you know, they're just very good at convicting people, but it's pure. Like, you know, the, this is part of the problem with the whole criminal justice system is that they have so many advantages, right? Like, so, so for instance, um, you know, one of the first thing to do is the, the paper, the paper goes and gets the story from the prosecutors. Right. And that's all they hear. Nobody ever called me. Nobody ever called one of my co-defendants and said, what happened? The prosecutor comes out and they paint this villainous story. If you read my, the, the article on me and the paper, when you Google my name, it's the first thing that comes up. I mean, it looks terrible. It makes me look like some, like, you know, like, like some guy who didn't give a shit and was incredibly selfish and, and was only looking to get over it. Didn't care who he hurt. Right. And now if anybody you talk to, it couldn't be farther from the truth. Like I, I paid all my employees well. I was, you know, I care about everybody. The main thing I was trying to do is help people. Right. But they paint this picture of you. Right. So now you have public perception of this. And that's one of the worst things that the preconceived notions come in that this guy's a terrible guy. He's got to go to prison. And then throughout the whole process, for instance, I got two more years than I should have. And, and I, you know, once I got into prison, I had time and I actually started piling through my case and then I learned the law and wrote my own appeals. I took my own case to the Supreme court because I was right. And I was right. And there's no question that you could, you, that you could deny that, that there was a charge. There's a few things that happened that shouldn't have been there. And I was put in prison for two years, two more years than I should have. Now this happens to, I would over half, I'm going to say damn near 75 to 80% of the prison population. They're put in for longer than they should go. And this is part of the problem with the criminal justice system is, you know, they throw all this, the prosecution just throws all this stuff at you. And, and, you know, it starts your, it gets really confusing. Your defense attorney. So this is how the court system works up. You have, you have a defense attorney who used to clerk for the judge. You have a prosecutor who also used to clerk for the judge. They're all buddies because they work together every day. You have the, your defense attorney is trying not to piss off the judge or the prosecutor because they all have to work together. It's them working together and you're not really getting a true defense. So, you know, not only did my lawyer just overlook a crazy amount of things, and this happens with just about every case. You just have the shit show of what, what ends up. You get a, you get a prosecution who has a 96 or 97, whatever it is, percent, conviction rate. And you have a prison population. The United States incarcerates the highest percent of its population in any country, any other country in the world, even China. Yeah. By far. And that's what you get from, from this, you know, from this type of, and that's why there really needs to be criminal justice reform. And yeah, I agree with you a hundred percent. I mean, I don't understand how we could call ourselves a free country when you don't have, you don't have sovereignty over your own body, like what you put in your own body. That is mind blowing to me. You're absolutely correct. Yeah. I just don't think there's a more fundamental right outside, you know, outside of freedom of speech, control over your own body, what you put in your own body. You're absolutely correct. You're absolutely correct. And there's a, the leaders of the free world stuff the most people in cages than any other country in the world. That's what we do. And you're, you're absolutely correct. And, and if you want to go further, the, the controlled substance, what should be a controlled substance is a state, right? There's dual sovereignty and the federal government has no jurisdiction over that. It should be a state, right? It's the constitution is clear on that. So there should be no federally controlled substance. It should be up to the state. Like what, what substances are controlled and what aren't. And you'll see, you see some states challenging that now, like Oregon and places like that. Right. So we've seen it. So I think, you know, the, the story of marijuana is similar to the story of testosterone. Testosterone was just farther behind. Right. But it's, it's coming the same way. Like we, you know, with marijuana, we started to see just states just ignore the federal controlled substance. Right. Because it's, it's really not up to the government to control a substance. So, or the federal government to control a substance. So all of a sudden states just started selling it. Right. And the, the whole, the whole story of stigmatization of marijuana, very similar to, to testosterone. And I can see it going in the same, same direction. And that, that's what I want to do with, with my business. Once I get more followers on my channels, and once I get a bigger audience, I want to lead a charge to, to de-schedule testosterone. And there's already been, there's already been talk about it. And, and I know, you know, I know how to do it. It's, you know, it's not simple. You just got to get the people together and you have to put the people in office, or at least threaten to put the people in office who will do what the people want. Right. Because this, this is a democracy. I mean, if you look at the literal definition of what should be schedule three, it doesn't even fit the definition. No, no. I mean, it's not like people are getting high off of testosterone. You're not dying from it. You can shoot a whole bottle and not die. That's exactly correct. Yeah. Right. It's not a threat to society. When, when you look at it, you know, and it's, it's hard to, you know, what happened is, you know, cause I've taken a lot of time to, to dissect this. And what happened is, you know, since the, the path to demonization, testosterone took since then like 1980s, when it started to become banned by the Olympic committee, started to be banned by all professional sports and became a controlled substance in the 1990s steroid control act. Yeah. Yeah. It, the, therefore the medical community, people just started to eschew these compounds, right? It gained a stigma about it. You know, the, all the, the stuff where it was considered cheating through major league baseball. Um, it's, it just had the stigma attached to it. And now that it's controlled substance, it makes it harder to research hard, if not impossible to really research. So, so now, you know, all we, again, we have these antiquated notions and dogma that the medical believes about the medical community believes about these compounds. And it just had the stigma similar to, to, to marijuana. So, you know, that's kind of, kind of what happened to it. Yeah. And it's wild. Like, like so much of the stuff could be therapeutically used. I mean, I'm just thinking like guys recovering from, from, you know, it's just, it's just wild to me. Like orthopedic surgery, for example, I had my, my ACL replaced a few years back and I ran some growth hormone, some peptides and a little bit of testosterone and anivore. And I was healed up and like, like 30% less time than what the, what the surgeon had anticipated. And he's like, I don't even know. He's like, what did you do? And I told him and he's like, you shouldn't be doing that. And I'm like, why? Yeah. Why? You're exactly right. Right. I mean, I heal up faster and I am stronger than I was before. Why wouldn't you want that for your patients? It's, it's just ignorance and what they don't understand. They believe you shouldn't do. It's like, I don't know. You know, I don't know if it's that they're so busy that they don't have time to do the research. Right. But if you research this stuff, you'll see that. Yeah. Like, you know, anivore oxandrolone causes collagen improves collagen synthesis. Like all these peptides, BPC-157, 2B 500 are fantastic for helping your body heal. I did the same thing. I tore my bicep, had it fixed, and I healed in record time from that, from, from the same thing that you did, peptides and oxandrolone. Yeah. Why, why wouldn't you want that for your patient? I just make zero sense to me. So backing up a little bit, you know, so obviously you went to prison. How long were you in for? So my sentence was 78 months, which is, uh, six and a half years, but I, you know, with good time and I did some programs, I did a little over four years. I mean, that's, and I'm still on probation. It's still a long time. What was that like? So I'm nonviolent, right? So I was in, I was in camps. So it's, it wasn't like you see in the movies. I wasn't in a high security. There was no, there was no cells. Um, there was even a fence. It's like open. Um, I'm sure it's still sucked though. Yeah. It's, it's still sucked. You know, what I can say is the prospect of doing prison time is worse than actually doing it. I mean, don't get me wrong. It sucked. And just the fact that you're out of society and you, you can't contribute if you want to that, you know, that's really hard to take. And then just being isolated from all the people that, you know, it's really hard to take and you know, but it sucked, but you can make the most of it while you're in there. Yeah. I know you mentioned reading. I mean, I'm sure. I learned a lot. I just decided I was going to use all the time to educate myself. I wrote the business plan for this business while I was in there, read voraciously, just learned, you know, learned a lot. And it was, well, it's good that you maximize that time and made something of it. I mean, it, it, it could be a time to, like you said, to reflect and learn and grow as a person as well. Yeah. You know, so what I got to do is, you know, I got to be around a lot of other nonviolent drug dealers, like, you know, over half the prisons are nonviolent drug dealers. So I got to be around a lot of other ones and, and these, this is the fed. So it was some pretty big time dealers, you know, and I noticed the commonality, like, you know, what I was talking about before about people like to say, Oh, you're a drug dealer. You're making all this money. You did it because you're greedy. Right. Or, or you don't care about people and, and nothing could be farther from the truth. Like I, I got to know a lot of these guys and these guys were some of the nicest guys. They got your back. If you need anything, these guys will help you. They're, they're looking to help people. You know, it's so a lot of, a lot of this is mischaracterized. A lot of what's in prison is mischaracterized. Again, I was in a camp nonviolent. It's different up in the max security, but you know, it's a significant portion of the prison population is the, is the nonviolent. Yeah. I mean, it's, it's crazy when you look at the statistics on it. I think it was over half when I was looking at prison. Over half are nonviolent drug offenders, over half the prison population in the entire United States. Yeah. It's, it's really wild. I remember looking at this statistics, my, my girlfriend, she's a PhD sociologist and we were talking about this and looking at studies and it's just, there's a lot of people. I mean, I, in my, in my view, the people that should be locked up or people that pose a threat to society, you know, some sort of risk or threat to society. And I don't see that type of person really posing any sort of threat. That's exactly right. And, you know, we've learned, and we've learned this lesson from, from alcohol, right? We're learning it again with marijuana. Like you prohibit something, you create a black market, the black market makes things worse. When during prohibition, more people died in the name of controlling alcohol because it, it spawned gangs. It spawned this black market, this lucrative black market so much that the government had to legalize it again, a because everybody wanted to drink and nobody was really following the law and, and B all the, once they legalized it again, all the violence stopped, went away. It just went away. And, and now the government can tax it now, now, instead of paying to put people in prison and paying people to, to enforce the regulation of it. Now you, the government can make money off it. It boosts the economy because now citizens are making money off of, off of alcohol. The same thing is happening with marijuana. It's becoming a windfall for the government. It's increasing the economy. Every other, I mean, testosterone is a nice logical thing. Like, you know how much money they're spending controlling all this? Yeah. It's just a waste of resources. I think it was, I could be wrong about this and you may know, I think it was Portugal that went through and it was, you know, a while ago, maybe 10 years ago, went through and just legalized everything. They had a huge crime problem and crime dramatically. Dramatically. Yeah. Yeah. It's, and we've learned this lesson before. It's, it's not the first time. That's the thing. And you know, it, it has to do with just these like, overwhelming, like, for instance, what kind of caused this will cause the war on drugs, right? Was in over time, we've seen this happen. The, in an election tactic, and we've seen this since the beginning of elections is to make the people afraid of something and offer a solution to it. So in 1988, just say no to drugs. The Reagan administration just said, we have this problem. And they, and they said, here's a, here's a scary problem. Drugs. We're going to take care of it. If you vote for us, we're going to take care of it. They got elected and just, and imposed all of these harsh laws, harsh drug laws. The federal prison went population went from 20,000 in the eighties to over 200,000 in the early two thousands. Drugs. We had that kind of huge increase just from the drug laws. Drugs. Yeah. That's wild. Drugs. And it's, it's more of an election tactic. Make the people afraid of something, offer them a solution, and then they'll elect you. It's an election. Drugs. Yeah. I mean, it goes, it's a, you know, Drugs. We've seen it over time. We've seen that tactic used over time. Drugs. Yeah. So, so, you know, what you do is you convince the people that this is a bad thing. You stigmatize something and it just gets this air of all, oh, that's awful. Drugs. So I got to ask you, this is a question that I get a lot of people ask. It's about the quality. Now, I don't know how plugged you are in anymore. If you can even talk about it, if you can't, that's fine. But I, people are all the time terrified of fakes and bad stuff from UGLs that are currently out there now. Yeah. Drugs. And what, what are your thoughts on that? Drugs. Well, I don't, it's not nearly a problem that it was for us in the late nineties, early two thousands. Drugs. No, I, there's my experience. Drugs. It's, it's so much easier to find quality products because you can just go online and you have all the ratings. Like you, you have these sources that are rated by thousands and thousands of people. And if you have kits now, if you even trust those things, but yeah. So I don't think it's hard to, to find something that's not fake or find something that is quality these days. So, you know, one of the stories I was going to tell is one of the, another reason I became so successful is these days. And these days. And these days. And these days. And these days. And these days. viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia wild. So I would just send him the stuff and then he'd test it and then send me the results. But even, and that was helpful, but even before that, so nobody was testing their stuff because it was almost impossible. So the way I did it is I got my customers to help me, right? So once you start to get big, you have all these powder suppliers from China come to you, right? So I must've had a hundred different powder suppliers and I would take samples from each of them. And I said, send me your samples. I would have the guys make them up and then, and then we test it kind of on ourselves first. And then I, what I would do is I get my customers to help me. I would get a few guys, I would give them some really reduced price stuff and I would send it to them. I said, now go get a blood test, you know, on, on this day after you would do an injection, right? And I wanted to see when the peak of everything would be. And I'd say, send me your, send me your blood tests. And so essentially I would pay all these customers to do the blood tests and, and, and everything. And, and I would get all these results. So now I could, I could actually have actionable results where I could, and data of which suppliers. So I will let it down to like the top five suppliers of consistent quality, consistent, yeah, consistent quality. And, and I, you know, I was able to uniquely narrowed it down to there's pro I probably had the best quality products because of that in the, in the country at that time, just because nobody else was doing that. Everybody else was just getting it from one supplier. And I tested hundreds of suppliers. I know everybody gets like hung up on fake Primo. That's the thing I hear all the time now. Everybody's worried about it. It's like, I, I hear that a lot too. And it's, I mean, it, it's not that hard to get, I mean, it's not that hard to get Primo. I mean, cause you can get the powders. The only, the only reason to fake Primo would be, is if you have a guy that is trying to make more money, right? Because bold is cheaper, right? So if you, if you got a guy, well, I'm going to charge Primo prices and put bold known in there and my profit margins can be higher, but, but you know, you're risking, you're risking your name, your reputation, you're risking a lot by doing that. And it doesn't make sense to do it because you can just get real Primo. I know a lot of the, and it sounds like making money is not an issue. They're sending you, sending you the wrong powders, but like all the suppliers I had were sending a real Primo. Like, I don't, yeah, that's what, when I had that guy testing it in the, in the lab, like that's what we were able to do. We were able to distinguish the compounds and the quality. And I never had a problem getting real Primo. I, I, you know, I guess I don't know. It could be different now. I don't, I think, I think people, people are just get over anxious about stuff. So that's a, so that's a huge thing about the bodybuilding community, right? Is they can be some of the most loyal people, but they can also, they're also very anxiety ridden. They don't like to trust a lot of people, especially in the early nineties when there was a lot not to trust. But, but you know, these days, if you like, because of the online presence, if you're a bad supplier, you will get, you will get barraged by the, by the public and all the forums and everybody will know to stay away from you. Like you can't survive. Like, and these, these dealers, if they get a bad product, they are online writing about it immediately. So there's no, there's no escaping. If you're a bad supplier, there's no escaping it. Like you're going to get, you know, you're just going to get weeded out really quickly. So the people who have risen to the top are, you know, they, they were there for a reason. So one thing I got to ask you, and this is sort of going back to the days when you were making a bunch of money doing this, did you ever think about just getting out of the country and going somewhere else? Yes. Yeah. I started to make a plan to go to Thailand. Yeah. That seems to be where all these guys end up. Yeah. It just never came to fruition. And I thought, because I could have, I could have ran the operation from a different country. I thought about it. Yeah. And I don't know how much that protects you, but yeah, you can never come back, I guess. Yeah. Right. That's the, that's the trade off. But I mean, I guess now you have a clean slate and you know, you're starting over. What do you, what, let's talk about what you're doing now. What, what, what, where's your life at now? Yeah. Thank you. So, you know, I tell that story a lot of times, you know, it is, it is entertaining, but also what it does is it shows the, the aggregation of empirical data I've, I've gained over the years, right? Because the testosterone derivatives were controlled substances. It's hard to research them. The medical community doesn't really use them. I haven't, and I, you know, I guided over 20,000 people through the use of hormones. And, you know, I was the main, you know, main person people would come to, to guide them through all these things. I would take a look at blood work. I would do all kinds of things. I, I had my, my stuff was running through the pro circuit at the time. So I had a lot of pros. I was helping design hormone protocols to step on stage. I've just done this on such a level. And I've been able to, because of the position I was in, I've been able to aggregate more empirical data than just about anybody else in the country could have, unless they have my, my history, just seen it and experienced it so much. So I tell, I tell that to, to tell this, that it's more of a story of redemption, right? Now I want to do this safely, legitimately, legally, you know, again, with an emphasis on, on long-term safety and, and health, good health markers, right? So, and, but plus I understand the compounds more, some of the other derivatives, enandrolone, oxandrolone, then, you know, a lot of the, a lot of the other clinics, they just don't know how to use them or they won't use them, but they're, they're incredibly beneficial. A lot of them, there's certain circumstances where, where they're better to use than just testosterone alone. So, you know, so I just have a better understanding and I've seen this so much so I can give a, you know, we just have more knowledge at, at hormonesformu.com than, than just about, than just about anywhere else in the country, again, because of my background. Yeah. It is sort of a golden age of information now with, with as far as how to do this stuff. There's a lot of good information out there. There's still some bad stuff. There's some really people saying some really bad shit, but it's kind of cool that you do have access to good, a lot of good information. Just in the time I was in prison, when I came out, the whole, a lot of stuff had changed. It was, people talked about it more. The conversation was normalized and I, you know, and that's why I thank you and a lot of the other guys for doing what you do because you helped do this. You helped normalize this conversation. Man, believe me, I had some sleeveless nights thinking about talking about this stuff because I've been doing it off and on since I was a teenager, man. Yeah. You know, 30 years, man, basically. And, and I'm like, I, I have a legit business. I have kids, I have a family and I'm just a recreational bodybuilder at the end of the day. I just competed at my first national show. I, I'm like, this is, this is, this is, you look great by the way. Thank you. It's just something I do for fun. And I'm like, do I really want to talk about this? And put things, it used to be just talking about it was a risk. Yeah. And maybe it still is. I don't know, but, but my hope was to normalize the conversation and hopefully, hopefully some people realize it's not the boogeyman they think it is. And then, and then eventually we move towards decriminalization. I think that's where, what happened with marijuana is people started talking about it and actually talking about it, not, you know, not being the boogeyman that everybody thought it was. Yeah, you're exactly correct. Yeah. And exactly what you said before, prohibition never makes anything better. Just, it just creates more crime. We have plenty of, of history to, that proves that too. And it just, just the refusal of the administrations to, to look back in history and see that this has never worked before. Why would it work now? And like, you know, like I think like with the fentanyl crisis and things like that, I'm like, is testosterone really something we need to be worried about? That's exactly right. So I was busted in operation cyber juice. It was a, it was an operation to bust a bunch of the online, uh, I don't remember that. Yeah. Just, you know, uh, steroid companies. And it got, it, it got critical review. Like people started writing in saying, why are you like, how many millions did you spend on this huge operation to do something that nobody really cares about? So they haven't done another operation like that since, you know, largely because it, it didn't go over well, but people were not happy with spending the money on something that nobody cared about. Cyber juice. What a weird, silly name. Operation cyber juice. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's, I don't know. I, I hope, I hope, I hope that at some point it will be decriminalized and people don't have to worry about this type of stuff and they can actually get legit medical help. You know, it's headed that way. And it just takes the people to come together. What we have to do is get the audience and then we all have to focus our focus on, you know, on, on the government, putting the, putting the people are threatening to put the people in office who will de-schedule testosterone. And, and I also have plans, you know, to get lobby groups too. Having a lobby group on your side is always hugely beneficial. I mean, what, what bodybuilder wouldn't want to work with a medical professional and have real medical grade pharmaceuticals? If you could, right? If you could, right. I would, I would much rather go that route. That's exactly right. Like that's exactly right. Like it doesn't, it doesn't even make sense. Like, again, you're just pushing people into the black market. Like you're the government created the black market. I mean, I literally don't even drink alcohol, man. Yeah. I don't either anymore. I mean, it's like, it's like, this is the only thing I do. Yeah. I pay my taxes. I work hard every day. Yeah. I don't, you know, I'm pretty boring. Otherwise besides bodybuilding, I take a little extra testosterone and some growth hormone, you know, so that's, that's, that's where I'm at. All right, man, you want to plug your, you have your clinic now, right? Yeah. Yeah. Thanks for putting it up on the screen there, but yeah, hormonesforme.com. We can treat people in New York, Florida, and Vermont right now, but I'm working hard to get more licenses to more States. That's awesome, man. That is really cool, man. Well, congratulations on, when we're getting that moving forward. I'll put information in the video description below so people can get ahold of you. I'll put all your contact information and about your clinic. And I really appreciate you coming on and talking to me, man. This is an awesome story. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, yeah. Thank you again. Thank you for what you do too. You're at your, this education is, is necessary. And, and I wish I had it when I was, when I was younger, I wish I had a child. There's a bunch of us out there trying to do it and you can contribute too. All right, man. Thank you for coming on. Thank you. Thank you.