WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today and I've got a really good interview for you. This is with Ella, Scientific Snitch. She is all over Instagram right now, has all the bros in the broverse all stirred up about her take on balking being a waste of time for hypertrophy. She gives her reasons and thoughts on it, why it's beneficial not to balk and to stay lean and to only run in a slight calorie surplus or not even a calorie surplus in the offseason. She gives her thoughts and an interesting take on it. She's very intelligent. She has a lot of really good information if you want to understand the mechanisms behind hypertrophy, various science that applies to weightlifting and just science in general. Her stuff, her content is great. Some of the best stuff I've seen in a while. Very creative, fantastic stuff. I am also going to do a follow-up video myself on my thoughts on balking and cutting and I'll give you my take on it probably here in the next week or so I'll have it up. So keep an eye out for that. Before we get started I want to let you know that we have a Black Friday sale going on on the Science of Antibiotics and PEDs e-course. It's 30% off. This is going to be the deepest discount that I will have for the entire year. So if you want to pick up the course, now's the time to do it. This is going to be the cheapest that you'll be able to get it. 30% off. Use the code BLACKFRIDAY at checkout. It'll be good through I think next Monday. So grab it now if you want it. Use the code BLACKFRIDAY at checkout. Link to the course is in the video description below. This is the course that Kurt Havens and I have put together. There is over a hundred modules currently in something like 60 or so hours of content. It's fantastic. All right, enough of that. We're going to get started with the interview in just one second. So I love your information that you're putting out. It's fantastic. Busting up bro myths and actually putting real science out there. You had the entire bro-verse stirred up with the whole you don't need a ton of calories to grow. It's the calorie surplus thing that really got everybody stirred up. Yep, yep. It was pretty true. I ended up making a video just to kind of clarify some of the things that I was saying because I felt like a lot of people just they hang on to one thing you say and they never like actually listen which is interesting. You mean their surface level? Yeah. Yeah, that's a shocker. Why don't you go into detail a little bit about that? I'm curious to have a discussion about that and talk. I've said this before and people always flip out when I talk about it. Well like the way that I like to think about it is the common bro myth is that maintenance calories is just maintaining your body weight. But the thing is that your body weight is consisting of water weight, of muscle mass, of fat. So like if you're just referring to maintenance calories as maintaining your body weight then eating too much salt is a calorie surplus because you're gaining body weight and eating or drinking extremely like a lot of water and then losing all that water and being dehydrated would be a calorie deficit because you're losing body weight and that doesn't make any sense. So if you go by that definition but then you concede that drinking too little water or drinking a lot of like salty water is not body weight gain and is not a calorie surplus then you will have to concede that it's either just referring to muscle gain or fat gain and then if you can gain muscle if you're also in a calorie deficit and losing body fat aka a body recomp you then have to concede that it's really just referring to body fat gain and body fat loss. Yeah IMean it's all about how the nutrition is being partitioned right? IMean it's uh I think guys also fail to recognize how little muscle protein synthesis actually happens on a daily basis like it's imperceivable amount it's grams right? IMean like it's the thing is is that it's the trening and any sort of like growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone signaling so like when you're talking like steroids or something like those things are what's increasing growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone but you can't force extra calories to that process like you can't just make muscle cells go poof out of thin air it's just not how it works so like when you start it's like yeah. Yeah IMean that's always been my argument too and most of the time I like like I get guys that'll argue with me about they'll eat a ton of fat and then then like I'm like how is this contributing to muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone at all like what is this what impact is this having on muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and then they end up fat and they're offseasons then they have to lose a ton of body fat to get in shape and they end up losing muscle because they have to diet in such a hard calorie deficit and then the net result is worse usually. Yeah IMean even though protein can go toward like the excess of protein can go towards extra hair and nails there's only oh so much protein that's going towards muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone there's only oh so much fat there's only oh so much carbs that are going towards your glycogen stores in fact like like we know glycogen stores only make up between like I believe it's like two to five percent of your muscle mass so it's not like you're infinitely storing glycogen at some you're going to store fat and that's what lipogenesis is and that's the fluffiness and if you're storing fat that's not going towards muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that's going towards fat. Yeah yeah IMean it's it's just more work to get it off when it's time to diet. Now one thing I was going to ask you about and I you know I don't know the physiology behind it but it does seem like in my experience just anecdotal experiences guys get bigger like these super super big bodybuilders like once you get up into super heavyweight open bodybuilding into into the pro level and I work with some guys that are large competitors that they have an incredible ability to synthesize glycogen like I on my contest prep this year I was eating 2,000 grams of carbs on my high days and was still getting leaner it's it seems like and I haven't seen any science or studies on it where it and it's not it's only it's only on dudes that have reached a certain level guys that are just massive. Yeah so that actually goes exactly with what I was just saying like if you have a crap ton of muscle mass then that one that one to five percent might be like 25% of your body weight because if your muscle mass is like if you're carrying like 180 plus pounds of muscle that's that is a lot of muscle mass to be carrying around and one to two percent of that amount of muscle mass is quite a bit so you're going to be carrying more glycogen just by the fact that you have more muscle but that still doesn't take away the fact that there is a limit even oh yeah maybe really really really high yeah and it seems like you know you can only usually when we plan out high days we only do them like once a week or something like that where we're refilling out from a glycogen standpoint but yeah it's interesting because uh uh 185 pound beginner bodybuilding if they tried to do what i and dawn they would just get fat yeah and it's probably because most of those like 185 pound beginner bodybuilders or natural bodybuilders who are around that weight are only carrying like like let's say 150 pounds of muscle because if we're talking about like or not even that like 100 pounds of muscle like if you're eliminating your organ weight eliminating eliminating your bone weight and then taking away all the essential fat off your body you still don't have that much muscle at 185 pounds like at least compared to somebody who is a crazy heavy bodybuilder for open bodybuilding taking grams of shit it's um it's incomparable the amount of muscle mass difference yeah and you see it like a uh and it's as guys advance you'll see like a big guy like mr olympia this year samson diota um you know 6-1 on stage had 300 pounds big guys like that it's like you you almost have a free pass on like i i've hit the you know we were talking about before and i've hit the i'm like 250 on stage is usually where i compete at um and i've hit the point where it doesn't really matter how much i eat like my my appetite is the limiting factor at this point i i can can't eat enough to even keep my weight on yeah i IMean that's kind of that's the idea of like what happens when you build that much muscle because even at like just the basic level even though muscle mass is not as more metabolically active than fat mass it's still more metabolically active so that's that's gonna compound like at some point you're gonna have a really high appetite and or not a really high appetite but a really high metabolism and um i think it's important to acknowledge that too like when i was talking about the whole bulking versus cutting thing i wasn't talking about it as in like it was more so maintaining your body fat surgery, immediate complications, parametric immunities, poxy internal toxins, prostate, partial clogged tumor, was that, Pl Revision Dr. Todd Lee, he wanted to talk about pancreatic metabolic and colorectal disease. Dr. Todd, the funny thing about dilated lymphocytes is that, they actually create much lessенты cial infectory lymphoid relief. And that would be like fat cell hypertrophy, but then you got adipogenesis, which is the problem, and that happens, and you can't just kill cells, it just doesn't work like that. Your cells are going to want to stay alive. Liposuction, that's the only way you fix that. Yeah, but like bulking and cutting will do that to you, and I even noticed it myself as somebody who, I'm technically genetically predisposed to be a higher body weight because of my past, I was overweight. I did one bulk and cut because I allowed my boyfriend to convince me to, and it was so much harder to cut that down afterwards, and it was just, I guess you would see that more in natural lifters though. Yeah, yeah, and a lot of the, with guys that are, or competitors that are enhanced, a lot of the weight that you gain in the offseason is just water weight from the manipulation of hormones, it's not actual body fat, it's the mineral and water retention that you have. But we, I like to try to stay within striking distance. My kind of rule of thumb is if you, for guys, if you can't see the outline of your abs, you've gotten too fat, and then we need to pull back. That's just a general bro rule of thumb that we use. Yeah, and that's a pretty good rule to have. I can't really argue with it. If you're staying lean and you got a healthy amount of body fat percentage, you're not only reducing your risk for insulin resistance, the adipogenesis, making it harder to cut back down, but it's just, it's overall healthier, especially when you're on grams of stuff. Yeah, and I'll see it. Usually, my process is I'll try, after you've been pushing for a while, is to pull back and actually get lean at least once a year. insulin sensitivity improves as you are leaner, too. We know hormonally, IMean, you can speak to this, but there's less estrogen conversion of the testosterone that you're making because aromatase increases as you get fatter. Just a better environment for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone as you're leaner. Yeah, and you also have less, and at least this is where I can really come in, is intramyocellular fat is one of the primary mechanisms that drives insulin resistance. And you'll even see this in, and I've worked with some type 2 diabetic muscle samples where when you compare them to lean healthy controls, they're yellow, like yellow with fat. That's crazy. So you've got your type 2 diabetic samples, which are like fat mixed with muscle to the point where it's difficult to get RNA out of the samples because they're just so fatty compared to a lean healthy control where you've got very red, pink samples that arecompletely muscle. It's a night and day difference. So it really does matter. Isn't it, correct me if I'm wrong, if I recall, isn't it when they do rat studies, when they want to make the rats insulin resistant, they feed them a high fat, high sugar diet? That's correct, right? It would be primarily high fat. High fat, right, yeah. High animal fat. Usually it's the casein plus saturated fat feed. It's called, it's just literally high fat feed. Usually it's not both high fat and sugar. It's just either or. High fat, okay. Yeah, and I, you know, I'm getting out of my depth here, but doesn't it, when you eat that high fat diet, it affects the, if I remember right, with the saturated fats, with the structure of the molecule, it affects the phospholipid layer of the cell too, correct? Yeah, that's actually pretty much the idea of how it works. It's called diacylglycerol-mediated insulin resistance. It's a pretty well understood pathway of insulin resistance. Basically what happens is you're modulating the lipids inside of the cell membrane, which makes it so that way IRS-1, which is one of the primary, like the mediating molecules in the metabolic insulin signaling pathway, basically gets phosphorylated and inhibits that entire metabolic signaling axis. So it is pretty significant. And the insulin receptor, if I recall correctly, is trensmembranol, right? Yeah, it's a tyrosine kinase receptor. Yeah, so when that layer is messed up, it just can't pass through, correct? Not necessarily. The tyrosine kinase receptor is always going to be there in the sense that you've got your insulin receptor there. That's not necessarily the issue. It's primarily the intracellular signaling mediators. So you've got IRS-1, which is the insulin receptor substrate one, which is a protein that binds to the receptor after it basically phosphorylates itself. A tyrosine kinase receptor is like this, where you have both sides of it, and then it'll phosphorylate itself inside of the cell. That attracts IRS-1, and then from there, you've got PI3K, AKT, and that whole entire signaling pathway. But what happens with cholesterol and saturated fat is it'll phosphorylate IRS-1, which prevents the entire metabolic arm. Wow, that's crazy. So what you're telling me is that the crazy carnivore diet is bad for you. Yeah, and we have plenty of evidence demonstrating this. There was a very interesting inhuman study I plan on doing a video on, where they fed individuals and humans a high-fat, high-saturated diet, drastically increased insulin resistance. It was very interesting. Yeah, I've seen studies showing where high-fat diets are really what foster insulin resistance, and when you look at what the majority of people eat, the diet, calorically, it seems like a big chunk. Sometimes the majority, not always, but it is high-fat diets, what the average American eats more so than anything else, it seems like. IMean, I know there's sugar and whatnot in there, but usually when I see people, when I look at their diets, they're eating way too much fat, way too much fat. Yeah, and the funniest part is that a lot of the carnivore crowd, they'll cite high-fat diet studies as why their diet is healthy, but those high-fat diet studies are using unsaturated fat, not saturated fat. So it'll be a high, unsaturated fat keto diet, and that's what will improve insulin resistance compared to the high-saturated fat diets, where it's the opposite. Yeah, IMean, not all fats are created equal. The molecular structure of saturated fats, from what I recall, are really rigid, correct? Yep, so if you want to think about it like this, and this is how I learned it, saturated fats are like bricks with cement in between, while unsaturated fats are like cobblestone, where you can push it, and it'll knock over. But with bricks, you can push it all you want, but it's not going to knock over. And that's a really big reason why olive oil, canola oil, and many of the demonized seed oils are liquid at room temperature, while butter and animal fats are solid. Yeah, and it's those rigid fats that are really bad for insulin resistance and things like that, and just for your body in general, correct? IMean, a big reason is because your body already makes saturated fat, and enough so to maintain your health, so it's not even necessary. Yeah, I have yet to see anybody deficient on a blood panel in cholesterol. I have not seen that. Yeah, and that's a really beautiful thing about your liver, is that it makes, and your testes, and literally every single cell in your body makes cholesterol. Yeah, I get guys all the time that are worried about not eating enough fat, affecting their hormones, and I'm like, I've never seen anybody deficient in cholesterol, not once. Something really interesting, and I could send this study to you, along with the high fat saturated diet, because I find all of these studies so interesting. A lot of that low fat diet was associated, there was a meta-analysis conducted, it was very poorly done, that basically correlated low fat diets with low testosterone levels. I'm sure you've probably heard it somewhere on the internet space, but the interesting part is that not only were all of those studies correlational and mediocre in quality, but there was one other randomized controlled trial which found that when you take a low fat diet, but you supplement it with the essential fatty acids like vitamin D, vitamin E, omega-3, omega-6, those individuals that didn't have low testosterone anymore. That's interesting. Yeah. Yeah, I set up all my diets where I keep the saturated fats low and supplement in EFAs, typically. A lot of, me personally, I'll use fish oil, I'll use flax oil, you know, I'll eat some, I'll eat some walnuts and things like that. But, you know, even then I keep it pretty low. It's, you know, not a ton, you don't need a ton. Yeah, you don't need a ton of fat. It's really just about getting your essential fats in because essential fats, like essential amino acids, you can't get from your body, so you got to consume them. That's another thing. I saw you were pissing the vegans off today. That was... It's like everybody... I'm not sure which is worse, the vegans or the carnivore guys. They're both equally bad. Yeah, they're both equally bad in my personal opinion. It's like, why can't we just promote a balanced diet? Like, that's my thing, is what is wrong with eating a little bit of both? And I had a conversation, or not really a conversation, but I got a comment about somebody like saying, it's really disingenuous of you to promote saturated fat and cholesterol. I'm like, but I'm not. It's funny how emotional people get about diet. It's like, it's almost dogma with some people. They treat it like a religion. It is. It's like, it's so, like, I just don't understand it. It's like, a balanced diet is the best way to be. It's the way that we were, we've literally evolved to be able to eat both plants and animals. So, it just, yeah. I don't understand why people are so... They get their panties in a twist whenever you talk about how their diet is not, is too one way or the other. Well, people are tribal. They like to be a part of a group and feel like they can... I feel like Carnivore was the bro response to being a vegan. It's the opposite, the antithesis of being a vegan. It's their response to, Hey, look at me, I'm eating a raw cow or eating a buffalo's testicle. Yeah. And I guess, like, the only reason why I feel like Carnivore might be slightly worse than vegan, and honestly, I don't like the vegan crowd either because they can be very toxic. But the whole raw milk thing, just from somebody who's worked a lot with bacteria to an extent, the raw milk part really bothers me. Yeah, it's a good way to die. It's a really good way. And it's a good way to spread antimicrobial resistance. And it just, that's, yeah, I'm okay. Yeah, there's a reason pasteurization was invented. Oh, yeah. And it can, like, raw milk is one of those things that can also cause really bad cardiovascular events. So it's just like, it's, you can avoid it. It's not like, and it doesn't give you any benefits. So it just, it doesn't make sense to me that people like to promote that. But either which ways, I don't like the whole black and white thing. And that's kind of why I want to, like, be in the middle and promote both sides of the argument. Well, there's nuance to all this stuff, right? What is it with the raw milk? You said, you mentioned cardiovascular events. What about raw milk promotes, is it the fat? No, actually, it's the bacteria. So the bacteria, cows can have even healthy cows. So let's say you treat your cow the best way. You treat them like a princess. They'll still have Campylobacter jejuni and E. coli 0157H7 and other bacteria inside of the gut microbiome that are pathogenic to us, but healthy to the cow. And that's just because it's biology. It's literally their biology. Now, when a cow gets sick with something like brucellosis or even just has the healthy gut microbiome, those sorts of pathogens can cause endocarditis, myocarditis. Oh, yeah. Yeah. All those sorts of really bad things. In fact, heart valve replacements are incredibly common among brucellosis patients, which is, yeah, I'm pretty sure like most people who are in the bodybuilding space who already are worried about their heart probably don't want that too. Yeah, no, it's bad news. We're already doing stupid shit for our heart. The PEDs, the diets. Yeah, and that drives me nuts. Just the guys not paying attention to lipids. It just drives me nuts and thinking it's okay to run their lipids through the roof on their own PEDs when you're already going to have, PEDs are already going to cause lipid skewing. Suppression of HDL is bad on some certain PEDs, mostly the oral PEDs, but in the guys just, and then they'll eat a high-fat diet on top of it. What's the worst sort of like heart issues you've seen in one of your clients? I'm not necessarily my clients because I try to protect them from that, but you'll, IMean, you'll see it throughout the bodybuilding community. The stuff that you'll see, you'll see a lot of guys that end up with LVH, left ventricular hypertrophy, you know, guys end up with low ejection fraction from that and end up in congestive heart failure. You'll see more, you'll see guys that have, clots are always a thing to be concerned about. You see a lot of guys with embolisms that can happen, you know, when hemoglobin, red blood cells count and hematocrit can get too high and then you're eating a shit diet on top of it. High blood pressure, which leads to long, you know, long-term damage, kidney damage, you know, heart attacks, strokes, you know, those are the things that you see. Now, if you manage things properly, if you keep your diet in check, if you're intelligent about the PED use, if you're keeping your diet low in saturated fats, doing cardio, even like, you know, probably, you know, it's funny because guys will take all kinds of crazy drugs, but they're scared to take a statin, which is incredibly stupid to me. Like, you know, I usually run a load of statin and I take blood pressure medicine to help deal, mitigate some of those side effects and then not get just big fat and bloated in the off-season on top of it. That's really, that is really good of you to be doing for your health. Just like putting that out there, like statins are a lifesaver. It's one of the few medications that are like so very well-researched to prevent cardiovascular events. Yeah, it's insane to me they'll make, they'll take some drug made in some experimental peptide, made in some dude's bathtub in Bulgaria, but then they're scared to take a statin. It's, yeah, it's insane, or a blood pressure pill. It's insane because they're worried about it affecting their gains. Like, well, being dead and having a heart attack is going to affect your gains, man. Yeah, definitely, and a lot of people, and I'm literally writing a review on ischemic heart disease, but when, as soon as you have a heart, like an actual heart attack or some sort of cardiovascular event or even just low-grade myocardial ischemia, you are putting yourself at such a giant risk for additionALCARdiovascular diseases. It's insane. Yeah, IMean, and you look through out the history of bodybuilding, the guys that pass away, it's almost always some sort of cardiovascular-related thing. And even the kidney diseases that the guys end up with is largely, you know, maybe I'm wrong, but it seems to be largely a result of just years and years and years of uncontrolled high blood pressure from being bloated and being too heavy. Yeah, IMean, it would make sense because I know that the angiotensin system is very closely linked with not only the heart, but also the kidneys, too. So it's a pretty well-conserved loop that is just nasty to be continuously, like, aggressively going at. Well, IMean, heavy androgens are going to stimulate the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system, RAS system. We know that. A lot of guys seem to be more proactive about managing that now. It used to be that nobody was. IMean, that's going to cause long-term issues. A lot of guys let their estrogen get way too high when they're on their, IMean, like, three, four, five times the reference range. They just don't even realize it. And then you end up with a bunch of water retention and other issues, increased cancer risk, everything that goes along with that in men. And then the shitty diet on top of it. Guys just get fat. They think getting fat is productive for putting on muscle. And you, it's just, it's a multitude. It's just a cascade. Well, you know how it works. It's just a cascade of problems that coalesce together to cause big issues, cardiovascular issues and kidney issues. Usually, that's usually what you see in the bodybuilding community that get guys. Yeah, and those sorts of cardiovascular issues, they just, they'll get progressively worse. Something that I've been writing about a lot is how. 꼴이웁세제, 꼴어리웁세제 alumni followed by pseudolarity or sessation of sexual morphodotonies, paul noel schuster has his own body Countas in Laws fading, I am in the right mouth is growing and most eternity my parents, care, I grew up in aromasingle family, me, so as soon as they made their decision, they got moved. Alyssa Bianco is a fifteen year old medical student, she's been working at cardiomyopathies are so closely linked to arrhythmias. I totally forgot about sleep apnea, most big guys have untreated sleep apnea on top of it, you mentioned low oxygen levels, that's another issue. Oh my god, that just actually, so I was literally just reading a little paper on this and even though it's in rats and it is a mechanistic paper, it's a very well conducted mechanistic paper. So I, I very much enjoy reading those sorts of things. But basically what they did was they gave these rats intermittent hypoxia overnight. So that's why I was like thinking about the sleep apnea thing simulated sleep apnea, pretty much. And what they noticed is when they, after these intermittent phases of sleep apnea, or hypoxia, or low oxygen, what happened was when they ligated the heart, or it was the left ascending, no, left anterior descending coronary artery, and they ligated it both in vivo and ex vivo, they found that the rats that were exposed to hypoxia intermittently were at a significantly greater risk for ventricular arrhythmias, which was a lethal ventricular arrhythmias. So incidence and severity basically doubled. It was absolutely insane. And I can send you the paper as well, because the graphs are, they're very astounding. Yeah, it's crazy. And, and most big dudes do have some sort of sleep apnea, as your neck gets thicker, you, you become heavier, you have more, almost every I usually just tell people just go get checked. You can get the home test kits now. And almost anybody who's been bodybuilding or powerlifting for any period of time has sleep apnea. I have it, I have a CPAP I use. You know, but yeah, it's, it's a problem. You know, and you compound that in with the other things. And then also having elevated hemoglobin, red blood cell count, hematocrit, on top of it, there's just a bunch of issues that can, that can happen. It's just a big cascade. Yeah, it's, it's really good that you like take care of your health. So like closely, like, that's something that I don't see a lot in a lot of like the bodybuilders that I just see on social media. But that's very well, trust me, I still do stupid shit. But I try to, you know, balance it out. You use use instead of having the gas pedal mashed down 365 days a year, you strategically do it and take some chances when you do it. But you can, the way I look at it, it's sort of like racing a motorcycle 200 miles an hour around a racetrack, it is inherently dangerous, no matter how safely you do it. But you can mitigate some of that risk if you do things like wear a helmet and learn how to ride the bike and wear a track suit and things like that. And the same thing with bodybuilding, there's there are, if you're going to do it, and this is why I try to get out there and talk to people about harm reduction, if you're going to do it, there is a more intelligent way, a safer way, there is no 100% safe way to do it, you're still it's still inherently loaded with risk. But keeping mindful of those things definitely help. IMean, I feel like it's the same thing with any sort of profession or thing you go into, there's always going to be some sort of risk, whether it's even like at an office job, like being sedentary, will drastically increase your risk for chronic disease. Me being in a lab, I'm constantly exposed to chemicals that are carcinogenic. And I could pass out if I accidentally open the isoflurane the wrong way. So it's like, there's, there's risks to everything. But if you get your like HIV shot, if you're working in a lab, or if you make sure you get up and exercise as an office worker, or you make sure to do your, like, do your healthful routine and like not blast the pedal on the PEDs all the time. There's ways to mitigate those risks and make it a little bit safer to do. Yeah, I'm 50 years old. I'm still here doing it. So I don't know how smart it is at my age, but I'm still here. But hey, it's you're probably still here because you were smart about it. Probably. That's probably true. Let's talk about hypertrophy a little bit. It's something I wanted to dig in with you. I heard you talking about mechanisms for hypertrophy. This is another one that gets people very, very upset and angry and emotional about it. People are very emotional about their diets. They're also very emotional about their trening. Yep, that's pretty much the idea. I've seen it so much. To start, I guess I should say that we don't have all the data on hypertrophy. It is virtually impossible to have all of the data, especially with some new, very interesting stuff coming out about electrical stimulation, which would implicate a separate mechanism from what we knew before, which was a lot of the idea of stretch. How do you want to start? Well, I heard you talk about stretch-mediated, the whole theory on stretch-mediated hypertrophy and that that's just completely false, right? Yeah. Basically, it's them blowing up the mechanistic data and not understanding it, so they blew it up out of proportion. Now, yes, stretching the actual muscle fiber and stretching components of your muscle does promote hypertrophy, but on the same end of the stick or on the same stick or coin or whatever you want to call it, that stretch can also damage the muscle cell and lead to more injury. It's the idea that muscle hypertrophy and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and damage and injury are on a spectrum. If you're really taking it too hard in the gym, then you're not going to grow because that's what overtrening is. It's very well understood that there's overtrening and that exists. It's the same thing with anything else in trening. You can't do too much of one thing. Yeah, this has always driven me nuts. You'll hear the bros talk about, tear it down and build it back up, as if injuring yourself or actually tearing or hurting the muscle is conducive. From what I understand, that's not how things work and you're actually causing damage. You have to recover from that damage before you can actually even grow muscle. Yeah, and something that I really enjoyed listening to on the previous podcast you guys have done, or the podcast that I was mentioned in at least, the stretch mediated calcium channels. Oh my god, I love how cool they are. They're one of the few mechanically activated channels that are in your body and they're so, so incredibly interesting. Mechanotrensduction is incredible. Putting that aside, yes, there's a thing to be said about tension and causing the nuclear flattening, allowing yaptas to come in, allowing the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factors to bind, allowing the satellites to proliferate, all that fun stuff. On the same end of the spectrum, too much calcium is toxic for the cell. If you're stretching too much, you're just going to be damaging muscle fibers and it does not make sense. No, you're just tearing and not building anything at that point. Yep, that's pretty much what it is. Something really, really interesting I found. I've been in contact with a few. I hope he doesn't mind me bringinGHim up in this podcast, but he's been helping me read a little bit more into the mechanisms because I found them so interesting. But Brett Contreras, he said... Oh yeah, I've talked to Brett before. Oh, he's super cool and he sent me a couple of these really interesting papers. One of them found that there's these connective proteins between actin and myosin, so the thick and thin filament of your functional unit of your muscle that allows you to contract. There's proteins that exist between them, which when you stretch the muscle forcibly will break them, which breaks the connection between actin and titin, which makes it harder to trensduce signals that allow for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So if you stretch things too forcibly, it's almost like biology sets up a sentence, you just have to finish it. That's really interesting. Have you talked to Dr. Mike Israetel at all? I really want to. Yeah. He went to my school, so it'd be very interesting to speak with him. Yeah, Mike's great. He's a funny guy too. Yeah. Yeah, I've seen some of his videos. He's got a good sense of humor, so it'd be very interesting to talk to the founder of Arpeed. Yeah, Mike's a cool guy. There's a lot of other really smart guys out there. God, I'm trying to think. Paul Carter, I don't know if you've talked to him. He has some interesting theories on trening. I think a lot of it align with what you're talking about. It's funny though. I think what happens in body building is that PEDs really allow you... degenerative big brain, degenerative pancreas vertebralar, degenerative palatal, degenerative ovaries, degenerative testicles, degenerative ovarian, degenerative vasculous delivery and black fat b Kubectlast!!!!!! Keep in mind that a strict diet must have a relentlessunciation Fan Guy formula and high twenty fat control for sexual activity. Basically, um, sorry, uh, it's, if this here's, let me use my marker analogy again, cause it, it helps. So let's say that this is mechanical tension. So this mark here is mechanical tension. It's, this would be the trening and this would be the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Now on this side, we've got recovery and we've got injury and then the muscle recovering. There's no change in muscle size on this side, but there is a change on this side. So when you have more muscle hypertrophy, it goes up, you got more growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Now, when you throw steroids into the mix, let's say this marker here is steroids. It will follow the same path, but instead of leading to no change, you have extra growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So what I know about steroids, and we use this to cause differentiation in cells, at least with like some anabolics and steroid hormones, um, steroids tend to cause differentiation and proliferation. So it's similar to muscle regeneration, but you don't have the injury and you don't have the muscle staying the same at the end of the pathway, but the same pathways being activated. It's not, it's not like a, it's not a new magical pathway to muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. It's just the same one with different initiating factors and outcomes. Yeah. It's, and Paul, we had Paul on occurred, I don't know, a few weeks back and we had a really, really long discussion because Paul was fascinated because he says I do absolutely everything wrong in his opinion. And I ended up, um, um, you know, I put on like 60 pounds and in three years of stage weight. Um, but he was just fascinated in the role that PEDs played into it. Uh, but he has different takes on, on hypertrophy, but yeah, it's, um, you know, I, I use a lot of, I wouldn't say high volume, I would say moderate volume trening. I did mostly tren like mostly like, uh, I did Dr. Mike Ezrietel's style of trening. I don't know if you've read any of his, um, trening stuff, but, um, it's sort of a, um, a periodized volume program where you increase volume over a four to five week block and then you back off and then you add more weight and then you move the volume up again. It's sort of, it's pretty, pretty simple in concept, but, and nothing's to failure. And I think that kind of blue pole pull away that I grew that much trening that way. IMean, pretty much like if you tren a certain way and you're able to tren it to a certain extent, you're going to grow. Um, especially if you have good genetics and you're throwing PEDs in the mix, it's, it's kind of like a, it's like you're setting yourself up for success even though it could be better. So it's like a mix between the two. Um, IMean, even with like that trening study where you've got the people who are doing nothing but taking PEDs, it's like if you have three avenues of like, you're either growing muscle, keeping muscle the same or growing muscle. And, but that's the same pathway as like keeping muscle the same. It's just different outcomes. You know, I don't know where I'm going with this, but like either which ways it's like, it's, uh, if you're setting yourself up for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, you're going to grow. It's not like a on and off switch. You're not good. Just like you don't like one extra set and then your muscles go into balloon mode and shrink to non-existence. Yeah. IMean, so, so much of it is just, uh, like you were saying genetics too. IMean, there's just some, I heard you talk about, uh, uh, Nexilla. I think you had a, had a thing up about him talking about him having the, uh, myostatin, um, uh, the genetic, uh, alteration in the myostatin gene, right? Yeah. There's a ton of small nucleotide polymorphisms, which are so interesting. Um, just to like briefly explain what that is. Cause I know people are probably wondering, it's just a switch between one and two nucleotide bases. Um, and that's just like the basic building block of your DNA. So like if you had a green nucleotide base, you'd be switched for a red. So that's the idea behind that. There was, um, I don't know if you found it or not. I think it was done back in the early 2000s. They tested, um, a bunch of bodybuilders to see if they had the alteration in myostatin and they found a bunch of elite bodybuilders did. I think it was Flex Wheeler back then they found that had, had, um, had the genetic, um, whatever the genetic alteration is. Uh, but it'd be interesting to see how, because some guys just seem like they just keep growing forever. Like they just don't fucking stop growing. And then other people, they hit a upper limit and they can't grow past a certain point. Yeah. It's a mixture between epigenetic markers, genetic markers. Um, you've got your small little SNPs or single nucleotide polymorphisms and then combine that with like being a hyper responder to gear. And it's a, it's a pretty crazy combination that you can have there for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Um, there's a lot. I remember Dr. Dean, Dean St. Mart. I've had him on a few times. I don't know if you're familiar with him, but, um, talking about, um, high responders to gear, it has something to do with CAG repeats and the, and the, um, androgen receptor. I don't remember the exact thing you would probably know, but I remember him talking about that, how that alters response to, um, androgens. Does it increase like recycling of the androgen receptor or is it like? I don't recall. I remember, I don't, it's one or the other. Like if you have less, you have a better response. I think it's more, maybe it was more, you have less of a response. I don't recall exactly. That's very interesting. I'm totally slawed hearing this, but, uh, it definitely had to do with CAG repeats with your response to the, uh, the PEDs. CAG as in you're saying like cysteine, cysteine, um, uh, what is it? Adenine or something like that. And then it's just like the nucleotide bases there. Oh, that's very interesting. I'm wondering if it either causes a constitutive binding or recycling of the receptor. Um, just to like explain the, like androgens bind to the androgen receptor, the androgen receptor dimerizes. So it's kind of like a tyrosine kinase receptor where they just clamp together down on the ligand and then it gets trenslocated to the nucleus for trenscription. I'm wonderinGHow exactly, I'm assuming it gets recycled faster because I feel like if it was constitutively bound, it wouldn't promote trenscription as well, but beats me. I'd be very interested to speak to that. Yeah. I remember him talking about it. They, that's what him and Kurt, that's what Kurt researchers, but it was interesting. Um, because there are some people that seem to be just complete non-responders to PEDs that can take infinite amount of PEDs and they don't grow. And then other people that just take a small amount and then they blow up. I tend to be a hyper responder to stuff. I, it doesn't take much and I just, I balloon right back up. IMean, I think I would, I would attribute non-responsiveness to the actual binding. So like for example, on a molecular level, if somebody has a mutation in their androgen receptor and only their androgens can bind to the androgen receptor, if you take an exogenous androgen that was made in a lab, it's not made specifically for your genetic mutation. So that's, that's something that I've, the only reason why I think that could be a really big contributing factor is because I've seen it in mice where you'll knock down a gene. If you knock it down, um, and you genetically modify the actual mouse before it's born, it'll adapt to that genetic modification and work in a different way than if you were to knock it down after the mouse was already mature. Interesting. But PEDs, the response of PEDs is pretty wild. Like you'll, you'll see it from, and then there's some people that just, it doesn't matter what you do. They just don't grow. It's they're outliers. Let's say most people are, from what I've seen, you know, just from practical experience, I've trened hundreds of people over the years. Most people sit somewhere in the middle. The genetics are a wild thing. It's, it's the same thing like with a fat loss too. Like I've seen some people thinking everybody can get lean, but there's just some people that get that just chiseled paper thin skin lean that some people can't get. It doesn't matter how hard you diet them, they just will not get that. Yeah. I'd be curious if there's any like mutations in collagen forming genes in your skin that would make that more exaggerated, especially like the thin skin sort of thing. I could see like collagen and extra cellular matrix coding genes being involved in that. That would be interesting to do like a little, a little trenscriptomic on. That would be fun. Yeah, because bodybuilding is not just the ability. bowelaineutaniemulous, bowellassie, bowelchromatase, bowelbuster, bowellocated, bowelcention, bowelontolety, bowel Rooseopathic, bowelneutrogenics, bowelnow, bowelneuroditionally, bowelfibrosis, boweltotism, bowelregeneration, bowelrepair, bowlmedicity, bowelrudification, bowelhealing, bowelstress, bowel Etc etc You can feed them unreal amounts of food, they can take all the PEDs they want and they just never grow. Yeah, IMean that's the normal curve. It's like you got the really the common people in the middle and then everybody else. I wanted to talk about protein too. I feel like most bodybuilders vastly overeat protein. They eat way too much protein, more than what they need because there's really not that much protein synthesis that actually goes on when you're growing muscle from day to day. It seems like people are backing off of it now, but the whole thing like eating four or five hundred grams of protein a day just seems entirely unnecessary to me. I see your eyes already. I'm sorry. I thought like 200 grams or like maybe like one gram per pound of body weight. I wouldn't have imagined like I was about to say like you can kind of get away with eating above one gram per pound of body weight if you want just for like taste. Look man, I love whey protein powder. I love steak. I love meat. That sounded wrong. But I like I love protein. So I like I have like what 160 grams of protein and I weigh 125. So it's like if you eat extra protein, it's not really going to negatively impact you, but you don't have to. With that being said, 400 grams of protein is quite a bit. Well, you hear there was a bro logic and it still exists in the high ranks of bodybuilding where you eat two grams per pound of body weight. And when you're a 250, 300 pound bodybuilder, you're eating five, six hundred grams of protein in the offseason. Literally guys eating 12 ounces of meat six times a day doing that kind of diet. Yeah, it's crazy. That's so insane. Yeah, I could never imagine doing that. Personally, I can never imagine like even if I was that heavy, I would stick it to like one gram because I'm just that heavy. Yeah, you don't need to eat a crazy amount of protein to build muscle. With that being said, eating a lot of protein can also just be tasty. So, yeah, no, it's good. What the thing that I that that gets me is you see a lot of bodybuilders with distended guts and that we could we could argue the reasons why they have distended guts. But you see a lot of guys with diastasis and I think a lot of it just comes from overeating. Oh, yeah, that I could imagine that being a cause of that. Like you don't you really don't need to overeat to stimulate. You don't need to overeat protein to stimulate muscle protein synthesis. Overeating fat, overeating protein, overeating carbs don't need to do any of that. If it like IMean, it even says it in the word overeat, if you're overeating, that's more than what your body needs. So it's like it's. Yeah, IMean, there is a certain point you do have to have, you know, like we talked about, you get to a certain size, you need more food just to keep the keep the metabolism, keep up with the metabolism. But, yeah, I think a lot of guys just vastly overeat and then they end up with you'll see another chronic problem that happens in bodybuilders as they age. If you're going to get into this, follow this community is a lot of people end up with serious stomach issues, serious gut issues, mass, you know, IBS, acid reflux, all sorts of problems with gut issues. And it's probably a combination of the drugs and the overeating that they do. Oh, acid reflux is. Yeah, that's that would definitely be a big issue. And if I were to say like one thing to discourage people away from doing that is that acid reflux can drastically increase your risk for esophageal cancer, which will make it even harder for you to maintain size. So try not to overeat that that badly. I know personally of two people that have died from esophageal cancer. Oh, I'm so sorry. Yeah, it's a terrible way to go to not not a not a good way to go. Yeah, that's another thing, too. A lot of guys end up with hiatal hernias, too, from from, you know, lifting and then you get acid up in your stomach from that or up in your throat from that. There's all sorts of issues. But I, I does seem to be now that guys are being more reasonable with what they eat and have gotten the gut, the big gut issues under control. But everybody used to blame growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and it doesn't seem to be growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone was the issue. It was more of the overeating. It was probably some of it's probably visceral fat accumulation from insulin resistance from hammering growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And it's indirectly result of the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone would be my guess. And taking insulin and things like that. Yeah, I could definitely imagine that. I also find it very funny how people seem to think that insulin is the most anabolic thing on the block, which is a little bit comical to me, considering it's mostly a metabolic hormone. But that's that's another story. Yeah. And I think the whole insulin thing, you know, I've messed around with it, but really it's it's it's not directly anabolic. We know that. Right. And I think the reason why it ended up in the sport is because guys were just eating so much food. You have to have insulin just to even deal with it. Yeah. And at that point, it's like it's just about regulating food intake, because as you said, it's like overeating is not not healthy. Yeah. At the end of the day, it's body mass index, right? It's probably the biggest risk factor for disease, you know, being you know, you don't see many 270 pound 70 year old bodybuilders. Yeah, IMean, at some point it is a matter of BMI, which I've gotten flack before in the past because I took an obesity management class not too long ago. Yes, BMI does not work for a lot of athletes just because of muscle mass and muscle mass is not necessarily like it's not really accounted for in BMI. But with that being said, the way that health practitioners have been using BMI nowadays is like using BMI alongside looking at the person and waist circumference. And it's like at some point, no matter how much muscle you have, too much weight is still a bad thing. Too much of anything's bad. Your heart still has to work to pump the blood around all of that, right? Well, I appreciate you coming on. I got to wrap this up. This was great information. Where can people find you? You can find me on Instagram, YouTube, TikTok for Scientific Snitch. And she's a great follow folks. You got to go check her out. Her stuff is fantastic. Thank you for coming on, Ella. I appreciate it. Thank you for having me. trenscribed by https://otter.AI