 sindigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigig you probably have heard of. It's a popular weight loss slash diabetes drug that's really been in the news lately, mostly for the weight loss purposes that people are leveraging. It's gotten a lot of traction and popularity in Hollywood as being a miracle weight loss drug. We're going to pull the curtain back and take a look at the nuts and bolts of it and, you know, try to remove some emotion here and talk about what the drug actually is, what it does, what it doesn't do. And we're going to dig into all that in just one second. All right. So properties of semaglutide. It is a glucagon-like peptide, one receptor agonist, GLP-1 agonist. It's sold under the brand names ozempic. That's probably the most popular name that most of you've heard of. Wegovi and Ribelsis. I'm sure you've heard the commercials on TV for O-O-O-O-O-Zempic. Excuse my singing skills here. I know they're terrible. But it originally was an anti-diabetic medication used for treatment of type 2 diabetes. It is now being deployed as an anti-obesity medication. It was originally developed by nolva Nordisk in 2012 as a diabetes medication. It's been used since then and was approved by the FDA for weight loss in 2021. But it's really gained traction as a weight loss drug in the last year or so. It's gotten a lot of popularity. I know a lot of celebrities are using it. People are talking about the great results that they've gotten with it. Effects of a semaglutide. It mimics the GLP-1 hormone of the human body. It's released in the gut in response to eating. It prompts the body to produce more insulin, thusly lowering blood sugar. It improves leptin signaling in the brain and helps improve leptin resistance. The leptin resistance is probably the biggest portion of what helps with weight loss because it is suppressing hunger. It improves postprandial glucose and lipid metabolism, which may play a role in the weight loss. Delays first hour gastric emptying in subjects with obesity, so keeps you feeling fuller longer. Attenuates ghrelin release, the hunger hormone in the body, which also plays a role in hunger signaling, so keeps you from feeling hungry. Reduces insulin resistant, which is most likely mediated by weight loss. It doesn't seem to have, from what I understand, I could be wrong about this, so correct me if I am, it doesn't seem to have a direct effect on insulin resistance. And it lowers glucagon secretion. Glucagon is released by the alpha cells of the pancreas. It raises blood sugar by dumping glycogen. Side effects of semiglutide. Probably the most common side effect you're going to hear people talking about is gut issues, upset stomach. Some people get diarrhea. Some people get nauseous. Some people get constipation, gassiness, bloating. The most common side effect that I've heard from people is nausea, bloating, and gassiness. It does seem to do that. Most of the diabetes medications seem to have that effect. Dizziness and fatigue. I've heard people saying that it makes them feel tired, that it does make them dizzy. Headaches. It does. I mean, there's some information out that indicates, I believe it was in animal studies, that it does seem to cause increased rates of thyroid cancer. So that's something to be aware of if you've had history of cancer in your family, or you've had a personal history of cancer. You may want to avoid it just to be safe. I don't know that this has been seen in humans, but it has been seen in animal models and animal studies. It does cause pancreatitis in some people. I personally know of one person who had some pretty client I was working with that had been prescribed by a doctor and ended up with a pretty severe case of pancreatitis. That can happen. I have seen it personally happen. So these are all things to consider, side effects that consider. No drug comes without side effects or potential downsides. Applications. The application that I see most commonly used now, I don't really see it used that much in bodybuilding. I could see an application or use for it in bodybuilding, maybe on contest prep, but I do not see many people, or at least I have not heard of any bodybuilders using it. I have had quite a few clients that are working through clinics and physicians to be prescribed this that are obese, that have had a lot of success with weight loss from obesity by using this. It is a dieting aid. That's the way I look at it. It's the primary mode of fat loss and how this assists with fat loss is through appetite suppression. It does not increase metabolism. It's not a fat burner. It does lower gastric emptying, making you feel fuller longer. It's probably also why it causes stomach issues. But the primary mode of fat loss is it just makes you less hungry. You don't eat as much. You're going to have appetite suppression. You're going to eat less. You're not going to have binges. And this is something that bothers me with a lot of, I hear like some old school bodybuilding coaches and whatnot out there and they're like, you can't control your appetite. You're weak. You just need to nut up and be a man or whatever and control your appetite and suck it up and suck on ice cubes and deal with the hunger and be a man. I don't buy into that. And these are coming from the same people that use every drug known to man for fat loss, you know, clenbuterol, DMP, ephedrine, you know, Tremblone, but yet they draw the line at, they draw the line at some of glutide. It makes no fucking sense to me. There are some people, usually people that are severely obese that have broken and completely dysfunctional hormone or hunger signaling hormone with their hunger hormones. It's completely messed up. And I used to be one of those guys where you just need to tough it out. But I have seen it personally where there are some people that just cannot control their hunger. They absolutely cannot control their hunger. And so why wouldn't you want to use a tool to fix that? It would be analogous to having a low thyroid and not taking thyroid hormone to bring your thyroid up into normal levels. If your hunger signaling is broken, what's wrong with using a tool or a drug to fix that hunger signaling so you can get the weight off? I've heard people say it's unhealthy and yada, yada, yada, and all these other things. So is being 60 pounds overweight. So I, any risk that you're likely taking with this drug is going to be strongly mitigated, or you're probably even going to come out ahead by losing weight and getting your hunger under control. It does seem to improve insulin production as a bodybuilding tool. I just don't see it really in bodybuilding, especially I've heard some guys talk about using it in the offseason for improved insulin production, but the lowered gastric emptying and the, uh, the lowered hunger signaling is going to be a problem in the offseason for a bodybuilder. I think a better tool would be to just actually use insulin in the offseason. If you, if you're pancreatic, if you have pancreatic insufficiency where you're not making enough insulin, the better option in my opinion would be to just use insulin. It's probably, probably the better tool to use for a bodybuilder in the offseason for guys on contest prep. I mean, I, you know, if, unless you have dysfunctioned hunger signaling, I don't see why you would want to use it. You already feel like crap on contest prep. I don't know why you'd want anything. It's going to make you feel even more nauseous and sick. You're going to have a hunger suppression from all the fat burners that you're taking, from the orals you're taking. It's probably unnecessary for a bodybuilder on, on contest prep, but for a normal person who can't control their appetite, who has problems with binge eating, I think this is a perfectly great and awesome tool. Dosing what, what I've seen with dosing, and I believe this is pretty much what I've seen, um, you know, a lot of clinics use. I know, and I could be wrong about this, but this is generally what I've seen is beginner doses, starting doses. I shouldn't say beginner doses are at 0.25 milligrams per week. Slowly progressing the dose, the max dose would be 2.4 milligrams per week. I've never heard of anybody running it that high. Um, I would imagine if you did, you probably feel pretty awful, but the standard weight loss protocol dosing that I've seen from clinics is weeks one through four, 0.25 milligrams once a week, weeks five through eight, um, half a milligram per week, and then a week's nine through whenever you finish, it's going to be one milligram per week. It is a subcutaneous injection. Um, and that those are the typical dosing protocols that I have seen with, um, with, uh, when it's clinically prescribed. All right, folks, I hope you found this helpful. I think semaglutide is a tool that can be used for weight loss and done so effectively. I've seen quite a few people. One thing to consider, and I have heard that you have a massive hunger rebound when you come off of it. I would imagine if your hunger, uh, hunger signaling is dysfunctional, if your, uh, uh, leptin sensitivity is messed up and your graylin production is high, it's just going to go right back to being that way. When you come off, I, I, I don't know what the protocol is, but I would imagine tapering off or maybe keeping a low dose in, um, until your weight has stabilized. I would not do a diet phase and then come off immediately that I don't know clinically how they're handling that, but I would imagine it's probably pretty, pretty stupid to come off cold Turkey. You're just going to have a massive hunger rebound and you're going to binge eat and get fat again. That's what I would suspect. All right, folks, if you want to support me, support my sponsor, first detachment, use discount code AB10 at checkout. And I appreciate each and every one of you. Take care for coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at big P3RD at gmail.com.