 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. On the big Ramy thing, it's funny you talked about that. I don't know if I've heard Dorian in recent interviews talking about how he, his one big competitive regret was that he had, if he had just pulled back and kind of coasted when he was Mr. Olympia, that he could have been Mr. Olympia maybe for like another five, six years. Steve Weinberger said to him, it's like, you're already big, you don't have to be lifting like this. And I think what he meant was intensity. Yeah. Like you do not need to be doing what you're doing, you need to just maintain. So when they said the same thing to Nick Walker, he did. The motherfucker got bigger. He's a freak, man. And it's not like Ramy lifts heavy either for Ramy. You know, he's doing sets of 20 with 1600 pounds on the leg press. Dude's 350. You know what I mean? Like if I'm doing sets of 20 with a thousand and he's doing sets of mine with 1600, that's not proportionate. So people like, Oh, big Ramy doesn't train hard. He's a pussy is like, well, he doesn't need to train hard to get big, which means he can recover faster, which means he can hit the body parts more frequently, which means he will get bigger. That you can use high volume. If you're strong as fuck, you're not supposed to train high intensity. If you're strong. Yeah. You're just aren't going to handle it. No, you're just exponentially increasing risk of injury. Allah Doreen needs why he started ripping every fucking muscle off the bone towards the end of his career. So case in point, James Hollings head has now started lifting a little bit more strategically. That's why he's been going out to train with JP. Like Ian stopped doing deadlifts because it was making his glutes too big. He's reverted to more machines and cables. Sebum dropped the deadlift, drop the bent rows and focused on more lat specific technical training that brought up his back. It seems like when you're young, then that's the time to focus on building up your base. And then, and then once you hit a certain point, I know we've talked about it before, but once you hit a certain point, then you need to back off a little bit and, you know, be more intelligent with your training. And I think that point is usually 40. Like if you're 40 years old and you're still doing bench squat deadlifts with a barbell, you, that's why you're in pain. Like you need, you could be using machines and training more strategically and be in a lot less pain, which means you recover faster, which. So when they're saying shit, like you can't grow legs after 40, it's like, well, if your system of growing legs was old school, heavy slag iron, then after 40, your knees are going to hurt too much. Your lower back's going to hurt too much to handle the same weight. So your load is going to decrease. If your volume doesn't increase, then you're not going to actually be providing the stimulus to grow more legs. But I think you prove the point. You can grow legs after 40 by high volume. Yeah, mine have grown. I'm having even more like growth this offseason. My legs have blown. I have to show you some pictures about my legs have blown up this offseason. And I don't, I don't do squats. I don't do any, I, everything I do for legs is braced. My, you know, it's, it's hack squats. It's like presses. Um, I'll do some lunges like, you know, with the dumbbells, nothing crazy. I don't, I don't get stupid. Maybe split squats, shit like that, but it's, it's all, it's, I don't do any heavy compound movements. And my, my legs are blowing up the biggest they've ever been. I think mine are tied for the biggest they've ever this year in general, this offseason. I think that the biggest they've ever been. I'm not the strongest. I'm not handling the most weight. No, I'm not either. But I'm handling close with a pause at the bottom of a squat and a slow eccentric, which changed my mind. It changes shit. The strongest I ever was, was in my early thirties. Um, right now it's the biggest I've ever been, I think. So, I mean, they're two different things. I'm definitely not benching even as heavy as I was four months, six months ago. And I don't really understand why, but my chest isn't smaller. It's bigger. I hadn't done a flat bench in two years or a freeway bench period in two years. And I didn't, I did some benching the other week, just, just for the fuck of it. Um, I was surprised how strong that still was, but, um, I, I just, I don't, I do machines and dumbbells anymore. Yeah. I just reincorporated. I've been using all machines, but, and including Smith machine, but I've just reincorporated dumbbells tonight. And I have to, I was last submitted dumbbells. It was the second exercise. And it was like a hundred pounds in dumbbells, 110 pounds for incline. Right. And then today I went and did them as the second exercise for chest. And I was using fifties. And I was like, wow, I've got so much runway on these dumbbells. And because with 110 pounds, I didn't feel shit right. Whereas with the fifties, I felt exactly the exact clavicular head fibers. I wanted to hot fit feel that if I tweak this tweak this, exactly the head of the pack that i want to get to bring up it was funny uh you bring that up because i talked last year i did jay cutler's show and i got to talk to him he was super friendly man i got to talk to him for like an hour um at the show and he was just super chatty with me for whatever reason but he was talking about training we started talking about training and he said he said i never use more than 100 pound dumbbells on dumbbell presses and he goes he goes people think that's not heavy he goes that worked for me and he goes i just felt them more i'm like jay cutler mr olympia said he never used more than 100 pound dumbbells on dumbbell presses right he never used more than 225 on bed press yeah that's crazy to me because he's squeezing his pack yeah and is pulling his humerus up which then drives the bar up he's not pushing the weight he's squeezing the pack he's doing an isolation move like a fly against the barbell video with michael hearn and larry wheels explaining all this like he does guillotine presses slow eccentric with the pause and then he he squeezes it up which is how i try to do it now i've really learned how to do it and it's humiliating you're using a hundred pounds less than you used to use on a bench press but i do it in a smith and i do it on a certain incline and i only use one bench to do it and i use a tape measure to make sure that there is 4.5 inches of this much of the bar before it hits knurling on both sides of the bench and i look at the bench from different angles to make sure it's perfectly in alignment with the smith machine it's so fucking anal it's pathetic people laugh they're like where's your tape measure th th