warning this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A for you. I've got some good questions up today. I have a question about the approach to diet in trening in the post-show rebound phase. I have another question about successful contest prep without using GH. Can you get by with it with just fat burners alone? Do you really need GH? I have another question here about how you can prevent leg size loss during contest prep from cardio. Strategies for a 60 year old competitor who's looking to get their pro card. Should PED users proactively take a statin and blood pressure meds even if their biomarkers are in line? And I have a bunch of other questions as well. Most of thesEQuestions came from my school anabolic bodybuilding members community site. Folks, if you want to join it, it's $29 a month. It's super cheap. You get priority questions answered on thEQ&As that I do. I also check the school member site throughout the week and answer questions over there. So if you just want to ask mEQuestions, we have a great group of people. Over 100 members over there currently and it's a fantastic group of human beings. We also have some coursework up over there on the blast and cruise methodology, insulin, other things, the carb cycling diet, a bunch of other stuff. It's a good group of people. I like everybody that's over there on the group. It's only $29 a month if you want access to ask mEQuestions and get your questions on thesEQ&As and your support the YouTube channel on what I do. That's all I've got for you on that. Let's get in to thEQuestions in just one second. We got a bunch of cardio questions on this Q&A. People are, it's fat loss season. People are asking questions about cardio. First question I got up is from my client Daryl G. He's asking, is off-season cardio handled in the same manner as contest prep cardio or it's different? So this is the way I look at it. I've discussed this before. There's really two purposes for cardio in our sports. We have the contest prep phase where, or diet phase, whatever you want to call it, where we are trying to burn fat and cardio during that phase is purely about energy expenditure. We're just trying to increase energy expenditure and create a net negative energy balance. So we are burning fat and losing body fat. What I found the best cardio for that is low intensity, steady state cardio that has the best, you know, balance of fat burning and preventing muscle loss. Really the way I look at it during contest prep, we have a few jobs. We want to burn fat. We want to get fat free. We want to make sure that we don't lose muscle. That's two things. And we want to keep ourselves from gettinGHurt. Really that simple. You're not going to gain muscle on contest prep. Very uncommon for people to gain muscle in a caloric deficit. It does happen on occasion, but it's very uncommon. Something that should not be expected. The way I look at it, it's a gift. I've been doing bodybuilding for 30 years and I've been coaching people off and on during that period of time. And I can count the number of times I've seen people gain on a prep during a cut on one hand. And I've worked with hundreds of people. It's only happened for me on one contest prep and that was last year where I actually ended up on stage at around the same weight. I started prep or maybe even a little bit heavier, but it's very uncommon. You have to have a perfect set of circumstances for that to happen. So let's just rule that out. In the offseason, the cardio, really the purpose is cardiovascular health. We're trying to keep our heart healthy as we push the food up, as we increase our body weight. We want to help performance in the gym. So during the offseason, and this is kind of a trick that I learned from my coach, Justin Harris, HIIT cardio is a great alternative for increasing cardiovascular output and capacity. We want to do, and what I like to do, I like the cycle or the elliptical. And what I will do is 20 second sprints, 40 seconds of just kind of easy going when I do cardio. You know, you folks know I don't like cardio, but in theory, this makes more sense because we're going to get our heart rate up higher. We're going to increase our capacity for cardiovascular output, and this is going to help our heart health. Now, if you want to mix in some walks and some low intensity steady state, that's fine, but that's not really going to provide us the cardiovascular benefits that we're going to get from something that's a little more intense, where we get our pulse up and actually give our heart some work. And that HIIT cardio is going to help with your capacity on things like doing squats, deadlifts, any heavy, very demanding exercise. You'll notice anybody who's gotten big in the offseason, as your weight increases, as you get bigger, your capacity to be able to do heavy exercise sometimes just gets limited by your cardiovascular output. You're huffing and puffing, taking deep breaths when you're 270-280 pounds after a set of squats, and you've got to sit down for 10 minutes to recover. That's not going to be beneficial for your progress. So really, short spurts of HIIT cardio in the offseason, longer duration, steady state for contest prep, lower intensity for fat loss. It's really that simple. All right, next question here is from Aaron G. Would 10-20 repetitions for deadlift be good for mass phase or is the rep range better suited for legs, calves, and forearms? Sort of my approach has always been for the heavier compound movements. I really don't do deadlift squats or bench presses anymore. I think as you progress into being an advanced bodybuilder, you need to take a hard look at it and see if the risk versus reward ratio is really there. I decided that it's just not worth the risk to do those. But when I was doinGHeavy compound movements, I would keep the rep ranges lower. I found that to be more beneficial, somewhere in that 6-10 rep range. I don't know who the fuck wants to do 10-20 reps of deadlifts. That sounds terrible to me. My lower back hurts just thinking about it. I'm sure you could get some hypertrophy from it or some sort of benefit from it, but I would not want to do that. That's going to be a huge amount of energy expenditure. And if you're going balls out and doing a 20-rep set on deadlifts, what gas are you going to have left in the tank for the rest of your workout to do your rowing exercises and the other movements that you do in a typical back workout? I am going to guess nothing. The gas tank is going to be empty. There's not going to be anything left. So I would say stay away from that altogether. I would not do it. I would also carefully evaluate if deadlifts are the best option for you as well. I think for bodybuilding, probably something like rack pulls if you're going to do a hip hinge movement or RDLs, you know, I'm sorry, stiff-legged deadlifts, Romanian deadlifts, things like that are probably going to be a better option for bodybuilding purposes. I think front floor deadlifts or sumo deadlifts are not really a, when we look at the cost versus benefit ratio, they're not really that great for bodybuilding purposes. Now for powerlifting, obviously you're going to have to do them. For strength athletes, they are a requirement. Next question here is from John. John asked, thoughts on traveling on an airplane with gear? Would it be better to take a max dose before leaving a trip and take a week off of GH or just take your chances and fly with the goods and check? I personally wouldn't take the risk. To me, it's not worth it. I don't want to be in the airport with my family and be in handcuffs and security. Probably not worth the risk. I just usually either take a week off from the gear or just take a little extra before I leave. Now I do know guys that travel, they put them in their check bag, never have problems from what I understand. I don't think that the guys at TSA really care much about a little growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or testosterone unless they have some sort of agenda. I think they're more likely just looking for bombs and other contraband that might be dangerous on the flight. I would probably not take the chance to me unless you're, you know, a competitor going into a show or something, then you probably don't have a choice. But otherwise, I just wouldn't take the chance. I just take off when I'm traveling. If I have a vacation or something, I just spend the time with my family. A week off of gear is not going to kill me. The half-life on most of the stuff, it's going to be in your system for weeks. You're not going to crash from one week of being of no injections. You know, I get it's not ideal, but you're not going to lose everything in a week. That's my two cents. All right, next question here is from Chris Gelbaugh. Chris asks, does trening change on a cruise in an attempt for your peak health or before entering an off-season push? I keep my trening the same and I have a few reasons for this. Look, I'm not trying to set PRs on the cruise phase, but I often find that my strength does increase when I'm on the cruise. It's a fascinating thing. I don't, and I've heard other, I've talked to other pros and other people who reported the same thing. I don't know if it's just because you're giving your CNS a break or it's the toxic load of the drugs. I really, you know, I'm just speculatinGHere. This is just all bro-sciencey shit. There's no science behind it, but I have noticed that my strength will go up and improve when I'm on cruise. Body composition tends to decline, but I think a mistake that a lot of guys make is they pull the gear out or they go down to TRT and then they lose the motivation to tren and follow the diet. And they say that, well, you can't maintain what you look like on just TRT in trening. And it's not because of their doses are lower. It's because they've just started trening like, you know, little bees and they have stopped following a structured diet and then their results reflect that. It's really just that simple. I think if you're able to push, you don't need to, like I said, go out and set records, but just try to maintain, maybe pull the volume back a little bit. Sometimes I'll do that if recovery is in question and I'll just do the same thing that I did when I was on my push and try to maintain my gains that IMade from my push. And then when I start my next push phase coming out of the cruise, I am not spending the first six weeks trying to recover all the shit that I lost during the cruise. I'm actually at a break-even point and I can push higher. So that's my thought processes. Paul Robinson asked about the post-diet, post-cut, post-show rebound. What is your favorite approach to diet trening in trening immediately following a deep cut phase post-show for the initial first two weeks and then for the remainder of six to eight weeks of the rebound phase leading into the recovery period? So this is what I've seen post-cut and this is where guys will make or break their off-season. If you can keep yourself disciplined in that first two weeks with your food, there's going to be a huge temptation to eat. I know a lot of dudes that come out. I'll see them all the time. I can almost predict the guys that are going to lose their their shit post-show and gain like 40 pounds in two weeks. I've had more than a handful of guys do it and they'll just disappear. I won't see check-ins and then they report back in a couple weeks later and their ankles look like watermelons and they've blown up and put on 40-50 pounds. Most of it's water from eating like shit. And then you end up fucking your whole off-season up and all your progress for the year because of two weeks of binge eating. So it's really important to keep your food locked in post-show. I'm starting to wonder now if running a GLP-1 post-show just to help with the appetite suppression might be smart because there is this huge just rebound in hunger that happens. Graylin always wins. Graylin is undefeated when it comes. I'm a guy that has pretty fucking strong willpower when I put my mind to something and I remember going and saying you know there's a show I did one time I'm like I'm going to be locked in and ready to go post-show and then I went to Costco and smashed an entire jumbo-sized thing of cookies. I think there were 36 cookies. I remember doing the math on it and it was it was over 20,000 calories or something like that and one you know that I smashed in 30 minutes post-show. Then you wonder why you're all swollen up. So I would say immediately post-show you got to get through that first couple weeks where the hunger is going to be terrible. What I like to do diet-wise to keep people sane is I will just throw some high carbohydrates at things. Maybe push up the protein a little bit to keep them full. Keep the fats lower. Try to keep you know they're going to eat regardless. People usually are just going to lose their mind. I know I understand the logic of reverse dieting and I know a lot of coaches do that and have some success with it but I just find that most people fail at it. They just they just are incapable of doing it you know slowly reversing out and most people just don't have the the discipline or the ability to control the urge to eat. So we might if we're going to fuck up rather than fuck up let's just fill up on some good food post-show. Eat a lot of meat. Eat a lot of rice. Just fill up on on on there's only so much damage you can do from eating chicken and beef and rice. You're not gonna you're not gonna make yourself obese eating that post-show. So usually what I'll do is run multiple high days and I'll have guys check back in three to four days post diet. We'll see what water retention looks like. Some dudes just have massive water rebounds after they've been on a diet phase for a long time and we may need to be a little more conservative with things then but most guys handle it okay. I would say like 90% of people look okay as long as they've they've been disciplined with the diet. Usually the guys that have the big water rebound are the guys that are out smashing pizza and cookies and donuts and all the trash food that contributes nothing to your physique. So if you can just fill up on good food I think you're going to be pretty safe and I like to get aggressive with the food post diet and you have a golden opportunity in that six to eight week window to put on some serious size. It doesn't work 100% of the time. I know I have had some guys I work with that it just it just doesn't happen and I've had post-show periods where I've had massive rebounds where I've just gotten huge and strong and filled out and then I've had other shows where nothinGHappens. It you know it's it's really hard to predict. I think sometimes the body just needs to breathe. So you really just have to see. I will say this trening you got to be really careful with trening coming out of a cut especially if you've been running a lot of you know AIs and things that are going to wind straw shit like that that's going to dry you out because what's going to happen is when you start eating that food you're going to replenish your glycogen and you're going to have a rapid increase in strength right away. You're going to have more water in your body, you're more leveraged in your lifts just from from filling back out and strength is going to rock it up quickly but your joints are all beat up and dried out from the AIs and the wind straw. I've seen so many dudes tear muscles that first couple weeks post-show. So usually I sort of ease the trening back up and just the food alone and doing pump workouts post post-show the first couple weeks is going to be enough to put a bunch of size on and blow back up. So I'll just do a little more volume. I'll keep the weights a little more conservative. I won't go to absolute failure and then slowly start increasing things heading into my offseason and I find the wheels kind of fall off the rebound phase after about six to eight weeks. You have this rapid regain in body weight most of the time you can keep yourself pretty lean. I know the science-based people are going to say that's impossible. I've seen it happen a hundred fucking times. Hundreds of times where dudes will put on 20, 30, 40 pounds and very little minimal body fat during that rebound phase if they manage it correctly. Now once again doesn't happen 100% of the time and a lot of times when it doesn't it's because you fucked up and if you fuck up that first two weeks you're screwed man. We basically have to go back into a diet and get the water off get you clened up and you just you're pushing the reset button and doing it all over again. You're making things worse for you when you do that. I've had tons of clients do it. I've done it to myself before. You just set yourself back. So that's the big thing is just be disciplined with the food. Don't fuck up post-show. All right next question here is from Jake Maurer. Jake I think I got it right this time let me know. I fucked it up on the last one. What are some strategies to keep cardio from impacting leg day recovery while in prep? Even though I ease up on cardio the day of leg days the rest day or after I am still having issues recovering probably the lower leg trening vault lower leg trening volume. Thanks Paul. PS the last name rhymes with power. Thanks for letting me know. So I got it right now. It's power Maurer. I think I got it right Jake. So here's my strategy that I employ. You guys know that I do carb cycling. I try to sync my high carbohydrate day up on contest prep if for no other reason than it leg day is the highest energy demand day. I am going to do my one carbohydrate day per week on contest prep on my leg day. So I have plenty of fuel in the gas tank to get through that leg trening. I also another strategy I employ on leg day the high day is I do no cardio on high days and I pull all the fat burners and stimulants on the high days during contest prep. So we have six days a week that we're doing fat burning and we have one day a week where we're using it for recovery and to replenish glycogen and there's no reason to take fat burners or do cardio on a day where you're in a caloric surplus right because we're going to be in a surplus on that high carbohydrate day. So it makes zero sense to do you know cardio is not really really help us on that day and taking fat burners is not really going to help us on that day. So why not let's yank that out use the other six days a week for the fat burning use that as a rest and recovery day and we can put our most difficult trening day in on that day and just reap multiple benefits. I don't know why I really maybe I'm the first one I don't know I haven't heard of anybody else doing this and it it you know it makes I started doing this the last couple years in my own preps because I have a hard time hanging on to leg size during contest prep and it just made so much more sense for me to do this way and then I get to the point where I can't sleep from all the fat burners and the stimulants and my CNS is just on overdrive and you get a great night of sleep from your hard leg trening and from having all the carbohydrates in you give your body a break and it keeps your legs fully through the contest prep. I found this strategy works really really well. All right next question here is from Joe D. Joe asks, is it possible to have a contest prep without using GH especially when incorporating compounds like KLEAN and other fat burners? Is HGH essential for achieving peak conditioning and fullness? Well the answer is simple you can go back and look at the history of bodybuilding what physiques look like before HGH and what they look like after pretty much when Dorian Yates started winning Olympia titles is when dudes started using growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone like everybody was blasting growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone at that point. I'm sure there were some people experimenting with it beforehand but you can see the massive leap forward in fullness and hardness and size. I don't know around that 1992-1993 time period in bodybuilding you know when we went from you know people like Lee Haney and those guys that were around in the 80s or even earlier 80s you know like Tom Platz and Mike Mentzer and those dudes and then we took the massive step forward in size and conditioning to Dorian Yates, Nasser, Kevin LeBron, Paul Dillard IMean there was a huge leap forward at that point so the only thing that really changed at that point in time I think guys well before then I know guys used to cycle on and off and the guys in the 90s from what I've heard they'll tell you otherwise some of the dudes will tell you otherwise but they went to blast and cruise then they weren't fucking coming off. If they did it was just for six weeks or they were running their version of coming off was I heard a story about a former Mr. Olympia and his coming off was 500 tests and 300 EQ. That's what he meant by coming off that was coming off so just so you know but I would say you know look that's the look you're going to achieve. Now I have dudes on contest prep sometimes where I will yank the GH towards the end just because of water retention some dudes really hold a lot of water on GH but what I found is when you pull the GH out you lose fullness too. So it's this trade-off between hardness conditioning and fullness. I usually like to leave GH in all the way up until you know about seven days out sometimes I even run it up right up to a couple days out depending on what levers we need to pull for fullness. I would say if you want to compete at a high level in today's bodybuilding that GH is a necessity. You're not going to look like everybody else that's on stage. If I were using GH and you weren't I'm likely going to beat you. I'm just saying I don't mean to be cruel about it but that's you know look I love Arnold Schwarzenegger. I love Tom Platts. I love those guys from the 70s Frank Zane but they would get absolutely smashed on stage standing next to Phil Heath or Dorian Yates even back to Dorian Yates or Jake Hutler. Those guys would look like regional show when it's compared to those dudes if you put them on stage next to each other. So if you want to compete you want to have that modern physique look you're probably going to have to run growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Now if you don't give a fuck if you're just trying to look good be healthy look like kind of a 70s or 80s bodybuilder that's what you're going to get by not running GH with your contest prep. All right next question here is from Scott Brinkman. I started competing not so long ago as an over 60s competitor. I did seven shows back to back. Holy fuck Scott. I'm now wanting to go to the next level and run an IFBB pro card. I'm thinking I probably need to put on some more muscle mass to do so. I have no problem getting shredded. I'm planning on entering one show per year to stay in practice and being on stage and still give my body a chance to grow. Does that sound like a good strategy to you Paul? Yeah and it's funny I was just talking with a friend today about this and this is what I have noticed with master's competitors. When you do multiple shows in a year as a master's competitor usually the subsequent shows you don't look as good. I found that you get one maybe two good peaks per year and you need some time between those peaks and in and it's really hard to make progress as an older guy. We need we need to be we need times for our body to rest and recover and really the most stressful time the to me the highest risk time as a bodybuilder is contest prep. We're putting the gas pedal down to the floor. Rest sucks. That's when we're taking the harshest compounds. That's when we are pushing our bodies the hardest with cardio and extra posing and extra trening. Not sleeping. It is a lot of fatigue to put on an old body and you're just not going to grow if you're doing that. If you're doing seven shows back to back you're giving yourself zero opportunity to recover and to progress forward. You just are. Now with that said there is a balance. I think running the multi-year off-season that I see a lot of younger guys do is also not beneficial. You do hit a point where you've extended offseasons for so long where you just start to get fatter. There's there's only so long you can push a caloric surplus before you start getting fatter. I would say for a master's competitor two shows per year is probably the maximum I would do and I would would have them spaced out many months apart five six months apart. If you can run back-to-back shows I would you know maybe that would be okay. I had given some strong consideration last year to doing master worlds which was five weeks after my my pro card win and part of me wishes I had part of me wish I'm glad I didn't. I can tell you when you push hard and you give your all to a show as an older guy you know especially when you get over 50 it's hell on your body and you need time to recover post-show and then you need time to also make progress and progress is really difficult for us to begin with so you need that break. You need that break programmed in so I would definitely say once per year especially as an over 60s competitor maximum twice. I would not do more than twice. I just don't think you're going to help yourself by doing anything more than that. That would be my strategy and then try to put on a little bit of size if you can. It is still possible for guys that are over 60. I've had some guys do it. All right next question I have here is from Socho1094. Socho, sorry I botched that. Socho is a regular commenter on the YouTube channel. Do you think gear users who have a cholesterol and blood pressure towards the higher end of normal like LDL 100 BP that's 130 over 80 ish should be on low dose meds? Would they cause do more harm than good? For example taking a low dose telomers, ardenazetamide, rosuvastatin, etc. It's probably unnecessary. Here's my thing if you don't need to take extra drugs don't take extra drugs. It's really that simple. I would work with your medical doctor see what your medical doctor would say. I do know this. I'm seeing a certified lipidologist now because I have dyslipidemia genetically and from what I understand I'm talking to this lipidologist and you know I know all the carnivore and keto bros are going to come out of the woodwork and say that there's no science behind this. That having an LDL below 80 is ideal if you don't want to have a fuckinGHeart attack. Now that's not to say that everybody with a higher LDL is going to have a heart attack but it's certainly a very well documented and correlated risk factor for cardiovascular disease. But this comes with a caveat. I look at hundreds of blood panels annually from dudes that do blood work consults with me. If you want to book a consult you can grab a consult. I do tons of these. I do multiple weekly. I almost never see dudes that have LDL under 100. Now retrotide seems to be changing that. The guys that are running retrotide I have seen radical improvement in in lipids and you get the extra benefit of increased insulin sensitivity and lowered triglycerides. Improved liver markers are just a bunch of lowered C-reactive protein. Lowered A1c and I wonder and this is something I am doing for myself and considering for myself if having maybe a low dose retrotide in the mix could replace all of these other medicines that we are using such as BP meds, cholesterol meds. I just have seen everything improve while on retrotide. It's just an anecdote. Once again no scientific studies. Even though the clinical trial did show some pretty significant results and improvement in lipid profiles, reduction in visceral fat, reduction in liver fat accumulation and elimination of that improved A1c. I speculate that maybe it would be a good adjunct therapy for an off-season bodybuilder and to help mitigate some of the lipid skewing that we see from PEDs which does happen. All right last question here I'm probably going to slaughter this name is from milanjovic5570. What are some common mistakes for carb cycling for fat loss? Now the biggest mistake I see with carb cycling that guys make is just eating too much fat with the high carbohydrate day. I don't know what it is and why dudes think that eatinGHigh fat foods are going to contribute something on the high carbohydrate day. I feel like they feel like they need to refuel the saturated fats. I you know just logically thinking about this if your body is going to prioritize glucose as an energy source and you are taking in a bunch of carbohydrates which is going to put you in a high insulin state which is going to increase nutrient storage. In our situation glucose primarily is going to get stored as glycogen when we have a high insulin state. Amino acids are going to get shuttled largely to the muscle tissue. It's really difficult for the body to convert. There's multiple steps. I'm not going to go into detail about it but protein is pretty much a free pass as far as fat storage goes. What do you think is going to happen to any extra fats that you eat on that high carbohydrate day when you have a high insulin state and additional glucose is present? That high fat diet is going those extra fats are just going to get stored as adipose. So with the carb cycling for it to work effectively and we do the high carbohydrate day we want to keep the fats as close as humanly possible to zero as we can. So I run very low fat protein sources. Egg whites, white fish, protein powder, chicken breast is going to have a little more fat in it than those do. So and a lot of times what I'll do is even lower the protein down pretty significantly on the high day. I laugh because the sugar diet people now are doing low protein high glucose. Now I don't go zero protein. I don't know if that's going to lead to best outcomes for your physique but we're experimenting with it now. The sugar diet has definitely made me wonder if maybe it wouldn't make sense to just you know keep protein low on the high day and just make it a glycogen replenishment day. I already do that. Usually I'll cut the protein by a third on the high days. In some cases maybe even half. Keep the protein very low. Carbohydrates are going to be protein sparing because when you're in an insulin state it's going to, a high insulin state, it's going to increase mTOR, lower AMPK. Proteins are going to be spared. Gluconeogenesis is going to be suppressed. So the risk of burning amino acids as glucose or converting them to glucose through gluconeogenesis is going to be pretty much non-existent. So you really don't need a lot of protein. Your body's not going to be breaking down its own protein structures aka muscle for glucose on those high carbohydrate days. So I would say that is the biggest mistake that I see people make is too much fat on the high carbohydrate day. Also it seems to be that people are very afraid of taking their carbohydrates high enough to get any sort of benefit from them. I see guys thinking well you know they just sort of dip their toe in the pool. They do like maybe half of what I would normally do. I'll take you know bare minimum for me would be three grams of carbs per pound of body weight. So if you're a 200 pound dude I think a minimum for a high day is going to be 600 grams of carbs. Probably more like four times your body weight or even up to five. I'll keep getting aggressive with that high day and pushing it up as much as I possibly can to see what I can get away with. And I find that as I do that that metabolic adaptation happens and we increase metabolism and we have increased glycogen synthesis and I don't see generally don't see any additional fat storage from it because we have a pretty huge capacity to store glycogen. It's largely muscled men. Now if you're smaller you can't do as much. For a big dude we can do a lot. I've gone as high as 2,000 grams of carbs on high days going into my contest last year and I didn't get fat clearly. I was super lean on stage five percent body fat and shredded. So just things to keep in mind. Keep the fats as low as humanly possible on the high carbohydrate days. Probably pull the protein down a bit. Limit it to one high carb day. That's another mistake I see guys make. They think they need more. They worry about getting flat. Some dudes worry about getting flat. They think they need cheat meals too. Now I'm not you know I do program in cheat meals at the end of the high day for my clients. It's more for psychological reasons. In an ideal world physiologically we would probably just avoid that cheat altogether and just do more carbs. So those are the things. You don't need a burger and fries. You don't need pizza physiologically. You might psychologically need it or need that break which I understand can help keep you compliant the rest of the week on your diet. So I do allow it up to a certain point. Anyway that's all I got on that one. All right folks that's it on this anabolic Q&A. Hopefully you enjoyed it. I appreciate each and every one of you. Your support means a lot to me. Even the dudes that are the haters, I love you too. You need a hug more than anybody else. We love you too bro. I don't know what happened to you to make you so angry that you got to slam people in the comment section but I feel you. Much love for you. Take care guys. I'll see you on the next episode. For coaching or consultations head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com