 WARNING, WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Verst Detachment Nutrition, battle-tested, expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright Jim Bros, it's Big Paul here. We're going to talk about your favorite topic, TRIN. Everybody loves TRIN. TRIN. TRIN is controversial. Everybody thinks TRIN is the answer to everything. I'm going to talk about TRIN for the off-season today. Do you need it in the off-season? Is it beneficial in the off-season? I personally think there are better choices. And I'm going to dig into my reasons why in just one second. So TRIN in the off-season. So TRIN in the off-season. I see a lot of people posting stuff up on social media about guys running TRIN year-round, which I think is utterly insane. And I don't think that's the best choice. I'm not saying that TRIN isn't powerful. I'm not saying that TRIN doesn't have a place in our toolbox as bodybuilders. But I personally find it best used on contest prep. And I've said in the past, and I think it's gotten some people stirred up, that I believe that TRIN is not the best choice for an off-season cycle. There are times that you may want to use it, but I think you need to limit it. And we need to take a step back and think through this critically. So our goals in the off-season is to put on as much mass as we possibly can. We know that the way to do that is to be healthy, eat a lot of food, train hard, get a lot of rest, recover, and get back into the gym and do it over again over a long period of time. So in order to do that, we need to stay healthy. We need to keep our appetite high. We need to have a good night's sleep. And that will optimize us for growth. Growth. During contest prep, our goal is to lose body fat and preserve muscle tissue. So they're two completely different objectives. If we take a step back and look at TRIN and think about it logically, TRIN, what TRIN does uniquely well versus other AASs is preserve muscle mass and it seems to improve body composition. It seems to have some sort of thermic uncoupling effect where it increases metabolism, but it also carries a bunch of side effects for a lot of people. Me personally, I have a love-hate relationship with TRIN. It makes me look better than any other compound, but I feel like absolute trash when I take TRIN. So I can't sleep. I get insomnia really bad, even on lower doses. I get the night sweats. Eventually, it causes GI distress for me. I end up getting acid reflux. Sometimes I get diarrhea. And I know a lot of people that have the same issues. It also makes my blood pressure shoot through the roof when I run it for any extended duration. And I believe me, I've tried it. I've tried it both ways. I've tried it in the offseason. I've tried it during contest prep. And when contest prep, it seems to be a necessary tool to get that look, that hard, grainy, lean look that you want on stage. So I reserve it for contest prep only. If we think about those side effects in the offseason, if my stomach's upset, if I'm not sleeping, if I feel unwell, if my blood pressure is through the roof, that is not conducive to putting on size. If you can't eat, you're not going to grow. If you can't sleep, you're not going to grow. If your blood pressure is through the roof, you're going to be damaging your organs, your heart, your kidneys, you're increasing your risk of a heart attack or stroke. And we know that if you want to get huge, you have to be able to do this over a long period of time, something like eight to 10 years it takes to put on size. I went from something like 170, 175 pounds when I was in college to 285 pounds. And I've only run trend in the offseason twice. That's it twice. And I know there are some pros that run it year round. And I think it's unwise. I've been at this for off and on 30 years. And I've seen a lot of really poor blood work come back from trend. And I've seen a lot of guys end up with kidney problems down the road. They might not think they're having side effects right now. They say they're fine. They say they feel fine. They say that it doesn't affect me like it affects other people. And then 15, 20 years down the road, they end up in kidney failure. There is a price to everything. So my logic, and you can take this with a grain of salt, is for the offseason. I want to stick with safer compounds. I want to hit multiple growth pathways. I don't just want to bludgeon the androgen receptor with trend and other anabolics. I find that to be unnecessary. During the offseason, I want to run testosterone. An anabolic that has low side effects. Whatever works best for you. For me personally, I like running test primobolin and a little bit of nandrolone. And I see a lot of pros using that exact combo. Some people use equipoise. But the test primobolin, nandrolone combo seems to be relatively safe. And you can push the doses a little higher. I also run growth hormone and I run insulin. So I'm hitting multiple growth pathways. It's not just hammering the androgen receptor. We're increasing IGF-1. We're using estrogen for growth. We're also using food efficiency through the insulin. So sleep is better. Health is better. Blood work is better. Appetite is better. I stay away from orals. I do stay away from all things I consider to be toxic during the offseason. For some reason, a lot of gym bros, it's usually the 185 pound dude that can't figure out why he can't grow. That accuses everyone else of taking stuff that he's taking and not growing on. That just doesn't understand how to get big. It takes a long time to get big. You have to be able to eat a lot of food. You have to be able to stay healthy. You have to be able to stay in the gym. And if you don't do that, you're not going to get huge unless you have freakazoid genetics. Most people don't have those freakazoid genetics. Now there are times that you may want to leverage trend in the offseason. I see guys that get a little sloppy. They get a little fat. Maybe they haven't been so tight with their diet. Maybe a little bit of trend sprinkled in towards the end of a cycle for four to six weeks. Something like that. To tighten back up. Might be a good choice. I don't know. I have found it to be unproductive in the offseason. I'm not saying that it doesn't make you grow. Trend is very anabolic. But if you can't eat. If you can't sleep. If you feel like shit. And your blood work goes to crap. You're not going to grow. You have to be healthy. You have to have an appetite. You have to be able to stay in the gym. And you have to be able to do this for a long period of time to grow. That's why I personally think trend is a poor choice for the offseason. You may disagree with me. A lot of those guys that are doing it are young. I'm not young anymore. And you can get away with a lot more when you're young. It's like I could drink a bottle of tequila when I was 25. And get up and go to work the next day. Now that I'm older. If I drank a bottle of tequila. I'd probably be in acute liver failure and end up in the hospital. Wouldn't be a good idea. So things you can get away with when you're 25. You can't get away with when you're 45. We know that. I look at this as a tool in the toolbox. There is a time to use that tool. And for me in the offseason. Trend does not offer anything uniquely special. Other than maybe re-comping. That we can't accomplish with safer, better compounds. That's my two cents. Take it for what it's worth. Alright guys. Let me know what you think in the comments section below. I really appreciate you watching us. Thank you for all your support. I would appreciate it if you take a look at my sponsor. First Attachment. Quality supplements formulated by the man himself. Justin Harris. Discount code is AB10. Please use that at checkout. Rock on guys. For coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com To book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones. Fat loss. Muscle gain. Physique. Athletic performance. Nutrition. And health. For more information shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com sequences. sequences. sequences. sequences. sequences. sequences. sequences. sequences. sequences. sequences.