warning this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition battle tested expert formulated use discount code a b10 at checkout for 10% off all right folks big Paul here today with the one the only the og contest prep guru Skipp Hill what's going on man appreciate you having me on I didn't notice that you bumped the time Paul because of your meals and that threw my meals off that was pretty self dude I blame AJ I was interviewinGHim before he couldn't figure out how to use his computer and it didn't mess me up I'm just but you know I sleep all day well here I am not even have time to eat them I can thank Dante for the for the true shout out the Dante true nutrition protein that's what I'm having a banana and some protein powder I can I heard that you can get team skip protein there it's just a it's just a rumor just heard yeah that I heard yeah what's your discount code skip skip it's kind of funny because you know it's the old school discount code for 5% and then I do the podcast and Scott McNally cry 15 years after I've had my discount code he gets a 10% for the for the podcast you know how many I pull for that discount zero they're like well skip five I can't tell you how many people I've sent over to Dante and I don't I don't have a discount code oh is that right I think I was winninGHis first clients I bought like one of the first bags of protein he ever sold is that right yeah what 2000 I want to say was 2004 2004 yeah yeah I remember the big plain bag they came in yeah I think I bought 50 pounds of way way concentrate the at that time stuff that makes you fart really bad a little cheaper back then to the cost of protein has gone not just true nutrition but in general so I remember it was like four or five bucks a pound something like that I think my blend is like 22 or 23 dollars a pound and and admittedly it's obviously high quality and true nutrition they've done third-party assays for a long time and team skip protein I'm sure the rest of the proteins to have been you know they've assayed off the chart but still I had this pain under good stuff I had to stop away for a while man I don't know if I just got some sort of gut intolerance to it I just make me sick every time I ate it Dante's been helping me out to try to find blends that work for me and I've kind of slowly figured out what works yeah some people don't tolerate specific proteins very well I know myself I came into a similar situation I've been using my protein for 20 that's why I put it together 20 years ago I wanted to use it for me and then of course everybody started asking well what do you use it and I'll use it so it just kind of went from there but I had problems six eight months I say problems I just noticed that gosh Emma I am really full after this protein drink like I feel distended so I cut them down to one or two a day because normally I have three I have four meals on top of that and I cut it back and I felt a lot better but it was only for about six eight weeks and then it adjusted I don't know what it was either yeah I used to drink the fuck out of protein shakes and then I had to stop for a while they just were messing me up I think it may have been the artificial sweetener I don't know okay who knows but I'm back doing them again I'm doing one a day I'm just being careful with it but it's a good way to get low like a low-fat protein meal and I do worry about like with even like with eating too much meat getting all that saturated fat and worries me a little bit now that I get older especially with taking PEDs with lipid skewing so I get a little concerned about that the protein powder is way to save yourself sure the things that weigh on our brain at you know 50 I'm 54 that did not in our 30s yeah like a clogged artery in a heart attack you don't give a fuck about that when you're 25 blood pressure whatever yeah I can't think of one time when I was in my 20s or 30s when I would lie down at night and think maybe I won't wake up in the morning and I don't want that to sound I didn't mean it that way what I'm saying you know I don't have this fear of that but those things cross your mind we're talking about buying a house in the next couple years up in Milwaukee because that's where all the kids are and for the first time Paul I had to laugh and I told my wife she's and I left she's like what's so funny I said I have to check my the term on my life insurance policy to take that into account when we buy this house and it just struck me as oh my god I've never even that has never even crossed my mind before so fast oh just in every year is faster I swear that having kids makes it even faster because you're so tied up in everything that they're doing that we finally empty-nested and I'm telling you we were looking each other I thought we I was paroled I thought we were just gonna have a ton of fun my wife is depressed the kids are all in Milwaukee we're down here she's just beside herself it caused problems for a few years we're like trying to figure this out come to find out statistically there is a huge divorce rate when you empty-nest and I did not know that now you actually have to live with the person on the ass I'm thinking about the kids yes you're looking across we're like what do you want to do I don't know what do you want and you don't really want to do anything because you don't know what the hell to do yeah it is a very very bizarre why preemptively got divorced before the empty mess I got that out my kids are teenagers though now so it's me my daughter's gonna be 17 soon so I know it's coming up soon it's coming up but for now they're still here skip man your crew took over my my live stream a couple weeks ago I had like half of them on there and they're they're lobbying they're like get skip on get skip on everybody's well for that yeah loading and then I've had all these people reaching out to me like can you tell us how to skip over this what a skip loading they they see the waffles and they want to they want to skip load yeah anytime skip loading comes up it is that's the first waffles it's kids there it's all the things that while you're dieting you think man I wish I could eat that but I think it's misunderstood so that's why I was glad I appreciate you having me on and I say misunderstood yeah I've worked with a lot of people I've been skip loading with clients and doing online trening since 2001 so you know when you say the OG I'm flattered by that but I accept that because I've been around for a long long long time even if people are listening like who is this old guy like I don't have any idea who he is I've been around I people know who I am it's just not usually the younger generation and I think this next generation isn't as familiar with the skip load protocol it was huge back in what mid 2000s I think it started taking off right around 2004 and that's because it you know it started as shit loading and Zilla from the boards took me under his wing I just I had a lot of questions for him because shit loading was basically just eat crap and it was a peak for a show it wasn't a dieting method it was just I'm getting ready for show it's a couple days out it's along the premise of this people would say oh you know it's flat I looked good on stage I was in good condition but the next day after I ate a bunch of crap I look silly like look at these pictures never mind that you're not under stage lighting and you're not standing next to anybody and I laugh and say the best lighting in the world is in a high-end hotel a high-end elevator in a high-end shoe boutique Jimmy Choo in Miami I was buying my wife some heels were shopping and I couldn't get my eyes off the mirror like I look really good right now I look good yeah so you're always gonna look better in those specific lighting issues but that was the premise and it did happen so people started realized you know I'm not full enough I'm flat you know I don't have enough carbs usually issue and a lot of times it's not just carbs but it's also fluid you're more people are flat from not having enough fluid than they are carbs but it started off as a peaking protocol and I just I'm beinGHonest I'll be completely trensparent the only reason that it fell into a dieting method was because about seven or eight weeks out before a show in 2002 I hadn't been on stage for ten years we moved to Colorado I had a few more kids and finally got back into competing and I just fell off my diet one day I went made a bunch of Krispy Kremes all this garbage I always call it broke man's cheat meal where you've been there yeah you think it's the best burger you've ever had in your life Krispy Kreme doughnuts not exactly expensive things like that but looked silly but but not just the visual but then four days later I was lower than and lower than the weight I was the previous week and I was leaner and I'm like so I just started thinking myself I'm a pretty sensical person so I'm thinking well if this worked this week then I'm gonna do it again I'm just gonna see if I can replicate it and it and it worked this is only like one meal but I'm saying pretty much gorging myself like yeah miserable right and it happened and I just did it every week going into the show and I showed up for the Northern Colorado and I remember sitting in the check-in meeting and I leaned over to the guy next to me and just kind of being a wiener that I was very arrogant at that time with no good reason to be honest aero michaels or et COVID, etcomoi, act, etcomesses, etcom heiß, etcom herm Moxie Modela, etcom Eric Calift, etcom ingip, etcom ox SangQ. Um and so I was way across the board, like I quite literally locked it in. You know, I went to uh, a summer camp, in Dayton, when there was no water in the water they had to pay it, and I literally sat there in my sweatshirt, and they were looking at me like, what are you doing, like are you not, and then I started eating Krispy Kremes, and they're like, oh man, the one guy even kind of laughed, I kind of snickered, like, and then I, we went out on stage, and I just ripped them apart, and everybody was asking me, you know, oh my god, like what did you, how could you do that, how, like you were just eating donuts, like it was unheard, you have to understand, it's 2002, so nobody was doing that then, no, no, it was totally unheard of, so from there, you know, there was no social media, but the message boards were huge, and you know, people hear, you know, the the history of the message boards, but you'd have to really experience to know, to know really what it was, you had to build your reputation, you wanted to be respected, so it was a, it was just a, it's just radically different than social media, so you had to earn, you had to know something, you had to prove yourself, and people were starting to come to me saying, you know, I need you to teach me how to dialect, I need you to get me into condition like this, and that's really kind of how the skip loading protocol took off, or started, and then took off, there's still a thread at Professional Muscle that says, I'm pretty sure it says, shit loading to skip loading, this could be huge, huge, and that was kind of the start of it, because I hadn't even started Intense Muscle at that point, Intense Muscle didn't start till 2004, February 2004, and this is 2002, 2001, IMean, IMet Justin at 2001 on the anabolics forum, and that's where we go back, we go back a long way, we used to butt heads a little bit, but then we kind of, well, I'll speak for myself, I don't know about Justin, I think, but we had, we ended up having kind of a mutual respect, like, like, I think to myself, this cat knows what he's, he knows what he's talking about, he's a pretty smart guy, and then come to find out, he's an incredibly intelligent person, who makes me look like I'm still in the third grade. Yeah, he's a physicist. Yeah, he's just, and not only is he an intelligent guy, but I, but I love the fact that he's always been family oriented, he's just a great guy, bodybuilding needs more Justin Harris's. Yeah, good people. Yep, for sure. There are some, there are some shitbags out there, I do miss the days of the, of the boards, man, that was kind of, and you're definitely right, it was survival of the fittest on the boards, I remember you absolutely brutalizing people on your board. I had to, though, well, I'll tell you what, like I said, I, I am accountable now, I see it now that I did have, I did have an ego then, but equally as much as the ego is, Intense Muscle was known for no bullshit and zero tolerance, we did not allow people to troll, we would give them no room, so it was expected and understood by the entire community, that if you're out of line, you're just gone, we're not going to deal with this, you're not going to be disrespectful, I used to always say, you're coming into my living room, you're coming into my home, and if you're going to disrespect me or the people that I've invited into my home, you're just gone, F you, you're gone, and there was no tolerance for it, and I think that's why, or part of the reason that became so popular, the other reason, obviously, was Dante was there, and anybody else who was intelligent and experienced in bodybuilding, they were flocking, because remember Mayhem, Muscle Mayhem was kind of on their last few years, you know, they had a huge board with all the pros. That was Chad's board, right? It was, and they all started coming over to us, I say all, you know, they were obviously professional muscle and everything else, but our board ended up being so popular, despite the fact we allowed no gear discussion at all, it was all trening and nutrition, and it's funny how you think, you know, in hindsight, you think, gosh, you slipped your wrist, Skip, why would you do that, you're leaving out this entire demographic, but we didn't want it, we didn't want the legalities of it, we didn't want the potential liability, IMean, we've all heard stories about the 16-year-old who takes steroids, and somethinGHappens to him that's not even related to steroids, and then they come after you and sue you because you provided all this information for their kid, and you're the reason that their kid committed suicide, you know, and things like that, so that's an example, I don't know that that specifically happened, but we just focused on nutrition and trening, and it became very, very big, so IMiss it, IMiss it huge, now you have the Reddit's, and you have thEQuora, and everything else, but which is kind of funny to me, because we had the message boards, why did we have to go and modernize them and put every topic under the sun in one place, but apparently that's convenient for people, and that's just how the world works these days, I don't know, I don't know. YouTube's the new place where people get information, YouTube and Instagram, but it's not the same, yeah, I remember I came over from, I was already working with Dante, and Dante told me, he's like, hey, you need to go over here, and I remember Dante trening me, I think he charged me 250 bucks a year, yes, I think it's something like that, maybe it was 300, I don't remember, that was crazy, it was very, very inexpensive, never mind, and I live very rurally, I'm downtown West Palm, so sirens, I don't know if you can hear them, there's a lot of noise going on downtown here, sorry about that. Oh, no problem, so tell me what, with the skip loading, what has evolved, and what's changed over the years since you've been doing it? Sure, and in short, a lot, it did, it started out that it was just basically processed carbs, or the core of it was shuttling as many processed carbs as you can get in, based on hunger, you weren't supposed to make yourself miserable and stuffed, and oh my gosh, I can't breathe, but obviously, that happened, you know, more times than should have, not only with myself, but with clients, so you had to kind of find a balance there, but it was a dieting method in the sense that you get lean, you're depleted, does not mean there's, the number one misunderstanding is that I was always zero carb, or I was keto, and that just wasn't the case, I had many clients who had good metabolisms that were taking in 300, 400 grams of carbs during a diet per day, and they would still end up depleted by the end of the week, and they would have to load, and they would respond incredibly well to it, so it wasn't zero carb, but you did need to be depleted, so you needed to deplete glycogen to be able to supercompensate and load that glycogen again, so it was based on that, those high processed, highly processed carbs, low fat, low fiber, so it doesn't slow down, you wanted those carbs as fast as possible, because you wanted that natural insulin response to help pack away, and of course, if you're dieting, and you're in a deficit, you're going to be more insulin sensitive, so we were taking advantage of that, and IMean, to say it would work 999 times out of a thousand was almost an understatement, there were those outliers that would, you know, if I worked with a hundred people in a year, there'd be four, maybe five, who could not skip load every week, their metabolism just wasn't as good, they were smaller, you know, they didn't weigh as much, people would ask a lot, they still do, is skip loading different from male to female, it's not, it's not any different than trening is male to female, it's just different in the sense that you're dealing with a smaller caloric intake, usually, not always, but sometimes metabolism can't handle as many calories, and yet at the same time, I'd have an NFL lineman, who would be 360 pounds, and he would be taken in to lose weight, he couldn't go over 22, 2300 calories a day, and I'd have 120 pound figure girl, who was, who would have twice that, and be losing weight, so the old formulas of, you know, the body weight versus, you know, it's just, you might as well throw them out the door, if you're just starting trening, do yourself a service, and just don't use any of the formula formulas, you have to actually know what you're doing, outside of a math formula. I never use it, I kind of have an idea based off of what people look like, and where they're at, and then I like, I'll usually prescribe a certain amount of protein, you probably do the same thing, you probably have a certain amount of protein that you give people, but, and then you just got to kind of figure them out. Yeah, exactly, and that's what makes a good trener, it's the tweaks, it's not the initial plan that you get, and the variability in metabolism with people is wild, yeah, IMean, it is wild, like, I have one guy, let's get, skip, I got one guy, that's like 165 pounds, and I can basically just feed him unlimited amount of food, he never gets fat, yeah, and then, and then, like you said, then you got the 270 pound guy, that's eating 1600 calories, and it's just a brutal, brutal undertaking, getting fat off, yep, and you can build those metabolisms, yeah, you can, it just takes time, and that client has to be, I always call it prep phase in the off-season, yeah, you have to be so regimented, the foods are the same, the timing is critical, you know. everything is basically prep mode, but there's just more calories. And as soon as you go on vacation or you take four days off and you, you know, people do this all the time, never really understood it, but they, you know, take four days off, go to Vegas and just eat and drink like a clown. And that's okay, people can do that, obviously, to each their own. But you can't come back and wonder, you know, why your metabolism and your digestion and everything else has gone to shit, because you just, that's not, that's not optimizing and making your metabolism and your progress as efficient as possible. It's one of those unfortunate things that if you want to do it right, whether it's prep or offseason, it's a 24 seven endeavor that has to be consistent over time and you got to be locked in. Otherwise you're giving up potential gains, not just in the gym for muscle size and getting leaner, but your metabolism itself. So, and as we age, you know, that gets harder and harder. So I know I've had to be far more regimented. People say, oh, you're just naturally lean skin. I'm naturally fat. I am a fat kid. If I, and I've done it and I've proved it, I get burned out on bodybuilding every five, seven years. I take three, four months off. I get away from it outside of my work. I don't tren. And when I don't tren, I'm all or none. When I don't tren, I don't eat. I eat once or twice a day. It's when I find myself ravenously hungry at night, and then I eat, whether it be a burger and fries, and there's no faster way for me to get fat. Yep. So it's just a completely different ball game to as you age. Not everybody listening is as old as I am, but I'm just giving you a heads up that things do change. When I was younger, I used to think, oh, these guys that are older, they say they carry fat different, and that's why their lower back is fat. No, that's exactly what happens. I carry body fat so radically different than I did when I was younger that it's silly. My lower back used to be just as lean as my abs. Now I'm 12 pounds away when I'm ready from the front. I got to diet for another 10, 12 pounds to get ready from the back through my glutes and lower back. It's just a different game. Same way, man. Like I'm already lean up front. Yep. And I still got fat on my back. Yep. It's like, if I don't turn around, I'm probably going to win this class. I'm just going to show up and hope they forget about the rear poses. But again, that's the, you know, when it comes down to what has changed, it's primarily that it used to be predominantly processed fats and very, or processed carbs and very low fat. It was just literally slamming, you know, carbs. And over time, I saw a few things and I thought to myself, you know, this client, because I would always want to ask my client what they ate specifically for the skip a load. I would see bizarre things like four bags of sour patch gummy worms and three containers of sorbet. And I'm like, you know, let's get a little healthier here. Let's make this a meal, add nutrition, or add morEQuality nutrition to it. And then have a little something on, you know, on top of that. You remember the Entenmann's Fat Freaky? Those were big, you know, in the late eighties and nineties. What's the other one? Krusty's, where the no fat muffins, the no fat cinnamon cake or whatever it was. We did a lot of that stuff. And then what happened one day was I woke up, I did my skip load and of course, kid's cereal. I'd eat, you know, Fruity Pebbles by the box. And one day I was eating, I was getting ready for a show. Don't know exactly how far out I was, but I was getting lean. And I'm eating my first meal of Fruity Pebbles and some other stuff, maybe some Krusty's muffins. And I'm thinking to myself, man, my vision is just not very clear. Oh, your blood sugar went through the roof. Yeah, and I'm like, man, I don't know that I feel very good. And it happened the next week. And I thought, man, I'm hyperglycemic. Like what the hell? And understand that I could have very easily figured it out by doing blood glucose, but we didn't do that back then. This is pre blood work. This is pre blood sugar level, you know, all that sort of stuff. We just kind of, I don't want to say- You just need a commensal one, man. Just get a bunch of it. Exactly. And that would have been huge. And it is now. It's a huge component of skip loading. But what I did at that time was I added fat because I thought, you know, I can cut back on carbs, but it's still a bunch of carbs. So I added fat to it. And that was a game changer. Before, it was always this, I say it's misunderstood. When insulin levels are high, if you take in fat, oh man, you're just going to get fat. I don't believe that for one second because I haven't seen it. And I haven't even seen it with insulin use. What I have seen is it's not as optimal to take in a bunch of fat because in place of that, you're going to get full on X amount of calories. Everybody does. So you want as many carbs as possible because that's essentially why you're using the insulin to pack away and super compensate for more glycogen, to store more carbohydrate. But people, there are a lot of people who don't understand that, and I was actually surprised by this, that a depleted muscle will also suck up triglyceride. Not at the rate that glycogen will, but it will. I think it's about 5% of your muscle, the actual muscle weight is triglyceride. You can store, and I think the carbohydrates, it's like up to 50% of fluid. Yeah, I thought that the fat was higher than that, but I can't argue the numbers because I can't really make checks. Dude, it's hard to say. That's like, if I remember from reading the studies, that's in an untrened person. So God only knows what it's like. You know, it's like, I think the average non-trened person could hold about 500 grams of glycogen, muscle glycogen. But you know as well as I do, like a big guy like me, I can eat 2,000 fucking grams of carbs and not spill over. Yeah, exactly. So who knows what it is, honestly. But yeah, you're right. There is an intramuscular triglyceride storage. Now again, that's not to say that there was a ton of fat. You know, I wasn't, and I tell my clients, I'm like, you don't get to sit down, because everybody wants black and white direction. Well, tell me how much to eat. I'm not gonna give you numbers. I never have. I try to get people to get control of their, I don't wanna say to be disciplined, but that's part of it. But to get control, to listen to their body's feedback and deal with hunger. Because the more depleted you are, the more hungry you're gonna be for what you're depleted of. Yeah. Go on a high-carbohydrate, low-fat diet. Tell me what you crave. It's not gonna be carbs. You're gonna crave something fatty. Yeah. Something that really satiates. Go on a high-fat, low-carb diet, and tell me that you're not gonna want French toast, like you're gonna be craving the carbohydrate. So crave what we don't want. I try to get my clients, I work really hard to get them to pay attention to that feedback, and to be able to moderate how much food they're taking in. And I use the word satiate. You don't want to get stuffed and miserable. You want to get full and satisfied, and then go, that's good. And that's a tough thing for a lot of people who are black and white. It was tough for me in the beginning, because I'm incredibly black and white. Just give me numbers, I will execute, and I will do it flawlessly. But in doing that- What do you think that's a big thing that changes as you, like we talked about, as you age? Not just with the diet, but with your trening and stuff. Like, I used to never listen to, like, I was just, I'm the same way I'm regimented. I would just like, I gotta follow this plan. I gotta execute this trening program. I gotta lift this amount of weight. I gotta eat this amount of carbs. And I have definitely, as I've gotten older, I've gotten a lot better at listening to my body and pushing and pulling based on how, IMean, I would assume that that's something that you've gotten better at over time. I don't think, like, a 21-year-old probably has developed that skill yet. No, it's wisdom. It's based on experience and your ability. And it's always funny, because, you know, I can go, I think you can, too. If you go back 15 years, you're like, yeah, I knew a lot of shit. I was reading my body. I was, you know, pretty intuitive. And then you go forward another five years, you go, man, I've learned a lot in five years. Not much better. Five years later, 10 years later. The more time and experience that you have, and that's, you know, that's the funny part about the trening thing. I'm not gonna bash on what I call the giant sea of turds when it comes to the online trening environment, or milieu, but that's how I see it. I can't, for the life of me, understand why, especially someone in our demographic who's been around for a long time would hire a 25-year-old kid. And that's not to say they don't know anything. What I'm saying is you don't have enough experience and you haven't run into enough problems, obstacles, hurdles, whether it be trening as far as injuries, whether it be nutrition-related, IBS, Crohn's, digestive issues. You don't, even just simple food allergies or things that, you know, people may not even be allergic to something, they just don't tolerate a food very well. And they may not tolerate it for only four to six months, and then they're fine again. So there's just a lot there that I sometimes wonder. I would have thought that the herd would have thinned, I guess, quicker than it has, but it's not. It's either that or it does thin itself, and there's just so many people coming in to replace the treners who have been thinned that it's just a revolving door. I don't really know. I do think the cream rises to the crop, and there's a lot of people out there that scream, rises to the top, sorry. IMean, like, the guys that are great are always there. Yeah, no one's taking any clients from us. IMean, don't get me wrong. I'm not, I'm not saying I'm great. I don't really have as much experience as you. I worked as a personal trener for almost five years through college and after college. So from, like, I think back, like, I was 19 to 24 during that period of time where I worked as a trener. Like, I think back to shit that I've told people. I'm like, oh my God. Horrible. plaque, clennest, zebra tracnglobin. Let's learn a little bit more about the applied novel. So, we're gonna start off by talking about the big mistakes that we're seeinGHappening. IMean, there's a lot of things we were talking about on the message boards 20 years ago, 15 years ago. Not a lot of it, not much at all has been shot down or proven wrong. The vast majority has been proven correct by studies where we didn't have studies at that time. Isn't it interesting that part of it, the studies have caught up with the shit we were talking about on the boards 20 years ago. IMean, I've had studies come at me over the last, even just the lasT3 to five years of Graylin and Lepton. We never talked about it, and Graylin and Lepton is still incredibly misunderstood. There's a lot we don't know about it. We know very, very little about it. But that's now the topic. There was no, nobody knew anything about that back then. No, I was hungry. Exactly, but look at it on paper. One thing about skip loading that, if I have gotten the most questions about over the years, is this, mathematically, it's not supposed to work. And it's not. When you put the calories down on paper and you see how many calories you take in and how many grams of carbs, you touched on this earlier with the 2000 grams of carbs coming. It mathematically seems nonsensical. Like it can't work. And yet it's worked over and over, not just for genetically gifted bodybuilders. IMean, I've trened pros in every division from bikini to physique to the Olympia stage to people at state shows, novices, first-time competitors, gen pop people, people who don't even tren in skip loading works. It's a different, all those skip loads look different. Some people will load for one meal. Some people will load for a full day and they can barely get in enough food. It's so individual and so different. But then going back to the evolution, the middle phase was adding the fat to, or adding some fat instead of having it be very, very low fat and making the meals more healthy to get more nutrition out of it. But then it has also evolved again. And I think the third phase, the last phase is, and there may be another phase because everything continues to evolve, but is that it's, they're a little bit, well, they're healthier. Like I said, I've gone the healthy route but I've gone even further with that. And they typically start healthier. And when I say healthier, like, you know, it's not like a super, super clen meal like it would be a diet meal, but pokey, sushi. I'm huge on pokey because it's digested so well and yet it tastes great. And then we can trensition from there to start to add what we may call dirtier foods. Or I think you said too, that your last meal, you have more of a dirtier or heavier. I do something very, very similar. And especially when insulin has evolved because I'm not going to bed. I don't wanna go to bed at 54 on 30, 35 units of insulin. And then my blood sugar bottoms out. So I'm gonna add a decent amount of fat and make that last meal heavier so that it goes well into my sleep for the next day. And then of course I take my blood glucose. Well, I'll check my blood glucose when I wake up to make sure. And if my chance is still high, then I'll still hit some insulin the morning, not morning, my afternoon, I guess, but everybody else's morning after the skip load as well. So there have been changes. I don't send people out for, I'll just go ahead and have, you know, people will say, oh, I ate pizza or, oh, I ate waffles. There's still parameters around that. You can't go to UNO's. I don't, are you familiar with UNO's pizza? It's like pizza hut pan pizza. It might as well just be like 42,000 calories a slice. Like you can eat like two pieces and you're just, it's so fatty, it's just horrible. So there are other pizzas. I'm from Colorado. Bojo's pizza was some really clen, I call it like a flowery crust. It's dry versus the heavier gut bomb type pizza. Burgers, make burgers at home. The people you get, and you know how clients are. Clients are gonna find a loophole. They're gonna find a window. Skip loading used to be based on meals. Have two meals on your skip load day. Then I found, I had to change that, put time parameters around it because they were having a meal at 9 a.m., stuffing themselves, and then not eating until 9 p.m. and having another one. So I'm like, go figure, right? So then I started having to put it around three hour, like a rotation. If you have one meal, you have one meal, and it needs to be done in like 20 minutes. You don't get to sit there for a meal and, oh, we were at a restaurant, so it took two and a half hours. That's, no, that's not how it works. If you have two meals, those two meals need to be within three hours. From the three hour clock starts when you take your first bite of your first meal, and you need to have the last bite of the second meal before the three hour window is up. That also forces the client to pace themselves so that they don't just get so ridiculously full from the first meal that they can't eat much for the second meal. You have to get, and it takes two, three, four skip loads working with someone before they can finally get a rhythm and be able to pace themselves a little bit better. But keeping it within that window was the kicker. That's a smart way to do it. That's a really smart way to do it. Usually how I do it, like on my reload day, I'll do half my food is clen food. Like I'll just do my regular chicken, and like when I do like meals one through five, I'll do half of it is clen food, so like chicken and rice or whatever, and then I'll do the other half of my carbs from a junk source like breakfast cereal or candy or something like that. And then at the end of the day, I'll do a cheat meal. But like you were talking about with the cheat meal, I try to keep it, like I'll tell my clients when I say go have your cheat meal, I don't mean eat a gallon of ice cream and a dozen donuts. Go have like a real hearty whole food meal. Like I'll go out and like have a steak and a potato and a salad with it, even sometimes a piece of dessert or something. It's funny you say salad. So have you ever been deep in a prep and you just crave a salad? Yeah. I've been there. It's so bizarre. I'm like, why do I want a salad? What the hell? It's the salad dressing. I think it is too. I think it's the croutons, the bacon, the eggs. Yeah. I agree. It's not the lettuce. It's not what I'm craving. And I do something similar with my skip load right now. You know, I'm pretty deep into, I call it prep. It's super, super lean phase, and we'll see what happens. But I treat those cut phases just like a prep. I'm a lifestyle bodybuilder. I love the process. I could diet 52 weeks every year versus the offseason. I hate the offseason because there's not a deadline in front of me. And I hate feelinGHeavy and lethargic. I don't like it. I don't like breathinGHeavy. None of that. I've got a point too, Skip. People don't believe me, man. I'm like, I fuckinGHate the offseason. I'd rather be dieting. It's just like nebulous. And I like the structure of, you know, dieting down. And I get tired of eating too. I just don't like to eat all that food anymore. Gassy, you gotta take a shit all the time. You go out, you're like, am I gonna have to take a shit? What do the bathrooms look like? It's just, I always say I gave up the size game in 2012. I was just done with it. And I think aging, I feel healthier when I'm leaner. I have better energy. I have everything from better, you know, sex drive and things like that. Everything is different. Everything's better. Think about sex in the offseason when you're 250, 200, not me, 250, 260 pounds. I'd put you at like 300. It's not that you don't want it, but you're like, this is gonna be really laborious. I'm out of breath. This is gonna take a lot of work, man. My poor wife, I'm on top of her and she's dying. I'm like, all right, can you get off? Yeah, just hurry up, hurry up. LongesT3 minutes of the week for her. I actually stayed way leaner this year, man. I didn't get over 255. I saw that, I saw that. Yeah, it just. And then you're blowing up now. So you have to wonder when this is done and you get off stage, win, lose, or draw, which one did you progress more with? It's a tough call. I don't know that throwing out all that weight, especially at our age and the potential health ramifications. I don't know. I don't know if it's worth it or not. I don't know. I think there is a time when you're young where you need to get big. You just need to get, I'm not saying get fat, but you do need to push up the size to get big. But like, I just don't. I got one, I got tired of eating. And I just, like you said, I don't feel good. My blood pressure goes up, sleep sucks. Can't breathe, I'm out of breath all the fucking time. Yeah, I could be out a ton of gear pre-contest and be lean and my blood pressure's great. Going to the offseason, I'm half or a third of that gear and my blood pressure starts to go up. And I'm like, and you can feel it. I don't even have to, IMean, I do check it, but I don't have to. I know what's up. You get that hot head feeling. Yes. Yeah, you bend over to pet, you know, I'm a cat guy. Bend over to pet my cat. And I'm just like, oh my God, my head is gonna blow up. Or if you're doing like a decline press and you're like, I think my eyeballs are just gonna come out of my head. Yeah, it's definitely not good for you. I just like, I don't think the time of me pushing size up is over with it. Just not smart at 50 years old. And you've got. triglycerides, LG, partis般systroom,danx. Porsoc-4HT, Porsyconmus, Porsychortus, Porsywr NG, Porsypharmus, Porsycorotus Porsyptolus, Porsustermus, Porsyderum поговорv misproportional, Porsyphoritobpr Jake. Porsuyrodamavirus Porsyunuz PorsydomPorsvyork Porsyrodom PorschermuS Porsyromus Porsus Porsyromus Porsyromus Porsyrenorm Perbiordopus Porsyronom angriamporipporipooripoopor fi Get that card. Here's the bitch. When you get the card, think about this. I don't know if you've already thought about this. You're closing in on the finish line, Paul. Yeah. That's the bitch of it, because as soon as you get that pro card, IMean, I'm not- Well, that is my Mr. Olympia title. That's how I've always looked at it. I'm not chasing a pro card because I don't feel like I can threaten for a pro card. That's not me being, you know, feigninGHumility. That's just me being realistic. I'd love to be in the battle. I'd love to be up there fighting for it. But it would be, if I ever just got it, no one showed up. Okay, it was 2020 and no one showed up and I got it. It'd be bittersweet because that's just the finish line for me. There's nothing I can do at the pro level, even in masters, that would ever, and I wouldn't change anything. That's the thing. I wouldn't change gear. I wouldn't change my lifestyle. I wouldn't change my trening. I would just do it without any desire to get on stage at that point because I would have finished after 40 years, 40 years this month that I started trening when I was 14 years old. And not just trening, like I was reading and every word that I could possibly get, I was just so immersed in it. And I'm just as immersed in it these days. It's just a, I think it's a passion our demographic has that I hate to sound like an old guy and I know it does, but that the next generation just really doesn't have. They're in it, I think, far more for the moment, the social media, the attention, and that's why they don't last very long. They're in and out and three to five years, they get a pro card, then they go and they do something else and more power to them. Maybe if I got a pro card, I'd go do something else too. But that passion, the journey, the trening, the lifestyle, just being a bodybuilder, it's so appealing to our demographic and that's our work ethic. We've just done it for so long. It's not just a part of us, I think it's just kind of who we are, a lot of us, who we are. I denied it for a long time, but I do believe that. I just love it. Yeah. When did it start for you? When did you start getting obsessed? My mom brought home, just out of the blue, a muscle and fitness magazine with Jessup Wilcox on the front. He was standing in a wheat field and it was in the 80s, it was 84. So there was a girl on his leg looking up at him like she wanted to banGHim. That's what the covers looked like that day in those days. But I just started thumbing through it and I'm like, oh my God. And I was a really good baseball player. If I would have applied myself to body, half of what I did in bodybuilding, I probably could have gone to a pretty high level of playing baseball. And I'm not in any way saying I ended up in the bigs or anything like that. But I think I would have gotten a college degree out of it at least, at the very least. I was very, very, and I traded it in. I turned down an opportunity, check this out. I don't have a lot of regrets in my life. I can count really three that I wish I could do over. One of them though was when I was 17, I had an opportunity to tour Japan playing baseball for 14. We're gonna play 14 games in 17 days. And I turned it down because I was gonna miss two weeks of workouts, Paul. That would have been so cruel. And then you fast forward to 54 and you go, what in the, was I thinking? Like I turned down the chance of a lifetime. Not just the game. IMean, the game in Japan, if you know, excuse me. If you know anything about baseball, Japan is, Japan, Japanese baseball is a game of small ball. It's so intricate. It's so methodical. It's so fundamentally sound. It's just great. They don't make errors like we make errors over here. They play very, very intelligent chess with a bat and a ball. But aside from that, just the culture, the opportunity to do that. And then I'm gonna add this and it's gonna be even worse. My dad was the coach. So I know. And he organized the whole thing over a year, but I didn't believe that it would come to fruition. And when it did, I honestly, my dad is cool as hell. He's my biggest supporter. But being a dad now of four kids, I don't know how he dealt with that disappointment and how he didn't try to make me go, but he didn't. He just respected, he knew at that point that my passion was no longer in baseball, that it was in bodybuilding. And it's so funny because again, I wasn't gonna go to the majors, but I traded in something that I was really good at and had a lot of potential to be for a sport that I'm mediocre. Now it has opened huge doors for me for obviously making a living. I think I'm one of the first to be able to actually, I put kids through college. I've made a very, very good living since 2000, roughly about 2006 is when it really started to take off. Our middle daughter is in the doctoral program to be a nurse practitioner at the University of Wisconsin. Great kids. I've been married for over 30 years. My wife is absolutely, and a lot of people, I have to say this. A lot of people say, oh, I've been married for 30 years. Oh, they must have a good relationship. No, that's not necessarily the case. People are miserable sometimes when they're married for 30. But my wife is cool as fuck. She's a lot of fun. She's cool as hell. It's like we've been together for eight years, something like that. So my life is cool. I've been blessed, don't get me wrong, but it does make me want, I think that's why I love baseball. If I were to go to Pittsburgh to support my clients who are there, I have a bikini, who probably get a pro card or is likely to get a pro card that weekend, IMight be at PNC Park with club level tickets that I just bought a couple of weeks ago to watch the Pirates and the Phillies that Friday night. It's a great place to watch a game. Yeah, and I haven't been there. One of my bucket lists is I'm gonna get to every major league park in the, all of them, all the major league parks. I've only been to eight so far. But that's just something that's big. And I think that's why I love baseball to this day because it's so nostalgic to me. And maybe that's why older people like baseball when they play baseball and they're younger, it's very nostalgic. It brings back that, the smell of the baseball, the smell of the cut grass. It's just, it makes, it's youth. You're, it's kind of a field of dreams thing to sound, not to sound cliche, but it does. It just kind of takes you back and you're thinking, even at 54, you're like, I could still do it. I could still get out there. I could play rec league. When, no one thought, well, I'm gonna throw my back out after three, so it's just no, there's no way bodybuilders can't cross over and do that. You know that firsthand with the ACL. It's just, there are things that we can't do because there's just a, just a huge, huge risk of injury. And that takes some of the fun out of getting older when you're a bodybuilder. That's the, you know, what's the funny thing is you talk about with your dad and not pushing it. That's the fine line with, with parents is like, I try to give my kids the freedom. I try to give my kids the freedom to be themselves like and not live through them. And it's hard to do sometimes, but you gotta let people find their own path. Your life would have turned out completely different, man. Maybe. No question. And my son ended up being a great baseball player. He, in his summer year before he was a freshman, summer year before he turned, he was playing varsity travel ball as a catcher. That's awesome. He, and then he couldn't handle the stress because he wasn't developed enough. He didn't think he belonged there and he sabotaged himself. He just created a lot of problems for himself so that he would get kicked off the baseball team. He couldn't handle the pressure because psychologically he wasn't there. It was, it was my dad, the situation between my dad, I'm sure, and myself when I was younger, repeated and I was in the position of my dad to see how disappointing it was because he had such potential. It, it was, and my son sees it now, much like I see it now. It's, it's a, it's a funny thing. Sometimes you gotta let that play out. Sometimes you gotta let them make those decisions, but it's painful and it's hard because you've got the wisdom, but so did our parents. And we didn't want to listen to them either. So maybe I have a better relationship with my son because I didn't push him and I respected the fact that he didn't want to do it anymore. I don't know. It's a hard one. Yeah. IMean, you just kind of like let it, let them give the, give them space to let them be themselves. And I, I, it's funny. My, my, my parents always told me they were, they're like the bumpers at the bowling alley. They said their, their job is to keep me out of the gutter. I like that. As long as you're in the middle of the lane, you're good. Yeah. Keep you out of the gutter. Parenting is no, no easy when they're teenagers. It is no easy. Now, kids are different. Our middle daughter was just sitting there just doing everything right. And you know, not right, but she kind of fell into her thing. And then I have my son over here who was just a terror when he was a teenager. And they're all raised relatively the same. They were all treated the same. I've got the same situation going on at my house, man. One's easy and the other one's not. Yep. Yep. It's tough. Now I did take him to a therapist one time and took about five sessions. And the therapist said, he goes, plead epilepsy, polio, bol Ma Coin En� crontalus, fluxose uvecupation aethensubconscious or topicating pancreatitis b San Diego statement Ascoming. Okay, so all these complete blood proteins are the ones that are required to excrete feces. We need to provide listed that you're not getting enough attention and you resent your parents for having all this fun and being the cool. He started bawlinGHysterically. Holy crap, man. I was dumbfounded. I'm like, oh, oh my God, like this totally hit a fuckinGHe ended up storming out of there. And the guy looked at me and I actually said to him, like, did you have to do that? He goes, Yeah, I did have to do that. He needed to hear it. And I just was blown, blown away. So there was something in there with, um, you know, and I don't, I don't think you know that I was wrong as a parent or my, you know, my, my wife was wrong for the things that we did and the type of people that we are and the fun that we have. And, you know, we took him to do. We took them to do everything. We were very, very close. We still are very close family, but he had issues around. He had issues around the coaches liking me always, you know, talking to me and, you know, whether it be about bodybuilding or cops, pull me over and talk to me about bodybuilding. Like, why, why is that police officer so nice? You didn't even get a ticket. Like it would bother him. It's just a very weird parenting is rough, dude. It's a very challenging thing. And it's definitely, I've been aromasingle parent. So it's, it's really tough. That's got to be harder. I've said when I had problems, we had all those problems with my son. I told my wife, I'm like, this can ruin a marriage. Like we're good, but, but kids could ruin. I could see like, if we weren't in a good spot, this could like destroy our marriage. And I don't know how single parents deal with kids who are rotten. I don't know how they do it. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, all in all, I've been pretty, pretty lucky. I just, you know, there's one's a little more challenging than the other, but I was challenging growing up too. I think I turned out. All right. And they come around. That's the cool thing. When they head into adulthood, then they start to process a lot of stuff and then they become, and it's cool, really kind of closer and kind of best friends. They ask you for advice where they didn't want any because you're the dumbest son of a bitch on the planet when they're teenagers, they don't want to hear anything. But then you become very, very intelligent. You're the smartest person on the planet until they're about eight or nine, maybe 10. Then you're dumb for about seven, seven, six, seven years. And then you become intelligent again. Oh, yeah. It's the same thing with me and my dad. My dad was a hard ass. And I remember just hatinGHim when I was a teenager. And, you know, now we talk like every day. Yeah. Yeah. It's good. It's good. It pays off in the end. But until it started paying off, I was like, this is I don't know about this parenting gig, man. This is not fun. Just sort of happens by accident. But yeah, I'm thankful for my kids. They drive me and keep me going. It's awesome to have kids. It's definitely, you know, I try to set an example for them and work hard and hopefully, you know, give them space and hopefully it turns out all right. That's all you can do. That's all. That's all you can do. How old are your kids? Our youngest is 19. She's she's the only one who's here. And when I say she's here, she has a boyfriend. She had a boyfriend for five years on the weekend. She's gone. So she went to work full time and stuff. But she's actually prepping for her first bikini show. Awesome. It is pretty awesome. She was the one in the video in the longevity video doing the stanky leg. Oh, it's going to be real. It's in she trens with myself and my wife. It's it's a really cool. Yes, it I got to tell you, it's and I have a feeling you preppinGHer. Yeah, I am. And it's going to be a very emotional. I'm givinGHer now. I told her I said, Listen, commit to the process. But if you decide that you don't want to do it, she's only been trening consistently, like locked in for like four months. Well, she's got a great physique. She's got the structure at only 19. And she's going to compete in the open because it's a small show. She doesn't have a teenage division to go to compete in. And she turns 20 in September. So there are options there if she didn't want to compete as a team. But it's going to be a very emotional thing. It's very surreal to be prepping my daughter and her the passion. She just she's just so consumed. She just loves every minute of the cardio, every minute of the trening, a million questions, preppinGHer food, working full time. It's that's really, really, really cool. Yeah, I would I would I wouldbol like a baby. That's what's gonna happen. Guarantee. I find myself even when she's asking mEQuestions and just the look in her eyes, she it takes me back to that age when when everything's new. Yes. And every you can't wait to get to the gym. IMean, I love to tren, but I got other shit to do when I'm in the gym. I love being there. But I want it when I'm done. I want to get home because I got tons of work to do. I got tons of other things to do. So it's different. I still love it. But it's it right now for her. It just trumps everything. She's going to the beach with us. She's going to go out on the she goes out on the boat with us. She'd rather spend time with us than with her boyfriend unless her boyfriend comes along with us. It's pretty cool. And I know it's it's right there. She's going to be moving out and doinGHer thing going, maybe even going to the University of Wisconsin shortly with her two other sisters. And it's coming to an end. It's it's bittersweet. So I'm enjoying every minute of it. That's awesome, man. That is a really cool, really cool thing. Well, Skip, I appreciate you coming on, man. I got to wrap up. I got to get another meal in and get my trening in. Yep. Same here. Same here. Where can people get a hold of you, man? IMean, TeamSkip.com. I'm redoing the 2009 website. I just looked at the other day and I'm like, this is pretty old looking. So we're updating it now. That's why I've been putting up headshots and stuff, trying to trying to figure out, you know, what people think are good shots and things like that. So we're going to we're modernize it. But TeamSkip.com is where you can find me. You can find me on Instagram, Intense Muscle, Skipp Hill on Facebook, you know, things like that. Elite, my articles at Elite. I'm still writing and coaching for them. And of course, the Blood, Sweat & Gear podcast, too. Got to get you on. We have to have you on. Yeah, I talked to Scott the other day. He said he wanted to get me on again at some point. But anytime. No, I appreciate you having me on. It's always fun to talk about uploading, but be honest with you, I like talking about cats and parenting and everything else, too. So I'm hoping the listeners aren't bored by that. They don't have kids like I don't care about it. Well, I don't. IMean, I know I've told you before, but you had a huge impact on me when I was younger and bodybuilding and in the intense muscle forum like that was where I lived. I lived there for for a couple of years, man. That was my love that time. And you know what? What else can you ask for than to to impact someone, hopefully positively, you know, through whatever it is that you're doing? And in our case, it's bodybuilding. So I'm I'm always flattered to hear that. I'm glad. Honestly, that was sort of the reason why I started the YouTube channel is because I kind of wanted to bring some of that same energy to the to YouTube because I sort of thought that's where everybody migrated to. And I wanted to do that. But only I talk about steroids. Like abuse, got to cover everything. All right, Skip, thank you for coming on. Thank you.