Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, Big Paul here today, and I've got a good one for you. This is a talk interview that I did with Paul Carter and Kurt Havens. Paul reached out to me a few weeks back and was talking about my progress over the lasT3 years, where I put on a bunch of stage weights, and how my trening, you know, I don't tren to failure. I don't do sort of the traditional stuff that most guys do. And it begged thEQuestion, which is more important or matters the most when it comes on to putting maximal amount of sizes of trening? Is it PEDs? And this got a discussion started, and I told Paul, I thought it would be good to bring Kurt Havens in on this one, and we can go into some great detail about trening versus PEDs, and how they both fit together, and how they both do unique things when it comes to growing, and what they both contribute to putting on maximum amount of size. I know it's a bunch of word spaghetti there, word salad that I put together, but anyway, it is a really awesome talk. Two really smart guys that I both admire talking about what it takes to get huge when it comes to PEDs and trening. I think you're gonna love this one, and we'll get started in just one second. What's going on, dudes? Nothing, man. Happy to be here with you guys today. We missed a whole bunch of really gold grade A stuff in the preliminary. We'll see if we can rehash it. I'm just glad that to be part of this, this is like a groundbreaking thing, I think, the three of us. Yeah, so what we wanted to talk about today, guys, is sort of the science, or just some ideas, thoughts behind what makes you grow as far as trening and PEDs go. Paul and I got into a conversation a couple weeks ago, and Paul reached out to me about my growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone over the last couple of years, where I went from basically three years from 185 up to 250 on stage, and was asking about my PEDs, and we kind of got into the discussion about maybe trening doesn't matter so much when your PEDs are pushed high. But it's not to say that trening isn't important. You can still do fantastic things and even better, and I'm sure there's probably things I could have done even better with trening if I had been more intelligent about it. But anyway, I thought it would be good to get the two of the smartest minds together, and we can talk through some of this stuff. Yeah, like I said, I think we, going back to that conversation, you had posted up that before and after pic from 47 to 50, and your progress is just phenomenal. And you had commented on a post I had made, and you reiterated, you're like, look, man, I have, over the pasT3 years, I've slept six hours a night, five or six hours a night. I haven't progressively overloaded anything, and I put on all of that extra tissue. And I basically eat one gram of protein per pound. That was what it was, too. It was like, I'm eating, that was another thing. We didn't even get into that, the protein. There's really a lot of bro science stuff. Kurt, I'm glad to have you on here with me today to talk about that kind of stuff, because I feel like I've taken a necessary amount of heat over some of these topics, because I'm giving people what I know is real good information, but it goes against a lot of the longstanding bro mythologies that people have regurgitated, and it doesn't really get checked. And then when you give people something in the way of like, okay, this is what physiology shows, or this is what endocrinology shows, they just have these emotional triggering meltdowns where that can't be it, because they have this longstanding belief that it doesn't work that way, or it works this other way. Or Jay Cutler does it that way, or. Yeah, like, because they're like, well, so, it'll work for Jay. I'm like, I don't care. I don't know how many times I have to tell people that. I'm like, I don't care what works for Jay, or I don't care what works for Arnold. It's completely irrelevant. It's completely irrelevant. And we'll get into that. We were talking a little bit about that in the preliminary part, that once steroids were really pushed into the bodybuilding scene, it allowed guys to do some really goofy stuff with their trening and still get ridiculous results. And we'll get into that during this. But taking somebody who's a hyper-responder to androgens and trying to use their trening approach as something that has validity to it. Now, it could. You could be a guy who's taking androgen and has a very smart and intelligent trening approach. But you can't look at a guy that, just because he's super jacked and go, well, this guy knows how to tren, if he's taking three grams of stuff a week and he's a hyper-responder. You just have to take him out and say, this guy is getting a stimulus that has nothing to do with his trening that causes him to look like that. And you can't look at his trening and go, that's how I need to tren. And I just, to sum it up for people that wonder what makes someone a hyper-responder, it seems to be presence, like density of the classic androgen receptor. The more receptors you have, the more you're gonna respond to drugs. The poor responders can take a ton of drugs and get nothing out of it. I work with all levels of guys that can grow on 500 milligrams and I work with guys that can probably take three grams and get very little out. Right, you and I have both seen the responders and non-responders, Kurt. It's, I feel bad for the guys that take gear and can't get anything out of it. Your first cycle should kind of dictate where you go, right? If you take 300 milligrams of tests your first time and you're not making a pretty dramatic change, it's probably not the game to get involved in. Because you're probably- Yeah, I remember, that's a really interesting point. I've used that with people. And I think you can apply that to both, whether you are genetically gifted in terms of growing muscle naturally. I've told guys this, man, do you just have meltdowns over the truth? And I've said, you'll know quickly in your first six weeks of trening if you are a genetic outlier because you'll be one of the most jacked dudes in the gym very, very quickly. Look at Gabe. I coach a pro named Gabe and he posted this. Remember when he posted this before and after photos? He was the biggest guy. He's only been lifting for three years. He's headed to the Olympia probably next year. He was the biggest dude in the gym in the first month of ever trening without drugs. Yeah. Just responds. I do not think that people understand there's definitely a magnitude. Most people fall somewhere on the spectrum, in the middle range of the spectrum as far as growing muscle. But then there's guys that are far on each side of the thing. Some guy that just not gonna grow very much at all. And there's a guy that's gonna be on the other end of the spectrum that's gonna grow very quickly and really almost max out his genetic potential in a very short time span. It doesn't mean they keep growing. It just means that that guy that both has high degrees of voluntary activation, he can activate his fibers very easily and he has a lot of type two fibers that he can activate. He's gonna grow really fast. Here's Gabe, by the way. Yeah. Yeah, that's insane. And that's in three years. You would never think from that guy's before picture he's gonna look like that. Turned out to be three years. No, he's gonna be an Olympia competitor. He's a big dude. Yeah, yeah, he's absolutely jacked. But I tell guys that they'll be like, well, how do I know? I've been trening for five years, really. I'm like, dude, if you've been trening five years and you've been treninGHard for five years and you don't have a lot of muscle, it's not gonna happen. Not natural. That same guy could get on and be a hyper responder, but just not be a guy that's got really great levels of voluntary activation or have a lot of type two fibers, but suddenly gets on and blows up and it's huge. I've seen that from guys that were natural and trened and built like a little bit of muscle and they would get on. I was definitely not a hyper responder, but I actually grew pretty well easily from the time I started lifting. So when I was 14, I was 97, 96 pounds. And then by the time I was 18, I was 220. So I grew naturally pretty well, but I was definitely not a hyper responder. When I got on, it's like you said, Kirk, you're gonna know from that first cycle, you're gonna need 500 kilograms of test. And I got some out of it, but I was like, I was so geeked because I was like, I'm about to be so jacked. And then I'm looking three, four months down the road. I'm like, IMean, I gained some, you know, that's my thing. You might be an interesting case. I was thinking about this before the video. So I coach a guy that's in the NFL and he's been natural most of his life since very recently he's been on steroids. He's clearly a very large, strong individual if you're playing in the NFL. He gained very little size on steroids because he was already near his maximal capacity genetics wise, natural that the drugs really just seem to improve his strength. Maybe some neurological stuff, perhaps it's hard to say, but he didn't really get much bigger and you could have been like that. You might've already been close to him. By the time that I got on, I had done a bulk up to 256 pounds naturally. That's pretty big. That's big dude. I can send you a picture. I still had an outline of abs at 256 naturally. When I cut down naturally, I was still like 208, 210 and I'm a five, five, 11 or a natural guy. That's pretty big. And I was in single digits. So when I did like my last show, I was like two 30 plus on stage. So you got to figure that was around Muni hair ñ Youˇre going to sweat now. But let me tell you something do as a geneticulove spontaneous. It can be low dose and high dose. It can be both. It depends on the patient. So, everybody who snores right, get five trillions from the guy inこyoung, who snores, by the way, they donˇt snore. One person in the show needs three more miles. So, everybody gets an additional mile off from their snoring pills, that person may take another pill, to be to get out ,with a required dose, another pill to hit that tumor. So, these are the sensors that systematize the Universe of the Algerian clinically. Every single cell on ceturia is a biochemistry safety device. That is why this is done. The good responders can do both. So, itˇs not to say that there arenˇt pros that use that, but most of the big guys on the Olympia stage are doing, theyˇre using at least five grams of gear, at least. I know some that use ten, and theyˇre generally using a bottle of serostimidate. I have two guys, personally, that have used up to ten grams of gear. I usually lower that because you donˇt need that much. If you can handle ten grams of gear, youˇre probably going to be fine on five. Itˇs so much systemic stress. People lose their minds when I say that because Iˇve never used more than three units of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, and youˇre weighing 300 pounds on stage. No, thatˇs not right. Iˇm sorry. Itˇs not happening. No. I sent Paul a picture of my first cycle. I didnˇt do my first cycle until I was 39. I didnˇt believe in doing that. I tried to take my body as far as I could naturally. I did too. At 39, my body started not working too well. One of the things I even tell guys is this, if you are trening intelligently, intelligently, which means hard, youˇre not doing the high-volume stuff, using good motions, progressively overloading, I think youˇre going to max out your natural potential in eight to ten years. Thatˇs as far as youˇre going to be able to take it. Youˇll appreciate this, so I started lifting when I was 13. I took a break in my 30s, but Iˇve been lifting for 37 years. The majority of my lifting career, I lifted three, maybe four days a week, every other day. I did upper-lower for most of it, and I did cardio on the off days. Guys are doing the silly bro splits, and theyˇre really not making progress. Like I said, I gained almost 90 pounds of muscle. And I do the exact opposite. Iˇm in the gym every day. You can do it, and you can tolerate it, and youˇre growing from it. But again, weˇre going to get into why that even works, right? One of the things that I say, and I talk about this on the Table Talk podcast, man, I took so much heat from this, is the idea that androgens, testosterone cycles, whatever youˇre taking, is giving you this exponential amount of recovery ability, which is why once you get on, you need to do more volume. Thatˇs a completely different subject by itself. But you need to do more volume, you need to tren more often, do all this kind of stuff. So I want to talk about two studies. I donˇt remember the name of them. I said we would talk a ton about research, but thereˇs we have two really well-done studies. Kirk, I think you know the ones Iˇm going to talk about here. The one where they gave, both of them, they gave them 600-megatests a week. Both of them? Yeah. And then in one, they had four groups, they had a control group, they had a group that sat at home and did nothing and took steroids, they had a group that did not take steroids but went to the gym, and then they had a group that took steroids and went to the gym. Now the interesting thing about those, the outcomes of that study, is that if you take the gains the guys got at home, and the average guy gains almost eight pounds of muscle sitting at home doing nothing. So if you take the gains that the guys got sitting at home, and you just literally combine it with the gains the natural guys got, itˇs almost exactly the same figure as the group that took steroids and went to the gym. And Iˇm like, guys, thatˇs not telling you a little bit about what Iˇm saying. I donˇt know what to tell you at this point, because what theyˇre showing is you have one stimulus thatˇs coming from the gym, mechanical tension, thatˇs stimulating muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Like you said, biomechanical trensduction, and the body says, let me add more myofibrils as the adaptation to shrink trening. We know that. It tells us also, because the people sitting at home donˇt have mechanical tension going on and they grew it. So itˇs a completely different stimulus, and when you look at that stimulus and you take the stimulus from the gym and you combine them, like I said, and you look at the other group that got to take 600 megatests a week and then go to the gym, itˇs almost identical. And Iˇve said this for quite some time, Iˇm like, the trening that a natural guy does is going to maximize results. If he ever decides to get on, he doesnˇt need to change a thing. He just lets the androgens do their job, figure out the androgen cycle that works for you to maximize those results, but keep trening in a smart, intelligent way. Thereˇs no such thing, in my opinion, now if research comes out, and we talked about this early on, I said, anytime research comes out that contradicts something that I have a belief in, I will change my belief if itˇs good research. I have no problem with that. I donˇt think that there is some massive degree of recovery thatˇs happening once you get on, and I think a lot of that has probably been extrapolated out from the research on antiviral burn victims and stuff like that, and theyˇre looking at burn victims, but thatˇs a completely different type. Weˇre not looking at contusions, weˇre not looking at basically any type of apoptosis, weˇre not looking at cellular death from the same standpoint. When we have damage that occurs from a workout, it always occurs from an intracellular calcium overload inside the cell that causes an activation of calpains, and then they do a type of cellular death where thereˇs destruction to the existing myofibrils, and then afterwards those have to be repaired. I havenˇt seen any research that shows there is a reduction or thereˇs an accelerated rate from being on steroids and how it reduces the amount of time it takes to recover from that. The argument that was brought up to me was that thereˇs studies that show muscle protein synthesis is elevated for extended periods, and Iˇm like, I donˇt care. Muscle protein synthesis is kind of a nothing burger. You can get an increase in muscle protein synthesis or mTOR or any of that kind of stuff. Itˇs like a hamburger. Yeah, from ingesting a bunch of leucine, myofibril protein synthesis is only kicked off through trening. Thatˇs the only way we can do it. What are the other pathways that we can do? Yeah, so you can have muscle protein synthesis elevated, and the other thing is if you get into the research, it kind of elevates for around 24 hours and then it starts to come down. Myofibril protein synthesis is a completely different cellular process and has a completely different timeline, so theyˇre not even completely related. So what weˇre interested in from a trening standpoint is what is going on with myofibril protein synthesis because thatˇs whatˇs going to add new contractile proteins. Thatˇs whatˇs going to give us muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, make us stronger, etc., etc., and so on. I havenˇt seen anything, and if somebody has the research and send it to me, weˇll look at that. I can show you with catabolic states where then stimulating the AR will stop the calpains and all that stuff, and the calcium ion buildup, so we kind of work backwards with that stuff basically in wasting, not so much in a lifting state problem. The problem that we run into with that is isolating something off, right, which is another reason why any time you combine compounds, you can never run a study combining compounds because itˇs too many variables, thereˇs too many variables. So you have to start with one compound, so weˇre just using tests. We already know the test itself is going to create new tissue via a completely different mechanism, so it becomes tough to isolate that off to say, hereˇs the mechanism thatˇs creating a faster recovery time that occur from the activation of calpains, and here is whatˇs actually going on with the new tissue accrual by a completely different stimulus thatˇs occurring via testosterone. So itˇs really a couple of different topics that weˇre looking at. This happens a lot in terms of when weˇre dealing with multiple mechanisms and why for the long time, like muscle damage and then metabolic stress, weˇre able to kind of permeate the landscape of still having potential properties for growing muscle because it can be difficult to isolate those off from mechanical tension and then see, okay, is any of these actually are they stimulating anabolic signaling, and then does that anabolic signaling, because you canˇt always use anabolic signaling anyway, like I said, because import can get turned on for a multitude of reasons, not stimulate growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Muscle protein synthesis is kind of another thing, but we have a multitude of pathways, people attach themselves to pathways, and Iˇm like, you have to get back to myops, and myops is creating. mening form, primary glabrin, meningine, meningine, psychosocial, mening serious, meningitis, 확진iness, meningitis minor, meningitis invasive, meningitis severe, meningitisasim, meningitis teiling and meningitis comparable. Because for example, you can't do a test where, like one of the things, ways that we use in testing to see if people are recovering or muscle damage is still present in a strength testing. So if you're not back to baseline, you know, my favorites are still in repair, recovery, damage mode. And then you're like, okay, so strength testing is not back to the baseline. So we're not recovered. That's another problem with frequency we didn't even get into is like, I'm like, well, they're not even recovered. They did 10 sets today and they tested them four days later, and they're still not even back to baseline. So that's completely different topic. But some of these are tough to isolate off because you couldn't use a strength testing study to determine if steroids were giving you fast recovery, strength testing, because the guys that sat at home were able to go to the gym and almost match the natural guys that had been doing those movements for the whole 10 weeks. So it was a real contractile protein. Some people tried to make the, some steroid guys tried to make the thing, the argument at first that it wasn't, it wasn't real muscle, that it was fluid or whatever. Dude, what are you talking about? They did biopsies. I'm like, they actually looked at the cross-sectional area. They looked at the cross-sectional area and they strength tested them. It's real muscle, dude. It's not, it's not fake muscle. The other theory is that there's hyperplasia going on. Probably not at that dose. You don't think so? We can get into that in a second. So I just going to explain so people understand. So we're talking from a weightlifting point of view, like we said in the pre, before we were recording, you're, we're talking about mechanotrensduction, right? This is like, that's pretty much the platform that you stand on. This is what you, you get stuck talking about all day long, the trening. So that's from trening. That's a muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone from trening. It's the only mechanism of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone from trening, but you hate to hit the pump. Doesn't cause it right. Metabolic stress doesn't cause this from steroids specifically, whether you're talking testosterone, you're talking to other drugs, there's three other main ways that you're going to grow through IGF, which will splice into the kind of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factor inside the muscle, inside the muscle. The serum IGF doesn't matter downstream P I three K and the antigen receptors. You have those three mechanisms. So when you're sitting at home, the testosterone itself was probably dealing with all three of those, even though, even if there's no mechanotrensduction occurring, right. And that'll still bypass that whole thing. When you talk about pathways, the other problem with pathways, you have to follow the whole thing just because you've activated a pathway doesn't mean downstream, right? Cancer works through mTOR, but it's forks at the C fork. So that cancer is a totally different branch just because mTOR is active. Yeah. That's interesting point to bring up. Remember when it used to be that there was the idea, that's a really great point, Kirk, because the idea was they would work their way backwards on the downstream and then they would get to you. See, I already know. Come on. I'm like, dude, you can't do it like that. They would start and they go in towards bad cellular reproduction. How far down did you go down the downstream bro? They didn't go anywhere on it because they don't understand it. They looked at the chart of the cell and they stopped at mTOR because the rest of it was a bunch of letters that they didn't know what they meant. They didn't know what they were talking about. And then from there, like I said, before we recorded them, there's 88 genes that we know of. There's 300 is genes. You might know the answer that affect muscle. It seems like give or take in the human body. There's 88 that steroids affect directly, at least that we're aware of. It doesn't mean they don't affect all 300, but only the 88 ones have been studied. And then the basic ones are not WNT and numb. And then that gene set then causes all sorts of other expression with the androgen receptor. So when you do drugs, you're getting a whole cascade of responses that you're just not going to get from picking up a heavy weight and going to failure. Yeah. It's the fact that that study exists is it gave us so much. There's the other one, but I would think it was run by the same guy where it had, I said at home for 20 weeks, do you remember that one? They said at home for 20 weeks and did super normal doses of tests and they grew an average of like 20 pounds. That was the dose response and healthy man. Well, so the great thing about these and the guy who did those studies is we, in my industry, we, we actually broke down endocrinology into the pre-Basin era and the post-Basin era. He was so groundbreaking that before he did those studies, most physicians didn't think testosterone or anabolic steroids did anything for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. That's why in the early nineties, that would tell you that steroids didn't work. Yeah. Arnold Schwarzenegger or watch pumping iron or went to a gym because they thought that this stuff, the only theory that they, they might've believed is that somehow it stopped muscle protein breakdown. So maybe then there was a net accrual somehow and that the net accrual things, we get back to muscle protein synthesis because they didn't understand the, the multiple cellular processes that were going on. So it was the idea. I remember when this used to go on, it was the idea that muscle protein breakdown was the boogeyman. And we had to really reduce muscle protein breakdown through insulin spikes, post-workout and all this kind of stuff. I'm like, dude, you bring it down relatively easy. It does. You don't have to do a whole lot to bring it down. It's not, it's not really doing a whole lot. And with pathways to an interesting thing is I feel like I've heard you speak to this as well. The other problem with activating a pathway too, is when you go down it, like we talk about mTOR, you could activate mTOR and not build muscle because during the trenslation stages and energy requirement, right? So if you're in a deficit and even if you stimulate mTOR with mechanotrensduction and eating leucine, if there's no energy sense to the trenslation stage and it doesn't have to do that. Great guys. Let's overeat. The mTOR one still drives me crazy because I'm like mTOR can get turned on for a multitude of reasons. It doesn't mean muscle is going to be built. The other one we talked about a little bit before we see an increase, people have tried to say that the, like the eccentric or the stretch part is morEQuote unquote anabolic because we see greater degrees of mTOR. I'm like, right. Because the stretch activated ion channels get opened up and dump a bunch of calcium ions yet into the cell. So mTOR goes, well, I'm going to have to increase my ops because it'll do a lot more damage repair now. Nobody gets it. Somebody's trying to manipulate and there's this one a-hole PhD on social media. Either he does not understand this to the degree he tries to make himself out to be or he's just being disingenuous on purpose. But he'll say like the stretch is more anabolic, the more anabolic portion of the movement. And I'm like, you're saying that because of a higher degree of mTOR expression, which means nothing. In the grand scheme of things, it means nothing. mTOR is like satellite cell proliferation. I'm like, what are we looking at when we see satellite cell proliferation? It's almost always a repair and regeneration process it's associated with. We don't need satellite cell proliferation in order to add myofibrils. So anytime these things get lost in the mix, I understand they'recomplicated and complex topics. But the problem is there's too many people talking about this shit that don't have any idea as to the complexities of how this ultimately ends up either working for somebody or not doing anything at all. Yeah. And when you, so with that, because you've had a hyperplasia before. So again, we only have data showing single drug use, right? Because we don't study multiple things going on. So like a lot of that data comes from HIV and we do see increased cell mass. So one of the issues with HIV versus with the three of us is if you were inactive, right, you'll lose some muscle size, but you don't really lose. You're not losing the actual cell mass with HIV actually lose the cell mass. Yeah. They'll actually disappear. It's almost like, it's like a type of like a mini necrosis. And basically we play with a million doses of different things. And it seems that the only thing that really causes permanent new cells to come in hyperplasia is growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And it has to be at six milligrams. Basically there seems to be a point of diminishing returns, which is 18 units. Now again, that's without steroids. It doesn't mean that you couldn't get less, you couldn't get the same response or less. We just don't know. But like anadrol, these things will cause new cell mass. But then after a washout period, it's gone. That's what you see, right? You're in a test cycle. You might, you will enlarge your muscles, but you're not necessarily getting the new cell mass. That's going to, you're not growing new cells at that point. Yeah. So when we're talking about these, the testosterone studies, what do you feel like if you're looking at, okay, you bring in the test, the guy sitting at home is doing nothing. What is the mechanistic line chain of events that are going on that are creating? So you don't think that there's any hyperplasia really going on there at all? I'd be hesitant to say there is. I would think it's more androgen receptor and then be a catatin stimulating more androgen receptor. And then there's more androgen receptors built up during the trenslation. It's just a constant stimulation of the androgen receptor is just causing more protein accrual, but not necessarily new cells created. There were probably new nuclei, but that's not what you're referring to. You're referring to as a full new, a full new cell. I don't believe so. Yeah. So I could be wrong. I don't know. I don't think there's, there's some research again. I didn't come as fully prepared and I'm glad cause Paul's like, no, we're just going to BS it, man. I'm like, okay. So I think there's some research that shows in anabolic. Now this is one of those causation isn't, you know, correlation isn't causation things, but I think there's some research that shows AAS guys, they postulate that they have hyperplasia because of the, the number of fibers relative to say, looking at untrened people, there's a multitude of problems with those studies. It also could be that the guy that has more fibers, he didn't get hyperplasia, it could be that he grew easier. So he was more inclined to stay with trening rather than the, the untrened guy or the guy that it didn't grow as much and didn't stick with trening. I'd have to go back and revisit these studies, but I remember thinking that you couldn't necessarily draw a complete conclusion by looking at the number of fibers that a guy  hyperthyroidism, dysleptmia, dysrapia, osteoporosis oncologia, fibrosis, dysenteritis, dysventritis etc. DR. PAPLAUS I guess my point is is thatNDALEN And certain steroids testosterone trembolone specifically increase increased intramuscular IGF more than other drugs like nandrolone, for instance, doesn't have any effect. Like, unless you're injured and you're a rat, it doesn't seem to increase IGF inside the muscle. So they all work a little different. But it's possible that if the dose were high enough, right for that individual, again, depending on AR content and things, because dose means very little, right? The standardized dose doesn't mean anything, because we all might respond differently to the same dose. It's possible. It's possible. It's also do they test the fiber amount before on those people? Do they test it was on their traps, I think, right? DR. PAPLAUS Yeah, I want to say what they did. If I remember, I'm drawing from memory. So don't quote me. Don't hold me accountable. I want to say it was they were looking at guys who had taken steroids versus I wonder if they also had more fibers to begin with, or in their initial thought was like, well, so how do we know they just didn't have more fibers than the natural guy to begin with? Like, because then they're gonna be a better responder. Exactly. That was my thought. And I think they did make note of the fact that it wasn't like you couldn't take this full on, you know, correlation by causation, but it was just a case for me that it wasn't a slam dunk. The idea that hyperplasia is going on is interesting, because I want to say, because Stu Phelps, who's another guy, is fantastic, does some amazing work, said there is some research, he didn't quote what it was, that was pretty good at identifying that that anabolics did cause hyperplasia. I think my own theory looking at this is I think there's probably a little bit combination potentially of both where there may be some hyperplasia going on. But I also think there's probably something going on with just the addition of myofibrils inside the existing cells through the angiogen receptor sites. So there's got to be some type of downstream, it's like once the steroids get to the angiogen receptors, there's got to be something that has nothing to do with mechanotrensduction that is creating more myofibrils within the existing cells. Yeah, IMean, that's protein synthesis, you know, and then it will continue to carry. Like I said, there's other things that then will further magnify the angiogen receptor at that point. Yeah. Angiogen receptors are then upregulated through trenslation as well. When that when new DNA is created, then there's a new angiogen receptor. So the longer you do drugs, the more drugs you do, the more angiogen receptors you create. It's going to continue to be a magnified effect, right? And you see that the first time you run a cycle, if you were to run a gram, a test your first cycle, most likely you're going to not feel very well. Right. But like you can tolerate these big doses, right? Yeah. Because you have more places for the drugs to go. I did. My first cycle was 500 milligrams of tests and I just wanted to, I didn't want to do, I didn't want to do anything crazy and I thought 500 milligrams for a first cycle was a good more than enough. It was probably and I felt fine on it. But like I said, I didn't I didn't get a magnitude of and I do think that you're right about that. I do some of this stuff because it's, I've been off for like 10 years and I don't really think about any drug stuff anymore and only have recently again where it's like, maybe I'll do one last cycle. But the, one of the things I did, I kind of thought at the time was like, maybe the outcomes that you're going to get on, I consider like moderate cycles. If you've maxed out your natty potential is unless you are like a hyper responder or let's just say you're a normal responder, but you spent 10 years, you've really maxed out your natural potential, then I think what you're going to get even off of a good cycle is going to be underwhelming compared to what a guy who's like smaller hasn't spent many years eating well. Dude, I don't think people get this, man. When I was growing up in the nineties, we, you know, we just had magazines, books, you too. We had force feeding, force feeding, treninGHard. I was lucky that I gravitated really early on towards Dorian Yates and that, that style of trening. And I think that saved me a lot of years of doing stupid shit. And I figured out very early on progressive overload was how I was going to get bigger. I was like, well, if these dudes are lifting X amount of load and I can take my measly 60 pound dumbbell incline press to a hundred pounds for a rep and get bigger, get bigger. That was, I figured that out at like 15 years old and that clearly is what works. And I still have guys like don't understand like the basics of progressive overload. I'm like, well, you got to be able to do more reps, but that way next week. And then you kind of cap it off somewhere. Then you add load. So it's like double progression. Right. So I just went from, I worked in the eight to 12 rep range at the time and I would set a goal. It's like, if I can do this for eight reps, when I can do it for 12, I'll bump the load to something that brings you back to eight. And I did that for, I don't know how long. And then the other part was learning when I was really skinny and I don't know how, how much you need to do this now, but I can't argue with what happened was learninGHow to eat massive amounts of food. Yeah. We all have, you know what, with all that stuff, because maybe we can talk about that for a second. I find that our generation, we had to figure all this stuff out on our own resources. And I think that's part of the reason why our generation seems to be better at this stuff. The younger kids that have all this stuff on the internet, see that really lost, really lost critical thinking skills, none. They're devoid of critical thinking skills. They won't read a caption. The biggest reason why people think that I'm an a-hole on social media is to have to say, you already know this from my, I'm like, did you read my caption? Do it. It takes 90 seconds for you to caption. Do they know us? When I sit down, this is why I have no sympathy for any of them getting butthurt. I still read eight to 10 hours a day. You won't read a 60 second caption where I basically take six or eight hours of reading and put it into this for you, and you won't read that. And then you question it like you're wrong. Yeah. And then I can almost always, I almost always know thEQuestions that are going to come. And I'm like, just, it's point, like point six, point, did you read the caption? Point six. Or I'll say, tell me you didn't read my caption without telling me. And then that's me being an a-hole. I'm like, I'm giving you free information and I'm the a-hole. Okay. They're like, well, it's how you respond to people. They have these baby mouth handles. That's why I stopped writing captions and make reels. People will watch reels. They won't reach it. I thought you only posted memes during COVID. That's when I started following you. That was when you got blocked like every week. You have like eight different accounts because you were getting... Do you know how many people lie on me on... Do you know how many people said that I lost my account for being an a-hole? I lost my account for posting memes. I lost my account for posting memes because you remember that was during COVID and if you said anything, and I would post these memes and I'd wake up and be like, your account has been suspended. I'm like, shit. But people, when I get it back, they would be like, go back to posting memes. Well, everybody was sitting at home during that time and couldn't do anything and I would find memes throughout the day and I would post 50 memes in my story at night. You were like my only bit of sanity, I think, during COVID. I heard that from so many people. They were like, you saved me during COVID because every night I would look forward to reading your memes. Yeah, I looked at them too. That's how I found you. Yeah, and I would post up 50 memes. I would find the funniest memes I could throughout the day. I had about, I had at least 50 sites that I could go to and I would find the funniest ones. And I got so much love back from people like you just kept me sane during that time because I would literally go through your memes at night, but I lost my account multiple times over memes. I never lost my account because anything I ever said to anybody, but I lost my account over memes. I had one, you remember this one, it was where somebody takes the nail clipper and they chip off their tooth and they bite the ice cream. I lost my account for that meme for inciting violence. Come on. I swear to God. I lost my account for inciting violence for that meme. I'm on. You get people report you all the time. Dude, I had any time I would post anything like that was even remotely challenging to COVID, I would get mass reported and took down. I'm on YouTube probation right now for calling somebody stupid in the comment section. They said it was, they said it was hate speech. We have, I don't know, none of these kids would have survived five seconds in a modern warfare lobby from 10 years ago. I can tell you that. It was, you had, man, you had to be buckled up. Every type of awful thing you could say to a person was said to people in those lobbies, but it was expected, right? Like it was trash talk at the highest level and nobody really ever got offended. But it's wild to me, the amount of heat that I get simply because I don't coddle people and people are like, well, you could be nicer. I'm like, I'm literally giving you free content. I study, you know, eight, 10 hours a day to give you guys stuff that's going to make your trening more effective and I don't charge you for it. But you're mad because I say, read a caption or there'll be like, well, you said this person was a clown. I'm like, well, were they acting like a clown? Because if they were acting like a clown, it looks like it, you brought up a long, long time ago. I've reposted a bunch of these from you as I thought it was just me, the private profile thing. Yeah. The time is always the people that I'll be like, I'll bet money that's a private profile with no picture. And I'll go over and look and Paul started posting that over and over again. I'm like, okay, so I'm not going crazy. It's always the people, it's always that guy, it's always private profile. why do they get mad about this here's the thing guys do you know i don't go to anybody's account to talk trash so why would you i don't either why does anyone do that i don't know i don't know i don't get it i don't go to anybody's account to trash talk i only follow people that i want to watch their content dude that's the other thing i don't get people will be like i can't stand you but i like your content i'm like do you know how many people i follow i can't stand none do you know that's a reflection of a problem within you that you don't like me for some perceived wrong you don't even know they don't even know who you are you know me and then you still follow me but then you talk shit on me on other accounts but then you're like i love your content i'm like but i hate you i hate you oh man it was it was horrific when i was on contest prep the the trolls that would come out of the woodwork it's like now that i'm back to just being normal again i don't get all the trash talking but when i well i don't know if i posted that i would see that here's the other thing paul watch from the outside and anytime you post yourself up you know i've dmu like looking good brother like like you know awesome and i'd always throw but i would see comments coming out about you and it's so toxic and dysfunctional it's like you know clearly you put into work you look fantastic you always you post up pictures you know like when you got started again being very vulnerable about the state of your condition i think that's so highly admirable and i'm like that's one of the reasons i followed you then it's like you were talking very openly about andrew jen she had posted your pictures hey this is where i went two years ago the progress you've made is phenomenal the amount of jealousy and insecurity i see out of what is supposedly grown ass men coming at you like on your profile and i'd be like dude why would you go to i would never go to somebody's account to say that stuff ever like i don't i don't my brain doesn't even function that way so mine doesn't either it just makes me laugh though like the the regular dudes whatever the one that the ones that get me are the guys that are like other coaches or people that are like higher up in this community i dealt with a couple people that should know better that were talking shit about talking shit about me and i'm like dude i'm like just shut the fuck up there was one there was one guy i won't name anything so one guy was just talking about how pro cards are easy to get just kept kept kept saying they're easy to get but he doesn't have he doesn't have one and i'm just like bro shut the fuck up man like if it's like you get one yeah IMean the thing is i i don't the the and here's the other thing i'll add to this some people will go even by some of my haters some of the my bigger haters they will at least show me a mode of community respect and not talk about like my family or my like my girlfriend or my ex-wife and kids but there's people out there that will do that too oh yeah i've seen that too and here's my thing i don't care if you're my mortal enemy i will never talk about your wife or your kids or your girl like so off limits i don't care IMean most people know me and mike israel are not good but i would never talk about mike like his family in any kind of way we used to be really close friends and then there's a couple of other guys but i would never talk and here's you know i've even given credit to my before mike has mike knows my former wife knows my kids he's never said a word like he i don't even care people attack me that just comes with the territory of having a social media account saying stuff that goes against the grain of other people but have the even smallest modicum of respect to not talk about somebody's family or talk about their their parents or their kids or like their private life or whatever you just don't if you're going to be considered an educator in any kind of way like the fact that you're going to stoop to that level is so wild to me again i won't even say anything about the people that i have clearly are like i'm quote-unquote enemies with i would never talk about their family that's just so out of scope of what we're doing if i do trash somebody it's not even a personal it will be about the concepts they keep pushing that are just completely wrong yeah there's nothing wrong with that somebody said the other day and they said there's a multitude of people that don't like you that are always bagging on you that say you attack people personally and he goes what i actually watch is you don't ever attack them personally you attack the information they're giving out then they attack you personally and i'm like right i'm like he goes he goes that's been really cool to watch because they always say i'm like yeah dude it's called projection it's called projection so i don't i don't have people personally like if somebody you know like shows up and they're not in contest shape or whatever dude i don't have anything to say about that my focus is physiology biomechanics trening making that stuff more effective for the average guy and if they're being led astray in my opinion by people who have ulterior motives i'll call that stuff out but i'm not going to attack people like on a multitude of other fronts i think that's a very clear sign that you cannot defeat that person's stance on these topics if you can defeat me come do it if you can defeat what i'm giving you information wise all you got to do is hit follow people say paul limits comments i'm like no they have this really cool feature on instagram that says if you can't you're not my follower you can't comment so i'll do that to limit the amount of trolling stuff otherwise i see people they just get trolled to yeah so but i also think social media is more toxic now than it was five years ago yeah it is and i agree with you dude you know you have won an intellectual argument when it's resorted to slinging personal insult once the ad comes out you're like all right i don't even need to continue paul barnett do you remember there was one i don't want i'm not gonna name any names there was one social influencer that he got really upset about my halo testing video and he made a youtube about me he's like shaking visibly he's actually losinGHis mind he's like mentally ill in the video and he's shaking curtain you never even mentioned his name i never mentioned his name he just said something that wasn't he was recommendinGHalo testing for women and children claiming it was safe so i remember this literally medically it's only for bone marrow failure when you're dying it's not used it's an andrew like it was a very it was a very respectful wait wait wait i vaguely remember this topic because i thought i was losing my mind i was like is this thing sayinGHalo testing is safer when we made a video dr dean and IMade a video explaining the chemical structure of halo testing and why it was very respectful very very science based you know and it was like but we didn't mention the kid's name at all on purpose i'm not gonna i'm not trying to call anyone out i just don't want kids takinGHalo testing i don't want to joke to be honest with you dude that was the only drug i ever took where have did paul did we ever did we talk about that in the last podcast no i don't think so we have the funniest stories from halo testing so i never had worried rage from anything except halo test me too i took i didn't even take that much i took 15 milligrams that's what i think the standard is right i took 15 milligrams of halo testing and i can't remember who got it for me but he's like that shit will make you strong real strong overnight but there comes some i had so i'm gonna tell this story this is one of my funniest drugs though i've never had even when i ran up tests a couple of times to two grams a week because i just want to see what happened i didn't notice anything i just felt horrible i just felt so bad i wasn't i didn't have i didn't have roid rage i just felt i was so lethargic and felt terrible overall this is doing nothing i didn't get any more gains but i wanted to see it like well what's up with the running the big cycle stuff so i was getting ready for this meet and i put the halo testing in i didn't run my normal i used it i didn't run anadrol or dbol or whatever the lasT3 weeks i was like i'm gonna run halo testing so i ran halo testing i remember the day kicked in i was sitting at a red light and there was this old lady crossing the crosswalk and i was just gripping my steering wheel because she wasn't going fast enough and i was like if you wait out of the crosswalk by the time this turns green i'm gonna paint my car with you and i was like i was like where what is the other voices out your head that still say someone's saying your own cycle goes bro what is wrong with you like and it's like she better get some some knee to chest action going to get across this road and then my my saying voice was like dude you are so messed up on on the cycle right now and um i also remember like the libido from it was so insane it was so off course i was married at the time but the thing about it was you know how like when you're like libido is off the charts when you're on certain certain drugs and then like you know you like you finally have an orgasm you get like a reprieve there's no reprieve you're still mad as hell you're angry you're you know still you don't have a refractory period at all it's still like there's so there's just there's no release from the aggression or how you feel or whatever and your libido is just and i can remember this is one of those too much information i can remember waking up in the middle of the night waking up for my libido being too high awake because my libido is too high arterycapsular,ackMenthoid, rows ofićPmontblur, abductor 힘들, insides bags, aeund frown, erectile dorsum, erector femoris, erector cultorori, erector fascile, erector aparamor, erector admissionsstudio, erector reconstivalit, erector axonocic, erectorgoiot, erector gastrosmium, erectoreastesumniblus, erector I think you can't do as much work when you're on cycle as when you're natural. He's like, when you come off, you can do a lot of work. And he's like, when you get on cycle, you don't actually feel like you're not capable of doing a lot of sets and a lot of work. So you might get a great pump. And I think that's why some guys that get on cycle, they don't actually, they don't tren as hard because they just get such a massive pump from doing it. You can't move your arms. Nothing works. You can't shave, you work on shaving. You get up, you can just get a pump sitting around and I remember that I was like, this is when you're typing, like if you're writing content, you're like you ever posted in your story, someone asked you about your thoughts on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. You're like, it's a very expensive way to get numb hands. Exactly. I never ran growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone for those doing powerlifting people always ask, you don't need for powerlifting and I think some people actually said there's kind of a reduction. Some people, John told me he, he felt like he saw a reduction kind of in some of the strength levels when he, well, if it's creating intercellular pressure, similar to a pump, you'd counter intuitive to growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, right? And strength, cause the leverage is all screwed up. I'll be careful. I'm not going to do that. Tell people that they're, that the pump actually interferes with, with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. I'm going to get, I'm going to get, I posted a bunch of studies to actually like irrefutably prove that the pump at, at, at basically at worst, it's going to reduce force production by way of excitation, contraction, so you don't actually get mechanical tension at the largest fires. And the best thing is just, it's not doing anything at all, but there's absolutely, it's not, it's not like to, in one of the studies, when they looked at my favorite protein synthesis related to short rest periods, long rest periods, they hypothesized in there that the cellular, cellular swelling that's occurring from the shorter rest periods is actually interfering with growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Yeah, yes, it's stopping you from recruiting the fibers. What is it stopping you from recruiting the fibers? And again, I'm not quoting because some of these guys are nuts, but like Mike Manser knew that that didn't do anything 50 years ago, right? Frank Zane, Frank Zane said, the pump is the only function of the pump services, basically to show you what you'd look like if you gained 10 pounds of muscle. That's a pretty good way. Arnold was the only one who hung on to the pump as if it were a pump. Yeah. I'm getting pumped. I feel like I'm calming when I get a pump and pumping it back. Arnold, Arnold was the guy that promoted the pump, but then you still haven't got guys like, you know, the kids sensation. Sam Sula goes around talking about the pump all the time and getting a pump. And I'm like, yeah, but there's no growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone from the pump. I get that it feels good and you like it and you like how you look and it's basically like makeup for dudes who lift weights, but it's not doing anything for you. What do you guys think about this? Like I, the way I've looked at it, like I've always told people that it's an indicator that you're actually working the muscle that you're trying to target. Like I, I look at it as a cue more than when you get swelling in a muscle, it is feedback that you have activated the largest type two fiber types that you have in that muscle because they have more swelling. Here's what I would tell people as far as the pump goes, you already know when you have one muscle that grows really fast because it gets pumped easily. The pump is just feedback that you have more type two fibers you can recruit in that muscle. So that's what the, the, the feedback is saying the one way, cause I'll use this. Let's say you get a muscle that won't grow really well. If you found an exercise that gave you a great pump that you didn't get before, it could conceivably be used as a proxy that you are able for whatever reason to activate more type two fibers with that exercise in that muscle. So you could be using an exercise where you are more dominant in another muscle group, let's say it's a compound exercise and you're more dominant in another muscle group and you get a really good pump in that muscle. But then the muscle group, that's a weak muscle. Let's say, cause the rear delts should get a good stimulus from doing row motions, right? Good theory. Let's say, you know, you have really poor rear delts, but then you start doing some specific rear delt exercises and you do get a rear delt pump off. You're like, well, it didn't definitely stick with those because it's probably a decent sign you're getting activation. So if you want to use it for a proxy for something, you can use it as a proxy for something where I'm getting more activation with this exercise than I'm getting with some of the other standard exercises that I use. But as far as the pump itself being a catalyst for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, that's. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was sort of my point. Proxy would be like, this is a decent exercise choice for me to use for that particular muscle. And with rest times, like I've, like people get so obsessed and overthink rest times. I just tell people, I remember Dante Trudeau telling me this a long time ago when he trened me, he's like, just wait until you're ready. That's pretty much, I had a few years there where I really had to get people just to get away from the short rest because the short rest are definitely bad. But the thing is, what we're really looking at with like rest periods is we don't want an interference mechanism that's existing from the previous set. So we want to allow metabolite accumulation to subside so that there's less metabolites from that set that we had just done. And we don't want a cardiovascular demand in place because that will also create a type of negative effort feedback to the brain. It says, hey, this is, I'm still basically like, you know, in a cardiovascular demand from that previous set. So if we can allow, the main things I look for is, did my, kind of my breathing return to normal? I'm kind of recovered from that last set. And then you can kind of go from there. Metabolite accumulation subsides relatively quickly. So, IMean, you're still looking at, you guys should know this though, that also depends on the status of the individual. So I can, you can do, if you do a heavy set of dumbbell curls, alternating dumbbell curls, I probably need three minutes rest. But if you take a new, who's doing like 20 pound dumbbell curls, he's probably fine after 45 seconds to a minute. Yeah. Is the, I actually don't know the answer to this. The, the cardiovascular demand, if you do short rests, is that going to elevate amp K where mTOR would be down because of that? Probably. Right. Because of the body. Well, again, that'll come, those things always get tied back into, if there's a reduction in motor unit recruitment, we're not climbing back up to the top of that motor unit recruitment scale. So that means any type of, when we see those larger expressions, like we talked about earlier, of any type of down signaling, we're going to work our way back to whatever it is that's kicking us off. The larger the fiber types that we can recruit in a set by set basis means the larger the amplitude of those, those initial down signaling mechanisms are going to be. So if we, there's a cardiovascular demand in place, Paul, we did cover this one at first. The other thing is that we end up doing is we can't create some fatigue at the autotomic nervous system level. So we don't, that's another reason why we don't want to continue to have cardiovascular demands on a set by set basis. We just, you know, that's, IMean, that's a good thing. It's another reason why I don't do high reps is like, we're creating more of a cardiovascular demand. We're creating more calcium, iron related fatigue, creating more metabolic stress related fatigue. So bringing those things back and working into those, those rep ranges where we can get heavier loads and not have as much recovery demands on a set by set basis are going to make those subsequent sets more effective. So, IMean, that is kind of a thing is we, we, we want to have enough recovery between sets, but then kids will ask me stuff like, so is it okay if I rest five minutes? I'm like, what did you do in seven reps? It needs five minutes. How out of shape are you? Yeah, like, like, if you're that out of shape, dude, to do some cardio in your off days, like you said, Kurt, I think that's a really, that's a gym. You said earlier. I think that most guys just don't, they're so busy chasing the stimulus and I'm going to do like a weird pivot here, but I just thought that you said some gold earlier. If you're trening three or four days a week, upper or split or full body or whatever you're doing cardio and off days, that is literally the bread and butter of what you can do right there. I saw a little clip from Dorian yesterday. I thought more people should see that. The guy, the interviewer asked him pick 10 exercises for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. He was like a legacy. He goes a leg extension, like a hack squat or a leg or a leg press and then a calf raise. And then he's like a chest press and fly and then like a pull down in a row. And then he goes a bicep curl, pick any one of them. It doesn't matter. And, and then I thought that was really good. Right. And then he said a tricep push now and he stopped for a minute and he goes, because if the average guy just did that twice a week in a split, it would be big. And I was like, dude, there's, there's so much gold right there. Just like that 30 second piece. That guy, you said something in one of your posts months ago that you said something, but someone was asking about, you know, hammer, you know, this, this grip for easy bar versus straight bar. And you said, if your arms aren't 18 inches, at least without being fat, then, then get them that big first and then worry about the specific curl you're doing. It doesn't matter. It's like, you see the guys with the most curls in the gym always have the smallest arms. It's inversely correlated. The guy who does 40 sets of bicep work has 12 inch arms. the funny thing about growing up with magazines is back in the bicep routines, it's like a dude doing five exercises, basically all doing the same thing, he's doing elbow flexion, loading it at some different range of motion. And now I'm like, you're just trying to go grow biceps, anything that loads the elbow at the bottom is going to grow your biceps as much as they're going to grow. And it's pretty wild, you end up, once you start breaking this stuff down, and realizing the simplicity of it all, there's some muscles you only have one thing you can ever do for them. So if you want to grow biceps, you just got to load them closer to elbow extension. There's nothing else you can do. What can load some supination, but for calves, you have one exercise. You need to be straight. One exercise for calves. It's funny because guys, you have so many gems, where you're like, do heavy calf raises, standing calf raises, you know, whatever. And you say, and repeat for a decade. And then you have big calves. You guys are like, but I want them by next week. How do I get them by next week? I've got some giant calves and all I've ever done is standing calf raises. It's the only thing you can do. The soleus is work when you do any other leg exercise in your knee. You do the standing calf raise too, though. Leg press, you squat, your soleus gets work when you embed your knee. My arms are... When you're in a mid-range, anything like a leg press or a squat, soleus still gets work because you go from a dorsiflex to a plantar flex in the mid-range. So I'm like, you don't even need to do soleus work. But literally, it's like the only thing you can do for your gastroc is just hold in the stretch, come back up to neutral. That's it. Yeah. Which that too gets lost. The most guys that have the tiny calves do neutral up, right? They don't ever drop. Backwards, go down. Don't go up. Calves don't have any tension when it's up. I just have everybody focus on the stretch. That's why I'm like, I'm not anti-stretch. There you go. Stretch for the muscles that benefit from it. So like, hold the stretch, come back up to neutral. And I've implemented that in my groups consistently wide a year ago. And everybody's got calves. And I've said forever, it's like, I don't think calves are genetic. Or let me say this. I don't think that there's... It's a limiting factor in the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. I don't think there's genetic... I don't think any muscle is genetically limited if people don't work it. You got to... Every guy that has small calves either does it at the end of a workout or they don't do them at all. They're like, my calves suck when you tren them. Imagine that. Once a month, I do it at the end of a leg workout. But I barely do the leg workout too. I do like one set of leg extensions. And then I do one set of calves and I'm on my phone. And then I go home. And my calves are really tiny. I don't know why they don't grow. I'm just going to ask you guys about this one too. This is another one I've thought about that kind of drives me nuts. I see a lot of guys in bodybuilding that have zero ab development and none. And everybody's obsessed with doing crunches for abs. And I think abs have been a strength of mine. And what I changed with my ab trening a few years ago... And this is one I got from Dante. Another one from Dante. He's like, find a machine. I use the hammer strength machine. And I just tren my abs heavy. And my abs got nice and thick and chunky. Yeah, I always thought I was going to be like ball. When I get really lean, my abs are super thick. But you don't tren them normally though, right? I didn't for a long time until I got a hernia. And then I do this. I lay on the reverse hyper backwards, face up. I have a 45 pound plate. My abs are pretty thick too. Just because the same thing. But I'm doing like six reps. I'm not doing like... That was another, right? There's certain muscle groups people are like, you can't do heavy lateral. But with slow twitch, you got to work your forearms and 50 reps. Yeah, like the soleus is 90% slow twitch. I'm like, well, do you understand how this works? Every muscle in your body ends up growing. IMean, if you... I tell guys that if you want to get as maximally big as possible, especially you know, natty guys. I'm like, break every six rep max that you have on every exercise. And you'll maximize your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone over the course of eight or 10 years. And if you look at like, again, to go back to Dante, like Dante really pioneered, I think, simplifying a lot of this stuff. You know, for the average person too, because he was like, you see these guys doing major and the minors doing all these ridiculous little things. He's like, for your shoulders, why are you doing five exercises? Just press. If you... There's no guy with big shoulders that doesn't... I'm not against lateral raises and those things. But it's just funny when you actually think about it. The natural guys tend to do all this junk volume for no reason. The natural guys have been the worst about doing... Because they will say the only... Those low volume routines are only best for enhanced guys. I'm like, it's obvious. It's best for you, bro. So, like the few things that Dante really nailed, I think that he moved people back, you know, in the early 2000s, was to get focused back on... Beating the logbook is progressive overload. So he got people back to focus on beating the logbook progressive overload and then reducing their volume. Those are two things, man. If you think about it, the core... I don't think you need the rest pause. I don't think that you need... There's no... Well, he's even gotten away from that talking to me recently. I think... IMean, you got me away from... Paul, you got me away from doing any sort of enhancer. I just... Yeah. That's now. Yeah. And that was a shift in my own stuff. It's like the more that I started to look at that, I'm like, now here's the fair speak. Some people will say stuff like... Paul just repeats Chris. I got articles in teenage. He would go back 12 years, talked about the fact that you have to be careful with intensifiers because they are going to create an enormous amount of fatigue. Now, the type of fatigue I didn't know then. Now, I know a lot more. Understand more, basically, from a physiological standpoint, the type of fatigue we're dealing with and what's really happening there. But really good trening. And I said this on the table talk. Really good muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone trening. It's super boring looking on paper. It's super boring looking on paper. And it's pretty low volume. It's anywhere from abouT4 to eight reps. Some sets to failure. Some sets, one to two RIR. Progressively overload those. Pick some stable exercises and focus on that stuff. And no, it's not everything in a stretch position. Lats definitely don't grow more in a stretch. Triceps definitely don't. There's a multitude of muscles that don't grow more in the stretch. Most everything you're going to grow longitudinally. It's going to grow more in those mid-range muscle positions at a moderate length muscle where they have known that for years. There were tricep studies from 20 years ago, 30 years ago showing that. Yeah, we a lot of this stuff. They'll say that, too. They'll say, well, that study is 30 years old. I'm like, so? Didn't change. Doesn't change physiology. Physiology is still working. Yes, the testosterone studies you quoted before from 1996. Yeah, it changed testosterone. Nothing's changed. Those are still applicable to today. So, yeah, the the the trening that, you know, bring us full circle back to why we're going to talk about this was, you know. That is the I want people to really. This is going to brush up against. Kerry, you should know this is going to brush up against so many people and they're going to fight back on this. If you go and understand that there's two different stimuluses going on, one from trening and one from your cycle. And they don't have anything to do with each other. And then you're the other part I was going to get back to is your your androgens don't increase the magnitude of stimulus you're getting from your trening, either. So they don't amplify mechanical tension or mechanotrensduction. That's not happening. They can't. It's a completely separate. Those are separate things. Guys will do themselves such a big favor if they just stop fighting this issue and understand, OK, we have one side where we're getting a stimulus for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that's happening by completely different mechanisms than this other side. So what you need to learn is on this side, the trening side, that is what is going to work best from a physiological standpoint, from all the data that we have over decades and decades and decades. So we know that basically there's a point of diminishing returns of volume, that every set you do is going to be less stimulating the previous one. So you don't really need a lot of volume in the course of the week. And then you also need to know that there's like we were talking about earlier. That was my shift. There is that something like a bro split is going to be less advantageous for your your trening gains. We could probably separate them out, Kurt, between your androgen gains and your trening gains. Your trening gains are the same. They're going to be the same, whether you're natural or enhanced, because they're coming from this particular type of stimuli. So your trening gains are going to come by going in and doing one or two, potentially three sets for that muscle in this session. And they're repeating that in anywhere from. So if you're doing a full body split, you're repeating it every two days or an upper lower where you're repeating it every three days. Those are going to be probably your best two approaches. If you were doing an even an upper lower three times a week would still work pretty OK. You could get away with a little bit more volume there where you're doing maybe like two or three sets per muscle. But then you're still hitting it every like Monday, like fourth day, right? So your fourth or fifth day. Those are really going to be kind of your three best approaches. And then figuring out your androgen cycle, that's going to give you, like I said earlier, the maximum amount of return with the minimal amount of size and and health deficits. So if your androgen cycle is causing you, you know, meadows of life, you say this, do you say if you're having to take more shit because of your side effects, then your cycle is wrong? Yes. Right. If you have to take stuff for your side effects, basically almost period, then your cycle is probably wrong. Unless you'recompeting, I feel like. Yeah, no, but you're right. Ninety nine percent of the time, most guys aren't competing. and that's the end in a different way. We just have to talk in a way that's realistic now, because the truth is kids are going to be on up there, which is just mindboggling to me because dude, they're working in a in a hormone prime for their life they're never going to get again. Nope. And they could be maximizing, they could figure out the part I was just talking about there. What does trening... Presenting effort. Really effective trening look like when I'm not on anything, but have a good base hormonal cycle. That's why I waited until my body went the other way, because I thought I was doing myself an injustice by jumping on drugs when I didn't need them. I was competing... I waited a long time. I've been trening a long time. By the time I got on, like I said, I 100% maxed out everything I could get natural without a doubt. I know that and I guess I don't regret that. My thing is I probably could have got on quite a few years before because I had been, same as you, I started going backwards because when I, by the time that I got my test levels checked, I was like 98 or something. It was really low, but I knew then there was something wrong because of the fact is that my body was not responding to my diet. My trening was pretty much, it was really bad. I felt pretty terrible. My sleep was bad. I was in a bad mood all the time. As soon as I got on my TRT, I felt like a new person within like a few days, like two or three days of like the first shot I ever got. I was like, it's like the lights came back on a hundred percent. That's the best way I can explain it. It's like the lights came back on. I felt good. I was in a good mood. My sleep was good. My sex drive was normal. So it was like, I came off altogether, like even off my TRT dose, which is really low. I think it was a year and a half ago for six months and I want to see what happened. I didn't really change a ton as far as like my body went. My trening didn't really look much different. But I felt horrible after abouT3 months. I felt pretty rough and then it got worse. The longer went on and then I push it all the way. Got my blood work done for thEQuarter. My test levels is completely bottomed out. I could actually show them. I think I did. But you would never be able to go back and look and find what videos that was where I got off. Cause other than just how I feel, I've never noticed any difference in like what's going on. Probably cause you built most of your tissue without the drugs, right? So the more tissue you build with drugs, the more drugs it takes to keep that tissue. So like I naturally tapped out at like one 80 ish and I, you know, I've taken it to almost two 40 with drugs. I float around closer to between two 10 and two 20 and I was where I feel the best. There's no way I would hold that weight with this level of body fat without the drugs. I would go right back to one 80. Yeah. Are you, are you running a, a replacement dose now? I am currently, yes. I just came off a bigger cycle for the Olympia. So I dieted down to as close as I get to get to show shape without really suffering. Yeah. And then I did a large cycle and I gained, I pushed really hard, but I did it only for eight weeks, eight weeks. How much size did you gain in eight weeks? 13 pounds. That's awesome. Which of my, and my body fat didn't go up. So. See, that's why I've kind of, I've got to get in the mode. I was like, I was thinking about it. I was like, I'll never get back home. There's no point. But a big part of it is that I run into these people on social media can't ever figure out, Paul, you should know this from an amount of the shit that you've had to take the last, you can never figure out if you're really jacked or you look like shit. They can't ever figure it. Like nobody can ever come to this. So people either still think I'm on, I'm like, no, if I was on, you would know. So I've almost thought about, I'm going to go back and want some people to be like, Oh, okay. So now you're on. Yeah. It becomes very apparent. Like I, I'm, I generally stay covered up because I'm not looking for attention. So I'm got, you know what IMean? I don't wear a tank top to the gym. I'm not that guy. Right. I don't, I don't appreciate, I don't want the people looking at the veins and stuff. Yeah. And so I thought I'm going to dive down to a really getting near contest level lean, which is much harder when you're not actually getting ready for a contest. I swear to God, because you're like, if you're getting ready for a show, there's definitely, I think a different degree of when I used to, when I was studying for the exam, dude, it's like, when you have a show, you're like, I'm gonna be naked in front of people. So I better be, I better be Dick skin peel. But when you're doing it, just like I have a goal, it is a little different. It feels different. Cause you're like, Oh, that ice cream's in the fridge. Yeah. I used to, I used the Olympia kind of as my, I had a, I have a ton of guys that arecompeting. So I was dieting with them. So that was kind of easy. Cause I could felt, I, I felt I related to them better suffering if I were suffering too. So I wasn't like eat and eat an ice cream on the phone while they're, you know, have zero carbs. I'm going the opposite way from the Olympia. I'm going to be fat and happy. I figured I would get bigger for the Olympia if I could and it worked. But then my, I, you know, after eight weeks I was on over four grams a year. It was just like, you start. So aT4 grams, you ran that for eight weeks and you gained, would you say 13 ish pounds? That's a lot. I'll send you pictures later. Yeah, that's awesome. I think that's incredible. IMean, that's the thing. That's what I push the food hard. Like I did everything. The other Paul, since knowinGHim, being friends with him, he's really shown me, you know, I've done this forever. And it's easy to tell other people what to do, but sometimes it's hard to take your own advice. You really showed me the importance of really pushing the food. You know what IMean? You're not just food, just carbs. IMean, I was eating like at least a thousand grams of carbs a day. We've gotten at as high as 2000. That's not, IMean, that sounds like heaven. I switched it over instead of doing my cheat meals. That's the funny part when you were in prep and I was posting them up and you're like, stop doing this to me. And I was posting my cheat meals, but I was like, if I, if I, you have to switch, I don't feel like you can, you can, but I think you have to do something more similar to like, we were talking about like Ken Hill, Skip does, you're going to do a carb load and you do one on the weekend. You actually really do have to minimize your fat intake for the most part. You'll make your health markers. So all sorts of shit. If you have the fat, yeah. And we see that all the time in every blood work you see, you can tell when guys are eating too much fat because they're triglycerides through the roof. I can see it. This conversation is so interesting to me because what I used to think anecdotally and from my own blood work was this. I don't think that the, even the, the danger thing, you guys correct me if I'm wrong, somebody can come at me. I think if you stay lean, do your cardio, keep your fat intake low, your diet's on point. I don't think that the dangers involved in a boxer is what gets exacerbated. It is the stuff that's already killing people at an astronomical rate. It's like you said earlier, it's one plus one equals three or one plus one equals five. But I had a buddy of mine. Think about it though. Think about this. Can I stop you for a second? Think about this. Like this is the way I look at it. When you're on PEDs, think about what every bodybuilder dies from. It's some sort of cardiovascular event, heart attack, stroke, blood clots, arrhythmias. And I feel like if you, and most of that's just from shit diet, like it's high blood pressure. Yeah, it's no cardio. Elevated lipids, um, you know, clotting factors going through the roof, things like that. IMean, if you can manage all that stuff, I think you can be pretty safe if you're intelligent about things. If you can keep, uh, you know, like, yeah, I don't want to cut you off there, Paul. This is a, this is something I've just been spitballing in my head for years. And I thought that if you look at the guys that are still alive and longevity stuff, most of those guys did cardio, took care of themselves, had better diets, Frank Sainz, even Arnold, even Bob Paris did cardio every day. Yeah. So that's just like Stallone. Like, you know, Stallone's been runninGHere forever and a day. He's like 77 now or whatever. 78 I think. And I think the issue lies in a multitude of other problems. If you want to take gear, I think even in high mounts, if you're on top of your cardio, if you're taking your codes on Q10, you're ubiquitin, if you're taking natural statins, like you can do with red rice yeast, if you, if you're, um, if you are not ingesting a bunch of saturated fats, if you, you know what IMean? If you're doing another word, it's all this same stuff. You would tell a guy to optimize his health without steroids. So if you're optimizing, you know, the one guy I really like right now competing, I feel like talks about that a lot. It's Wesley Vissers. I love that dude so much. I feel like he's always talking about optimizing your health. And I think what he's getting at there is like, you really just are going to avoid all of these pitfalls that you run into when you're constantly optimizing your health. Well, both Kurt and I have talked to Wesley. Yeah. He's a super great guy. And you know what? It's funny because he comes at it from such a different point of view than most bodybuilders. Like even my wife relates to my, he's probably the only, if you ask my wife to name a pro bodybuilder, he's the only one that she can name the fact that he is a family guy and he takes care of himself. That's the other thing is like every time I go watch this stuff, cause he's so relatable. He's, he's always out doing cardio with his kids and he's got little kids. He's always talking about all the vegetables he eats for health and the supplements he uses for health. And I think that a lot of people are missing out on the really fantastic message that he's giving because it's that if you optimize your health, then you can, you can take a big cycle and completely minimize your risk factors. Yeah. Well, you aren't going to grow up. You're sick. That's just simple as that. Yeah. So I just found, so my blood work, I have my blood work done at the end of that cycle. So I'm surrounded by doctors all day long. so they're all very aware of what I do, and I'm honest with them. They love to bust my chops with them. When they see my labs, they like, they're like, well, we want to say something, but we can't really say anything because there's nothing wrong with you. My triglycerides were a 64. I was on four grams a year, including an oral, and my cholesterol was 102. Yeah, and the other thing, Paul, you talk about this a lot as well. The other one that I learned when I was on is that even if your blood work is coming back good, if your blood pressure is high, you're dying. So I had a guy come to me who was running a cycle, getting ready for a show, and same conversations, even though I've been off for 10 years and kind of done a little bit of a mind dump on a lot of the information because most of my stuff's been more physiology and biochemistry related, but he came to me and said his cholesterol levels were really bad, and he's like, he goes, do you have any recommendations? And I'm like, how much cardio are you doing? And he's like, 20 minutes. I'm like, a day? He's like, yeah. A week. Yeah, it was like 20 minutes. I was like, take your cardio to 45 a day. I go, and what's your diet? He just, he was still doing the, I also feel like a lot of guys don't realize this, is that you really have to be more mindful of the saturated fats you have coming in when you're on here. Yep, you just take a none. Close to zero is you can get. Yeah, you do it. As close to zero as you can get. Whitefish. All the time, yeah. Whitefish. Polyunsaturated, fine monounsaturated. Yeah. But again, if you're on gear, you don't need a ton of fat. What do you make it, what are you using that fat for outside of storing it? Dude. That's what I was tellinGHim. I'm like, bro. Fish oil. I take it. I'm like, what are you, I said, every gram of fat you have in your diet right there, get rid of. I said, just get rid of all of it. Today I've had eight grams of fish oil. I said, take your cardio to 45. I said, take your cardio to 45. He took his cardio to 45. He dropped his fat out as low as possible. Came back to me a couple months later. Has blood work. And I think it was six to eight months later, everythinGHad improved. And his body composition hadn't changed a lot, but his blood work had improved. But he also had the blood pressure problem. And his blood pressure came down. Once his, he got more serious, he lost cardio too. So even if you're doing cardio, if you have some of those markers that are high like that, if you're doing 20, I'm like, maybe that's not enough for you to get the adaptation. Or make it harder. Like, what is the, like, I hate to say, and I'm not against doing steps. And I think that steps are important, right? We should move. We should walk. It's good for your stress levels. I come from a, we come from a time when steps weren't counted and steps didn't count as cardio, right? We walked. I never counted. They told me about walking for cardio, but they don't get what I walk like. No, no, that's, yeah. That's different. People are walking on their job. They're walking on their... I do a 10 minute mile. I do a 10 minute mile on a walk and I do it with the best. I'm like, I'm getting after it. But that's core. My point is, the guys who are walking around the store, that doesn't count as cardio. Cardio is planned. It's intentional. And you have to be sweating. It's not, you're not wearing a dress shirt, walking around and counting that as cardio. That doesn't improve your health. That's better than sitting down, but it's not. It's still, it's got, you have to create those adaptations from, and it's just like lifting weights. You don't go pick up the 10 pound dumbbells and just do that. In the offseason, I like doinGHIIT cardio when I have a little more, just to get it over with. I love interval trening. I think you can get it in, you can bust your butt for 15 minutes, get the, you know, a little bit of the APOC. It's not much more that you get from core, but I think that also, there's just something that feels good about being in shape. I just think that's also something that just feels good about being in shape. And that also comes back to what we were talking about earlier, that interference mechanism with cardio respiratory demand between sets. If you don't have as much of that, you can get through your workouts a little bit more effective too. That's what Justin says all the time. My coach, if you're out of shape, your trening is going to suck. Suck? It's going to suck, bro. Yeah, it's going to suck. But I think, IMean, to me, like I said, Kurt and Paul, I think that these are two, like these are, a lot of these are really important discussions because the discussion about guys killing over and dying from steroids, the other part that I forgot, a lot of the times people don't know that many of these other guys also have other unhealthy life factors. They're partiers, or they're taking- Partying, rec drugs, alcohol. Other things, half history of things, right? It's the other stuff they don't talk about. Just like they're not clear about their drug, their steroid use, they're probably not talking about that use either. Yeah, like I don't, you know, like these people that are out and they're either doing, I think Rich Piana, for example, was pretty well known for like doing cocaine or- All the time. Mike Mentzer was a meth addict. Yeah, he was literally doing, like doing meth, but I think he and Ray both had a genetic heart- Yeah, they're, yep. And they died one day, of course. So if you have any of that stuff, sure, you can be talking about exacerbating things, but I've just never, I have too many friends that have been on big cycles for a long time to have no health problems. And I'm not saying that they're gonna live to be 90, what I'm saying, we also don't, I know in a body, it's been a while since we've had a bodybuilder kill over, isn't it? That one big guy just died last week, that 350 pound guy, right? Yeah. Oh, he's been 50 now. It's not as, yeah, well, that's a whole nother story. It's not as common, it's not as common as it was. I feel like at the end of COVID, there was like a bunch of guys that just dropped. You, we all know why that is. Well, again, you can't say that. I'll be careful, can't say it on YouTube. You can't say that. I brought that up privately to somebody. I said, everybody, I actually went back and found out, we can't say this, but we know what all of those guys have in common. I'll bleep the C word out. Yeah. Yeah. You're not wrong. Yeah. I found that out later. So I was like, well, that makes all the sense in the world. Cause like I said, I got too many, I got too many friends that have been running cycles. I'm talking about two decades of big cycles on and off that, you know, have great blood work at great blood pressure. They don't have their calcium scores. Good. Like no problems. Yeah. I get my check every couple of years. That guy that passed away last week, it was Ilya Golem. Golem. He was, he was one of Rich Piana's guys. And they think that he was loading up on that PMMA. And that's probably what killed him. Is that, that's like the site enhancement oil, right? That's the site. And that seems to be a huge correlation there. That oil is destroying people's kidneys and hearts. That site enhancement oil, shit that people are putting in. It's some of the stuff they put in it. There's, there's plastic. And it's not just that, it's thEQuantity, right? They're using like, people are going to be lying about their cycle. You know, like we had those people doing stuff, really dumb stuff like DNP as well. And, you know, that's kind of my thing is like, if you're going to run a cycle, man, and people say, if you want to, I think there's intelligent ways to run your cycle. They tie directly in with your diet, with your supplementation, with your cardio. I think there's where you can run a cycle and be perfectly healthy. And I know that seems to go against the grain, but I just think from everything I've personally kind of looked back into, cause I'm thinking about, I'm going to do one more. I was like, I think you could actually do this and be just fine. Even at large doses and Kurt kind of reiterating to me, what kind of, I kind of intuitively. What you, what you asked in the beginning before we recorded, that would be the way to do it. If you care about, you know, there's ways to be more extreme, but that doesn't mean that that's going to work out for your health. And it's pretty hard to kill yourself on test. Primo and GH. Yeah. IMean, well, you couldn't. Yeah. I don't think it's true. Like I said, I think that when people be like, Oh, this guy was taking steroids and died. I'm like, he was also eating a pound and a half of bread. And you guys remember Mike Matarazzo and he looked back and died and like, dude, dude, the dude didn't eat a vegetable for like a decade. And he never came off 10 grams of gear. He was using grams a day. IMean, you can't. Also, he talked about the fact that he ate like pounds of red meat a day. I'm like, dude, what do you think's going to happen? Yeah. Even if you're not on drugs, you need pounds of red meat a day. You're going to have health problems. You are going to have health problems. Just the carnivore people. Wasn't he also a drug addict? If I remember, right? Probably. I'm pretty, out there. You know, what's the weird thing when I was coming up through the years, it's like you, I still equate bodybuilding, even with steroid use to health. Kind of like we're talking about now. It's like you maximize, even if you're taking drugs, you maximize your health, right? You can do that, Kurt. You can maximize. I look, I did it. My, my life is dedicated now to proving that point. That's why I think that I think you can do that. And I, again, I think guys like Stallone who clearly have been on cycle for decades and decades and decades, but then they're also about trying to figure out ways to maximize their health. But I, I think that one of the things that was weird to me when I was like a teenager coming up through this is when I find out guys, the guys like Craig Titus were out there that were just basically like, they're just like partiers. You know, I know Craig, he also went to prison for killing somebody, but I'm saying a lot of these guys are into lifestyles that I wouldn't do. I wouldn't even drink. I wouldn't smoke weed. I wouldn't do anything that. Markets rule smoke to pack a marble red today. Yeah. He's still alive. Yeah, I know what I'm saying, but like there's videos of him smoking cigarettes. I'll take that as a yes. If anybody should be dead by now, it should be Marcus rule, right? I remember it, dude. I bought his video, his trening video. And it is the funniest fucking shit. deca dick deca dick deca dick i'm paraphrasing a little bit but nasa was like just pounding cheesecake and he's like jake's like what the and so jay goes in the next day to the gym and nasa was in there doing cardio and then there's like three hours later and that's be like three straight hours of cardio but that's kind of you know my thought was when i just got started lifting and i was really they sell you in the magazines that bodybuilding is about health health and fitness and like you got all these dudes that are running gear but they're also like like we were talking about before like they're out partying doing cocaine doing ecstasy doing all this stuff and you know getting drunk and who knows what else they're doing what was the other one the big one in the new bang that was the other day it's like all these other these other new bands for like a pain room yeah yeah i remember everybody was doing that back in the early 2000s yeah and so there's all of these other factors they would bring in which is weird to me because i'm like dude to me the whole thought was getting jacked being shredded being in amazinGHealth they're more extreme yeah i think that again i think that's why when you see somebody like dorian who dorian's one in the 60s now still looks fantastic and talks about that crap yeah he had some pictures you guys did this charlotte's picture yeah it looks good he looks fantastic still i interviewed his ex trening partner we went through and detailed all of his trening like he went through and told told me exactly what they did if paul baxendale if you ever want to talk to him he's really cool he is great yeah you would love talking to him you should check out i have the videos we went through each one of their workouts and talked about what they really did versus what was in the book yeah and stuff and it was dorian was very intelligent man like it was crazy how he just figured shit out yeah he was super intuitive what were the what were kind of some of the differences in what they were actually doing and what he was saying not not a whole lot of difference you know stuff that was in the book he said that um you know initially that they would do top sets and back offsets um that's kind of what so when dorian first hit the scene a lot of people don't remember this i read everything that came out by him he always did back offsets at first he would do and if you go and get his original book if you can find it you you can go to the scribbling where he wrote in his journal and he almost always did a back off set or not not always but what he was actually doing looks a little different than what ended up getting pushed into print later yeah i think that's kind of you know saying it's like what he was doing in trening was more like one or two sets per exercise yes instead of like the whole kind of everybody's bastardized stuff but when he was actually writing when he wrote the journal and put that out there and you could find the pieces of the journal it looks a little different than what you find online where they yeah any any of that stuff says mike menser stuff has been bastardized too yeah there was a guy that commented on my uh that actually was working out in the same gym as mike and um talked about stuff that mike did and it was different not entirely like a whole other world different but it was different enough that you can kind of get the sense that these guys were pushing principles but what they were doing in their trening was a little different too yeah i just interviewed um larry pollock this week i'll put it up but larry lived with him mike he was roommates with mike he had some crazy stories about mike it was insane but yeah mike's trening was a little different than what it was in the books like later on he got into that crazy shit like once every 14 days and all that stuff and he was nice mike's early trening in my opinion is really good his early trening get rid of the superset i'll say muscle group supersets are pointless um but if you get into his earlier kind of where he did he kind of almost had an upper lower types going on yeah trening four days a week four times a week yeah yeah yeah that was good if you go look back at his what he called his most productive split it's really spot on the only thing that was off i think is he did the pre-fatigue for the chest this is weird right like he did the flies first and then which i guess he could do but he was doing those as supersets okay so that same set supers same muscle superset yeah so i was to those and yeah you're right flip flop the press and the fly yeah that just doesn't mean you got a pretty much spot-on routine yeah i was like that i was laughing though that's they didn't have the science back then right and he was on enough gear goes back to our original topic that you're on two grams of gadeka you're gonna grow this what the hell you're doing in the gym when he was eating muffins and stuff for breakfast i was i was laughing larry so if it fits your macros guy yeah well he was like his diet's ridiculous it was like toast with butter orange juice three muffins like fried chicken and french fries and ice cream for dessert i was laughing when i when i talked to larry this week larry said when he first met him he said he said i saw this little guy with this weird voice and 12 inch arms and a potbelly and i'm like is this mike and he said he chain smoked um and he said that like i got him back into the gym i'm paraphrase i could be off on some of the details but he said mike would would use meth and two shots of espresso for a pre-workout then he'd get on these becca cycle and he said like 10 weeks later he said he would be like 300 pounds so i can do an absolutely 100 spot on my minister impression yeah i've done it on my podcast a few times people want me to do it all the time i whooped it out one day just randomly on my podcast and it was i've shocked myself but and chris was like wow that's really good and then everybody else who heard it afterwards like dude you have to do that more because i can actually do his voice like 100 spot on so but i have to get into character i'll try to give it to you on the podcast here a little bit so um let me see if i can do it because getting in doing a voice you have to be you have to get into character right so it's the stimulus that you're going to get out of doing so many sets for your muscles come back to how many times you're going to go if you do one set the maximum amount of stimulating repetitions you're going to get out i'm doing both there you go so that's that's a pretty good mike mincer i've done it better but i have to know what i'm going to say ahead of time but IMean i can do his voice pretty good but i heard on the phone when i was a kid too i talked to michael on the phone oh really he's going to pay for phone consoles right no i didn't he was so nice um i would call he loved mike really loved treninGHe really loved bodybuilding and i was like 15 years old and i would call and he wouldn't even make me pay for the consultation he would just talk to me yeah so um it was it was really amazing to be able to like to have that i think we did three or four calls and he even responded to some like some letters i wrote to him he was a really really nice person it was sort of sad to see what happened to him he just kind of declined in mental illness and drug addiction at the end yeah and i also think that mike had most of that stuff as far as like his his trening stuff was really spot on early and then he lost his way a little bit the like you were saying kurt when he was got into the hole don't tren chest but once every 14 days you know i think like he's like people can that people can't recover as well as they think they can and just say the most amount of stimulus that you can take in a session is this much and then you're gonna have to recover for 72 days after that before you're so it was kind of like that right so he went from being pretty close you're like hey dude you're really close to stuff that's going to come up 50 years from that's going to be spot on to like okay you're okay you really know he went to work yeah i think i think that was when he was probably in his peak meth meth phase when he kind of kind of lost it there at the end you'll you'll like this uh this larry pollack interview i've got coming up it'll it'll be on this week you guys will like this one this one there's a there's a lot of fun juicy mike stories on here they didn't do cardio in the 70s that's why a lot of no they just tren they just tren more so that was that people a lot of people do not realize when they would read arnold's old stuff and arnold would talk about trening twice a day and six days a week and all they were doing they people did not realize what intuitively they did was they increased the amount of work they were doing it increased their need yep all they had to do was do cardio so all they had to do was do cardio but i think mike had figured out just it was just the diet he he was definitely ahead of his his time in some way because he was getting what they had at the time contest level lean which is pretty much off-season leveling what we consider for bodybuilders now it's their contest level pretty close to it right maybe a little fatter but um mike had just figured out was all the calorie stuff and here's the thing the other part that you brought up paul to make sure we we hit on all the topics is the um the protein intake and you were like i don't always get a gram of protein intake a day and i think that protein intake has been so overstated by the industry as a whole no bodybuilder i 2022 before legally it requires the magician to sign the Himalayan, 2020 who wants the Skyscraper emblem, 2023 DNAdwraith 2023 BT duration of performance, vitro protection complexity 2023 delay, 2023 burst tampered with 2023 butler 2023 trad 2023 which is notям one 2022 I'm out 2023 one 2022 semifinal 2023 one Lots of Year 2020 adrenaline 2023 SV SV Day lecture trips computer Excel 2020 the Billboard Vote Video  But, but you don't, I don't think anyone's eaten that much, right? The adequate amount of carbohydrates for your body, whatever you need. Generally, and I'll give you guys this little gym here. So, um, Alan, you guys who know who Alan Erickman is, right? Like, yeah, yeah, he's kind of like the, he's, I call him the king when it comes to nutrition. Alan's pretty much the king. Um, they were doing all those studies. You bring up carbohydrates. I think carbohydrates are the least appreciated of the macros when it comes to what's going on with your body. Everyone's terrified of them. They're the most you guys are killing me today. Cause it's true, man. Like the stuff you read, like, but at, you know, they did all those keto studies and nobody could gain muscle on keto. Nobody could gain muscle on keto and surplus. So the reason why that this happens is because when you're carbohydrate, when you're glycogen depleted sufficiently, you suffer from excitation, contraction, so what that means is at a very nerdy getting their testing again at the neuromuscular junction where the voltage sensor, which basically reads the electrical signal that comes down from the spine and the sacral limb and stuff. Um, what has to happen then is that voltage sister has to be able to talk to the calcium ion store and says, I need to do a muscular contraction, give me some calcium ions so we can do some fuel, so much better contractions that essentially that process gets broken and that's excitation, contraction, coupling failure. So those fibers cannot experience mechanical tension. They can't produce force. When you are in a, when you're doing a keto diet, you're basically suffering from excitation, contraction, coupling failure all the time. So when they put those guys in a surplus, they excite, so I sent it over to Alan and Alan's a super sharp guy and he goes, Oh man, that's the mechanism. And I'm like, right, that's why you can't really gain mass. And that's, so that's with mechano trensduction. That's with the natural stuff. Even on steroids. If you're in keto, your liver's not going to produce IGF. It's looking for glucose and insulin. If your insulin's not, you know, not present, your glucose is under a hundred, your liver's like, we're not growing. That's the encouraged. We had Joe who on our podcast, who he's he, him and Alan are the two guys. And it's actually quite difficult to store carbs as fat and people don't talk. It's very, very stamina, impossible. All the time. There would be more. So fast, the buffer, if you've got a bunch of carbs and a bunch of fat, even if you eat a higher fat, now your body will more readily store that fat as fat. Of course. I'm like, you've got one or two options. You either go to a protein sparing modified fast, where you strip both of them out and then you just rely on your sword body fat stores, or you eat carbs and you retain your muscle or build carbs. Carbs is, are really the macro for adjusting it. Yes. It's the only one that we've had. Paul and I, the only one that we move with clients is carbs. Everyone else. And you know, and lane Norton sets off perfect lane. Norton said it really well. He said, if you eat more carbohydrates, you store more carbohydrates as glycogen, because that's where carbohydrates are stored and you burn less fat, right? But you burn more glucose. If you eat more fat, you store more fat and you burn more fat. When it comes to burning fat as burning fat and losing fat, I try to, I don't even get into nutrition guys. Cause like, um, it's again, I try to specialize in physiology. You think people get angry about trening? Oh my God. People get really angry about nutrition. Oh yeah. They get mad as hell about all of it, but they really get beside themselves about. They, some people still, I think, hold on to the insulin to obesity model that proven 30 years ago now. Yeah. They they've been disproving that for a long time. What was his name? Tal's lost 30 or $40 million over the course of his business life. Trying to prove that insulin increases caused fast storage. The thing is, is that carbon manipulation. And I was talking to a friend of mine this morning who got peeled for his show. IMean, peel and his moderate day of carbon take is five 50 a day. What did you eat? Paul? I was doing 500 on my medium days and my high days were up as high as 2001 contest to show, to win a pro card. You're not getting that. What's that? Yeah, it was, I think he said his high day was a thousand and his medium day was five 50. His only, his low day was only one 50. Yeah. My low day was over 200. Yeah. So if you, if you, if you're on my fats were. Yeah, nothing. Yep. They were low. But the thing is, if you, if you're eating and it's kind of a, it's a semi cheap diet cheat code is if you strip all your fats out, if you're out androgens, the cheat code with androgens, this, I remember when Matt Porter was like, he said this, as long as you're on, he's like, you're never going to lose muscle. So just. You can pretty much shred your fast down to nothing and just do what you want with your protein and carbs and you don't need a lot of protein, right? So you're just manipulating carbs. Nobody. It's like, it's so funny to hear you guys talk about this. Cause I've, I've known this for a while, but I've never talked about it openly. I'm like, you're really just doing carb manipulation. So carb, any type of carb cycling that you're doing is where you're getting either your gains or your fat loss at, and then you just protein, you don't need a lot of like why the obsession with protein is wild to me. I'm like the 0.7 to 0.8 is about right. Yeah. Well, you think about it. What happens to the, technically you might be able to utilize more, but you technically need less cause you're not losing it. It's not being broken down the same rate. Yes. So also what the hell happens to the excess protein you eat anyway? Glucose. It gets turned into glucose. The excess it's turned into minor amounts of glucose and then you shit and piss the rest of the conversion. You're making like five grams an hour in the, it's very low, but still you'll see it in blood work too. Like people, their bond will be through the roof from, from all the excess protein. It's, it's crazy. Yeah. And everyone, I think all the good coaches have changed their, their process with this. IMean, the guy that kind of had 30 grams a day, 30 grams a meal. Now it used to be 50 or 60 grams. You just don't need that much anymore. You just, no, you just don't need that much. IMean, you can get by with a cup of egg whites and one whole egg for breakfast. And then I just think if smart people that are working their diet are really manipulating, they're just manipulating their carbs for the most part. And then if you are like Paul, you were eating, you were, what did you, what were you? Two 50 on stage? Two 50. Yeah. Two 50. You were eatinGHow much protein a day? Um, between two 50 and 300. Yeah. Yeah. So that was on prep offseason. It's lower. Yeah. Because you got all the carbs. Yeah. Yeah. That's what IMean. So if you're on, you know, and I told that guys this forever too, I'm like, well, if you're on, just pull all your fats out. You don't need a natural, a natural guy has to keep this a little bit. Yeah. But what, what is the, what is the amount? It's low. It's really low. It's some EFAs and some DHA and EPA. It's a day and they're not all equal. That's the other problem is all fats are not equal, right? Really what your body's looking for. The only two essential fatty acids are ALA and LA, but you technically don't even need those. That's flaxseed oil. You really just need an EPA. The rate is shit. Yeah. So one, so three or four times a week, have some, um, fresh Atlantic salmon. I use the biotest fish oil. I take, I take four of them a day and I, I've, like I said, I'm on my, I'll be on my fifth meal. We get off this call. I've had eight grams of fat all day and four of those grams of fish oil. I do. I do two high potency fish oil pills and two flax pills every day. Like what else do you need? You, you can strip all the fat out of your diet, hit fish oil a couple of times, or you can eat, like I said, or you can get air. I like fish. So if you, you can do some fresh Atlantic salmon, um, and get your omega threes in that way. And it's all this stuff. That's why IMake the nutritional stuff. I stopped really getting into it. Cause I don't even find it frustrating. It's super frustrating. Yes. Cause it's so simple. First of all, right? Like it won't get so hung up on it. It's actually really easy. I think the nutritional stuff is so easy. But people struggle because they can't do it because it takes discipline. It takes effort to wake up and eat the same shit. It takes effort, like, but look at your diet, you post your diet all the time. I never, I don't ever post my diet. People ask me all the time because I have a wacky metabolism. You can ask Paul, I eat a lot of food. And it just doesn't, when people post what they eat in a day, it doesn't relate to any other human on the planet, right? Everyone. Oh my God. I always tell people, people always, they always want to see your diet. And like, it has no relevance for you. Nobody wanted to believe that Derek Blunford was his, like his gaining diet, like 3800 calories a day or something. And like his for him, who cares? It has nothing to do with you. Nothing. Nothing. And it's situational. What IMight eat today doesn't mean that's what I'm eating. If I'm prepping what it you know, I've eaten as low as 1200 calories. I've eaten a size 9000 calories. Does that mean that that applies to any human? No. John, John, I remember he was going through the last show he did, because we talked there pretty much, we talked two or three times a week for hours. He would call me. And he's like, hit this was he he sat down and he wrote one diet out. He's like, if I'm a little hungry, I'll eat a little more on that day. And then, you know, if I'm the next day, IMight eat a little bit. Yeah. And it was really just, he's just like, I just look at my body and just see, you know, what's going on. And there's this kind of a, there's a both the science and the art, I think, with the diet thing and getting in body building shape, because yes, it's just calorie deficit and all that. But it's, it is different for everybody. So like, so some people don't believe like yesterday, like I think 1400 calories and I felt your food's usually pretty low most days. I feel really good. I feel good. I'm hungry, too. I feel good. I do not like I remember when, when Adam McVeigh was alive, and I used to do geared up, geared up podcast. And we, we had Tony on there. Gosh, Tony Friedrich. And Tony was on there. Tony was like, he liked to be hungry to go into trening. I cannot have food in my stomach when I go into trening. I have to have to feel just very slightly hungry going into trening because I'm always drinking a peri because I do like to have something to drink during trening. But if I have something in my stomach, I feel terrible during trening. But that's different. I told me I'd be like, so he literally I think he was talking about sitting in the parking lot eating Snickers before he'd go into work. I was like, dude, I could never do that. Like I could never I could never sit in the I could never eat a Snickers and then go into trening. So there's a lot of variables there that go on. IMean, I do think you have to figure out, okay, what's my maintenance calories, that's going to be different for everybody. And it changes, right? You're about like, we're all 50 years old, give or take, right? Mine has changed throughout the years. And it changes throughout like where your body fat is what your body's doing. Mine is not, you know, I roughly know what I can eat to tolerate to keep my weight the same, but it's not always the same. So I'll eat that I'll lose weight. Sometimes I'll gain weight. Yep. Yeah, it just there's a there's a lot of variation in there. And there's times I remember, like, like going into one show, and I was eating way more than I expected, it was still losing at a rapid clip. And there's other times where I feel like I'm not even feel like I know, I've got very few calories come in and my body's not Have you ever had those Kirk? Yeah. And some Yeah, sometimes you need a diet break at that point, or something else is going on, right? Or maybe you need to bump the calories up just to see if your body, you know, you tell me I've gotten, you know, now that I've been contesting, contest prepping people for years, I've gotten more. So I don't even have a macro amount that I shoot for with people, I just look at their body, and see where they're at. And I just kind of like my diets from I have like general starting points with people, but like my diets from person to person are wildly different. Yeah, IMean, I find dieting to be boring, but complex at the same time, because like you said, curveballs, like, what you're doing today, that works to get you shredded in a year from now may not work. No, because ideally, you should have made progress, right? Your body should, in theory, have improved in some metric, right? Otherwise, well, I don't know what you're doing with your trening. Doesn't mean you're always bigger, because it depends on your goal, right? But you've got trening, something should have changed in a year. Very few people I know that are successful at any of the physique stuff or strength, stay the same year after year. No, here's an example of what you're talking about. So a buddy of mine was trening this pro bodybuilder, gettinGHim ready for the show. And he was in the military. And he was retiring. So they went to the last show peeled. And I want to say one that show and he was like, six months later, eight months later. He was getting ready for another show, and he didn't hire my buddy. But he was he finally hired him and said, Dude, he goes, I'm using the same diet you gave me last year. And he's like, it's not working. He goes, because you were in the military then and you had you were working like how you had a manual labor job. So you had all this extra meat that was going on. So he goes, now you don't, you know, and you haven't compensated with that. That was funny. Tony Friedrich back to Tony, I haven't talked about Tony forever. But he was telling me a guy he was working with. He's like, he his need was so low, he couldn't get in contest shape. And that was the other thing you're talking about with. So if you're if you reduce your calories so much, your body really loves homeostasis. And so if you reduce your calories too much, what happens is you'll overcompensate by only doing the cardio you're doing. You don't pee on contest. But there have been times I don't want to piss. I got to go to the bathroom really bad. I ain't washing clothes. No, I would know by how many loads of laundry that I do during the week if my if I was compensating on my steps, I didn't even need to track my steps. If I wasn't washing my clothes, I'm like, okay, I'm way behind. Because I get the opposite, man. I get so amped up. You've seen it, Kurt with me. My metabolism will just run away on prep. It is so weird. Like I can't sit still at the end. I'm like, I'm not like anybody else, man. He also reacts favorably to halo test and makes him feel good. So he's good to do. So I think a couple of things, Paul, like I want to go over like, Kurt, I think that the biggest one here talk about is, I think you agree with me when I say I don't think you're getting any kind of recovery boost from being on cycle from your trening. I think I think you people that are going to get on, I think they need to understand what good trening looks like from a physiological standpoint. And then they need to figure out their their drug cycle that maximizes their low stimulus gains, and then minimizing the minimize side effect. Do you feel like that's an accurate? Yeah. And that's where IMean, and that's where the test of Primo thing comes from, right? Is that the most effective cycle that you can run? No, I would never say that. I don't think that's accurate at all. But is that the most effective cycle you can run without killing yourself or killing your wife or you know, harming your neighbor or running over an old woman in the Yeah, it probably is because it's going to be effective enough that you're not going to get crazy side effects from right? Probably the most effective cycle would be the test test. IMean, look, and it's funny, because I ended up right back. I ended up right back in the same place as Dan Duchesne, because he said that if you go back to the original steroid handbook, he said the most effective cycle you can run is test tren and anadrol. And sure enough, here I am 40 years later saying the most effective cycle you can run is tested. He was right all along. But that doesn't mean that. So let me ask you a question in your dog park without getting onto there's lots of errors. If you can't run trening because I couldn't run tren I had terrible I read I can't either. I feel like you run than any class. So any what you want to combine a class one drug and a class two drugs. So the class one drugs or anything that's technically testosterone is mixed activity. It's both one and two. Class one basically means it interacts with the androgen receptor and is causing classic protein synthesis like similar lifting class two or things that don't interact with the androgen receptor that we know of anadrol, dbol and windstrom, the three that are class two. You basically want to come on a class one primo nandrolone, equipoise, whatever, with a class two like anadrol or dbol. And even the guys in the 70s are doing that. And they didn't realize why they were doing it, right. That's why they ran DECA and dbol and primo because they were getting a class one and a class two. If you ran just DECA and primo together, it's kind of redundant the results from it like you're just banging on the androgen receptor at the same point. There are other effects that occur, but they're not so grand that you're like, Whoa, that was amazing. What about what about master masteron we don't know actually what its activity is. I would say as an anabolic, I would say it's probably falls a little short. I would say primo would be a better version. I would say from a cosmetic point of view, I think master is a fantastic drug from an anabolic point of view, I would give it like a CRD. I always find them too flat on it. Right? You look crazy because you're rock hard. You're dry. But like, you're dry, you're dry. It's like windstorm, like, a little too dry to be getting strong. I think the ones that I would the typical out of box outside of that are EQ, primo, and androlog, or this three typical ones outside of test. Yeah, but honestly, you could just titrate your test up to a gram. IMean, there's a ton of room to grow with just test. You know, I could probably speak for for Paul Barnett as well. I think being older now the most dramatic thing for me was growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Yeah, like it really took my physique to a different place because I'm not producing a ton anymore. I was really out of ceiling. I was pretty much capped at the low 200s. And it basically gave me another almost 50 pounds of potential. prolactin, detox], I think if you just add another class like an antidrall or a D-ball, some point in the cycle when you kind of hit that wall, you know, there's always that point in the middle, where you're kind of like plateau. And it's like, if you bring your food up, you get fat. You know, you can't that's kind of the point that I would leverage it. And like, I never understood when guys introduce an oral in the beginning of a cycle, like the drugs aren't ramped up yet. Why are you asking, doing a fast acting thinGHere, when the level the other stuff is too low still. Yeah, from when I was on the oral is the last thing. Yeah, when you hit a wall, and you need to bump it past, you run it the lasT4 weeks, five weeks, pull the damn thing out, get healthy, then go back to TRT, you should be able to hold that. If you're getting 20 pounds, you're going to keep at least 15 of it. I was gonna say, so I still sit in the 240s, 230s, relatively lean all the time. And people were like, Well, how are you that big if you're just on TRT? I'm like, because I didn't lose. Like when I got when I came down, and I was like fully on, like, I would have still been in the 250s, 260s. I'm like, you don't, you don't, we have studies on that. Now, you don't lose it all. As long as you if you're taking the TRT dose in your trening, you're going to keep course on all of it, but you'll keep just like food, it takes a lot less food to hold your weight than it does to get there. Right when we all had to overeat at some point in our anyone who's big, over it. There's very few guys who can get by a minimum amount of food get big. That doesn't mean to you have to eat like that. Now to hold that size. No muscle holds what 600 calories, but it takes 3200 give or take to make the pound. I know. Correct. Yep. Something like that. Right. Because there's an energy requirement there. So yeah, when it's muscle, I think even maximum for like a new, I don't remember the figures, but it's really low. It's like, I think it's what is it something like eight grams a day? Is that is that what it is? You can see the size. It's a that's like a new that's a total new like synthesizing at the fastest possible rate. So it's some most of the time people don't realize the magnitude of these things, especially when they're looking at studies, or they'll be like, well, like, I posted up a study, they did a bicep study was six weeks trening biceps, pretty much all the games were gone in a week and no everybody was mad at me. I'm like, so if you tren biceps for six weeks, that's not a very long time to add accrual tissue accrual. And then those fibers at the top of that motor unit pool, they only get activated when you're trening. So how long do you think it takes atrophy, they attribute relatively quickly. So the everybody's mad at me, they're like, that doesn't go with my observation. I'm like, you're not going to see millimeters of muscle gone from type two fibers and like in your, your like by the eyeball, just like you don't see the millimeters of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. You know, exactly. Yeah. Not to quote my mentor again, but he talked about seeing the scale move. So if the scale is visibly moving, like week to week, and you're not a new lifter, you're just getting fat. That's not muscle. You can't move the scale on a weekly basis. As crazy as my voice is like, getting back to the diet thing. He talks about how little protein and how little calories that you needed to support the need for recovery and animalism. And it really he was spot on about it. It's not a lot. So IMean, we push the food. I think when you're a natural guy, you probably need to learn how to one of the only levers you have to pull is food, right? There's not a lot of things you can do. Yeah, there's really not a whole lot. When you're enhanced, I'd rather, I'd rather I'll bring the food up, but I'd rather push the within reason I'd rather push the chemicals up and leverage that thing. Right? Because trening is already macro use of the tren doesn't change. If you're not maximize your trening, what what do you do? I don't think Kurt love this talk with you that since like this is more your area and injured endocrinology stuff that you kind of arrived here to is like, I don't I think you're looking at to stimulus. And I don't think that the the androgen stimulus is giving improving. I don't think there's any crossover. I think people were like, I'm like, Yep, if you give me a pro bodybuilder, I'm gonna tren in the same way I'm trening a natural guy and look at their recovery rates. And now they're recovering from that program. But I don't think there's you get on if you had a solid productive trening program nationally, just use that when you get on, you're going to get just let the androgens do their work. I agree. And that's why my reason for young guys not using drugs is because they probably haven't learned how to eat or tren yet. If you're 20 years old, it takes we're all 50 it takes time before you figure this stuff out. If you're that age and you do drugs, now you're leveraging a whole nother thing. You never figured out the trening, then you come off drugs. And all of a sudden, you're like, why don't I grow anymore? Right? Like you're a great example. You fully came off stuff and you held your size or 250 pounds. Yeah, I didn't I didn't really see anything. And that was I did that for that reason. I was like, I'm just gonna go off and we'll see what happens. I didn't say anything. But I posted my blood work later, my test level for 98. I'm like, nothing really happened, but I feel awful. So I think that's a the other. The other thing is that I don't think I haven't seen anything in the data that shows that anabolics are creating a faster recovery from any of the apoptosis type of damage that we see from the activation of cow pains. I haven't nobody's ever sent me aromasingle thing related to that. Well, so much notch, the G notch will affect that. And then the AR does affect notch. But to what degree? I couldn't tell you. Yeah. And if it comes down the line, like, I'll totally change my stand. No, no, I don't. I don't have an answer for that. I'm just saying that that gene does affect that. And the AR does affect notch. But like, we're talking about downstream stuff. We have to get to where okay, just because there's a root in the down. Yeah, we don't know where that's going. Where's it going? So those are the two things. And that to get back to what Paul said about your your because Paul, you've made ridiculous your games in the lasT3 years, really impressive, really ridiculous. And you're like, bro, I don't always eat a gram protein a day and I sleep like shit. And I haven't really progressed. And you're like, but I still made all these games. And I'm like, I think you're but your anecdote, Paul is backing up a lot of what Curt and I are saying. Yeah, it's a different mechanism of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. It's just not related. No, no, it doesn't mean you don't tren hard. Oh, no, that's wrong. That's wrong. But I agree that you can do them separate as total separate things. Yeah, fairness. I'll tell you, I did progressive overload when I was in my 20s. And yeah, and I just I, my joints and connective tissue just can't handle it anymore. And I will leave this there because I don't have an answer. It is rhetorical. If you were to take someone like it, I'm just gonna use them as an example. But I don't honestly know much about it. Maybe you did something like a J Cutler and you actually brought him back to that time and you had him tren properly. And I'm not trying to insult him. I don't know what I'm just usinGHim as a gap. If you had him tren like that science based, he probably would have even made more progress. Right? Because they were leveraging all the other mechanisms and just curling 35 pound dumbbells, right? 20 reps or whatever they were doing. Is that the right? I would guess that you'd get more progress. For people who tell me this, the guys at the upper echelon levels, if they trened more correctly, the magnitude at their level, because you'recompeting for those ones, twos and threes percent, I do think yes, I think you're going to get those ones twos and threes percent. So if you're trying to max out everything, if you're maxing out drugs, if you're maxing out nutrition, if you're doing all those things, and you max out your trening from remember, remove the drug aspect curve. This is so important for this discussion and remove that stimulus and say, we're still talking about a stimulus from the trening aspect from we're converting a mechanical signal into a biological process, muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, would they have had slightly better physique? Yes, yes. Right. But we don't we because none of them ever do that. Because what they do is then they leverage volume. But is that is that is that true, though, Kurt, because who who turned pro natural that a lot of people don't even think he was naturally turned pro and he's considered the greatest bodybuilder of all time, Coleman, Ronnie, did Ronnie max out his natural genetics, you think? I think he did. Oh, yeah. And I think the reason why that Ronnie potentially was so much bigger than everybody else, too, not just because they're all hyper responders, is that Ronnie also knew how to tren for his body and what was going to make him grow without drugs first. Yeah. So I do think that there you can make the case anecdotally, Dorian was like that for everybody else, too, right? Like, and freak. Yeah. Yeah. So Dorian trened in a very intelligent manner. And he basically was like smashing everybody else for almost a decade. So I do think there is something to be said for more intelligent trening, even when you're on. And even if you're top genetics, right, because that is a limiting factor. If you're trying to maximize everything at that level, and I wouldn't say a couple of guys right now that are I feel like are doing is Hunter Labrada. I think Hunter trens really smart. prolactin delta, urea-double, pneumon, prolactin triple, gluco across, eurocardiology, pneumorrhea, pulmonary��rtherapy and pediatrics, IgM, Pulmonarypaz, AND, prolactin lycolysis, pulmonolysis, lapsification of pulmonary buns, pulmonaryorkimia, pubic mucosa, pulmonary strokes, pulmonorhich obviously and chilia, pulsvery row doesn't have tumor limbs at all on both ends, pulmonary зах wasty, pulmonology sutures, pewpleumotom, pulmonary collapsed oligopenoral hyperтомories, pulmonary anterior erector springbone dr yerrp, ayacolatal medullocytes, pulmonary hypertrophy, pulmonary latz, pulmonary dorsal, pulmonary so I do think we've had that shift I do think I like to say this to be arrogant anyway I do think I've played a part in some of that paradigm shift that's happened I would agree with that I'm a influencer to agree but I always default to you and Chris for exercise stuff you absolutely play a role IMean you play a role in in my decisions and how I teach others when it comes exercise you must we all we had those bad days where just feels like an uphill battle but I get I think the difference in what I'm doing and again I don't mean this arrogantly I think the difference in what I'm doing and what a lot of other people are doing is that I get 500 messages a day a day from guys like I started following you three months ago and I started changing my trening based on principles you're saying and like I've seen the most progress I've seen in 10 years I get 500 of those dms a day and I have thousands and thousands of people in my groups and as I've changed my the metrics and stuff and the approach the methodologies in the trening that I always look at science this way is there a practical application I can get out of this because otherwise we're just nerding out the shit that don't matter yep can I look at this and say here's the practical approach we can put into our trening to make guys better and that's what I've tried to do with that stuff and so I think that that shift that's happening I do think has like I've played a part in that and I do think that we'll finally get away from those decades and decades of volumes a driver this next one I'll have to tackle is like everything grows better along the links which is not true but I'll get there eventually I can't I can't get them all at once okay no I think you do play a large role in in all this stuff I thank you at least for you know what you can thank you man I appreciate that legitimately I find your information very interesting too guys I gotta wrap up this was an awesome one I appreciate both of you coming on I figured it would be good to get both of you together I was excited when you said Kurt was going to be on I knew we'd have a good discussion I didn't even know you knew who I was huh I didn't even know you knew who I was I'm flattered of course of course I I knew this would be good when I really look forward to this one it's been a really fun way to spend the afternoon yeah I appreciate it thank you