warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, folks, Big Paul here today with the crew. I've got Amy, AJ, and Kurt with us. What's going on, guys? Hey. How's it going? What's up, guys? How we doing? Good. So we're going to dig into a topic today, one that's sort of a touchy one. I really don't hear a lot of people talking about on social media in our spaces, mental health and bodybuilding, and I'm sure you folks get a lot of this stuff, especially if you're coaching people. I get people all the time reaching out to me with mental health problems and how PEDs and some of the things that we do in our lifestyle as bodybuilders can affect mental health. There's some positive aspects of bodybuilding. I've definitely seen bodybuildinGHelp people in many ways. I was talking with the crew beforehand. I've had some people that are recovering addicts that bodybuildinGHas been a positive outlet for them, but I've also seen some things where people abuse the drugs and cause already existing mental health problems to become worse. And we have issues like body dysmorphia. We have issues with choosing the wrong compounds. Guys that sort of spin into this bit of psychosis. I see a lot of it on social media now with dudes that are just raging, angry, and so upset all the time. And you can identify them. I see these dudes that have just melted their brains, or maybe they already had some sort of existing mental health problem going on, and then the lifestyle in the PED use maybe exacerbated it. But I figured we'd get together and just kind of shoot the shit on this one and talk about it and what we've seen and what we can do to avoid this sort of stuff. So what is some stuff that you guys have seen common problems with mental health in the bodybuilding space? IMean, I was just going to start from a really basic thing. I think the goal with anabolic steroids, the science behind it was they were trying to perfect the anabolic-androgenic ratio for performance, right? But unfortunately, when it comes to things like mental health, I think testosterone is probably going to be the best bet for most people because the body knows what to do with it. I think when we started messing with that molecule to make these other drugs, we might have created a monster with a lot of these things, especially depending on the dose. And I see it with... You don't see it as much with DHT derivatives, but you definitely see with the 19-nors, different directives, Tren, Nandrolone. I'm sure cheque drops too, although across a lot of guys use cheque drops. And even with then going back to testosterone, when other parts of that aren't managed, right? If estrogen is high or low, it can cause issues, right? So your mood is affected by a lot of different things in our trensmitters, hormones, estrogen, progesterone, dopamine, GABA, serotonin. And these hormones all affect all of these things together. And I see the whole gamut from excessive... From depression to manic behavior, sexual stuff. But I probably see everything. I don't know, you guys probably get the same stuff, I would guess. Yeah. IMean, anybody that's been on contest prep or has managed people on contest prep, you'll definitely see it towards the end of contest prep. IMean, you're throwing the kitchen sink at it, especially with the manic behavior. Anybody who's been at the end of contest prep that's bought that living room set or go out and made a big purchase that you normally would make. Because you're just trying to get that dopamine hit. I don't know what it is, man. I always buy stuff that I don't normally buy at the end of contest prep. I bought closet organizers and shelves for my garage. I'm like, I would never do shit like that normally. You'll see it though too. IMean, AJ, you prep a lot of guys. I'm sure you've seen it at the end of prep where you have to talk guys off the ledge all the time. They're just completely irrational and have lost their minds at the end of prep. Estrogen's crushed, you're hungry. Hormones are all out of whack. You're running stuff like Tren. I'm sure dopamine, gap of sleep, everything's all screwed up at that point. Yeah. IMean, I think one of the biggest issues too is always being in a state of fight or flight, right? Being in that sympathetic nervous system. And obviously when sleep is all down regulated too, IMean, we're having a whole hoist of issues, cortisol's through the roof. And then what people do, what do they do as a band-aid? They just take more stimulants throughout the day. So, IMean, everything's just exacerbated worse, obviously, because what they're doing is whatever they can to get by, right? But if you take somebody that already has higher anxiety and you put them in that state, and like Kurt said, with the 19 more drugs, which is depleting your GABA, a lot of them will really, really deplete GABA, which is a great supplement to bring in for those issues. But you're getting all these issues that's exacerbated along with systemic inflammatory response in the gut brain access, right? Because there's a correlation between the two. And obviously the down regulation of thyroid happens also, 20% can happen in the gut as well. So you have all these correlating effects happening, just stacking on top of each other. And I think one of the biggest issues is if you're going into a prep with an already unhealthy mental state, it's going to be that much worse, which is why we see on social media, which is another huge cause of these issues to be exacerbated because comparison is the biggest thief of joy. So you're constantly comparing yourself to others. You're just in more of a state of a fight or flight. So you can't sleep. You're nervous all the time. You're hungry. The dopaminergic system is wrecked. So dopamine is low. That's why you're searching to buy all these crazy things. And you'recompulsive in that sense, or you'll get on social media and film alive of you just crying in the car and slamming your fist or whatever the case may be. And you'll look back six months later when you're fat and happy. And you don't understand why you did those things, but there's so much neurological things. And I think that's why it's so cool that we have all of us on here today to get together and talk about this really, really important topic because it's more prevalent now, I believe than ever for sure. Yeah. IMean, I, you and I, AJ, I've talked about this. All four of us have probably had it. I've had multiple guys that have had to stop doing bodybuilding competitions because of mental health problems. I have one guy who had to have himself committed for suicidal issues. It's more common, I think, than people talk about. We see it as coaches, but I don't tend to discuss what those guys are doing. I'm not going to name names, but we see that all the time. And I think also bodybuilding attracts a certain type of individual. We all probably have a little bit of flaw in our personality that drove us to do these sorts of things. And then you magnify that with hunger and drugs. I think you said, and then comparing yourself to other people on Instagram. IMean, it's a great point. Go ahead. Go ahead, Amy. Sorry. I think the self-image component of mental health is so key as well to discuss because as you stated, if you go into a prep in a potentially insecure state about your body, whether that be for men, the big orexia, they want to be bigger, whereas with women wanting to be smaller, you lose all perspective when you're deep into prep. And having social media that's constantly showing you images of other competitors, of how people look, and you can't see yourself realistically in those moments. And then you're adding all these other stressors, just the systemic stress on your body, the constant workouts, all those things just really start to mess with your head. So even entering prep in a very stable mental place and having a good body image, you may not come out of it like that. You see that a lot with female competitors, that they forever, even after they stop competing, they never lose that extreme critique of their body. It's ingrained in them at some point because of going through prep. Body dysmorphia is a fickle friend. It's probably what drives us to get into this in some way to begin with. IMean, I think all of us kind of werecompensating for something in some way to get into this. But at the same time, you'll definitely see it with people. I constantly, one of the things I'll do when I have people that are on fat loss journeys or on contest prep, I just did it with a guy yesterday that was really getting down on himself. I'll take a picture from the beginning of prep to where we're at right now and show them. It's funny how they can't see the week-to-week progress. They still see that same fat guy in the mirror that started prep. They don't see the guy that's ripped or shredded right now. And it's the same thing, I'm sure, with women. IMean, we're all critical. I'll say this, though, AJ, talking to you, you convinced me that tren was not necessary for my prep. I feel so much better this year. This has been the smoothest prep I've ever done. I sleep. My sleep has been better. My mental health has been better. EverythinGHas been better because of it. Phenomenal. I think AJ is a really great influence, I think, on a lot of things. He influences me as well with a lot of behavioral things. I ask AJ a lot of questions about how to deal with certain things sometimes. Same with you, Paul. I think I use both of you as a bouncing point. But AJ showed me, too, the gear, that it's not needed to be run so high all the time, that we can do it without. Because I think we get stuck in that because we're surrounded all the time and just prevalent. And we get stuck in that. Why can't we do it without? ovoamn, ovoavegan organic, ovoclip, ovoasia. JJOOO JJOOOOO ovoavsia JJOOA ovooxide JJOOO すごい JJOOAS fits JJOOO wii JJOOAS Thanks for listening, you can write on Twitter... Guys that never could get in shape right these are the guys these are the pros that never could get in shape from anybody and we never use tren it's like well there has to be something there now I'm not you know down regulating the positive effects that can happen for somebody but a lot of people will see that there's a net negative with it and I can tell you from personal experience when I competed my last show I thought it would be a genius to just do as much tren as I could do right 20 24 years old right and I looked actually worse doing that number one I never slept and I actually was so inflamed that right after finals after I won the show I was vomiting blood backstage holy cow because I was in such a heightened state of inflammation and stress that my my stomach lining was just absolutely destroyed right so we have to approach this which is why we're getting on here and talking to you guys I hope the audience at home can really absorb this it's in the middle of the summer a lot of people are prepping for shows and they're going through these feelings right now of mental health and like Amy said if it's it starts in the beginning so what is your physique built out of I can tell you when I started competing my physique was built out of nothing but insecurity and being told as a young child that I couldn't do something so my cheap motivation was I'm gonna prove everybody wrong and on that all I did was exacerbate the anxiety that if I don't prove everybody wrong I'm a failure and I think that's what a lot of people are doing yeah IMean that that was you know honestly when I first got into bodybuilding that was my primary driver I wanted to prove people wrong IMean the same same same situation now I just do it because I love it but it's a little bit nutty but I think this is the most rational I've been about it I will say this not having the harsh compounds in and being able to sleep and lower my stress it's just my body has responded so much better yeah you definitely have a lot less inflammation than you did previous shows you can see you can see it yeah IMean running IMean a meeting more I'm sleeping better everything everything's you know and then there's also something to be said for for you know it's sort of a touchy subject but pharmaceutical grade gear a lot of the gear that you get is trash a lot of a lot of stuff is trashy yeah and adds to the inflammation a lot of heavy metals one just even so it's I think people obsess about the carrier oil it's not so much even the carrier oil it's the grade of the oil too so like if someone's using people love to talk about MCT oil well you don't go to the you don't go to shop right by MCT oil and cook your gear with that that's junk like that's not gonna make you feel any better or do anything for the gear pharmaceutical companies buy special stuff from Sigma that's made to be injected it's not it's not for like food grade garbage there's a big difference in just thEQuality and the solvents and the amount of solvents and those sorts of things right there's a reason why these companies spend a ton of money on research yeah I don't remember what there was a documentary I saw where it went behind the scenes and some UGL and these guys were using food grade oils and yeah and they were using unsanitary beakers and right probably reusing stuff without clening it yep hoses that were old filter not filtering stuff or right not having a pump like these guys are using these cheap if even if they're filtering stuff they're using cheap filters that are on a syringe and they're drawing it out like this and it's clogging right the things are supposed to be run through a pump yeah the apparatuses have cost a ton of money most guys are not doing this in the bathroom yeah IMean that's just another thing to consider too but IMean some of it is deep-rooted like AJ said it just comes back from childhood insecurities and I do think that some you know I don't want to play armchair psychologist here but you have to be at some point comfortable with yourself and overcome some of that stuff yeah yeah I think people to sometimes seek the struggle on prep because they think it should be really hard you do you see a lot of videos of people who are you know lamentinGHow terrible their prep is on social media and yeah and I think that that can sometimes mess with people who are having an easy prep like prep shouldn't make you feel like these ways but it's become somewhat socially acceptable that it should and then if you're not I think that then leads to people wanting to push it harder like well that's maybe why I need to do this or I need to restrict more here or do more cardio because they're always looking for that thing that someone else said worked and they just aren't feeling bad enough and that's something I personally like to try and change in talking to people about competing that it's it's a joy to compete like it's not something that it should make you feel like you're just struggling for everything and are there hard days yes but that shouldn't be every day and if that is every day then like something is off that's not the norm like that shouldn't be the socially acceptable way to prep like in the in the gutter well I think that there's there's also a genetic response to being lean right like the four of us probably can genetically get leaner than most people so we might not suffer as much as some people I have I have a couple guys that have more average level of body fat most of the year and when they get to like 10 like the abs are still not invisible yet they start to really feel fatigue and stuff like their brain is really pulling back on them yeah whereas like we probably don't get that until we're pretty freaking close to a show so so there's something right everybody's body's a little bit different so it might take more struggle for some guys than others that being said it should never be you shouldn't be miserable or feel ill for most like there might be some moments that you don't feel great but I don't think that should be consistent feeling across the board every time I've ever done that I look worse oh yeah like AJ said like there's nothing and you think I have to feel horrible and then you're flat you're depleted and you look atrocious and your ankle gets swollen there's like your body's just telling you that that's not the right way to do that I did that good I did that one time where I pushed myself too hard I think that's another thing you know like Amy touched on but there is definitely this feeling there's some guys that you need to suffer that you need to be you know and I'm not I'm not saying it's hard IMean you gotta you gotta work hard there's disappointed structure that goes into it but um you know there's some guys will push themselves literally to the point of death I've been there for vomiting blood vomiting blood yeah IMean I always tell people you know it's kind of um I didn't make this up but you'll hear it you know choose your heart right we can choose to have the mindset that we have to do this and it's kind of like no one's forcing you to compete you get to do this so you need to wake up grateful that you even have two legs to move and actually go do cardio rather than saying oh my gosh IMight my coach is making me do 45 60 minutes whatever the case may be that I get to do this so shifting that mindset into adapting a grateful mindset is going to shift everything you wake up tired hungry now you can either choose hard in in terms of being in a negative mindset the rest of the day or you can choose gratitude and say I'm grateful that I even get to do this and remember guys this is a short period of time it's not the rest of your life and if you're starting out with just negative mindset or you feel like I have to suffer because everybody else is again comparison is the biggest thief of joy it's going to take the joy out of competing should be fun there's days that are tough but if you're not having fun it's like why are you doing it I don't for the life of me can never understand why people still do it they don't enjoy it like truly enjoy going to the gym seeing the diet process seeing the body fat fall off like where Paul's at right now literally probably sees his physique change every single day that's cool man that's really cool from a physiological standpoint that is a lot of fun to actually watch happen and when you kind of step back and take those moments in because it's kind of like a wedding day right it flies by on show day it's gonna fly by so if you don't stop and like enjoy the journey get off of your phone and just kind of enjoy every moment of what you're doing and really meditate on the fact that you get to do it it is a game changer but if you are literally glued to your screen 24 7 scrolling scrolling scrolling seeing who's doing your show who's who you'recompeting is what's this guy look like with an ultra filtered picture oh man I'm super behind now I'm gonna go do three hours of cardio or you're so food focused and adherency falls out, you go binge, which we can get into that too, because there's a lot of mental aspects with that as well. IMean, you've defeated the purpose of having fun. So have fun. I didn't have fun my last couple of years. I was miserable. I had to force myself to go work out. And until I was about a year or two after competing, the joy of trening actually came back. And I was like, wow, this is really fun again. So you got to have fun, you got to enjoy it. I went through that as well. I didn't really start to enjoy lifting until much more recently after I stopped, you know, got away from that. It's corny as it sounds with your being grateful thing. Something that always stuck with me. One of the first guys I ever got to help with their fat loss journey years ago, it was 96 or 97. So probably before half the listeners were even alive. Um, this guy, he was very overweight and we got him in crazy shape in three months, crazy shape. This guy worked harder than anyone I've ever seen. And I was just so fascinated because I've never come from a place where I was that I've been out of shape, but I've never been like that. And I asked him once what kept him going. And he said he had a twin brother who dove into a pool when they were younger and broke his neck. He's in a wheelchair. And he said every time he would go home, his brother, and he would complain. He's like, I don't want to do cardio today. I don't want to eat chicken. So his brother would say, I would give anything for the ability to pick up a fork and eat chicken. And that always kind of stuck with me. The things we complain about are so silly if you think about it. And we're still even on prep, especially for Paul, he's eating more than most people in third world country. It's not like you're, you're hardly starving. None of us have been that close to death. Right. Yeah. But like the human body can endure a ton before it goes. Yeah. A guy recently told me he's like, I'm starving. I'm like, bro, you're eating, you're eating, you're eating chicken and asparagus six times a day, man, you're, you're not starving. You're starving. Some people get one meal a week, you know, it's, yeah, that's, you're not starving. Yeah. IMean, I, I guess you're, or go ahead, Amy. Yeah. It's just such an interesting point about like, you kind of touched on with the people that you surround yourself with in prep. I think can, we see this a lot in surgery when people choose to change something about themselves, they sometimes become shocked at the response of people around them. And the same thinGHappens in bodybuilding. You know, people will try to drag you down because they are jealous of what you're doing or they wish they could do it. You know, I see that a lot with people who have a boyfriend or a girlfriend, or even a well-meaning sibling or a parent who's constantly critiquing them and like drawing them. They're bringing them to that negative place. Like, well, you should eat like you look sick. You know, I can't believe you're going to the gym again. You know, having those people around you is not going to help you in a situation where you are already, you're trying so hard and people around you are maybe not definitely not your cheerleader and they're making it a lot worse, but in sometimes you can't get away from that. So I think manages conversations with people and really having open conversations with how people in your life are making you feel or why you're doing what you're doing so that it doesn't just keep just ticking away at you every single day that these people are kind of fighting against what you're trying to do for yourself in a positive way with negativity. Yeah. Yeah. Social media is a cesspool for that. I've been absolutely, I'm more used to it now, but shocked at the amount of people that come out of the woodwork when I'm on contest prep to tell me awful things like the enemy and stuff like that. I was prepared for it this year, but last year was like my first time dealing with it. It was, it's just, it's crazy, man. These negative people that you suck, Paul. IMean, that's just the way it is. No reason at all. Amy brought this, I just to show it's kind of morbid, but Amy's probably where this just to show how powerful the brain is with your outcome of things in surgery, like in the ER, if there's two people that like a husband and wife, if they're both in an accident and one doesn't make it through surgery, you don't tell the partner that the other one didn't make it until after, because they know historically that if you tell someone their wife died under the knife, when they go into the knife, they're not going to live. So that's a strong way. You have no control over that, but you'll die in surgery. If you know that your partner died, the mind is that's a judgment nuts. And people say these things to you, Paul, or to any of us, it's, it's really, it's really disturbing that people play those games. Well, social media is a, it's just wild. IMean, it's, it reinforces some of this really negative behavior. I really, I try to keep my distance with social media. I'll post, but a lot of times I don't engage. And I think that a lot of times that that's people that sit there and look for validation and stuff all day long on social media. It can, that, that in itself can be very dysfunctional. And I worry about it with my kids too. I keep my kids away from social media. I don't, neither one of my kids are on social media. Good. Yeah. Well, those are the people who only post pictures of themselves when they were like right before a show, you know, and then that's, they're seeking that constant validation. Like they won't post a picture of themselves in the offseason because they can't take the critique or they're just so afraid of like how they actually look. IMean, that's so disordered, you know, just, but our culture feeds into it. It praises those things, you know, in those moments. And then people get so used to that constant positive feedback all through prep. And then the reverse happens and they, again, they feel like failure. They feel like people are going to be super critical or are super critical. Like, oh, you got fat. IMean, that's, it's horrible. The things people will say, you know, not realizing that what you were when you were stage lane is not sustainable and is not the goal. But you know, the average person scrolling through your Instagram feed is like, oh, looked great. Now she's fat and that's where it ends, you know? And that's, but they say that. Yeah. And the four of us probably stay in better shape year round than most people would stay. Right. But none of us are staying in that, in that condition. No. Right. There's a very big difference between what we would walk around as and what you would compete at. I was just going to briefly touch on the negativity thing before we moved on, because it's so funny. When I started doing some stuff with Paul and Kurt, you know, putting out free information, free content like you guys do all the time, which is phenomenal. And everybody should be extremely thankful for that. But some of the comments and one in particular with me and Kurt was, yeah, guys, can you do an episode on, you know, hair growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone? And it's like, come on, dude. Like, you know, just something like that. Like, first of all, it doesn't affect me whatsoever because my identity is not found on my hairline. But, you know, the fact that somebody took the time to insert a negative comment, but you have to be prepared because if you're putting yourself out there on social media, especially as a competitor, which is why I always tell people, I encourage my guys, especially the last couple of weeks, stay off of it. It, listen, if you do not have obligations with your sponsor, and even if you do post it and sign off, you literally will be so much better off just staying away from it. It's not going to help you. It's not. I promise you it won't help you. It's only going to cause a negative effect in multiple ways. Yeah, I worked with a social media consultant to help get my stuff up, up and go on. And he left me with a wise piece of advice. And he told me to be a be a creator, not a consumer. And that's it's good. Yeah. And he said that consumption is where you get into a dangerous spiral, spiral. You know, if you're sitting there scrolling all day long, looking at other people, comparing yourself to other people. IMean, it's I don't you know, it's the same thing to like, I just try to stay away from media, period, and focus on improving my life and doing positive things every day. For the most part, I'll watch a little bit of Netflix or something before bed. But for the most part, I stay off of media period. Likewise, likewise, that's one thing you know, I do. If you guys follow me, I post on my stories all the time. And I do a gratitude walk every day. Even if it's for 1520 minutes, I would encourage every competitor to do that. First of all, you're getting your need up, which is great. So it's it's two positives happening. But the primary focus is just to see like the sunrise or the birds or nature in general, and just see God's creation, how beautiful it is. And that will start you off with gratitude, first and foremost, IMean, just pick a few things and be kind of present in the moment with no phone, you know, and sometimes I take my phone just to get a recording because it's so beautiful, but typically, I will leave without it. And it's my time to really just utilize breathing techniques, make sure that I'm in that rest and digest state. I'm keeping everything steady and flowed into, okay, I know what I have to do today. But right now, this is a time to control my heart rate, control my breathing, and just be grateful for what is in front of me. And I think if people implement that, it's going to start not only your day off better, but it's going to shift your mindset, like we said, into a gratitude state encourages, you know, shared with you guys on the surgery table, how important it is for the brain to actually be focused on something positive, rather than the worst kind of result possible. Yeah, you're being gracious when I'm going to bed. And I think also, like you said, like picking your, your surroundings, or Amy said, I think it's very important to control the people you're around. Yeah, that's something that I had to. So IMean, I kind of came out of nowhere in the last year, this thanks to Paul. And sorry, I've had to control no, but I've had to control my environment in a much more extreme fast way, because you're exposed to all sorts of people who are negative or want to bring you out, want to use you for things. Oh, yeah. IMean, the people that are sitting right here, pretty much, plus a couple more is about the people that expose myself to at this point. Yeah. Because they just don't want to deal with it. Energy vampires are real. They're people that just want to drain you. Yeah. And anyone who's jon if you get the 정도, it means there is something going on here, other than basic value, if there is undervalue, something going on here, only 안에 음은 사는 과정에서 sigh and I didn't used to be like that. I'm literally I'm a living proof of what we're talking about today. So I was once there. IMean, I was once in that, even, you know, maybe suicidal ideologies, you know, back in my competitive days, because my all my self worth was in how I placed what I look like. And you guys know that I talk about identity all the time. So you can't put your identity in that because if you do, it's built on sand and not built on a rock, it's gonna falter. Eventually, it's going to come down crashing, because it's not always going to go your way more times than not life doesn't. You know, you have these expectations. And it's great to work towards a goal. I love it. It's great to be optimistic, you should be. But at the same time, if all your self worth and value like Paul prepping for a show, but he's got so much more on his plate than just the show. He's got a beautiful family, he's got a thriving business, he's putting out great content for you guys. And I know he wants to win. But if he doesn't, his full identity is not based on a placing. And therefore, he's going to continue to live his life and continue to thrive. So, you know, all these things saying, I think the coolest thing that we're kind of tapping into is the really mental part of where's your identity lie? Are you basing it solely off of just competing and, you know, kind of dig back into your childhood? Why did you start this and then make sure that you shift your focus into competing for the right reasons? Because you enjoy it. And then we can get into all the other cool stuff, supplements, PDs, and all that stuff you guys want to get into. Do you want to talk about what the what the common offenders are with drugs? Yeah, let's dig into that. I did want to mention one thing before we move on with this. IMean, we guys briefly talked about it, Kurt, you touched on it, but the people that you surround yourself with, that is critically important. And that's something that I've had to make some hard decisions with over my life. Like you can care about people, but there's certain people that you have to keep in an arm's length. In life, I definitely have learned over the years that there's certain people that that are not a net positive in my life. And I had to remove those people to be fulfilling and satisfying life. And touching on the prep thing, like this might be my last prep. I don't know, man. So I'm just trying to enjoy the moment. And good. One of the big things that I've tried to do as I've gotten older is to stay in the moment, not regret the past and not worry about the future. Not to say that the future is not important, but to enjoy the moment, be in the moment and do the best each day and focus on that that given day. Because you don't know what's coming in the future. You don't. I could be hip hop boss tomorrow and that could be it. And I can't change the past. And that's really what it is, right? Anxiety is based on the fear of the future, the fear of the unknown, right? You're anxious for something that hasn't even happened. You've put something in your mind and you've created this anxiety and fight or flight, this sympathetic nervous state that you're in because you've put something in your head that you don't even know what's going to happen. So be present, Paul. IMean, that's awesome, dude. IMean, I think that's, if anything, that's the biggest win that you've got out of this entire experience in this prep in 2024 is that you're enjoying this prep. Probably more than you've ever done it before, which is why your body's firing on all cylinders. Isn't that funny how that works? Right? Yeah, it is funny. IMean, it's something I've tried to practice over the last decade or so. And when you touched on it, AJ, it takes work. This stuff takes work. IMean, there's bad mental habits, that voice in your head that can get in there, that little demon that can hop on your shoulder and talk you out of good things. You have to practice silencing that voice in your head. All right, let's talk about the cool stuff. Drugs. Cool. I was just also going to say on a funny note, 90% of the things that people get anxious about don't actually occur. Yes, that's true. We hype all these things up in our brain, these what if scenarios, and they never happen. And the other thing is you've survived 100% of them. So even if they did happen, you still wouldn't have made it through anyway. I could be slaughtering this, but I think it's called the 90-10 rule. I think it was Stephen Covey that came up with it. I don't know if he was a motivational sort of mindset guy, but he talked about 10% of what happens in life is out of your control. So it's not even worth worrying about. But 90% is within your control, and you can really take a lot of power over your life if you focus on that 90% and let that 10% go. It's your reaction to things. The only thing you really have any control over is how you react to anything. Yeah, it's easy to get down that. So continue on. Let's talk about the fun stuff. IMean, we started with testosterone, right? I think testosterone, in and of itself, I think is going to be the safest, probably most friendly. We're talking about anabolic steroids, not growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. But testosterone can solve problems, right? IMean, it can still cause anxiety. It seems that a lot of the issues that the mental things that we're talking about are not through the classic androgen receptor. I think this is part of the reason why psychology and endocrinology took a long time to kind of line up, because we didn't understand what was actually occurring. We thought for the longest time that all steroids work through the androgen receptor, and then there was gene trenscription. But it doesn't explain why you get these mental things from these drugs. And that's because they work with what we call a surface receptor that causes an immediate response, similar to a strength response from an oral, like halotestin. You get a similar mental response from these drugs as well, or an organ response, your heart rate, right? Your organs have these receptors on them. But I think the common outside of that, you know, outside of obviously, I think the biggest problem with testosterone is probably estrogen mismanagement. It's either too high or too low. And we see tons of that now. That's like the strengest thing that goes on. Mostly too high. We could probably do a whole nother thing on that. But I think outside of that, I find equipoise tends to have some issues. Trenbolone, Nandrolone, Deca or MPP. Those are the worst offenders. Tren seems to be the worst offender. And Tren, at least for me, Tren has turned over the years into something that I think used to make me angry to something that just causes depression now. Like it's definitely changed the way the chemistry of my brain. It's not something I would ever touch again. It's weird how they change over time, right? I don't know what your experience. Yeah, I had this complete change with 19-north, both Tren and Nandrolone. It caused me severe anxiety when I didn't have that effect before. With Tren, I don't even get. I don't know how to describe it. I guess I don't get angry. I get apathetic. Like I just don't give a crap. Like you could, you know, a puppy could get run over in front of me and I just feel like, okay, whatever, you know, going on about my life. And I'm not like that normally. And then I get this really bad social anxiety and, you know, just this low level anxiety that's there at all times. And I had the same experience with Nandrolone recently. Like I never had issues with it. And then over the last two years, I would get severe panic attacks and just this weird anxiety. Like I'm not even worried about anything, but just like this, this like underlying feeling of anxiousness. I don't know where it came from. And I'm not like that normally. And I think you throw that on top of somebody that maybe already has a little bit of mental illness. I did an interview with Steve. We talked about it and you'll see the guys on social media, the angry influencers, the guys that are raging all the time. And it's usually the dudes that are running tren or letting their estrogen go crazy. They need GABA supplementation. They need GABA. They need magnesium three and eight. IMean, IMade a list out for you guys because I hopped on here last minute. I kind of wrote down, you know, how do we prevent oxidative stress, which is one of the biggest causes of all these things neurologically. Right. And also the gut brain access because a lot of people have intestinal permeability or some form of dysbiosis, which is going to thin your blood, blood brain barrier to an extent. And 50% of neurodegenerative diseases start with that. So there's a lot of things we can do right from, like I said, GABA supplementation, even into cerebral lyosin has been taking on a lot of attention lately. It's phenomenal for more BDNF. So that's a really good. So max, the link nasal sprays are really, really good. IMean, we could get into why fish oils, high DHA fish oils are so important. I'm a huge advocate of them. IMean, the majority of people's fats at the end of a contest prep are coming specifically from that. So IMean, I don't know if you guys want to get into the supplementation aspect of it. AJ, I don't know if you saw it. They just one of the new theories on dementia is it's a lack of B6 and B. I remember the other which other B1, but it's because it's got permeability. And so this bacteria through this small intestine that's entering the brain and causing this, like you're saying, because all sorts of mental problems. Yeah. LPS. I'm really bad at statinGHow to lipopolysaccharide. So gets into that. And you're getting all this systemic inflammatory responses. Right. And the majority of competitors have some form of intestinal permeability. It's just the way it is when you're eating that much food, when you're taking these type of drugs, especially tren is going to really destroy the stomach lining. You're going to get these these problems. You're going to get that leaky gut syndrome type deal. Right. ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, logging result, edema, klenosis, chronic appreciation. Ofencleric blood. Okay, so healthy reproductive health gets us into a number of topics and if I knew which was the last one that we could talk a bit more on, from the doctor approach, any kind of step approach on past care that you guys would take in terms of Actually making certain types of pisons in the patients. Yeah, sure, so did you have any jabs anything like that where it was. In the cases when the guys have done now, they have you knock a piece out and had you knock that piece out and had you psoriasis in the patient. Yeah, so I think a lot of the strategies to not need them right like something that I know that I probably all four of us do. I know I can speak to Paul and AJ and myself at least in the offseason we don't get horribly out of shape. Right, then you don't need to use something like tren to rein it in because you didn't get out of shape. Like AJ famously calls it progress season instead of offseason, right? You're never all I don't like that term either because we're not, you're not on vacation. It's just a little different. You're trying to make forward progress instead of just peel the fat off but you can still stay lean. There's no reason for guys to get so out of shape and then have to lose 50 pounds. I think Paul, I think you did that too, Paul, this year, right? Yeah, I saw him march and he was in great shape. That was still, you know. I don't think I ever got more than 15 pounds over my stage weight last year. And I think Paul, you're also doing kind of a little bit of intermittent fasting one time a week or so if I'm. Yeah, yeah, I was playing with that as well and that seems to have helped a lot with my gut issues. Just giving my gut a break and pulling things down. You know, and it lowers inflammation like you were talking about. I've had all sorts of gut issues in the past but that has been much better as well this time around. Have you, in the past preps, have you had to use PPIs to keep passive reflux at bay or are you using one now? The only time I throw it in, I just start at the wind straw and I put a little bit, I'm doing a half dose right now because sometimes the orals will give me acid reflux. You're using a lot less than normal, correct? Yeah. There it is. That's a huge issue right there because we know that you're exacerbating more low stomach acidity. Majority of people have low stomach acid, not everybody. But, and then the PPI's gonna exacerbate that and make you magnesium deficient, B12 deficient, iron deficient, you're getting more anemic. IMean, all these things. So, you guys are seeing it, right? Live and living color. Paul is having a phenomenal prep because he's doing all these things that are, I guess, outside the box, so to speak, but they're working phenomenally well. So, dude, I think that's why you're just, IMean, obviously Justin's a genius too with nutrition, but you're just doing everything that you need to do to be your best physically and mentally and they tie together. They're gonna correlate together. Your body's going to move forward when all those things are on point. You're optimal, man. You're optimal. Yeah, I noticed the tren will also affect my gut too. When I take Tren, my stomach is just a wreck. So, that was another thing. But yeah, IMixed in the intermittent fasting. I've been very careful with my food choices, mixing in probiotic foods. I've been eating fermented foods and I've kept Greek yogurt in during this prep, doing the sourdough bread, stuff like that. Yeah, it is. Things that you wouldn't, sort of some unconventional food choices. Justin's pretty cool with the foods. IMean, he gives you a lot of flexibility. He just gives me the macros and I have an approved food list and I choose. I know that's a bit of a wild card because some people can't be trusted with that. I definitely understand why coaches give people an exact diet, but I have been intelligent enough to, I think, pick the right foods, except for on high days when I eat a lot of candy. I think AJ was like, what are you doing, man? Let me ask you, just out of curiosity, you may say, I don't know what you're gonna say, but on those days, the day after the high day, how do you feel mentally? You're a little foggy, a little slow? Yeah, a little slow and I definitely hold water and then two days after is when I look good. Two days after, really two to three days after is when it pulls in. But usually, I'll follow it up with a low day or even a fast before the high day and then the way we play the high day out, I know this is kind of off topic, is well, half of the carbs have to come from rice, basically, rice products, and then the other half can be from glucose-based sugars. Yeah, because IMean, getting down that amount of carbs, try eating oatmeal or sweet potatoes and try to eat 300 grams of carbs, not gonna happen. Try to digest that amount of oatmeal. I don't think anybody would wanna live with you during those days either, man. Oof. Anyway, man, I digress, I know I go over the fence. Long story short, my gut has been healthier on this prep too which I think has resulted in a better look, and it affects you mentally, your sleep, everything. Yeah, I was just gonna bring that up. The sleep component of having a healthy intestinal tract is so key. From the nutritional therapy side of things, that's always where I start with people is with digestion. Regardless of what they come in complaining about, whether it's hormonal dysregulation or depression, and it is shockinGHow many people just deal with, especially women who deal with chronic constipation followed by diarrhea, that they just think that that's the okay way for their body to function, and it just isn't. And getting that working first, and nothing else, no amount of supplementation that you throw at somebody is gonna fix things if their gut is not working. 100%. They're not even gonna digest the supplements you give them. It's a lost cause until you get that working. And I think, Paul, your sleep, seeing that connection between sleep and gut health is so key too. It all is connected. Was it Socrates that said all disease begins in the gut? Yeah, I just did a podcast on that night. I actually quoted that, yeah, exactly. Yeah, ancient medicine is, we understood how the body worked, I think, a little bit better when we had to use nature to figure things out. You add in drugs and other things and people might be taking it from a baseline and all these things can just make gut health so much worse. But if you don't fix it, you can do anything else and it's just still gonna be a problem, especially trying to get hormones back after a prep. People who have severe gut dysbiosis and are trying to regulate their hormones following prep, IMean, it's a real start, especially for women. Hormones, a lot of them are synthesized in the gut. So if your gut is just destroyed following prep, you've gotta really work on that first. And it's gonna help with mental health, for sure. IMean, I have a really quick prime example. When I worked with Mustafa Mohammed in 2022, he had a horrible gut health. IMean, living on PPIs and just constantly bloated and the acid reflux, even with the PPIs, was not regulated. And we dove deep into that food safe allergy test. We really figured out what foods work best, what we need to avoid, optimizing sleep. We correlated it and it's like, well, there you go. He got in shape. So it's a huge factor that's really overlooked. Like a lot of guys are really afraid to add in raw kefir in their contest prep diet. And it's like, why? IMean, you'll go out and eat a Five Guys burger on a cheat meal, but you can't have like four ounces of raw kefir, you know what IMean, for proper gut health. It just doesn't make sense, right? Or even to the point where they're so hungry, they're eating a bag of salad or spinach, right? And they're just loading up on too much fiber, right? Cause we can have too much fiber. So not to say too much on the gut, but there's such a huge correlation. Like Amy said, you can start with the gut before anything else. IMean, you get labs, you get blood work, you can get a Genolva's diagnostic stool sample with zonulin, you can see what's going on there and see exactly what's going on, whether you have SIBO, candida overgrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. IMean, the majority of competitors have some sort of, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in some form or fashion. There's something going on with the majority of people, which of course will exacerbate anxiety as well. So you have a lot of anxious people that are hungry, they're bloated at the same time, they can't sleep, they're on 19-nors, they're on clenbuterol, they're on thyroid, they're on caffeine. IMean, yo-him-bine is known to really make somebody very anxious too, especially if they have- Another thing I removed this year was yo-him-bine. Yeah, if they have bipolar symptoms too, IMean, it's just, it's horrible. It's horrible, so. Yeah, and with going back to Tremblone for a second. So Tremblone, one of the reasons why it is such a fantastic anabolic is because it has a prostaglandin response that causes stem cell proliferation. That prostaglandin response causes heartburn. So it's directly screwing with the gut through the vagus nerve. Which is the HBTA, right? Yeah, so that's one of the reasons, so it gets even worse, right? You're in prep and your stomach's already screwed up, and then you destroy, so it's gonna push it toward dopamine anyway, and then 90% of the serotonin is in your gut. So when you start to destroy your gut, then you have no serotonin, right? So then your mood is completely flat. And like Amy said, you could go, oh, well, I'll take 5-HTP, and you're not even gonna absorb it. It's not gonna work. Well, that's, I think part of the problem, going back to what was just said previously, is I think that there's just so much misinformation about food when you're talking about, like guys will eat five guys' burger, but they won't add probiotics and things to their diet. The stuff we hear, this bro science that goes around about nutrition, is out of this world. It's wild. So diarrhea, for instance, like when people ask, well, how much protein can you absorb? You will absorb and use everything you put in your mouth, unless you have diarrhea. Diarrhea is the act of not absorbing something. So once you have diarrhea, you're not absorbing anything. That's, you can't do it. You can't prep for it. It's crazy, dude. When I put a grass-fed bone broth in these meals on these guys' diets, they're like, I don't understand. Why would I eat this? And I explain it to them, and they still don't wanna see the benefits from it. It's like, listen, we have. bringt to start from a nutritional foundation and actually use foods that work and not just go chicken and rice because that's the bro way to do it. Now chicken and rice is phenomenal too, especially when I had my irritable bowel disease and I was diagnosed with ulcerative proctitis, which is a different form of colitis. You know, I had to change my diet in the form of there was no fiber, no vegetables. Everything was white, everything was bland, kind of like Paul does, essentially, because I was in such an inflammatory state. That's a fix it. But once you get, you know, somewhat healthy. Okay, how do we maintain that health? And then how do we actually get better? What are we missing from a micronutrient standpoint? You know, selenium, zinc, iodine, copper, all these are micronutrients. And I'll tell a guy, you know, let's get on selenium and iodine and they're like, dude, let's just take T3 and I'm like, no, let's just take selenium and iodine. First, we're gonna cover those basis and then if we need to get into that kind of pharmacology, we will. So it's kind of a misconstrued, like, let's just throw the kitchen sink of drugs, you know, we'll forget all the rest and that may work for like a prep or two. But dude, after five years or 10 years of this, it's gonna be a problem and you're gonna start having kidney issues, gut issues, brain issues. And then you wonder why you just can't get in shape when you prep for shows. And you see it in those athletes that don't take care of themselves. It just mask of drugs because they never quite look right. There's always like a look right. Their skin is always thicker. They never quite get lean enough. Yep. Yeah. They're, they're, they're definitely, they look sick. Yeah. IMean, you can see it. They just look sick and you can see the wheels fall off. And then that, you know, once again, that goes, that'll factor into mental health. Guys, guys start, it's this downward spiral where they start getting upset about it and, and then, you know, throwing more drugs at it and it's just this downward spiral that I've seen guys guys get into. Yeah. Maybe, maybe Dexter Jackson and Lavrone now be it. They had amazing genetics, but maybe they were onto something when they would stop trening for a little bit and not eating a bodybuilder diet for three or four months. Maybe that's why longevity for Dexter was so good. That's because he wasn't eatinGHimself into the ground, right? That's pretty much what I did this year, man. I, after my show, I came down to just eating three to four times a day. And then I did intermittent fasting. I ate clen. I'd have one or two meals a week that were free and I was just running TRT and some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone for four months. And then my body responded well, when I went back to pushing, I felt great. It's the best I've ever felt coming into prep. Curt, do you want to get back to the PD part, man? I keep interrupting, man. I'm sorry. I know. I think that that, IMean, those, those are the common offenders. And I think the, the, IMean, and I'm not going to give away what, you know, necessarily Paul is doing, but I think you can talk about when I was saying, I think, you know, well, I started with saying, don't get horribly out of shape in the offseason. I think that that allows you then to not have to use such harsh things, right? You don't need such harsh drugs to get big and you don't need such harsh drugs to diet. So in my mind, the function of tren is to preserve your muscle mass for a normal guy. There are other uses for it, but for a normal guy, it's to preserve your muscle mass when you have to diet very extremely, right? Cause it's going to hold muscle better than other things. If you're not horribly out of shape, you don't have to diet that hard, right? Like you can just reduce your calories by, you know, cut 500 calories a day. There's nothing extreme. You can tolerate that. You can get by with using a DHT and some tests and some growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and, and still look great. Feel good, right? It's when you got to cut your calories by 2000 calories and do two hours of cardio. That's when my tren matters. And that's when you see, you know, and that's, I think what guys, so context is everything. And I think this is where the internet goes wrong is we see these clips of these things or these segments or guys will say things like, I, I lack of better words. I called vigor, Steve out on what he's doing now with his testosterone dose because they think context is everything. He doesn't, he's not explaining that. That's not what got him there. He's explaining that using now, right? You see that Wesley visitors clip that has 14,000 or 15,000 likes on my Instagram page where he talks about using just test and masteron to go into the show. It's, he didn't need trenny pulled the tren out because he didn't need it anymore. He was no longer dieting. So it doesn't mean he doesn't use it. It doesn't mean that that's what got him there. It just, you're only seeing a segment of something, right? So you can't judge the whole picture by this little, you know, three second clip of something. Here's a, here's a cool anecdote too, for you guys is I had a competitor. I'm not going to name his name, but he was two years, two years ago. He won two shows. And in between those two shows, there was a three or four week span where he came over to, he did a show somewhere in Europe and then he did a show in America. When he came to America, he had no injectables. So three weeks in between shows with no oils, just orals, no GH. Now mind you genetics. Great. Phenomenal. Yes. Just the orals though. Not only did he maintain the muscle mass, obviously insulin sensitivity was higher because to Kurt's point, he was in shape already. So he didn't have to use all these other accessories, so to speak. Right. But what we found out and what we saw is not only did gut health improve that in inflammatory look that he had in the first show was gone by the second show. So I was like, man, there's gotta be something there. Uh, and I'm not telling people to do this. I'm just kind of giving you an anecdote. There's gotta be something there with what you guys were talking about in the beginning with, you know, the different oils, thEQuality of the oils. And then of course, heavy metals being in there. It's, it's causing a systemic inflammatory response without a doubt. So again, you have to look at everything in totality that everything synergizes together and it cascades. That's why we're talking about the gut brain access and that's why we're talking about how we can kind of fix the side effects from the 19 or drugs with supplementation. Everything synergizes together. So it was just kind of cool to see like, cause even from a coaching standpoint, I was like, Oh man, three weeks. That's dude. I don't know if we're going to be, you know, where we need to be. And it was like, the outcome was so much better than even I could have expected. Right? So we have to think what works best for us individualistically as an individual, not based off what everybody else is doing. So like what Kurt was saying, context is key on social media and all these videos where people just, they kind of see it and then they want to regurgitate what everybody else is doing. But it's like, find what works best for you because what works for, you know, Bob and Mike doesn't mean you need to do it. You know, you got to find out what works for you. Just like, I think all came, came into his own. Now. I think he finally found out what works best for him. Yeah. Like we, you know, Paul and I talk about this stuff clearly on the side. So I'm pretty aware of what, what he's doing, but it's a totally different strategy because he's in control of this stuff in his, in his shape. So like where he might be using test Primo and Masteron or something more, you know, more mild compounds. I would typically use the harsher ones with guys that come to me late or in horrible shape or right. Aren't following through. Like you give a diet and they don't really listen to this stuff. Like that's when, that's when those tools are needed. Right. Someone like Paul, who's held it together all year and just made slow and steady progress and he's just really fine tuninGHis physique and it is changing every day and he feels good. He doesn't need all that stuff. tren would probably make it worse at this point for him. Oh yeah. Yeah. And you're right. Everybody's different. There's, you know, I know, I know two of my clients are doing the same thing when that's also, again, you swing the other way with those compounds to relics. And now the biggest tren in the, in the world apparently is right. Test a Masteron, right. Because like one or two guys, this worked really well for again, context. It doesn't mean that's what got them to where they are, but now everyone wants to just run test Masteron thinking that they're going to get the same result as, you know, John Jewett or one of these guys that, you know, is open about this stuff. And again, that's a silly technique, right? That doesn't mean it's not going to work, but it doesn't mean it's the right technique either. Right. Right. IMean, I don't think any of us as coaches just blindly give recommendations on things like that. Dexter Jackson was eating Taco Bell three weeks out or Ronnie Coleman eating masterpiece barbecue sauce. Does that mean we should all do it? IMean, come on guys, find out what works for you. I didn't. Chad Nichols asked him once where he was like, what do you eat? He said, chicken. What kind of chicken? Kentucky fried. Yeah. I heard. Who's eating? What would he say? He's spending like 30, 30 grand a year at Denny's. I think it was something like that. We've reached like that too, right? He got the KFC bucket. So a cool thing I'll touch on real quick and I'm gonna let you guys talk cause I don't want to take over, but I think a cool thing too, that you guys could also implement after shows is kind of brain repair. And I love to use BPC one, five, seven TV, 500 and also KPV peptide for gut healing. So there's different forms that you can get those in. IMentioned cerebral lyosin as well. Phenomenal, phenomenal for, for brain repair and more BDNF in the system. Hyperbaric chambers, infrared sauna. Yeah. Yeah. They're there. These are phenomenal modalities that you can use. And even, even cold shock therapy is, is great for someone that suffers with depression, you know, just to release more dopamine throughout the day. So there's a lot of holistic modalities that you can go into post show and then implementing some intermittent fasting once a week, like Paul does, I think is actually has a lot of benefit. You're not going to lose muscle. You just won't. IMean, if anything, it's going to give you a digestive system, somewhat of a rest. And I don't necessarily mean a 24 hour fast, but maybe even 16 hours where you're just kind of relaxing. And probably what you'll notice is you're very sharp and light on your feet. 𝚒𝚎𝚝𝚝𝚝𝚩𝚕𝚊𝚕𝚎𝚊𝚙𝚜𝚜𝚗 𝚆𝚎𝚎𝚃𝚆𝚎𝚕𝚊𝚔𝚒𝚂𝚂𝚍𝚂𝚋𝚛𝚍𝚚𝚎𝚆 𝚝𝚉𝚎𝚖𝚝𝚎𝚑𝚘𝚒𝚒𝚒𝚒𝚛 King, which is Traphris, and because of that, our PDA is really good and our regression has been surprisingly low, really good, and we have rated between family medicine, registered violins available and we have theую1 stretch along with осв권 нравится Oliveerman anatomy. They don't like focus on brain, right? We don't focus on brain gut connection. So I think fixing your gut, fixing your brain, bringing down inflammation. If you want to Amy touch on the hyperbaric chamber, a lot of people don't talk about that, but it's a great modality to use. Well, in the studies on hyperbaric are pretty impressive, especially for we use it a lot for people coming out of anesthesia and the studies have shown people who do hyperbaric sessions following anesthesia have less of the side effects. So you don't have the amnesia that can happen following anesthesia. And just in general, you think about what that's doing for your body, like you are literally infusing to the very tips of your fingers and the tips of your toes, your body was just flooded with fresh oxygen. And there is a component of just the relaxation that it gives your muscles and everything being in that highly pressurized state really lets everything kind of flush itself through, helps with inflammation, really beneficial for brain health in general, because it's there's not a lot of other ways that you can get that ability to just really flood your body with oxygen and that pressure to kind of let everything relax. It's I think fundamental for anyone, especially for anti-aging or dealing with any type of neurodegenerative condition. It should be the very first thing you go to. I agree. And even colon therapy to a lot of people get weirded out by colonics. But man, if people got more regular colonics to IMean, Tony Freeman, if anybody you guys remember him back in the day, Tony Freeman was known for getting colonics probably three or four times a year. If you look at him now, he's in his late 50s. Guy looks like he's in his 30s. Phenomenal. Just great health. So these are just some internal holistic approaches that you could do specifically post show to to kind of get that healing process started back up. It's I don't know if anyone's really talking about it, but really, how do we reduce that full oxidative stress within the body? That would be a great thing for a lot of people to implement. I believe we Dean and I have talked about that with cholesterol, too, because I think that's misunderstood. It's not so much the cholesterol that causes heart disease. It's the it's oxidative stress on that cholesterol that's causing the problem. Right. So in your whole body, not your brain everywhere, that's really what affects us the most. Right. That's one of the main causes of disease. Absolutely, absolutely. That cholesterol has forever gotten a bad rap just for being at the scene of the crime. Yeah, it's really what started everything. You see these plaques. Well, the plaques were forming because there was damage to the vessel or the artery, not because the cholesterol was there. The cholesterol came to help. But then, like you said, it gets oxidative. We have issues with the phospholipid bilayer of these cells. They're degraded. They're filled with nasty fried chicken oil. You know, there's all those things add to it. And then, oh, well, what's the problem? Well, medicine says it's cholesterol. And like, no, cholesterol was coming to help, but it just ended up clogging up the whole system. And we talked to AJ before about DHA. So the human brain is largely made of DHA. So, you know, it's and most Americans arecompletely deficient in it. So you've got to wonder what role that plays in things like depression or any of these manic behaviors. Right. And then what is your brain then made of if you're not taking in this fat because you're not getting it from your diet? McDonald's. Yeah, well, your body will replace that fat with other fat, but that's not supposed to be made of. Yeah, I love supplementing pregnenolone and DHA. It's just kind of dialing in the right dosage that you need in the timing, whether it be in the morning or at night. But again, these are a lot of modalities that people don't really they don't focus on. You know what IMean? Because they can get quite costly. I'm also a huge believer in phospholipids. So phosphatidylcholine is awesome from body bio. They make one of the purest forms, too. So just all these things that you're adding in that's a little bit different from your normal liver, kidney, you know, your stragglers, all those things have a part. Don't get me wrong. But again, like Amy said, if the gut's not healthy, then you're literally just taking in pills, probably putting more stress on your liver more than anything and not getting any benefit. So, yeah, that's that's great stuff with the cholesterol, too, because that's very overlooked understanding the mechanisms behind it. And then how do you navigate out of that to, you know, get the most. Yeah, I think another one you see, too, that that's interesting is in the offseason, a lot of guys will use insulin, right, because they think it's needed. If they got leaner and they stayed in better shape, they probably wouldn't need it. Right. Because you notice during prep, right, Paul, like you, you start to go hypo. You know, I'll go hypo on my low days, which is two hundred and fifty grams of carbs or whatever. I'll start goinGHypo. Yeah. So it's not like a pancreatic insufficiency thing. It's just people's body fat's just too high to handle. And I'm a type one diabetes, one B diabetic if I go hypo on my low days. So if that tells you anything. Yeah, well, I was just going to touch on that, you know, like Kurt was saying, you have guys that are running insulin pretty much, you know, all year, whether it be, you know, basal insulin with Lantus always being in the background, you know, down to the nolva Rapids, the humalogs just constantly. And listen, insulin definitely will have a place in time for certain individuals. But again, if you're not if you don't understand the mechanisms and you're not getting your HPA one C, you know, which is the reading over a three month span. And then also your postprandial glucose actually taking a glucometer and seeing where you're at or you're and you're fasted. A lot of guys don't even need it. They just need to get leaner. They need to do more cardio. They need to up their fiber intake. There's a lot of different things you can do first from a holistic standpoint before you start getting into the pharmacology. And again, it's all about making your body optimal. Listen, God created us in an amazing way that we need sleep. We need to reduce cortisol and we need a good healthy gut to have a good, healthy brain. It's all connected. So if we don't understand those connections and cascades down to the T, it's it's hard to really fully understand. And what you'll just do is kind of like what Paul did or what I used to do is I would get acid reflux and just PPI's all day long. IMean, like M&M's popping them all day. And then when the show's over, you're just this toxic dump that feels horrible. You can't digest anything. You have diarrhea every day, all day. And you're so deficient in iron. You can just see it. You look sick on stage. In fact, it's so bad that even when you get your color put on the tanner, your pH is so off that it turns green. So that's another thing a lot of people don't know is a lot of color when it seeps into the skin. When you know you have too much acidity, it will turn green. I saw a guy at the New York Pro last year that was green. Yeah. Yeah. Literally on stage. Going back to insulin for a second. I don't want to dwell on it too much, but it's something that I'm not really a big fan of unless it's needed. So guys have it backwards. It's not a pancreatic insufficiency thing where insulin is required. It's more of a type two diabetic thing where your cells before what trenslocate. You can only hold so much glucose. So we're forcing this situation where you're trying to get more glucose into a cell, adding more carrier, although it works, isn't the right solution. The problem is get leaner so your cells aren't so inflamed so you can take on that glucose and using insulin as a non-diabetic will destroy your pancreas. That's a known medical thing. You can ask any doctor that question. That's the studies that bodybuilders are citing is in diabetic people. It will not preserve your pancreatic function. So it's you really need to be very careful when you start introducing those things as you destroy your health. Crazy stuff. All right, guys, any parting words? I've got to wrap this up. Just remember that prep is a season. And if you can control your circle, that's going to be the biggest thing. Make sure that you have supportive people around you. You have an actual good coach who you trust, who's giving you good advice and kind of shutting out all the all the nonsense. And that'll really help with everything mental health wise during prep. Yeah, we chose this right. You can also stop at any time. Yeah, one big one big word of advice I can tell people is never take drugs at the expense of your mental health. IMean, that's that is a like it's not worth it, man. You're just not going to you're not going to get a long term benefit out of it. If it's making you sick, if it's making you feel bad, don't use it. You don't have to. I would say that, you know, know where your foundation lies. Don't start competing or stay in competing. If you believe that's your identity, you'll get lost in it. And nine times out of ten, you'll be probably ten times out of ten. Actually, you'll be disappointed. It's just it's going to happen. The identity doesn't lie there. Be present. Like Paul said, you get you get to do a curse that you get to do it. You don't have to do it. You get to do it. You can stop at any time. Nobody's forcing you. Be kind to your loved ones. Enjoy them in every season, regardless of if you're hungry. It's just a season and it will be over before you know it. And enjoy the process. If you don't enjoy bodybuilding and you don't enjoy the process, go find another sport and just lift weights. There's nothing wrong with it. It really isn't. You can still live a phenomenal life. And nine times out of ten, you'll probably find out that you're a lot more happy. So if you're doing it for the right reasons, bodybuilding can be a phenomenal learning tool in all aspects of your life. Resiliency, work ethic, discipline and really learninGHow to understand how deep you can get into something by pushing yourself to a healthy limit to an extent. Yeah, I do think there are some positives. We didn't really talk about this, but definitely learn how to work hard, discipline, structure. And it is fun. I enjoy it. And it carries over into life. You learn a lot of lessons and you can apply it. There's very few people who can be. 41BD, 서권연, 60%,omielicance cerebral, rotibraccus, 서브랜드 세계관, febcius, Joint joint closures, gliltis graft, center 38, 90% embarboner, בַԺְּtxלוְשֶׁ, 70%, subtle embarbonation, female CCG, 70% embarbonation, female CCG,