warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, big Paul here today, and I have a really good one for you. I did almost a two hour interview with Larry Pollack last weekend. If you guys aren't familiar with Larry, he has some of the coolest stories in bodybuilding and I'm going to break this up into some segments because there's so many cool stories. He has some stuff about Mike Mincer when he lived with Mike Mincer, but this story, the one I'm going to share with you today is when he ran a UGL in Mexico and got captured and held hostage by the Mexican drug cartel. This is an insane story. I think you're going to enjoy this one. I'll put the full interview out probably here in the next week or two, but in this segment it's where Larry talks about his encounter with the Mexican drug cartel and how he escaped. This one is awesome. I think you're going to enjoy it. We'll get started in just one second. So then I was like just working as a trener at different gyms in down in a town. This was down in like Orange County, Costa Mesa area. And at the time I was still getting quality vet and dankil from Dr. Cohen was making it and I would bring it back up and I would sell that stuff. And then Dr. Cohen got busted in 2005. It was operation gear grinder and they shut down all of Mexico, totally shut it down completely. And so then there was a big dry spell. There was like nothing, there was no good gear out there. Like thEQuality vet and dankil that was around, it dried up really fast. And then you just started having a bunch of fake shit floating around. But there was nobody, nobody was filling that void. And I realized like down in Mexico, there's nobody doing it. So then I got this idea like I should go down there and do it. I figured it's legal over there and you could do it. So I went down there and opened my lab stallion labs and it just, I remember, I remember stallion labs. That's funny. Yeah. And it blew up. So that year we were like, I think we, we made a anabolic, uh, was it a Bill Llewellyn's anabolic book. So we were in the future in his book, several different places. And we were like, we were like on the message boards. I was board sponsor for outlaw muscle. And I remember getting on outlaw muscle and we were, we were the number one lab for a year and it just blew up like fast. We went from, I went down there with like $10,000 in my pocket. And by the end of the year we were shipping a hundred thousand dollar weeks. That's crazy. Yeah. The money was coming in so fast. I couldn't, I just didn't even know where to put it. And then raw deal went down and I saw everybody at raw deal getting busted in the United States and everywhere. I was watching it on the news. And actually retained Rick Collins before I got busted. I called them and I, cause we had gotten a letter at a PO box in the States saying they want from the DEA say they wanted to interview us and rich piano already tried to set me up. And so I knew they were looking for me. I knew it was just a matter of time. They were going to come. Or they're going to try to set you up. Oh yeah. He was one of my distributors. And the whole time, like when I was in Mexico, I would just, we'd mail everything and we never met anybody in person. We just mail everything. And you know, he, they'd send money, the Western union and we would just mail everything to them. And then, anyways, rich, like I don't want to do the mail order thing anymore. I want to, I want to just meet in person. And I'm like, no, I'm out of the country. There's, I do not, I can't meet you in person. Like why? There's no reason for me to meet you in person. Like what, what for? And he's like, well, I just, he goes, we can meet at a gym down like in Orange County or somewhere. And you know, you could put the stuff in a locker and you know, I'll put the money in another locker. And I'm like, no man, I'm not doing that. Like, this is stupid. Like, what are you trying to do? And then right after that, we get the letter in the mail. I know not only that, but so I had all this money coming in and I didn't know what to do with it. So I went down to Belize and I opened a Belizean bank account and IMade a huge mistake. There were some problems with Western union, getting money through there cause they were starting to track it all because it was too much coming through. So I told my distributors, I only had like five distributors. I told them, I'm going to send you a letter and I'm going to send you a letter and I'm going to send you a letter and I'm going to send you a letter and I'm going to send you a letter. Because I told them, you know, just now, from now on just wire the money to this Belizean bank account. Well, as soon as I told Rich, literally the next day I get a call from the Belizean bank and they said, you had two weeks to get your money out. If you don't get it out in the next two weeks, it's going to be confiscated and I had put like, I don't know about $300,000 in there and I had to get rid of it like from there. So I just wired all the money to Hong Kong and bought product. Because I didn't know what, I had nowhere else to put the money. And I just had like enormous amounts of cash that I couldn't deposit in any regular bank. So I sent it all to Hong Kong and I just, to my suppliers, I had two suppliers over there and just bought a shit ton of Raws and Gentropens. And then I, anyways, I called Rick Collins and I told him, hey, you know, all this is going down and, you know, I want to retain you and he's like, well, you don't actually have a case yet. So I can't really represent you. I'm like, yeah, well, how about I just give you $10,000 and you just hold on to it just in case, because I feel like it's going to happen. I didn't know like how or where it was going to come from, but I saw everybody else getting busted before me. And I told him, you know, I'm down here in Mexico and he goes, well, just sit tight and just ride it out. Anyway, while this was all going on, there was like about two weeks of just real quiet, no busts. They like already busted everybody but me. And then the cartel came and got me. Holy shit. Yeah. That's scary. Yeah, so what happened was the USDA contacted the Mexican police because I was outside their jurisdiction and they had no charges on me yet. They hadn't actually like had a case on me. They knew like what I was doing down in Mexico, but they had no proof of me doing anything other than whatever Rich said. So they couldn't go arrest me down there. So they just told the Mexican police and I don't know if people realize it, but the Mexican police and the cartel are one in the same. And what IMean by that, like they're the same guys. Like during the day they're police and at night they go do like cartel shit. So they just came and got me one night in the middle of the night, like 30 dudes with full on like SWAT outfits with masks on, M16s with laser sights and the whole shit. So they got me and they basically held me for ransom. Well, first of all, they got all the money that I had. They raided my safes. They managed to get all the money and then they wanted more money. So I think they got like $3 million out of me. Oh my God. And then they wanted another million. And I'm like, well, you got all my money. I'm like, I don't know what to tell you. They're like, well, your family has money. And that's the way they do it down there. They kidnap people for ransom. And if the family pays and they'll let the person go. If the family doesn't pay, they kill them. And I'm like, my family, they're like, well, your brother owns gyms. I'm like, he owns a gym and he doesn't have hardly shit money. They're like, your family owns jewelry stores. I'm like, no, they don't. And so what happened was there was a guy that was working for me, some Mexican worker. He was just like a bottler. And I fired him like six months earlier because he was like on meth. And he got busted doing something, working with a cartel at the border, like smuggling illegals or whatever he was doing. And he's the one that brought him to me. And as soon as they mentioned jewelry stores, I knew it was that guy, Frank, because what happened was when my ex-wife at the time, when we started making all this money, she all of a sudden wanted to get married. So one of my cousins was a diamond dealer up in LA. So I went up there to buy a diamond ring, but he didn't own the jewelry store. He was just a diamond dealer. And he was like a second cousin. I just knew him, but it wasn't like my immediate family. And so I guess he told them that my family owned jewelry stores. And I'm like, well, they actually don't own any jewelry stores. So I don't know what to tell you guys. There's nothing for you to get there. So anyways, I knew my time was running out because my brother was talking to him, but he was not doing a very good job of, I think he offered him $5,000 or something. They asked for a million. He's like, I'll give you 5,000. Yeah. So it was pretty nasty in there. They were torturing people, bringing people in and out. And I saw them kill one guy the night before we left. Holy crap. And so then after that, I'm like, shit, I need to get the fuck out of here because there was a guy that I was talking to, this guy, Oscar, who came in about the same time I did. And he was trenslating for me because he spoke Spanish. And whenever they would speak in Spanish, he would tell me later what they were saying. And I'm like, we got to get out of here because we're going to be next. And he's like, oh, don't say that. I'm like, what do you mean don't say that? You saw what they did to that guy last night. And so I'm like, look, we can just sneak out of here. And so he thought, you know, there was two guards that were in the room in front of us and they had machine guns. We knew because we could hear them like playing with their machine guns all day, but they were just kids. But at night they would go to sleep. They weren't supposed to, I guess, but they would go to sleep. And I knew because I had to get up and use the restroom because I didn't have a colon. And they told me, you know, when I had to use the restroom, I should whistle. So I'm like whistling, whistling, whistling. Nobody's coming. Well, finally I have to go. So I'd look out there and they're just sleeping out there. And so I'd take myself to the restroom. So when I told Oscar, I said, you know, when they're sleeping, we could just like walk right out. And he's like, no, it's too risky. I'm like, well, stayinGHere is too risky. I'm going to go. So I walked down this, out the back way where the restroom was and went down like a stairway and it went into a garage. And I saw like body bags down there. So then, but like, it was like electric garage. So I couldn't get out of it. So then I came back up and then I walked right out. They were sleeping in the room in front of us. And I like literally tiptoed right past this guy's nose down a stairway. And I went down until there was like a courtyard there with a big tall fence. And I was, it was like probably four o'clock in the morning or whatever it was pitch black. And I was like looking for where to get out. And the only thing they had, it was like an electric garage door. And I didn't want to push it because I didn't want to make noise. But then all of a sudden Oscar comes behind me and he was a real skinny guy. And he was so skinny. He was so skinny. He could get his hands out of the handcuffs. And he's like, help me out from this fence. So I lifted him up and he scaled the fence. And when he went down on the other side, he like jumped down and he made a loud noise jumping down. And then dogs in the neighborhood started barking and Oscar looks at me through the fence and the dogs start barking. He just takes off running. So I'm like, oh fuck, they're going to wake up. So now I don't have a choice. And I'm just like in my underwear with his, I had the blindfold, but I had just a little rag on my head. It was the gauze that they put around our face so we couldn't see. So I pushed the button on the garage door and I scooted underneath there. And I just hauled ass down the road, barefoot and everything in my underwear. And I was chasing after Oscar. And we ran down this road in the middle of the night and there was a taxi there. And then we were running to the taxi, waving at it and the taxi took a look at us and just drove away. So then we ran down the hill and down through some streets and ended up at, I guess it was a bus station. And I don't know where Oscar went. He disappeared somewhere in the bus station. And I just was like running down this highway trying to flag down cars, but they weren't stopping. And then there was a taco stand. And they have these taco stands, they're open like all night long. And I ran in there and there's like a bunch of dudes just sitting there eating tacos. And I come in there and I'm like, American, I need help, kidnapped. And they're like, sit down and have a taco. And I'm like, no, no, no, no, I was kidnapped. And so I talked to these guys and they're like, do you want us to call police? I'm like, no, no, no, don't call police. And the guys, the people down there, they know what's going on. So these guys are like, okay, IMight take me to the border, I'll pay you. They're like, all right, come on. And they said, they put me in the back of this van and they like asked me which border I want to go to. And I told them Ota Mesa because that's like the shorter border to get through. So they drove me up there and I don't know where the hell I was, but it was like an hour drive to the border. I get to the border and I get out and I run up to the border and I'm like literally like underwear with, I still have the handcuffs on and gauze on my head, bleeding all over the place. And I'm like, American Citizen, let me in. And the border guy's looking at me really weird. Like, why are you dressed like that? And I'm like, I was kidnapped. And then the two guys that brought me there, they started like arresting them. And I'm like, no, no, no, they're good guys. They brought me here. And anyways, they took me, they finally got a blanket, took me in, took the handcuffs off and brought me inside. And first I'm talking to FBI and they're asking me like what happened. And I told them about the kidnapping, but I didn't tell them about the steroid part. And then the Mexican police come and they're like, we want you to come with us and go show us where the house is down and where the kidnappers are. And I'm like, no, I'm not going down there with you. I'm not doing it. And they're like, well, we'll protect you. I'm like, no, who's going to protect me from you? I'm not going back in there. So the FBI is like, well, we can't make him go. I'm like, yeah, I'm not going. Screw you guys. So then right when I'm finished talking with the FBI, all of a sudden DEA walks in and they just come right in and grab me. And they're like, he's coming with us. And FBI is like, hey, what's going on? And he looks at me. He's like, there's something you didn't tell us. And I didn't say anything. And then DEA just threw me in the back of a car and they were driving me up to their headquarters somewhere up in San Diego. And when we're on the way driving up there, they told me, you weren't supposed to come back. There was a bodybuilder dead in the morgue and he was beaten to unrecognizable. And we thought it was you. But you weren't really supposed to come back. And then they told me a bunch of bullshit. I was like, fuck off. So I got up there and they had arrested my wife. I guess when I was in the border, my wife and my brother told them that I was there. And then when they came down, they arrested my wife. And then when we got up, I got to the DEA headquarters. I don't know, for whatever reason, they put me and my wife in a room together. And they told her that I was like really dirty and all this shit. But I told her, I'm like, don't say anything. And she goes, I didn't. I already told them I want my lawyer. So then they said to me, you could help yourself. You could help your wife. I'm like, what am I being charged with? They go, well, it could be this. It could be that. I'm like, it could be. I said, I want my attorney. And that was it. They said, he invoked his right. That's it. No more discussion. So after that, I went to court in San Diego. My wife bonded out like $250,000. My mom put up a bail for her. And then they wanted no bail on me because they were saying I was like a flight risk and all this kind of crap. But I had a good attorney there and my mother was there and she ended up putting a property bond on her house to get me out. And then I was ordered to stay at her house in Camarillo as a condition of my bond. So I went there and also as a condition of my bond, I had to get a job. So I went around Camarillo looking for a job. Camarillo is kind of like a sleepy town, like old retirement town. And I couldn't find anything I wanted to do there. So I just opened a gym. And that's when I started in the gym business. I opened the gym just to have a job. So I did that. We ran the gym for like three years while I was on probation. And then finally, I always told my wife at the time, you know, if anything goes down, I'll make sure that you don't get in trouble. So they finally, after three years, finally said, hey, if you take this deal for 24 months, we'll let her walk. And I really didn't want to take a deal for anything because they really didn't have a case on me. They never caught us with anything, not one pill, not one vial, nothing. It was just conspiracy to distribute. So anyways, but I told her I'd do it. So I took the deal and I ended up going to TI. And I did 14 months on the 24 months because with halfway house and time off and whatever, I ended up doing 14 months. That's a crazy story. I guess it's better than being dead. Yeah. Yeah, I was probably this close to being dead. That's insane, man.