 Warning! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, Battle Tested, Expert Formulated. Use discount code AB10 and check out 410% OFF. Alright folks, Big Paul here today with Kurt Havens. We're going to talk about the science of protein. What's going on, Kurt? What's going on, Paul? Thanks for having me again. Other than having the death face and being at the end of contest prep. What, are you three and a half weeks? Yeah, almost three. So that's where I'm at. Protein is very important to me right now. But we're going to talk about protein. I think protein is a bit more straightforward than the other macronutrients we talked about. Certainly fats, there's a lot of nuance and things you have to think through with fats and carbohydrates as well. But protein is pretty straightforward, I think. So, I mean, for people that don't know protein isn't a central macronutrient that all humans need to live. Carbohydrates are not. If we don't have protein, we die. More specifically, essential amino acids. Proteins are made up of, we were talking about it before we got on the air. But technically, 20 amino acids that we need, 22 if you want to be technical about it, correct? Yeah, I mean, there's 500 plus that are present in nature. But they consider 22 to be proteinogenic, meaning they make up actual tissue in mammals or living creatures. And really, of those 22, it's only 20 that we're concerned with. Because the other two are not present in you and I. Right. And then there's nine essential and 11 non-essential. Yeah, and I'll share my tab here and I'll show, I've got a list so people can see what we have here for the essential and non-essential. So, essential we have histidine, isoleucine, leucine, methenanine, phenol, I'm going to... Phenylalanine, etheranine, tryptophan, that's the one that everybody thinks makes them sleepy, valine and lysine. These are the amino acids the body cannot make on its own. They are essential. So, you have to get them through a dietary source. And the conditionally essential, you want to talk about that a little bit, the ones that are conditionally essential? Yeah, so conditionally essential are still considered non-essential, like we can produce them. But there might be rate limits in the production of them. So, it's depending on the situation. A lot of times these are more in disease states than in athletes, but there are times when the human body can't keep up with the need. That glutamine is a good example of that. So, I've sort of like gut issues. You don't generally see healthy athletes in need of extra glutamine. I know a lot of bodybuilders would debate that. In cancer patients and in HIV, you do see that, but that's more because the gut uses it as fuel. Right. And it's used conveniently. It's not given orally except in cancer sometimes it's given... orally actually to like swish around and heal ulcers in the mouth, the chemo. So, conditionally essential, I mean, you can add extra of these if you choose. There's generally not much for point. Assuming you're eating adequate protein, there's no studies to show that adding any of these free form ones are going to really do anything. And they're going to be in the proteins you eat anyway. Yeah. So, I mean, and we can talk a little bit more about the essential amino acids too and what each of those do. Dude, I have a chart here. I'm going to pop up on the screen. Phenolalene is crucial for the structure and function proteins and enzymes. Valene is one of the branch, you know, do the theoni next helps with fat metabolism and immune function. So, all proteins do have some role with immune function. Tryptophan, it's a precursor to serotonin and helps relax your mood. Makes you tired on things. That's when everybody hears about on Thanksgiving, although I think that's more a carbon... That's more carbon. Too much food. Methionine plays a pivotal role in the body's metabolism and detoxification. It's actually the first amino acid in all strands of DNA as well. So, you have three zinc fingers and then you have that amino acid. So, that's kind of the lead. So, leucine is the one that I hear a lot of people talking about. People seem to be obsessed with leucine. We have the branch chain. So, out of the nine, essentially three of them are branch chain. And it's just called branch chain because of the structure. If you look, it has the way it's shaped. It looks like this little branch sticking off. So, I'll do valine first. So, valine stimulates muscle growth and regeneration. Isoleucine is essential for immune function, hemoglobin production and energy regulation. The leucine is kind of the most important. They're all important, but leucine is probably the most important for bodybuilders. So, it helps regulate blood sugar levels and produces growth hormone. It is the stimulator of M-tor, which is protein synthesis. It stands for mammalian target of rapamycin. That's kind of how we judge a quality protein source, too. It's by the leucine content. So, a good protein source should have about 10% leucine in it, like whey, beef, eggs. Those things are about 10% leucine. Our need for leucine also goes up as we age. If someone in their 30s only needs 25 grams of protein or 2.5 grams of leucine to stimulate proteins, by the time someone's in their 50s, they probably need 30 grams of protein, 3 grams of leucine, and it continues to go up. There's something called sarcopenia that's age-related muscle loss. A lot of that is due to the increased protein need and the decrease in protein intake. It's slightly hormonal as well, but a lot of times it's more food-related. As we get older, we tend to eat less. And we need more food, more protein at least, as we get older. So then we have lysine, which helps protein synthesis, calcium absorption, and the production of hormones. And histidine produces histamine for regulation of immune response, digestion, and sexual function. So those are the... It's interesting how they all play different roles in the body, but leucine seems to be a big one now. I see it added into a lot of supplements. It was interesting when I was at Swiss this weekend. They had a guy who does testing for the supplement industry, and he talked about seeing stuff that say they have leucine in things in it, and he was talking about how when they go to test the stuff, there's actually no leucine in it. You don't want to add just... The human body likes to see things in proportions and ratios that it's... Right. It likes to see the branch genes in a specific ratio, like a 2 to 1, 1, or a 3 to 1, 1 at the most. If you were to just add straight leucine to something and throw the ratio off, the level in your blood will actually increase too high, and it causes what they call hyperleucinemia, which can build up a pneumonia. So it's not... You don't want to use leucine as a straight supplement. So that's the thing. A lot of times when you see it in the supplement industry, when they talk about this thing or that thing being added to stuff, a lot of times it's just sales tactic. It's not even... Really, if you're eating good quality whole protein sources, you probably don't really need any of the stuff. No. I mean, the most I use is like an EAS, EAAs, essential amino acid supplement while I'm lifting, kind of just applying the muscle. The same as you. But I mean, is it really needed? Probably not. But I think for guys like us, if it gives me 1% more, I'll take that 1%. Yeah. I mean, guys like Dorian Yates and those dudes back then, they weren't taking any of this stuff. They were drinking water and eating real food. So technically, if your diet is buttoned up, you probably don't need any of this stuff. And so this begs the point too, and I want to reiterate, these are essential. Your body does not make these on its own. You have to get them from dietary sources. And a lot of people, and we'll talk about this here in a little bit, but especially people that are running vegan and vegetarian diets, a lot of them are deficient in essential amino acids. Not always. I mean, you can do that. But the quality of a protein source, we can talk about complete protein sources. So not all protein is created equal. There are different protein sources that have the right balance of amino acids, the correct amino acid profile. It was interesting, I was looking it up and they said the most perfect protein source for humans is human breast milk. I believe it, right? I mean, that literally is designed for us. Right. It was breast milk, whey, egg, and then beef, I think were the top protein sources for complete protein. Now, what you're not considering here, while that may be milk products or dairy products, may be up there, it's the digestibility of it too. It doesn't matter if, I'll get guys that argue with me all the time about whey protein, like whey proteins, whey more of a complete protein source than whatever, XYZ thing that you're eating, why don't you just eat whey all the time? It's because of the gut distress that it causes. Yeah, well, especially concentrate. Isolate's okay. But again, I mean, so that's be starving all the time. Yeah, yeah, but that's another issue too, is you need sustained amino acid levels in the bloodstream. So it's in and out so quick that there's, I'll use a protein shake here and there, but what I found that if I'm running protein shakes, even isolates, there's still people that have whey intolerances, even though there's very little lactose in it. There's other like fractions in it that can cause immune response. Right. My rule of thumb is if you're farting from this stuff, if you're running around, it's not good. It's a sign that you're not absorbing all of it. So there's no point, even though whey arguably would be a more complete protein source, you're probably not utilizing it properly. Yeah. So I would, like what I do is I would rather use it if I were going to miss a meal, but I wouldn't necessarily replace a meal on purpose with it. If that makes sense. Right. You know, sometimes what I'll do, Kurt, like if I want pre-workout, if I want to keep my meal light, a lot of times I don't want my stomach to be bogged down with a bunch of food pre-workout. I will maybe do half my protein from a protein shake. So like maybe I'll have a little piece of cod, some rice, and half a protein shake because it just sits easy on my stomach and I'm not burping it up while I work out, or post-workout or something like that. We briefly touched on it, but the vegan conundrum here, and I know this is probably going to upset some people, and I have worked with vegan clients. You can, you can do it, but you have to pay extra attention to detail. It is extremely difficult. And the problem you run into, and I'm going to share a macronutrient breakdown of the issue that you run into, it's not just protein in the protein sources. So most vegan and vegetarian protein sources are going to have either a ton of carbs or a ton of fats in them. So you're going to have extra calories in there to get a complete amino acid profile. And so we'll throw out the example of beans and rice. So beans by themselves are not a complete amino acid profile and rice by itself, but you put the two together and you have a complete amino acid profile. So, but what you can see here, to get 16 grams of protein from beans and rice, you have to eat 420 calories. There's 69 total grams of carbs. And the issue there is, let's say if you wanted to push up to 50, I mean, you're talking about having a 15, 1600 calorie meal in 200 plus grams of carbs. You cannot improve your body composition that way. You're just going to get fat. Yeah, and I won't go into too much depth on it, but I told you previously, I had a personal experience where I tried to be a vegetarian when I was in college and my health failed miserably really quickly. It was not a pleasant thing and I had no idea why because my assumption was, well, I'm not eating meat and I'm healthy, but meanwhile I was becoming diabetic and having anxiety attacks, my hair was falling out. What I've seen in vegans and I've talked to a couple of people is severe B12 deficiency, where they end up with neuropathy and other issues or it's other micronutrient deficiencies or they're deficient in essential amino acids, curtain. You know what happens when you're deficient in essential amino acids? You will destroy your muscle. Everything, your body breaks down. Yeah, your body starts eating up its own tissue to get those essential amino acids. Yeah. All right, so protein requirements, I did some digging on it and I've talked about it in the past. It's less than what bodybuilders think and it's more than what the average person thinks. It's somewhere there in the middle. And from what I found from research studies, the absolute minimum to live, and this is for a non-active, non-weightlifting person, is 0.034 per pound of body weight. So if you're a 200-pound man, you're talking about 68 grams of protein just to stay alive. Yeah, the RDA is 0.8 grams per kilogram, which is the same. It is the absolute minimum for a just sedentary person to stay alive. The American College of Sports Medicine, they recently, I think it was recently, they updated their protein requirements. They pushed them up. They are now recommending 0.5 to 0.8 grams, preferably on the higher end, 0.8 grams per pound of body weight for athletes. Yeah. Now, keep in mind the studies that they derive that from or on non-enhanced athletes. It's not our cohort. We're not talking about people that are using PEDs. But with my diet, I'll run as low as 0.8 grams on my high carb days, sometimes just to make food easy to digest. And so I don't have the protein weighing me down, but you don't need a ton on, because carbs are protein sparing. And we know that. For enhanced athletes, there's really no studies or data. We just have our anecdotal real-life experiences to go by. But from what I've found, it's I've seen anywhere from one gram as high as two grams per pound of body weight. Some of the old school, 90s, early 2000s body-body voters were running two grams per pound of body weight. Guys now seem to be eating less. I typically run my diet somewhere between a gram and a gram and a quarter per pound of body weight. I may push it up on contest prep since we're cutting carbs back, because it's, we talked about it before, it's basically impossible to turn protein into fat. And it's satiating when you're starved. There's really no downside, well, not any big downsides to eating more protein other than affecting digestion and it being very expensive. That's expensive. Yeah, it looks like, like you said, so, you know, a gram per pound seems to be about the standard, right? That's recommended ground. And that's a pretty good place for most people to run, whether they're enhanced or not. And I like to play it a little safe. So I'd say, you know, let's be a conservative and we'll just overshoot it a little bit. So a gram and a quarter, I think is, is, Yeah, I was just doing a round number for people. A lot of people get freaked out. They have trouble getting that much protein in. Like if you, if you're, for most people who are hidden a gram, then you're probably fine. Now, when I measure my food, I'm only counting direct protein sources on, not counting indirect, like the couple grams that might be from the rice that I eat or whatever. I'm just counting protein sources from animal based proteins as that, right? That number. So at the time of the other day, we were looking at my rice consumption. He said, will you eat 400 grams of protein a day? 400 grams? Where'd I get that from? He said, we are rice consumption. I don't really, I'm not really counting that. I'm not sure. It really has like almost no biological value. So it's something that I really think humans are getting. It doesn't mean an animal can't extract it from. I don't think I'm getting anything out of that. Not much. So I found two studies though on the way high end. I wanted to find what the most extreme amount of protein was that showed a positive. And there were two that showed 4.4 grams per kilogram. Holy crap. So for a 220 pound man, that's 440 grams. And so we'll put that against the RDA. So the RDA is 0.8 grams per kilogram. That's 63 grams of protein for 175 pound person. If you use this study with this max alone out, that's 349 grams of the same 175 pound person. And in both studies, one was in sedentary people and the other was in athletes. And in both studies, the subjects gained muscle. Wow. No fat was gained. They gained muscle mass. Now that doesn't mean I recommend that people should go eat, you know, three times their body weight and protein. But it's kind of interesting to see what happens. Well, we've talked about it before and you can explain it, but it's damn near impossible to turn protein into body fat. And you, why don't you go through, we've talked about it some of the other days. Yeah, I mean, three things basically happen if you eat too much protein. The first is it increases the oxidation, right? The first thing that's going to happen is you're just going to start burning more in the active digestion. Your body's just going to start destroying it for energy. You will enhance urea production, which is where nitrogen loss comes from. So the more, if you started, you know, increasing your protein dramatically, your body's just going to excrete more nitrogen and more ammonia, urea. It just can't deal with it. So it's just going to get rid of the excess. And then that's why when you see guys that are eating high protein diets will have high BUN on their blood work. And they, and your piss, I don't know, like in condespressive where urine actually smells like ammonia at some point, like, you know, the phomium on your feet. And the last thing is gluconeogenesis. So that's what Paul was talking about. So if you have a huge excess of it, you'll basically start making glucose out of some of it. But the rate is so slow. It's such a poor substrate for energy that it yields like five grams of glucose in an hour. Take a packet of sugar. And so in order for you to then to store that as fat, I'm not even sure what the rate of fat sort to be at five grams of glucose an hour. I don't think the human body can even do that. It would metabolize the, assuming that was the only source of glucose you had. It's not going to do that. Now, I will get the carnivore guys arguing with me about having a high protein diet, and they'll use all those as the compelling argument for running a carnivore diet. But the thing they forget is the high fat protein choices that they're making. You can still get fat from eating a crap ton of fat. Right. It's not the protein that's making you fat. It's the ribeye with the 30 or 40 or 50 grams of saturated fat with cooked over pan with melted or clarified butter. And that's what's making you fat. And I wouldn't want to do it. But if you took in, you know, 500 grams from whey protein isolate, which is literally just pure or egg whites, there'd be no fat storage at all. I wouldn't eat it. I would smell like a toxic waste dump if I ate that much whey protein. I remember when I was in my 20s, I tried the two grams per pound of body weight protein. You did it with Dante? Yeah, I did it with Dante and half my protein came from protein powder. I farted so much. It was awful. You probably gained no more weight than you did with Graham, right? Yeah, it was weird. Yeah, no, I look better now. It was interesting. Your stomach problem was distended. Oh my God, my stomach was completely bloated. And that may be a reason too, why a lot of those old guys, their stomach hung out. Their stomach hung out. It's not the G.H. It's there was no bunch of fecal matter. Yeah. And inflammation in their intestines. We can do a, we can do a whole nother one on this, but part of the reason is when you were in the 90s, they were crushing their estrogen. So when you crush your estrogen, you stop bioproduction. So you see in postmenopausal women, that's why they have digestion issues once they go through menopause. And so you can, without bile, you can't, they're just protein or fat. And then on top of it, they're eating two grams of protein a day, right? They're now cutting their carbs and cutting their salts. And now they can't transport anything. And it's just festering in their stomach and can't pass through. Yeah. When I'm at the end of contest prep, I'll add in ox bile when I'm crushing mine. Yeah. But it's definitely not a growth hormone thing. No. It's way smaller, not larger. No, it's not a growth hormone thing. So anyway, that was a side rant on that. Let's talk about protein metabolism a little bit. So this is probably an oversimplification. No, I mean, I was going to, mine was going to be about the same thing. I was just going to start in the mouth and say, basically, you start with mechanical digestion in the mouth when you're chewing food. And then it's going to pass through to your stomach and you have pepsin, which is going to start breaking it down. I think it says protein will start to be broken down. So pepsin's doing the stomach part and then circulation, circulation, they're claiming circulations, or three, in Cessna, I was going to say. In the small test, then you have pancreatic enzymes and what they call brush border enzymes. And that's when it starts to be broken down even further into peptides and it starts to get absorbed through that part. That's when most amino acids and most peptides come out, pulled out through the small intestine. And then in the large intestine is basically when the nitrogen part is absorbed and then that will go to the liver. And then there's microbial metabolism as well. So then whatever's left in your gut, microbluous will break down the rest of the protein. And that's probably what you're smelling from the protein farts from the whey protein that is most. Yes, and it says the liver extracts, which is interesting because it brings us to a point that this is 30% of amino acids will ingest into the circulation. Kind of an interesting thing too that most people don't realize is it takes, give some numbers for people, it takes 220 grams of protein to make one pound of muscle. Right, but only 10% of amino acids that you ingest actually make it to muscle. So like you eat 50 grams of protein, people assume that your post-workout shake or meal or something, all that protein is going, or that your body has a lot more important things it wants to do with protein. And so only 10% is going to make it there. So in theory then it takes 2200 grams of protein to make one pound of muscle. Wow, that's interesting. It's a lot, right? So that's when guys are saying, you know, they're gaining, you know, three pounds a week. Technically not really possible because you can't really retain enough protein in order to do that. There's obviously other ways. And I think this goes into it. Oh yeah, there you go. But yeah, it's actually very little of it actually makes it into the, I mean there's even that, I mean when you think about, what is it like 70% of the muscle is actually water anyway. So how much protein structures are there really in a pound of muscle? It's like 16% or something. But you can see here where things are utilized. Now I would assume that the 2% per day for muscle is probably a little different in our... Yeah, so it's, which interesting I was going to bring this part up to as it talks about the proteolysis. So the breakdown, most people don't realize you lose between 300 and 400 grams a day of amino acids. Everybody does. You lose all day long. It's a constant turnover. And so it's one of the reasons why you need to protein every day because you're constantly losing a huge amount. And for most people, not bodybuilders, this ratio synthesis and breakdown should be is equal, right? That's like, that they're just in perfect nitrogen balance or excreting and they're gaining the same rate. So their weight's not shifting. You and I honestly want to be more in the synthesis side, right? We want a positive nitrogen balance, correct? And to put this in perspective for bodybuilders. So if you lose, if you're losing 300 to 400 grams a day just from your amino acid pool. If you took 100 milligrams of nandrolone to canna weight specifically MPP is less. If you took 100 milligrams of deca, it would hold 52 grams of nitrogen a day for 14 days. So which is a lot if you think about it, but it's still not enough without food to cover the loss. The body's just naturally going to experience anyway. And that's without exercise. Yep. So that's the increased nitrogen retention that the anabolic causes. And that pretty much as far as I'm aware has the highest nitrogen retention. Yeah. Yeah. Nandrolone has the highest nitrogen retention, right? Yeah. Tremblone does some other things, Accordosol. It's kind of make it stronger, but it's not doing more nitrogen necessarily. It's more of an anti-catabolic, correct? Yeah. All right. So you want to dig into the amino acid pool a little bit, Kurt? Sure. So we have the human body and all mammals have basically a pool of amino acids that's in our body all the time. It's what we're constantly losing from though, but you also cannot hold from those amino acids to make muscle. So this is again why it's for an athlete, for anyone, you need to intake protein daily because you're basically replacing that pool plus that extra 10% then we'll go to muscle. That pool is critical for life. That's kind of the basis of your immune system. So for guys like you and I where you have extra muscle mass, you can stand to lose some, be fine. But for the average person, once they've lost 20% of their muscle mass or their amino acid pool, there's severe health problems. And then after that, it becomes deadly. And that's actually what we see in a lot of terminal diseases in cancer and HIV and stuff. A lot of times it's the muscle mass loss at the end that actually kills them because their immune system just shot. Yeah. Is that why they prescribe growth hormone? Yeah. Well, growth hormone does not just that, but when you have AIDS, your cortisol is really high and you have something called Fox, a forkhead box gene that's expressed. You and I just don't express that gene. When you huge, huge, bolus of growth hormone, it makes your blood sugar go up and so it makes the cortisol go down. So you're forcing a situation and then it's also going to keep the amino acid pool stable. Oh, it's a couple of things. Whereas like you wouldn't necessarily want to use 18 units of growth hormone in one shot before bed, right? If you were going to use it, you would split it up or maybe not even use 18 units. 18 units seems a little excessive. Unless you're Chase. Chase, I was going to say unless you're Chase, that's different. But 18 units is important. I know I couldn't tolerate 18. I wouldn't be able to feel my hands. I tried it like for two days and my hands were completely numb. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not sure how he does the 18. But yeah, so that's why anabolic used to be used, right? Anivar, things like that, nandrolone, we're used for these things too just to help hold. Because once you've lost your muscle mass, it's done. Same with burn victims. Their metabolism speeds up when they're recovering from a burn. So the muscle mass comes off really fast. And this is why we're running higher anabolic loads at the end of contest prep too. Right. Because food's not there, right? Right. Because food's not there and we're trying to increase workload. We're trying to prevent breakdown of tissue. Yeah. I know, I think Colton said in a video once or on a reel, he was talking about higher anodin load during bulking. And I always felt it was more important to run it during the cutting cycle. Yeah. I mean, that's my philosophy too. I mean, the food is there for bulking. Yeah. I need less in the offseason. Okay. I mean, that's how I always felt. I feel like you're really just, it's like a traffic cop. You're kind of just helping the food go to the right place. But when you're dieting, like right now, your body is being assaulted from every direction. It's the last thing I want to do is lose more fat and hold onto your muscle. Yeah. And I tend to layer on more anabolic as I get deeper into contest prep. Now, I have a framework for contest prep cycles, but I don't go into it with, you know, for myself personally, I just react. So for example, I've held the orals off. I just started just a day or two ago for three and a half weeks out. I haven't needed it so far, but I noticed my strength starting to decline and look like I was maybe losing some tissue. So I put it into help cap, put anivar into help counteract that and promote additional nitrogen retention. Yeah. Anivar will help you with thyroid speed up a little bit too. Thyroid, yeah. By default. Yeah. Yep. So for bodybuilders, for our, our, our community, protein is obviously very important. It's the one thing though, I would say, and it's going to upset people at least from what I've seen is it's quality of protein. So it's really, really difficult to be vegan or vegetarian. I would say there's no way to be optimal being vegan or vegetarian. You can do it, but the guy who is eating animal proteins is probably going to beat you every time, I would say in the, in the long run, just because of the way things are shaking out. And for the keto and carnivore guys, it's the fat content is what gets people in trouble. That, you know, it's if you're a lack of glucose, a lack of glucose. So we're trying to manipulate body composition. So we know that protein won't make you fat, but the things that come along with that protein can. And that's why vegan and meat based diet, meat only based diets are, are not optimal for body building where we're trying to promote optimal body composition. So that would be my takeaway from that. And as far as what we need, I mean, what I'm hearing from you, maybe I need to eat a little bit more as I've gotten older. I haven't found the need to do so, but you want to find that sweet spot enough where I think you're growing, but not so much that you can't digest your food. Yeah. I would say the sarcomenia though that I talked about is going to be ameliorated by an ox. So things on, even if someone's on TRT, it should probably bounce that out where they don't necessarily need as much. But you know, if you, if anyone, you know, that's listening has a parent that's in their seventies or eighties, it's, it's very important they get adequate protein. Believe me, I've gone as high as 600 grams of protein a day before and I saw no difference.  comprehensive my physique, zero. So, I mean, at the end of the day, you're probably not hurting anything doing it if you want. One thing I did want to address before we go is the whole myth that protein destroys kidneys. OK. And so it's only been shown in people with chronic kidney disease. Right. I only have one kidney. I was born with one kidney called unilateral renal agenesis. And I've been using creatinine as a supplement since 1996, since it came out literally. And I've eaten at least 200 grams of protein every single day since then. So whatever that is, 30-something years. And my kidney function is totally fine. So it's never been shown to have any, unless someone is in the middle of having actual kidney failure. Yeah. If you're in a book, I don't want to tell you that you should be eating protein if you're in kidney failure, that you definitely need to, because your body's not filtering things correctly then. So the glomerii or what I'm saying that. The filtration rate is just off. Being obese is unadulterated. Yeah. So that's a different set of circumstances. But if you're a healthy person, eating extra protein is not going to hurt you. But like I said before, I want to find that sweet spot in the middle where I'm getting a little more than what I need to cover my bases. And not so much that I'm affecting my digestion and making it hard to eat. Also breaking the bank with the budget. Yeah. I want to save my money for growth hormone. Yeah. So that's sort of the sweet spot with dieting is defined. And for me, I found it's in that gram to a gram and a quarter per pound of body weight is what I found. It works well for me. Yeah. And I feel like you can generally tell, too, right? When you start getting sore, you can feel that when you're not taking enough in. You ever had this day where you're lower? Yeah. And like I said, I have pushed up a little bit more towards the end of contest prep. I'm at 360, 370 grams of direct protein. So I'm probably more like 400. Your body's under attack right now. Right. So that's a little bit different of a scenario than the offseason. I don't need as much since we have carbohydrates in play. Carbs and insulin are pretty good. Yeah. Where are your carbs now? What's the highest your carbs are now? I'm doing a high carb date today. It's 1,000. Wow. Good for you. So my medium days now are at 225. There you go. That's great. Yeah, my low days are 0. 0. Close. Yeah, those are some fat burning days. Definitely a fat burning day. You wake up very light. All right, any parting words on protein, Kurt, before you breathe? We're at this moment. Like most things, right? Moderation. I don't think it needs to be so extreme high. I don't think it needs to be extreme low. I don't think it needs to be looked at. It's dangerous to consume an adequate amount. I think people should get labs, right? You should check things like your kidney function, that this is a concern of yours. I like to say optimization. We want to optimize where we're at. And work with a coach, right? Both Paul and I can help you with your diet. If it's something you really don't understand, how to set up your food, how do you utilize these things? Where people see, and I think guys get, I get a little frustrated with because guys seem to be obsessed with the PEDs part of it. I'm sure you're getting that right now, Kurt. But where I've seen guys absolutely transform and change their physiques is through learning how to diet and manipulate their body composition through food. Yeah. Everything I've done on contest prep this year has been largely because of food. It's not, and I'm not doing anything special or secret with the PEDs. It's very straightforward stuff. And I'm taking very little fat burns. It's just purely understanding how my body responds to food and manipulating food. So food is the most important part. And you want to coach with experience to help you with that. I feel like that's the learning curve, right? Is when everyone starts doing this, the first thing they do is push the PEDs up, right? And their food sucks. And then they think it's just a matter of more gear. Yeah, and generally less gear and better food. They still look like crap. I went through it. I've done it before myself. I think everybody has. Yeah, we have to go through that journey and learn the hard way. All right, folks. If you want to get a hold of Kurt for coaching, it is at atomiclifecoaching.com. Atomic Life Coaching. And you know where to get me? On Instagram. And I'm going to put all of our contact information in the video description below. Thank you for watching. Cool, thanks.