 Warning! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, Battle Tested, Expert Formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. This is a video about muscle science. Let's talk about some DECA and NPP. Cool. So, NANDRELON was discovered in 1950. It was discovered by a guy named Birch. I keep bringing this guy up in our videos because he was responsible for a lot of the modern drugs. He was looking for... He's our Lord and Savior. Yeah, for bodybuilders' use. He was looking for a way to basically reduce testosterone to estrogen to bypass hydrolysis. He was trying to speed up a process, assuming he was looking to find other drugs out of this process. The reduction that he invented is named after him. It's called the Birch reduction. So, from that, he discovered all the 19-nors basically out of this process. But NANDRELON was the first one, and then all the other 19-nors are basically based on NANDRELON from there, chemically. NANDRELON is actually a naturally occurring hormone in humans. It's in the blood of humans at like a 1 to 50 ratio of testosterone to these men. So, it's detectable in like a miniscule amount. And in women, it's detectable at a much larger amount during pregnancy. They think it actually might be one of the hormones that contributes to fetal growth. That's interesting that it contributes to fetal growth. I did not know that. I knew that it does occur naturally, like in just small amounts, right? It's a very, very miniscule amount in your body. I mean, what is the biological purpose really for having that in? It's like an intermediate between testosterone and estrogen. So, during the Aromachase process, it's one of the metabolites that's kicked off. Outside of that proposed theory on fetal growth, they're not really sure what else it was intended purpose in the body is. It's not really in any amount that's causing much of anything. They do know women, though, if you stimulate estrogen receptors in women that doesn't cause muscle growth, and men it does, women respond to the gesturone from muscle growth. That's where the theory came from. It's not because it's a begestin. And how is it synthesized? Did he just find it naturally in the human body? He's like, let's see what we can do with this. No, they realized after that it was found in humans. So, he was called Bertroduction. So, he basically was just reducing testosterone in a different way. Rather than the standard way was hydrolysis, and he was trying to figure out a faster way by using ammonia. And this molecule was born. He worked at Oxford. He's Australian, but I believe he was like a scientist at Oxford University at the time. And thus, the golden age of bodybuilding was born. At the same time as all the other, like, Searle was the biggest one invented drugs. I think they came up with like a thousand analogues of testosterone in a year. I mean, the goal was to beat the Russians at the sports, right? So, in the Olympics. That's kind of the race. I think they all told the FDA that it was for anemia and all these other things. It was, like, I invented D-Ball basically. He sat down with the Russian Olympic team and he got him drunk and they admitted that they would be in testosterone. He was a physician and he said, you know, I can one up this. So, he went home and he made D-Ball and sold it to SIBA. And that was kind of the beginning of that whole thing. And then I guess in Europe they saw this happening. So, then they were rushing to come up with their own drugs. What's the, you know, for bodybuilders, let's talk through Nanjalon, the good, the bad, the ugly with Nanjalon. What effects can people expect from Nanjalon? Well, it has a much stronger binding affinity to the antidue receptor than testosterone. So, in that respect, it could cause more protein synthesis. So, it's probably one of the better steroids for mass in which your personal experience with that is. I mean, I grow the best off of Nanjalon out of anything. It's lacking the non-genomic stuff though, which is basically like... Just don't tell our friend Victor Black. Exactly. It doesn't have any of the non-genomic stuff though that testosterone does. So, it's missing, so even though it's really strong on the one end, it's not so much on the other end. So, Nanjalon is basically like the antidue receptor that doesn't go into the nucleus to do DNA. So, it's not hitting any of those receptors. Is it just not fitting into that keyhole? Yeah, it doesn't bind to that receptor. Okay. Yeah, I mean, anecdotally, I've seen the same. It's definitely, especially in that post-contest phase, it's a wonderful compound. Absolutely wonderful compound. Yeah, that's when I use it. When I'll deploy it, I run NPP in my post-contest phase. Like, during my rebound, I'll run it for like 68 weeks, but I can't sustain it through an off-season. I just have too much anxiety and just other issues, man. Anxiety and impotence are the issues that I run into long-term. Yeah. It doesn't really romanticize either, so that's probably some of that anxiety is from if your estrogen's crashed from it too. I don't know, my estrogen's always high. When you ran Nanjalon solo, it was high? Oh, no. When I ran Nanjalon by itself, no, I didn't get any of the psychological side effects when I ran Nanjalon by itself. That's interesting. So I think the progesterone nature of Nanjalon is what's going to basically makes the estrogen receptor more receptive. So you're magnifying the effect by adding testosterone to it. This is what I've always found interesting, because women that take progestogenic birth control methods are more often, I think it's almost one-third of them are prescribed antidepressants. So there's something with that progestin activity happening, whether that's like the hypothalamus, I've read a lot of these. What goes into the brain, so. Yeah, and it's in, because that's, you know, across the board, you typically hear it causes anxiety or incompetence or, you know, there are all sorts of psychological effects that one might achieve from using Nanjalon. Yeah, I mean, progesterone itself has a lot of very odd effects mentally. Like there's a very, there's a definite sweet spot for men and women, and if you're on either side of it, there's issues. What's weird with me is I never had issues with it until I got older. I used to run, deck of all the damn time, no issues with it at all. And then it's just like as I've gotten older, I'm super sensitive to it. So I don't know if something has changed in my biology or brain chemistry or whatever, but it seems to affect me more strongly now. Well, I mean, every seven or so years, you basically have all new, you basically have a whole new body, all of your things are changed over. So it's very possible that over time you just don't react to it anymore. Yeah, I mean, it was for a long time, it was my favorite compound to run for for size. I would run just deck sometimes by itself. A lot of times used to run it by itself. Or I know like the old school, like the 70s bodybuilders, it was D-Ball and Deca. That's what the guys would run in the offseason, right? Yeah, Danny Padilla, I think granted solo, right? Danny and now Mike. And the black boys, the black prince, his name, Robbie Robinson. I think you basically ran Deca solo. Yeah, that was the old Mike Mincer thing where he would run those deck only cycles, like three grams is what I heard. I did that once. I did that once and I had a pretty bad experience. It was when I was younger and like man, nothing has ever shot my blood pressure up nearly as much as when I did Deca only. It was quite interesting. Like I got bloody, I got bloody noses all the time. I mean, it was horrible. It was truly bad. And then the anxiety and the, I got all of that, like all the bad stuff. So I was like, I'm probably not going to do this again. Yeah, I don't, you know, I'm not sure if I'm correct about this, but from what I recall, I think both Mike and his brother died from cardiovascular related issues, right? I think his brother died from kidney disease. Oh, was it kidney disease? They died with like a day apart, right? The same apartment. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, if you look on PubMed, for example, of course this is rodent data, but you know, Neanderlone or its derivatives are quite correspondent to like myotrophic or like the myocardium expanding like growth of the left ventricular and dysfunction of the heart. So it's, there's something there. I just don't know if it's applicable in humans. Obviously some of what we do is always going to be no matter what I understand it is. And who's to say it's Neanderlone over any other compound, but When, when, when people go and get those scans, they probably haven't just used Neanderlone alone. Yeah. That's the hard thing. Who in the bodybuilding community only runs DECA at this point. Yeah. Like there's not a controlled study that would show one person who has ran only Neanderlone for 10 years and not use any other substances. That would be insane. Yeah. And that's why I, I don't know. I sort of take these studies with context too because there's really where, where our cohort is a lot of the stuff just doesn't apply to it. Yeah. Yeah. When even the rat stuff, like you said, Colton, like they're, they're phasing the rat stuff out now that they have more of the genome. Yeah. Which is exciting because it is so it's, it's one of those things that a lot of some educators in our community bind themselves to. They're like, we have to use this, this research and like it's pretty valuable. Like it, there's rarely an instance where we can look as our, at ourselves in comparison to a rodent. And likewise, there's rarely an instant where our environment is controlled as a rodent and extrapolating any data from what happened in a rodent is really tough. Maybe there's some mechanism you can pull apart from it. But outside of that, it's like, man, what's the conclusion that can be drawn from that data is like, I don't want to make that. When also, depending on what muscle they use in a rat too, it's going to change. Exactly. And you and I have pretty much it's evenly dispersed to end up with a separate rat. It's not so yeah, definitely the ball, the anabolic, endogenic rating stuff. As I was going to say, yeah, roosters and rats and, you know, yeah, I mean, for the most part, those Hirschberg as they're useless, right? Yeah, everyone likes to use them still though. I, at some point, I need to go back through and redo my PED profiles that I have up. I have them on all of them, but it's just what I took from the anabolic reference guide. And those people get contested about it. Yeah, but in some of them, I think Bill Orwell and just made up. Yeah, well, the EQ stuff, you definitely kind of, it's a little off on that. But I think that they are like the same as us. We do what we can with what we have, right? So we do this all the time. Like we're still studying equipoise. We're still studying nangelo and we don't know everything about it. No one can say that they fully, even testosterone, do we fully understand testosterone? Definitely not. Yeah. And some of the most recent studies that we have on trendblown, for example, in humans is toxicity studies done humans eating cow meat that was had too much of a concentration of trendblown in it. And then looking long-term what that did in humans. And it's interesting that we have to get that nuance to see anything of what it might do. Did you ever see that there's the one called the hamburger study? Yes. The injected trend rate is the meat. Yeah, it's awesome. That'd be so cool. So I think a common misconception too is that people think nangelo is not as androgenic as testosterone, right? It's just that it converts so readily to dihydro nangelo, which is not that androgenic. And that finds the receptor. That goes back to like we were talking about like rectilus function a little bit. But this is where I've gotten a lot of people DMing me about using finasteride. And then that's a disaster. The way that happens is you basically flip it back to nangelo, which will bind right to the AR on the hair and cause the hair to come out. Right. And it has more affinity for that AR. Oh yeah. Yeah, that's I've seen that so many times because people think like, oh, just take this pill and I'm good. Most of the time if you're not just taking testosterone only you're just pissing in the dark again. Yeah. Yeah, it's very interesting how it does that. What about the progestinic, not progestinic, but prolactin issues with with the 19 Norse and specifically nangelo? Prolactin with everybody like freaks out about prolactin with nangelo. And I have never really seen it. I've never seen it with that. I've seen it with trend. Yeah. That's a little different. Yeah. That's because it's doing it's interacting with different stuff there. That's not I call it. Have you ever seen elevated prolactin from nangelo? Never. No, but all these dumb ass jambros are freak out and take Caber with with with DECA. It's like, I'm like, I don't think you need Caber with DECA. I've never seen. I've never seen an elevated prolactin levels from from taking DECA or MPPU. It's the the best way I can explain with at least trend is that it's it's slowing down your thyroid. Right. So it's trying to that's the nutrient partitioning effect is if you're burning off all your food you're oxidizing everything you eat you're not going to burn your muscle. So they basically slows the metabolism down. By slowing the thyroid down it raises prolactin. So then these prolactin actually aids in androids after binding. I think I said you study on that. So I think guys are shooting themselves in the foot by taking Caber with it. Yeah. Doesn't make any sense. And also Caber is a retchard drug on its own. Right. And like that's the thing is you can look at studies using that any of those compounds that inhibit and man that comes with its own slew of cardiovascular health issues and mental problems too. And that's yeah that's the whole thing. Dupamine agonist withdrawal syndrome. Yeah. And it's it's I think what really perpetuated that was people assumed that if they aren't able to have an erection that's a high quality while they're on an end. Angeloin likely that means they have an elevated proactin and that's usually not the case. No I agree. Blood work too. No I would say my I think the best you guys can correct me if you've seen something different. I think it's probably multifaceted. I don't think there's one answer. It's if it's that alone right DHM is not going to be able to cause an erection. Right. You're missing DHT. I think if you run with test and it's an individual thing depending on where your test level is and Angeloin level is if the estrogen gets too elevated it's going to cause that issue right. The estrogen a deck alone also is going to crash your estrogen. Right. It's going to cause that issue. Again it is like that sweet spot and I don't think there's no easier way to like if you have a if you have a client who's experiencing this unless you know their whole story it's kind of hard to even figure out what is causing it. And I don't think there's the answer on that one at all. No it's almost never the answer. And that's why I always say like test don't guess. You're always going to be better off if you look at it believe it. I mean there's a lot of stuff happening intracellularly that we're not able to test for but it's still you know show us a broader view of like hey this is the milieu of what you're doing with this compound in your system and maybe the interest isn't for you. No. Angeloin. What do you guys think about I know like I've had positive experiences with it and I feel like it goes back to the golden era running a DHT like Primo with it. I feel like the result is better and the feeling is better. Yeah. I mean a little bit of just enough test for estrogen, a DHT and then an angeloin right but the DHT drive a lot of the protein expression and just top it off with angeloin. Yeah. Right and supply estrogen on the bottom. I think that's the smart way to do it. I think he's run a thousand tests in a thousand decade and they wonder why nothing feels good. What I've seen with a lot of pro bodybuilders that I have talked to now keep this in mind this is just what these dudes are doing. They're just running on tests, Primo and then they'll just have a sprinkle of angeloin with it. Yeah. On a milligram for a milligram basis in theory, angeloin doesn't do anything test won't do as far as muscle growth is concerned. It seems to pack on more mass but I have no proof of that. They're just anecdotal but on a milligram basis the same strengths. There's no reason to really leverage it that hard. They can leverage safer things I think. I think a lot. I do believe it has the propensity to add more lean tissue accrual but I think a lot of what people may think is lean tissue is just that retensive state that angeloin put to it. Water and mineral retention. Yeah. I mean it definitely holds nitrogen probably. Right. That's it. When you're in that post-show window and you apply an angeloin that's sort of like fullness and heaviness you get. I feel like it is that nitrogen retention because it doesn't look like you just ate a fucking burger and you're filled out. It looks like the vascularity and vainness and specifically the striations you see that come out more. It's like there's a different fullness there. It expresses itself a little bit differently in that sense. I think there's always an unboxed once after a diet anyway. There's a two-quinto where everything's just primed and ready to go. Right. And then somebody's going to store muscle tissue faster than it's going to store adipose tissue. Right. Yeah. You don't need a ton in that post-show window. Literally when I had that 50-pound rebound that I did I think I ran 500 tests in like 150 milligrams of MPP every other day. It was really low. Yeah. I mean each 100 milligram shot of MPP holds an incredible amount of nitrogen for like two weeks. One shot of MPP at 100 milligrams. Much longer duration then. One shot of DECA holds a nitrogen for 25 days at 100 milligrams. Yeah. That's insane. Again, that's not necessarily useful to bodybuilders at that dose but it just in general it's just working really well at a low dose. It's a good proxy. Yeah. It's a really good proxy. Let's talk about the Astros, the MPP versus DECA. Okay. So it first came out as MPP as Duraballon medically and 1960 I want to say. And then in 1962 it came out as DECANOWAE ester. The MPP, again some of those weird esters are hard to fully predict a half-life. That's why you don't ever get a definite answer between MPP, TESCIPINATE and Paraballon. You always get these weird guesses. You don't ever find anything. When you add that weird benzene ring in the ester, it's unpredictable. So the best guess I could say is probably five days, maybe seven days on MPP half-life. Right? DECA is 14 pretty much. Yeah. I've heard even less on MPP from... Maybe three days. I think it's probably depends on... Yeah. I think it's probably depends on... Yeah. Probably three. Yeah. It likely depends on the carrier oil, the injection location as well and the method of injection, subcutaneous versus a gemuscular but it is... You're in an enic physiology. Yeah. What is the cytochrome P450 is where this does... Where boxylases do you have? Yeah. Yeah. That's one of the reasons why TESCIPINATE is not usually used in studies because it's not as predictable. They use an amphet, because it's a straight release. We know exactly what's going to happen with it. So, Nandrolone decanoate DECA became the preferred medical use probably because of patient compliance. Right. And you don't need to give... Especially in children, you need to give them a shot every other day or every third day. You could give them a shot every two weeks. But MPP seems to be the more popular thing out now. Right. That seems to be trend during the market. I agree. I prefer MPP. I mean, for a couple of reasons. One, if you have problems, you can get out of it quick. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's exactly... Like usually with most compounds, especially in a prep, I would use shorter esters not because they have any inherent unique effect, but because you can remove them if something does go wrong and you hold excessive water or on the back end of the prep, you can enter sort of like a recovery phase much more quickly without having those longer esters in. Yeah. Because you'll go peak faster too. Yeah. Yeah. What is that? Equal poise has like a crazy lump. Yeah. It's basically... If you ever run Equal poise, you're always going to be on gear in some capacity. Yeah. I want to say Equal poise takes 72 days to reach peak zero. Yeah. It was really long. A lot of guys jump off before it's even wrapped up. I was listening to an interview with Danny Padilla from years ago when he was talking about Deca and someone asked him like, so when does Deca kick in? He was like, right when you get off. You know, these people are patient with stuff, so they want everything fast. Yeah. I mean, you got to... I have gotten... I was talking with Justin about this yesterday. I have completely changed up my approach to cycles where I just slowly tie trade up and I try to stay on as long as I fucking can using the least effective dose. And then when I get stuck or I see my body composition starting to decline, then I'll push it up a little bit more. I have found that to be more productive. I know like I'm talking to Justin, he's more of a proponent and just coming out in full force out of the gate. I think the sign of it is worse when you do that though, aren't they? Yeah, way worse. I have this period of where my blood pressure will shoot through the roof and I have a bunch of water retention. Doesn't matter what I run if I go full blast right out of the gate. Whereas if I just ease myself into it over say an eight week period of time and slowly tie trade up, I don't get those issues. Yeah. And it's like it's more beneficial that way. I don't run cycles off of like a time proxy. I do it off of blood work. I've had people on site like legitimately, I've had people on cycles for a year and sometimes longer, but their health permits it, right? And they do organ imaging and they do the supplements and they take the right appropriate measures. And if you're slowly doing that dose titration, you can start out at 250 milligrams and make the titration up to 1000 milligrams and then 1500 milligrams. And by that time, yes, then you're starting to see some degradations in health, but you can run for like the progress you'll make is much more linear as compared to this fucking jagged, sharp edged looking like horrible tape shit. And I think the food also needs to be proportional to the gear as well. If you're going to type one up, you got to bring the other one up. Exactly. The right or wrong is the run two grams or something and they're eating 1600 calories a day. Yeah. It's crazy how you won't grow if you do that. It doesn't matter how many drugs. Yeah. And when Greg used that brought out the whole main gaining thing where it's just like heat maintenance calories, I'm like, have you ever coached anyone? Like that doesn't work in practical unless you're a freak. He got upset and commented on my video about main gaining. I can't believe it dude. I've never had a client who's exceptionally grown with. I'm like the whole concept is an oxymoron to begin with. You either maintaining or you're gaining. I laugh because he made a comment about how my channel was too small for him to roast me, but yet he was commenting. Oh man. But yeah, the whole main, I mean, I mean, just for me, like just thinking about it logically, wouldn't you want to optimize each phase and be the most efficient? I mean, the most efficient path from point A to B is a straight line. Wouldn't you want to do it in the most efficient way possible? If you're trying, I mean, main gaining, you're like, you're stressing yourself out with all these drugs and then not really getting a lot out of it. I think Derek from more plates, more dates, years ago said something about you only have a, you know, a finite amount of cycles and you don't know what that is when you start, right? It could be one, right? You know, you might have 20, like the reason why not to start when you're young or to do stupid stuff like just blast things about the food there is because it's a waste. Like you put your health in that place for no reason. If you're not going to get anything out of it. Yeah. And here I am going on youth 30 over here. What's that? But you're eating. Yeah. I mean, I look back at like the stuff I did in my 20s. They were, my cycles were hilarious. I remember just doing five milligrams of dbol a day. Yeah. That was a cycle. I remember my first cycle was a 250 milligrams of testosterone. I jacked it right after I won my PMBA pro card backstage when I was still natural. I had the three CC needle backstage. I hit my glute right after I won because I was like, okay, I'm not natural anymore. And then like two weeks later, I threw in DHB thinking that that would be like the, yeah, boy, was it not that. What we thought, I get a lot of requests to do DHB and I'm, I'm hesitant because there's like no human data on it. Yeah. There's nothing. And it's like every, I never felt as toxic as I felt on DHB. Like it was, I have seen blood work from a couple of people that ran DHB. I had one dude and his ALT and AST were over a thousand. Yeah. It's not, it's detoxified. And the weird thing is I would inject and my piss would be hyper, like highlighter yellow afterwards. I'm like, what, I've never fucking had that happen with anything. It's very strange. Or the trend P where it's, where it's yellow and foamy. Yeah. You have a little piss. I don't feel, but like still it's gross. Yeah. There's like stuff that's like oily residue floating in the tube. Yeah. I wonder what is the deal with the trend P? I know we're completely off the nangrel on topic here, but. Oh, my understanding. It's worse with that state than the longer esters. I think it's just a lot of the metabolites, your kidneys are just getting rid of. That just, they can't deal with because it's not supposed to be in your body. I'm sure some is, is not this organ stress, but most of it's just, you know, so like trend acetate, it oxidizes really quickly. Yeah. That's what gives it the golden color. Yeah. And I could do that. It's sit even in an airtight bottle and still oxidizes somehow. Yeah. That's when it gets more painful. You know, but if you've ever seen like the raw, once it's, once it's made, it has to be like wrapped tight. Otherwise it oxidized and it stinks. It just smells like horrible. I suppose it can make a laugh. It's funny you said that because like people think, oh, my trends good. If it's like hyper pigmented and I'm like, see, that's the opposite, right? The color when it's brood, like another tangible like mass from a man fake. When it's first brood is black, it's like tall. It's oily. Yeah. It's jet black. And then when it's filtered, it becomes like a golden color. But like, yeah, the code doesn't dictate the quality of it. Oh, bros, the bros with their stupid shit. All right. Anything that lasts little things we want to talk about, Nigel, before we wrap this up? I'm curious about Kurt's opinion on its sort of cognitive effects. I researched a lot of this. I've talked about, you know, it's it seemingly inhibits GAVA. It changes spatial memory and hippocampal synaptic activity, like all these different components. It passes the blood brain barrier quite effectively. So like on paper, it looks like it would be quite detrimental to ones. Yeah. Like at least in rats, right? They get they do like fear test with them and they they react very differently. Right. Yeah. I I'm sure it's not great for your brain from what I've seen. Right. You know, neither, neither is any super physiological dose of androgen, but I just think selectively this one might be. Yeah. But because if it was in the human body at one to 50 ratio testosterone, and now you got it at a one to one or higher. Yeah. That's like in theory that I can test testosterone. Therefore, be the safest, right? Because at least your body knows what to do with that. It just doesn't want to do with Nangelo. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of people get mental signs from from. I always feel chill and great when I'm on test and primo. And then I throw in Nangelo and I started like my anxiety just slowly starts ratcheting up. Yeah. And that's there's a lot of good case studies on PubMed. You can look up and it talks about it being an anti-alytic compound because it produces like because of hypothetically, right? Because of the reduction in GABA, which is the inhibitory neuron. You have excitatory neurons going crazy. And then it's just sort of like that fight or flight response to almost all things. Yeah. I feel like MPP seems more anxious to me too than decadence. Yeah. That's the interesting thing. Actually, I've noticed that as well. I feel I feel worse on MPP because I feel like my heart's pounding. You know, where Deca is more mellow to me, but probably has to do with the rate at what it what it hits you. Right. Yeah. It's just because the peak is probably not as high. It like I. Mandra like Deca feels more like depressing to me though. Over time. Yeah. You know, it's become like apathetic. Yeah. Yeah. ! It's similar to Trent in that aspect where you lose sense of point. Yeah, I've gotten to that point with, that's why, another reason why I'll run MPP, like I'll get to that point on DECA where I just feel awful emotionally, like anxiety, social anxiety, and then I can't get it to go away for like a month or two. And then whereas in MPP, if I'd come off, it's like 10 days or so, I'd feel better. Yeah. I mean, I think, I feel like- It's to the point where I don't even know if I want to run it anymore. Yeah. I think, I feel like we're saying a lot of bad things about it. I think it has value, right, as, it's an anabolic. I just think people need to be careful with them. I'll put the years and how they use it, and obviously pay attention to what you feel on it. Like, you shouldn't ever feel not well on something. Yeah. I feel like a sprinkle just goes a long way, and that's what I see a lot of the pros. So like, I won't name them, name over pro, but higher level pro that I have talked to, he was running 1250 tests, 1000 primo, and then 300 milligrams of Angelo on a week. That was his option cycle. Yeah. Yeah. My demo cycle was almost, it was 300 milligrams of testosterone, 300 milligrams of primal bull and or mass drawn and 300 milligrams of MPP for 10 weeks. And that was it. And it was amazing. It was great. I think the mass run probably fixed any of the issues. Yeah. And it bounced out the DHT hopefully and yeah, I think that's the key is if guys run, I mean, the dumbest thing I think you could do, which again, they used to do to some extent back in the day, I think is running like dbol with yeah. Yeah. Terrible. And the look is not good either. Like a bag of flour. I love the dbol. Oh boy. Man, the Jim Bros love their dbol. That's one we'll have to do next. I think it's literally the worst anabolic you can say. Yeah. I mean, it's cool. I feel like the story behind it, that was really cool. It is a cool story. And it's got a lot of lore. Yeah. I mean, it does have some application for like a pre-workout, but like, I just like everybody, you know, they gain their 50 pounds and then in six weeks and then they lose it all. It's just, you look like a bloated Michelin man that's, you know, you turn pink and blood pressure through the roof. It's just not a good look and it's not, I don't know, grow boobs. The only other application I think is it has some synergistic effect with like Tren. Like someone wants to work dbol with no tests. Like it's still, I don't think it's a great idea. I have a couple strong men competitors who like Tren and dbol together and it seems to be pretty proficient. There's some weird magic there. I don't know what that is. Probably because dbol. It's probably the methyl ester diol, right? Or, and dbol doesn't use the anti-receptor. So, yeah. And mass moves mass. So if you're trying to move strength, likely you'd want to put on a bit of water weight and, yeah, why yourself a cushion. And the, and dbol is where we did a study with rats where you actually, if you remove the pituitary gland and you give them dienobol, dienobol has no effect. So somehow it's, it's controlled through that mechanism. It's not like other steroids. So that's interesting. And I actually propose that it's possible that students on the withdrawal from, and we just don't know. That would be really fun. I'll send you that. That's pretty cool though. Yeah. We'll have to do dbol. That one will get a lot of views. We love dbol. Yeah. You have to make a cool thumbnail for that one. Yeah, we can do that. Didn't, what's his name? The bloated red guy with acne. The guy wrote the bucks in the 80s. He died. Oh, the understanding. And it came, it came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. It came. was the first one that was nothing, except medical literature. He was a real, real biohacker as far as like experimentation. I've seen some wild stories with like the article he wrote on that. It was like, I can't remember. It was so old from fat to fit or something. It was like this competitor. She was a female way too fat in her offseason. Then he used DNP to like talk about how we push her down. It was just like the wildest shit you'd hear on that thing. I remember I ordered out of this is, I'm dating myself, it was back in the nineties. There was like the, the classifieds in the back of the muscle magazines. It was like ordering porn, but what I ordered, Dan Duchain's underground steroid book from the back of the magazine. I felt like I was doing something dirty or illegal. Yeah. I remember, I remember getting that book in the mail. I came in like a brown manila envelope. I'm like hiding it from, I think I was still living at home with my parents at that time. I was like hiding it from my parents. That's so awesome. To see it's, it's funny cause at the time it was groundbreaking, but now it's just like, holy shit, there was a lot of misinformation. Yeah. You go back there and look at it now and it's pretty, it's pretty terrible, but yeah, and then people are probably going to be saying the same thing about the stuff we say 20 years down the road. Paul, this is not quite as old as that, but you remember. Oh yeah. Yeah. I remember that. Yeah. I've seen one of those. You should have laminate that man. Oh, I remember seeing the one of these to come in the mail. Holy shit. I have a whole collection of old bodybuilding books. I got to dig them out sometime and show them one here because people would, people would shit their pants. Like I have the original blood and guts, but during Yates and. You have like body opus and I mean, it's not super old, but like body opus and there's a couple of other ones in my room. That's a good one. Yeah. Dottie Trudell used to have his newsletter he used to put out and I think it was the underground, underground, something. I don't remember what he called it, but it was back in the 90s. It used to be like stapled together paper. Get in the mail. That's what I had that. All right guys, let's wrap this up. I appreciate you coming on. Thank, thank you, Kurt for your, all your, all your information folks. If you want to get ahold of Kurt, it's atomiclifecoaching.com, right? Atomiclifefitness.com. Atomiclifefitness, sorry. And I will put a link in the video description below. Thank you for watching.