 Warning! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, Battle Tested, Expert Formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, Big Paul here today with another muscle science episode with Kurt Havens. What's going on Kurt? What's going on? Well people really liked the first episode about trends so I figured we'd better talk some more about other PEDs. Cool. Do, uh, how about some human growth hormone? Yeah, we'll do human growth hormone today man. But people, I had a lot of people DM me, they loved the trenbolone talking so they learned some stuff that they hadn't heard before so that was very insightful. Cool. So we'll dig into the nuts and bolts of growth hormone which has come to be one of my favorite substances to use. I mean, you know from talking to me but I've been pushing doses up and playing around with growth hormone a lot more and I wish I'd used it a long time ago. Yeah, and it seems to be one of the safer compounds that we have in our arsenal as bodybuilders to use too. So that was always sort of a fear. It's funny though like when I talk to people, you know recreational bodybuilders or bodybuilders, the two things that they always seem to fear more than anything are insulin and growth hormone. It's funny that people are afraid of growth hormone but they'll run copious amounts of trenbolone and anodron. Yeah, anodron, T-ball. Yeah, all these other toxic compounds and then they're scared of growth hormone. Misinformation. Misinformation. So let's hope to set some of that straight today. Let's talk about the history of growth hormone. It was discovered a long time ago, over 100 years ago and it was really isolated in the 1940s. They didn't really understand what it was. They originally called it a sulfation factor which isn't fully incorrect. Basically what they were speculating was that growth hormone itself didn't actually do the action that other hormones downstream did. They weren't fully wrong. As we'll get into it seems that most of the effects are actually mediated by insulin growth factor one and not from growth hormone directly. We'll split it up. We'll go over what growth hormone kind of does and then we can get on what insulin growth factor one does as well. But I'm not going to get into insulin plus growth hormone because I feel like that probably wants a whole separate video. Yeah, that would be a video on its own. My ebook should be done in about a week. We're going to talk about. Yeah, that's another thing too folks. We're going to have an ebook up for sale on growth hormone that will be a deep dive into growth hormone. I'm sure it'll be up on Kurt's site and then be on my site as well too if you want to pick it up. I would suggest checking it out. I actually just read through your draft of it last night. It was very good. Thanks. It's long at 60 something pages I think and it has 100 studies cited in it. This is the most comprehensive thing I've read on growth hormone. How does it work? How does growth hormone work? So you want to talk about endogenous or we can briefly when we do endogenous just briefly. It's basically a stress hormone. So it's considered a stress hormone except it's the only stress hormone that technically is adiabolic. Cortisol would be the opposite effect of that. So it's typically released in states of starvation, hunger, extreme stress during sleep. Times of insulin is low. insulin would be an antagonist to it. So we're only going to focus on exogenous. Will we use it for performance? So the effects are obviously a little different. What do you want to start with that? Let's talk about hyperplasia versus hypertrophy mechanism of growth hormone. I could probably start by saying to that. So growth hormone is very adiabolic. But it doesn't actually cause actually skull to muscle growth itself directly. It's probably going to ruffle some feathers. But growth hormone itself is adiabolic, but it doesn't cause muscle growth on its own. Yeah, that's what I understood. So ananism just simply is just basically the building of a tissue. It doesn't necessarily mean muscle growth. It means the buildup of anything. So technically red blood cells, the buildup of that, like hemorrhoidic effects from the EPO is technically adiabolic, because you're building up tissue versus catabolism or catabolic, something is the breaking down. So growth hormone is causing anabolism. Most of the studies show that it causes nitric retention and it's causing a buildup of tissue, like intercellular matrix things like collagen. But it's not really doing anything direct itself on actual hypertrophy. So hypertrophy would be defined as basically an existing cell getting larger. You do bicep girls and your biceps grow. Hyperplasia is basically the splitting of cells, the fusion of the new nuclei and the split will actually split, which mostly only occurs in the womb, and that's controlled by genetics. So the amount of muscle cells that you're born with is pretty much fixed before birth. It's speculated that growth hormone in the large enough dose will cause hyperplasia to occur in adults. And that's kind of where probably the bodybuilding community gets much use out of this from that effect more so than hyperplasia. I've always speculated the increased collagen production also is beneficial too for us for things like connective tissue, skin, etc. I have definitely noticed an improvement in my skin and my fingers. One thing I noticed when I crank my HDH doses up, I have to cut my fingernails like two to three times a week. Yeah, they're thick and I have to cut them more frequently. So it definitely changed that. I've noticed that I have a lot of skin with my toenails, but I don't know if it seems to have an effect on skin too. I don't know if there's any information or studies on that or not, but I've noticed my skin tone is way better. Yeah, I mean that's going to be due to collagen. So I cited in my book some of those effects. And so as far as going back to natural production, adaginous growth hormone, those effects are generally mediated by estrogen, and I have the biggest effect on that pathway. It's not so much the case when you inject growth hormone. Correct me if I'm wrong. I mean, I'm totally talking from my bro science knowledge here, but doesn't estrogen also have an impact on the conversion of IGF-1 as well? It does as far as, again, endogenous because it's okay. You submit that pathway. So they've done things with using an anti estrogen that'll impact your. So if you ran, I mean, if you were using testosterone and using AI, you're probably not going to get the same IGF effect from it as you would without. If your estrogen is slightly elevated, when you inject either IGF or growth hormone, even if you were using AI, it's not going to have the same impact. Those is so high that it's kind of counteracting that effect. Okay. At least that's where the current stuff that I've seen is. So I mean, natural production of growth hormone and how and when does that happen? We talked about, you know, you saw about the pulsatile. Yeah. So it's pulsatile in nature. You know, several times a day men and women. So we're specifically talking about men, right? It's the effects of men and women are very different, both endogenous and exogenous use. And I don't, I'm not going to get into the female side because that's, that gets a little more complicated. It's pulsatile in nature several times a day, especially upon, you know, a couple hours after fall asleep is the largest secretion. It's about 0.4 to 0.5 milligrams daily total overall the pulses that's secreted. Right. So if you compare that to what, how many milligrams you would get when you would typically inject, right? So, you know, serostim, you can hold on to the serostim, you're checking six milligrams. Yes, it's like two units, right? Yeah. Yeah. So a replacement dose would be, we'll use like the 100 kilogram person because that's the standard scientific model. So that's a 220 pound person replacement dose is like 1.2 to 1.5 units would replace biological amounts. And that's, you know, after you subtract, it's similar to an ester. So you would say you absorb about 80% of the injector growth. Yeah. And I would assume that that endogenous production declines as you get older too. After 30, it's not about 10% a decade. Yeah. I definitely noticed too, like with secretogogs, it seems like guys that are older don't respond as well to secretogogs as younger guys too. There's probably some other factors too. So testosterone also is going to impact that as well. Same with obviously with regular growth hormone as well. So if someone is older and their testosterone being a low, low normal side, they're probably not going to get as much from the secretogog as they would if their testosterone is something higher. Or if you were using TRT or whatever with it, right? I know my father's in his 70s and he's been using MK-677 for a couple months now. And he's seen actually really great differences from it. Oh, good. It actually fixed like some of his, he had a little bit arthritis and knuckles and stuff and it fixed some of that. And he's sleeping a lot better. But I haven't seen Slavvin all the time, but I believe testosterone is the least in the normal range. So there's probably more of an effect there. Clearly whatever Sylvester Stallone is doing at 76 or 77 is working. Right. Yeah. I know he got busted with it in the airport one time. Yeah. Yeah. He had, I think it was in Australia. They detained him because he had growth hormone in his bag. In your notes here, you had that, and I was looking at the GH supplementation has never directly resulted in the strength gains in any trials. Let's talk about that. Well, because of what the mechanisms that would cause strength, right? It's not really going to impact any of those things. A lot of those are neurological, right? Or things you're born with, like a nation angle, you know? And then some of the lack of hypertrophy effects, right? It does cause growth hormone causes some water retention and some sodium retention, but that's not enough to cause, you know, a direct strength thing, right? You probably never notice any strength gain from that per se, right? It'd be more like a DHT or 19 norper. Right. You know, that's going to mediate that stuff because I don't think the brain effects of growth hormone are not, are not, they're probably like the opposite effect. They're getting amped up, right? That's very calming. It just makes me sleepy. Yeah. I want to take a nap. Yeah. All right. So let's talk about the growth hormone receptor. Okay. So just like, just like other steroid hormones, growth hormone would be a peptide hormone. Like other steroid hormones, there is a receptor for it that it has to bind to in order to cause gene transcription. And you, it's also bound. Growth hormone is both free in the blood and it is also bound as well. So it comes into basic dimmers, you know, 22 and 20, 90% is bound and that's 22. Okay. Dimmer. It is, if you were to do a constant infusion of growth hormone, like intravenous, you would only get a response initially and then the response would taper off because the rest, the cell needs a period of time to grow a frackery period between doses to mimic the pulse style nature of it. And in the, in between that space where it's dormant, I have something called Jack to be just with the, which is a gene that basically binds the receptor and keeps it from going to the cell surface. So there are certain things that can obviously speed that up. Using insulin actually will help that that process speed up. But the standard is, you know, six to eight hours for most people where the receptor will go back to the cell surface. And with dosing to so considering that. So would it make sense to dose it multiple times a day? So this is where it gets a little tricky that in timing of the two, I think the most misunderstood things about growth hormone are the dosing and the frequency of the timing of it. Right. So in HIV patients, serostom is pretty much used all the time. And for anyone over 140 pounds, the whole bottle is given, which is six milligrams, which for you or I mixed normally would be about 18 units. Right. So like if a bodybuilder is going to use serostom and he's going to dilute it, be 18 units of growth, and they would, a lot of them injected all at once. Right. We know you and I know people that have that abuse that amount. Now that's working in HIV that doesn't mean that that's the best method for bodybuilders. Right. So that is compliancy, right? So patients aren't going to inject things multiple times a day. Most patients won't inject things daily. So a lot of these guidelines were created just to get the drug in them. And a dose like that too is for HIV, it's a minister before bed. And part of it, like you said before, it makes you fall asleep. So it kind of helps ease them to a deeper sleep. For normal use, you really don't want to go above three units per injection. Really much above that, there's kind of a cap that's again set by the nature of it intrinsically that your body doesn't really know what to do with this big bowl of stuff. So if you were to inject six or eight units or 10 units at once, it's not to say that it really does. It's not to say that it would get wasted, but the studies kind of show that the excess isn't doing anything at that point. You'd be better off, you know, three units, three units, like spacing it out every six or an hour. So if you're using insulin, you could probably get by every four hours, let's say. That seems to be the more effective way to use it. I know you have a friend, I think, that used all 18 days. They used it all once before. Yeah, that was Chase. And he still got a result out of it. So it's not to say it doesn't work, right? Clearly it doesn't. I was shocked at the dose for HIV patients, 18 units. Why is it so high? So some of it is actually to, so they have a whole series of genes that are being expressed that you and I don't have. We have them, they're just not expressed. Like there's a series of genes called fork head box. They go by like Fox O and then a number. Those genes are, they cause rapid muscle loss. Well, they're experiencing, it's a little bit of a burn victim. They're experiencing a distorted metabolism and their muscles falling off their body very quickly. Versus if you are laid in bed, you're not really going to lose weight. They'll lose weight exponentially. So what that does, but when you administer such a huge bolus, is it causes the blood sugar to go really high? It's kind of the opposite effect that you and I would want. You and I would administer insulin, right, to control that. For them, super high blood sugar actually brings their cortisol level down. So it'll stop some net gene expression. So again, it's not necessary that the dose used for those people is the dose that I would, people shouldn't be using that kind of dose. I don't think. I mean, it's okay. It's for a guy like Chase, it's fine to play with that. But I don't think for the average person watching this video, they probably should not be using 18 units a growth hormone. Why don't think most people go to 4 to 18? Yeah, the price is about seven, without insurance, what was it, $7,000 a box or something? It's $20,000 a week. Yeah, it was $20,000 a month. We're going to want the full boxes of that insurance. So it's $240,000 a year. A lot of money has been on drugs. Yeah, that's a lot of money to spend on growth hormone. That's why I laugh when people think that all these pros are running huge doses of growth hormone. I'm like, most of these guys are broke. Yeah, I mean, they're not getting it at CVS either, but they're not, you know, still. No, I mean, even if you run generic, is that cheap? I mean, it's still, yeah, I mean, if you ran 17 units, you know, generic you can get for, I don't know. Yeah, but with most of your, like 10 units per bottle? Yeah, usually 10. You can use it almost two bottles a day. Yeah. We go through a kit every five days, give or take, right? There are 10 bottles in black. Yeah, 200, 300 bucks. Maybe a lot of money to be spending on growth hormone. Yeah, yeah, I don't think a lot of these guys are running that. And I've noticed like with me, like, I've messed around with higher doses, but it seems like anything more than, I'm at nine and a half now that's split up into three doses and it seems like anything more than that. I just, I don't find any additional benefit. I just get more side effects. Yeah, my, I want to say my threshold was eight or nine at nine. I, my arms were numb from my shoulders all the way down. Like it's not going to wall. Like you wake up at night, you actually can't feel your limbs. So another, another one. I don't know what might be going on over here, but where I think that people get confused to is on the timing, right? People are very obsessed about being fasted when given growth hormone. I always wondered about that too. So I'm not saying it's not 100% correct and I'm not saying it doesn't do something. I think there's a couple of things that are missed though. I, so when you inject subcube growth hormone, which is how most people would administer it, it takes two to three hours before it's fully absorbed. So even if you woke up in the morning and you injected it and you went in and did your fasted cardio, it doesn't mean that there's an extra amount of fatty acids floating around. Your blood that weren't already floating around because the growth woman's not even absorbed yet. And then fasted cardio on its own is not really proven to do. This is a lot of other feathers. There's really no difference between that and fasted cardio percent. So people do whatever cardio they want, but using the growth woman there might not be, it's, it's not necessarily advantageous. I would say, you know, do it in between meals just in like the post-absorbative state, just your instance, not at its peak, but I wouldn't be so concerned. And even drugs like serostom, again, for example, actually has sucrose in the bottle. So yeah, I noticed that on the ingredients. You're not going to do stomach because you're worried about insulin levels. You've now raised your insulin levels anyway. So because again, it's not a concern. Plus one is a bodybuilder ever fasted anyway. And the funny thing is if you read the instructions, if you get any pharmaceutical grade growth hormone and you read the instructions that come with it, none of it doesn't, that I've ever seen. It doesn't say anywhere that needs to be done, you know, faster. Right. HIV just came in for that. It doesn't say don't need for three hours. It just says before bed, inject one bottle. Yeah, I read through the whole instruction packets and the. It's not really cool, like the studies and stuff in it. Yeah, yeah, it has some really neat study in the serostom packets. Right. And they're very clear in it to also state that the most defects are through IGF-1. Yes, they're, they're, they're very, they're very clear. So why wouldn't you just take IG, well, I don't know, real IGF-1 is hard to find, but. To me, again, I, not necessarily 100% correct, but I mean, my understanding is Increlux is the most effective IGF-1. Right. I believe that's really hard to find. I don't know. I've never, out of the set of like clinical stuff, I've never even seen it. It's not like a black market drug that I know of. And it's from, from what I understand, the guys in Europe have seen the bodybuilders in Europe seem to have access to it, but they, from what I understand, it's even more expensive than growth hormone is. And I've seen it here, obviously, like I said, I've just never seen a black market. It's used for children with, you know, obviously a dysfunction in IGF. Yep. I think you're also missing some of the effects. So there were some really cool studies to show that actually if you direct, so if you inject growth hormone directly, if you spot inject growth hormone, it'll cause a higher. Rise in autochrine. I can explain that in a second. IGF and injecting IGF in the same muscle. So I would get not necessarily 100% correct, but I would say HGH is probably more effective at raising IGF than IGF itself. Huh. Interesting. At least in autochrine. So you have X-acron. So when most people get labs done to see their IGF level, you're looking at X-acron levels, which are basically what is floating around. Right. And what actually, what matters the most is the autochrine. The amount that's actually in the muscle, which is harder to measure. I've always wondered about the direct injections because the logical part of me, like I'm sitting here thinking, I'm like, would it really make any difference because I thought IGF-1 was produced in the liver anyway. It's mainly, so like let's say 90% is produced in the liver. Some is produced autochrine as well. Right. So I didn't know that. So other anabolic steroids can also cause autochrine production. Trumbulonin, nandrolone is really good at that as well. It will produce autochrine in the muscle IGF production. Your brain can actually produce IGF-1 as well through glial cells. I was like, I sent you that so you could have it. Yes, I didn't know that. Yeah. Plasticity stuff is really cool. Even, you know, and even growth hormone itself can be secreted from other things. Even your teeth actually secrete growth hormone. Oh, interesting. You think growth hormone just secrete your teeth, your teeth actually can generate some of the growth hormone in the room as well. And I know this is sort of off our script of what we were talking about, but I know there's a lot of people in the anti-aging community that use growth hormone as well. I mean, is it really worthwhile for anti-aging or? A lot of doctors would probably say no because they would be worried about the adverse effects, right? I mean, that's kind of similar to steroids, right? That's been beaten down our throats, you know, all this stuff. I would say if it's used in a moderate way, you know, two units a day, give or take. You know, for a man. And you're obviously getting labbed and it's done in a safe way, monitored by a doctor. I don't know why it wouldn't benefit you, right? I mean, this, like you said, look at still Sylvester Stallone. Yeah. I mean, it definitely does something. It definitely has an effect there. I think, and even if it, it's not only through sleep, but even if it were only because of the improved sleep from it, that would have a tremendous effect just on your aging to begin with, right? I have noticed that people that use it seem to seem to not age, like at least cosmetically, they don't seem to age the same way that other people do. I mean, I'm 50 years old, dude. Look at me. I don't have wrinkles. Yeah, I'm 40. I'm a pilot. I'm 47. So I think, I just think there's a great effect that, you know, a cosmetic effect from it definitely. Yeah. I mean, I would say, I think it has, I don't think the FDA is really into us using it as an anti-aging drug, right? I mean, it's considered off-label and not, so in the States, it's not even legal. I just look at other people my age and they look awful. Yeah, I mean, you're also not eating the same junk food and you're not drinking the same. True. I mean, it's multifactorial. Yeah, totally. But like, the growth hormone has a huge impact on the way you look, right? And your body fat levels as well. I mean, B&L, you know, helps, but having a cleaner diet, working out, all that. But I definitely have noticed a difference. And one effect that growth hormone does seem to have directly on muscle growth that's being explored, it's relatively new, is it affects a protein called decorin. Decorin is a cytokine, and more specifically a myokine, and growth hormone actually seems to actually impact levels of that. And so that, that directly interacts with mTOR. So, will cause some protein synthesis. So when I said before that it's, again, it's never been directly linked to muscle growth, but it's definitely doing something there in that, in that whole series of events. And if people are wondering what myokine or cytokine, so cytokine is basically, you know, like an immune response to stress or the damage. They discovered myokines are a specific type of cytokine in the early 80s. And during COVID, they didn't know what to do with it in the 80s. So they shelled the information as this happens all the time. And they went back and they realized that myokine, they, they, it wasn't called myokine until very recently. They went back and they found the specific cytokine and they realized that it was one of the mechanisms of muscle growth. So that there's just like a new discovery, right? And so this plays into IGF and all these things, right? Because one of the IGF variants is called the counter growth factor. And that's actually the missing link. That's the signal that causes muscle to grow out. Oh, wow. So that, and that comes directly from IGF. Mechanical growth factor, right? Yeah, it's, it's, yeah, it's like an off-shoot. And how does that work? Mechanical growth factor? Yes. To make it really simple is your muscles sense tension. And when they sense tension, they, they release mechanical growth factor. And that is what's, what's kicks off the whole process. So it's an adaptive process. Chemical. Yeah, it's not. So this is one of the reasons why things like the pump doesn't necessarily contribute to growth, right? Like that, that swelling is not necessarily going to do anything. We've injected lactate directly into muscles and they don't ever grow from that. And that's mimicking the pump, right? It's not to say the pump couldn't cause something, but it's just not directly related. Versus mechanical growth factor is kind of the, like the actual signal that's causing it. Interesting. Maybe like if you looked at the same weight, you know, all the time, like your body's not going to get enough of mechanical tension response to, to actually activate this anymore. All right. So, yeah, so progressing your weights is a thing. Yeah, that's a real thing. Yeah, let's talk about the thyroid part of growth hormone. How it affects thyroid. Okay. Well, as for my post, the other day with the T4 and the T3. Yes. So again, I'll, I'll, I'll try to keep that simple because there's more in the book. And it can be like a whole nother video on itself. Basically what you're looking at is you run at a substrate, you basically run out of T4. It's not really affecting the T3 so much or it's raising that, but it's not, it's the enzymes between the two, the conversion that's going to dictate how well growth hormone will work. And as you run out of the substrate T4, you, you don't, you obviously don't have the tens amount of conversion there and that's going to dictate and I'll speculate, you and I've talked about this before, I believe you notice the leaner someone is, the more muscadare on leaner, the better they respond to growth hormone. Right. So I've seen in like wellness clinics, when you give a big fact, I growth hormone, he might get a little bit out of it, but he doesn't get a ton out of it versus like, you know, I would be considered a fast responder to it. Right. You, you, you as well. Yeah. I know, I mean, I noticed when I up my doses that I just like rapidly started getting leaner without changing my diet. Yeah. So I think I'm going to say that there's something to that's connected to that whole fiber. Right. I, I not only did I get leaner, I was had a fuller look to like, I just saw Justin this weekend and Justin hadn't seen me in a couple months. He was like, holy crap. He's like, he lost weight and got bigger at the same time as like, I didn't see it in your pictures, but seeing you in person. I kind of noticed that to the scale, right? When you first start, the scale goes up immediately, right? This is water retention immediately. And then I feel like the physical weight actually drops off. Yep. At some point, whether it's a month or two months or whatever, probably depending on that, that water tension is dose dependent. And I feel like the fat loss continues in the muscle growth, assuming that someone is using it with something else. Right. An anabolic. With an anabolic. I would even test us for, I would say there's like a comp, there's like a comp body comp change, right? We seem to keep growing, but your scale weight doesn't say move. Right. Right. So you could weigh the same as you did three months ago, but it's looking entirely different. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that makes, that makes a lot of sense. I've noticed like with competitors too, that people that use growth hormone just have a different look. They just have a completely different 3D, right? Yeah. The 3D look, the round look, the hard, just the, it's just a different look. And an insulin would obviously magnify that as well. Yeah. And you can look back through bodybuilding, like you can look through the history of bodybuilding pictures. It's interesting. You can go back and see when people started using growth hormone and insulin, but they had this big round look that they didn't have before and were harder. 80, 85, 86. I think later than that, I don't think really people, yeah. When did synthetic growth hormone come around? Was it 85? Yeah. So that was when the FDA approved it. That doesn't mean people forget it. Yeah. What was the one before Crest's Cormant? What was it called? Crest Cormant? Yeah. That was the one that was killing people. Yeah. And Chris Field Jacobson, right? Yeah. Basically the brain would rot out. Supposedly the rumor was that's what Lyle Ozeta died from. Oh, okay. And I know that it was one of those diseases that by the time his diagnosis was too late, he was dead. Yeah. That was the rumor that he was taking cadaver growth hormone. I don't know. I suppose he was a unique mentor in case of Liot or use it as well. You know, at least one of them. I don't, I have no way to prove that. Yeah. No. That's the rumor that we hear. So let's talk about how to use it in a cycle. I mean, what should it be stacked with? Well, first of all, I would say most people, if they have very little experience, it would start lower, right? I would say you should start with only two or three units. And it takes a couple of weeks, I would say hold it there for a couple of weeks, right? And then you titrate it up. It doesn't need to go dramatically, you know, two, you know, two or three, and then you can go to four or five, depending on what your goal is, right? If your goal is muscle, we're talking about muscle, okay? So you want to be over five, right? Right. If you're young and you have a somewhat functioning pituitary, you could probably get away with five or six. And you're going to want to stack it with, you know, I would say testosterone. I guess you could technically stack it with nanderloon if you're someone who's testosterone sensitive. And, you know, obviously, I would minimize the trombone use, even though we just did a video on that. It's not something I was going to say advocating. I think that, you know, even a simple testosterone plus another anabolic plus growth hormone, like a test primo GH would probably be super effective. You know, you can go from Joseph to six, I use eight, I use 10, I use on the top end. I mean, what do you weigh? You're 27. 70s right now. I mean, and what do you think your upper limit is? 10 is where I'm running. That's what I'm saying. It's almost someone's 300 pounds. I don't know if they need much more. If it's assuming it's a legitimate growth hormone. Yep. And nine, they're all nine is what I'm running really. ! So nine is plenty if it's good. I would think for fat loss, I would say the dose doesn't need to be as extreme. It's not to say there won't be fat loss effects at that same dose because there are, but if fat loss is the only thing, technically you could probably get by with just two units in there. I've heard in the pro bodybuilding circles, I've talked to many pro bodybuilders, but like the brologic rule of thumb is is take as much as you can afford in tall weight. I mean, if you're 300 pounds, perhaps, I don't know. I mean, there's got to be an upper limit at a certain point, you're just doing organ damage, I would think. Again, I would think so too. Of course, you know, bodybuilders, they don't care about their organs. I mean, we saw, there was that study, there was only one study that I know of that was done on healthy young exercising men. Those things in Japan and the US equivalent. Those guys weren't super big, but like to equate the dose to like URI would be the equivalent of 30 units of growth a day. And it was basically their IGF levels, which is how we generally measure this, we're tapped out somewhere around eight to 10. So they weren't really experiencing anything more for that extra 20 units a day. You know what's interesting? I noticed that my IGF one levels don't get really any higher past six units. It's the same at nine as it was. Yeah, that's okay. Six is the optimal. It doesn't mean it's not doing anything. It just, that's at least with the IGF in the blood. But again, that's just showing you what's, you know, what's in the blood. I've also noticed that when people were in a caloric deficit on perhaps their diets, that the IGF one levels aren't high. So there's, you know, and it could be estrogen suppression. It could be low insulin. Yeah. I mean, one of the things, the things that really get an effect IGF output are going to be energy, protein and estrogen is definitely one. But I think if you're in super low energy state, the body's not going to make a ton of IGF. It's kind of a survival mechanism, right? The same is our body's not going to build muscle in the deficit because cavemen didn't need to be more muscular if there's no food. I know there's this bro logic of go test your IGF one levels to see if your HGH is good. And I've told people like, you know, that may not be a true indicator or a way to do it because if you're in a state like that, your IGF one may be low and your HGH is good. And you could also, you could also in theory, so in theory generic HGH should be the same as farm up GH, right? It all starts in the same factors. It's all 191 AA, right? It has to be because it was 192 when it first came out, right? So it's 191 or it's not. Assuming it's real and it's 191, where the difference really lies is in how it's handled after, right? So like, pharmaceutical stuff is handled in a space suit and it ships temperature control that it's immediately put in cold storage and whatever, where the black market stuff is not necessarily handled the same way. So it could degrade and then it might sit in a shipping container, you know, come from China to all the way here. So it could sit for months and hot shipping. Yeah. It can degrade. But I've still seen it could still elevate even if it's not, even if it's slightly damaged, it could still elevate your IGF once. That doesn't mean that that's not necessarily a valid test for it. I don't think there's a way for the general public to test the quality of HGH. They do have these test kits you can pick up now. I don't know how accurate they are though. We'll test the purity of it. Yeah. Well, it'll test whether it's a binary test. It'll either say it's HGH is present or not. Oh, okay. Because they have that for, you can get those for storage, but that just means that as long as something is present, right? Right. You can use Primo and it'll say Primo is present. It doesn't mean it could be 1% cream ball. Right. Right. It could be 99% mass from. Yeah. These color metric tests. Yeah. I mean, I don't know. I mean, actual percent purity tests, I don't think available for like mass market. No, not unless you send them off to a lab, which you can't do here in the US. I don't think you'd really want to send your steroids to a lab. You want to do a, why? Well, I don't think you can in the US. It's illegal. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. They're going to question what you're doing. Assume IGF levels, they occur very quickly in the presence of growth hormones. So like if you inject, you know, obviously you're injecting a bolus of it, you'll, IGF will peak 6 to 12 hours after injection. Right. So HGH is fully absorbed within two to three IGF will peak within six to 12. But the kind of the cool thing is after one injection, IGF levels will say elevated for eight days. Oh, wow. So I mean, again, guys obsess about the dosing schedule. As far as IGF is concerned, even if you missed a couple of days, IGF is still going to be up there. That doesn't mean that that's an ideal way to use, right? So the only ways that I know that are like actual ways to use are every day or every other day, right? So every day is the standard and every other day is for people that experience big side effects or for children with delayed growth because that mimics more the pull that. That mimics it keeps the wave a little lower. So it mimics more natural growth wave in a child. And in HIV, every other day is what is switched. So if someone with HIV experiences side effects from the six modes, milligrams of serostim, the doctors instructed to use it every other day instead of lowering the dose because we are the doses what's helping them. Yeah. I've heard of bodybuilders doing that where they take it less frequently, but keep the doses higher. You could. I don't have any personal experience. I mean, that's used in the medical community. That's a valid way to use it there. I think the five days on two days off was made up by bodybuilders. Yeah. That was a, I remember doing the eights talking about that. Well the story was I heard why guys did that. It's just because they couldn't afford to take it every day. I mean, what it was probably super expensive than I was. Yeah. Oh, I remember, I remember a generic kits crud, I mean, or, you know, 2004, 2005. I remember I bought a generic kit one time and it was like 600 bucks for a generic. Yeah. 500, 600 bucks. It was something like that. Now you can get three or four kits. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. That's funny. Yeah. So yeah, you'd probably want to say you'd probably want to run five days. Yeah. It was crazy expensive back then and not, you know, as far as I knew back then no recreational bodybuilders were running it. Yeah. We did save for it was like the way masteron was like very hard to find to write. Yeah. masteron was impossible to find. Yeah. You know, none of that stuff was around. I mean, what I would say was hyper and hypothyroidism are both associated with suppressed change levels. So that's kind of an interesting point that you really need your thyroid to come in the middle. You don't want it to swing either way because it'll affect that. I would say that the smartest way to, you know, to use it is to use a stack combining and boxers and growth hormone. Obviously, I'm not giving medical advice, but that would be the way that it'd be used for performance. It's not going to do a whole lot. It's sort of some anti-aging stuff. Growth hormone is not going to do a lot on its own. There was some bro logic that you should take T4 with growth hormone or T3 or both. I would say T4 because again, you're supplying the substrate. I think I'm not a huge fan of T3. I think the problem is T3 is very catabolic. It's not like, you know, just run muscle. I think I know about that. You really struggle with it. I've seen like really horrible effects in T3 unless it's used really like a mile dose. T3 should probably be avoided. And like medically, they're not really using T3 much anymore because they're not putting people on steroids anymore. So they're just going to waste all the muscle. Yeah. I had a horrible experience with T3 on contest prep where I lost all my muscle. It was awful, man. Good look, right? It's been a lot of time to lose your muscle. Yeah. I ended up at the end of it looking like a, looking like I'd escaped from a prison camp. It was really bad. But yeah, I guess with T4, it's sort of self-regulating anyway. Yeah. The body's going to make whatever T3 it needs from that. I would say, you know, I would use either testosterone or nandrolone would be the two main ones that I would use with it to support that. Obviously, I would say testosterone first. You want to inject with an impulsible faction to maximize, you know, availability and usage of it just the way the body's going to secrete it. Three units or less per dose is usually ideal. And there is usually a ceiling like we talked about before for benefits versus risk. So for most people, the ceiling is about four to eight I use a day. After that, the side effects become more pronounced, right? And you're not necessarily getting more. I can't speak to a guy that's 300 pounds solid muscle. I don't, that's not really a study thing. And normally, all the studies go out the window when you get to the extreme. It's not to say that Nick Walker can't get away with 18 units. I'm sure he can. Right. It's, but for the average guy that's watching this video that's, you know, 180 to 220 or whatever, I would say four to eight is probably plenty. Assuming it's real, you know, if you have to use 12 or 15 to get a result, I would question the quality of the growth hormone. I tell people, I know it's probably a cruddy analogy, but it's like trying to take what Nick Walker's take is also like trying to eat the same amount of calories he's eating. It's unnecessary for where you're at. Unless you're Nick Walker, yeah, you don't need to do that. It's all relative. Yeah. So that, I mean, that's, I mean, that's pretty much where I would be bad. Yeah. I mean, that makes sense. So, you know, so to recap, testosterone, you want some estrogen conversion. It's a good one for, for IGF one conversion from what I understand. So you don't want to bury your estrogen completely. And you, you know, I, you know, the old standby that you hear, like when you talk to pro bodybuilders, most pro bodybuilders that I talk to, people don't want to believe this. The offseason cycles, typically test, preemabolin, HGH and insulin. That's pretty much what most everybody runs or, or maybe aqua poise instead of, right? Yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and then, yeah, and insulin, it's time to pick a different sport. Yeah, and it's also a very safe combo too. Like you can, you can, you know, not that I'm suggesting that you should push doses high, but you can get pretty aggressive with that, with that protocol and maintain relatively healthy blood markers. Yeah, we can do one on, if you, next, we can do one on Primo. I mean, that probably, Yeah, Primo would be a good one. People have asked about Primo. All right, Kurt, I think that's a good place to wrap up, buddy, I appreciate you coming on again. Guys, thank you for watching. There will be the growth hormone ebook coming out. Kurt's working on getting his website up and running. It'll be there. Yeah, and I'll have it up on my website too. My website will probably be up by the time this video airs. All right, awesome. Yeah, and if it is, I'll put the link in the video description so you guys can reach out to Kurt directly. Kurt also does coaching and consultations as well, if you want to get ahold of him and check him out. Thank you for watching. Thank you.