Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutritive, battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, folks, I've got a great one for you today. This is an interview I did with contest prep coach, AJ Sims. AJ is one of the coaches that I look up to. Nobody gets people as peeled and as full as AJ does. He's one of the best out there and I have nagged AJ for a while to come on. He probably was tired of me DMing all the time, but AJ finally gave up and came on and we had a good talk about his strategy for getting people absolutely peeled. I didn't have enough time to cover everything I wanted to cover, so hopefully we can get a part two up. If you enjoy this, leave a comment in the comment section. We'll talk about getting AJ on again. I hope you enjoy this one. It's a really good interview. We'll get into it in just one second. All right, folks, Big Paul here today with the man himself, AJ Sims. AJ, you were the most demanded interview that I've ever had. Everybody was telling me, you need to get this guy on. You're known for getting people absolutely peeled. I don't think I've seen anybody. Really, I don't know that there's any other coach that consistently gets people peeled like you do, man. It's impressive, but I wanted to get you on and talk about that. Anyway, thank you for coming on, man. How's it going? It's going great, man. I'm humbled by that, the fact that anybody actually wants to hear what I have to say. A lot of people want to know. There's all sorts of speculation. I get all the time, people are like, it's this super secret formula. Is there some secret cycle? It has to be, right? It's gotta be something secret that nobody knows, right? It can't just be consistent hard work over a period of time and controlling variables. Yeah, no, IMean, it's going great, brother. IMean, I'm actually slowly getting out of the really high level IFBB coaching. I feel like I have nothing to prove on that level anymore. Not that I don't enjoy, from a physiological or psychological standpoint, of helpinGHigh level athletes. It's just at this point in time in my life, because as you know, as a coach, it takes a lot of time to work with athletes. Yeah. In and of itself, and then when you get to a higher caliber, Arnold Classics, Olympias, New York Pros, it's very time consuming, where I'm kind of shifting my focus more towards longevity lifestyle clients, a lot of WWE wrestlers. I'm still working with amateurs, but as far as high level, IMean, we can get into all the stories, all the preps I've done. I guess that's why I'm here, to kind of take you guys through the history, and kind of on my methodology. And I think some people will enjoy hearing it, but maybe some people are gonna be a little disappointed, because they're looking for that magic bullet that doesn't really exist, right? As far as contest prep goes. Yeah, IMean, as you say, at the end of the day, it is just hard work. This is definitely a lesson I've learned the hard way, is contest prep is sort of made in the offseason, man. If you fuck off in the offseason, and you come in like a fat pile of crap, prep's gonna be hard, gonna be really hard. I've always said that shows are won and lost in the offseason. I call it progression season, because I always feel like you're trying to progress. I think shows are won and lost during that time. Obviously, being in somewhat of a deficit during a contest prep, the log thermodynamics, as you like to say, calories in, calories out. We know that you have to be expending more energy than you're taking in, whether that be during trening cardio, just your basal metabolic rate, resting metabolic rate, your total daily energy expenditure has to be higher than what you're taking in to a specific amount. So at the end of the day, you have to do this year round, whether it be you're in a surplus, and you're eating consistently and constantly. And I always use Jay Cutler as the example, because I grew up in Las Vegas. I trened with him durinGHis chasing Ronnie. And then when he beat Ronnie, I was trening with him. So I saw this guy who is an absolute workhorse. He's a machine through and through, never missed meals, whether he was traveling every weekend, guest posing, he would fly home, land in Vegas at 11 p.m., and shoot me an email. This was before texts were really popular. And he was going to the gym to do cardio or tren. That's just his mindset. So when you have a champion's mindset, such as yourself, this is something that you do year round. We were just speaking about this off camera, that you take it serious year round, which is why you've made the progression you've made over the course of two, three years, which has been phenomenal. It's one of those things, you've got to put the work in year around. Yeah, IMean, I tell people all the time, you got to treat the offseason like a contest prep, or you still weigh and measure your food, still pay attention to detail. And Jay is a fascinating guy, man. He really, IMean, he's sort of my, I would say if I wanted to model myself, or tell a young man to model themselves out of any body and bodybuilding, IMean, he exemplifies, I think, what a champion is, in everythinGHe does. IMean, you see his success in business. He seems to be a kind, decent human being, too. Was at his show, I competed in his show, and he took the time to speak to everybody, man. IMean, he taught, you know, made you feel like you were the most important person there. It was just, it was impressive. He's an impressive human being. Absolutely, IMean, you know, real quick, IMean, when IMoved out to Vegas at 16 to pursue bodybuilding, my mom was crazy enough to move me out there with the aspiration of being a bodybuilder from Florida to Las Vegas. And, you know, Jay was taking the time, me at 16, this is when, it was 2004, he would come by my house every week and drop off tons of muscle tech supplements, and clothes that, of course, they didn't fit me, they were 5XL, I still wore them, but he would sit down in the living room and talk to me for two or three hours. IMean, this is a guy that was literally top two in the world at that time. And I'm just a 16-year-old kid, and he would spend the time just mentoring me, teaching me about business, like you said, the business of bodybuilding, but also, you know, trening correctly, you know, how to stimulate the muscle properly, that it's not just about throwing around weights constantly. He would always tell me, like, the guys in the Mitsuru Okabe, the Battle for the Olympia videos, a lot of these guys, or even if they shot their own videos, they were showing off by lifting a lot more weights than they normally do. And he would tell me, he's like, in 2001, when I, and I'll never forget this, which is why I'm mentioning, he said 2001, when he should have beaten Ronnie, most people's opinion, he never did dumbbell presses over 100 pounds for chest. So it just goes to show you, once you have a specific amount of muscle, this is a little tangent, but, you know, you have a specific amount of muscle, it's all about proper stimulus. And, you know, that just went a long way at 16 years old, you know, having this guy take me under his wing. So what you're saying about Jay is absolutely true, through and through, that's, that's who he is. And he's always been like that. Yeah. I remember when we were backstage at the show and him talking about lifting and he brought up the fact that he never pressed more than a hundred pound dumbbells. Somebody was talking about liftinGHeavy and he goes, what is heavy? What does, what does that mean? Yeah. That's what he said. And then I used a hundred pounds. I don't lift that heavy. I did when I was younger and I've made more progress. And then at the end of the day, IMean, like we know from all the modern studies and whatnot, a lot of it has validated this, this mindset. At the end of the day, it is mechanical tension that causes hypertrophy and your muscles don't know what weight is at the end of the bar. They experience mechanical tension and you can manipulate that with form and leverage. And IMean, just look at a power lifter. Power lifters get very efficient with leverage. So they actually experience, it's the opposite of like what a bodybuilder would want to do. You'd want to place more tension on the muscle whereas a power lifter is actually trying to reduce that tension and increase leverage so they can move more weight. So it's a completely different mindset. Sorry for the side rant there. No, no, that's great stuff right there, man. And hopefully the listeners can take that and utilize that in the gym. IMean, it is about the proper stimulus. Like you said, IMean, your body, your muscles have no idea what's on the bar, the dumbbell, the machine. They only know stimulus. It's kind of like looking at a chicken breast on the digital weight scale. IMean, you can either take in the 10 ounces that's on the scale or take in the six ounces that you're supposed to be eating that's on your program. Your body's going to utilize and digest. And obviously whether you're in a surplus or you're in a deficit, what you're supposed to be taking in. Now, if you eat too much, obviously, you could be in a caloric surplus, going to throw you off your fat loss. Or if you eat too little, you could lose some muscle tissue. Kind of the same thing goes in the gym in the sense of lifting too heavy on a consistent basis with sloppy mechanics and techniques is going to lead to more systemic inflammation and not in a good way. More joints, ligaments, tendons. You're going to get injured. You're going to feel horrible. And what I've learned over the years, because I did the same thing when I was young, even though Jay taught me that, I still went in and ego trened and did way too much weight. And at 35 years old now, I have lower back, hip issues. deca cystitis, etc." So imagine these guys were just watching AwakendGainz show up and it's like, who knew people were going to make these remarks that made him come from parch interviewing biraz backward. It's like I'm just getting real excited and all excited and I'm like, there you go! Oh, I'll show these before Dubai! Okay. Alright? Winter Sportscasts July 26th on apples at ehtikt. Fight JAM on StannyCast. Let's know what you love about Swin III in the comments! Watch me to be insane on Swinology on Fridays on deeptheria fuckys, L Austin Brown Secrets there's no magic bullet out there. It's stimulus, just like you say, the law of thermodynamics is calories in calories out in the gym. It's about proper stimulation, then recovery, feed the muscle and then do it again consistently over time. Yeah, it's, it's, it's funny how we all have to go through that phase. I went through the, it's the young, dumb bodybuilder phase. I talk about it where you got to heave heavyweights around. You probably do crazy shit with the PEDs that you probably shouldn't do. IMean, we all go through that. The eating way too much food because you think that's going to make you bigger. Yeah. I remember, I remember my post-workout meals being four double cheeseburgers from McDonald's and a milkshake thinking that was going to get me bigger and I'm just big muscle fat, you know, stupid, stupid crap like that. But the ego lifting thing, yeah, it was the same thing, man. It always catches up with you at some point and then you start getting injuries. That's what happened to me. And I think that's something that people forget about with this stuff and you know, man, this is a long game. I don't know what the averages are, but I would speculate that somebody from day one in the gym to turning pro bodybuilder, that you probably have to have a good 10 years of sustained trening, eating and you know, whatever, whatever else under your belt to, to make it happen, to have a mature physique. And if you're getting beat up, if you're sick, if you're hurt, you're not going to make it. Not at all. I think that that's really what comes down to being a successful competitor. Obviously, you know, genetics are going to play one of the biggest roles as far as getting into the higher level, you know, your shape, your structure, your muscle insertions, but also how you react to any performance enhancers. You know, are you one of those people that gets extreme side effects? Are you one of those people that literally can utilize a specific amount and basically the kitchen sink, so to speak, and get almost no side effects, right? That is honestly what, what dictates you becoming a good pro along with obviously that's along with a consistent work ethic, discipline, dedication for many, many, many years. But yes, you have to have longevity. Health is going to be number one, all your internal markers. You know, everything that you're doing is working synergistically together. So one without the other, it will fall apart. And this is a long game. IMean, I started trening, you know, I'm 35 now, but I started trening in 2001 and, you know, I've seen so many people come and go over that period of time. And I saw, you know, certain people like, let's say Nick Trigili, I competed with Nick Trigili at team nationals when we were teenagers and he didn't turn pro until maybe eight or nine years later. So he had already, just like you said, 10, 12 years of good trening on your belt. Kukalo, you know, came up with Steve Kukalo team nationals as well. Jason Hu. IMean, all these people, uh, it took a very long time and these are guys with great genetics too. It's not something that happens overnight. This is, this is a long game. And if you don't have all your ducks in a row where you're methodically processing everything you're doing and you just think that you're going to take a bunch of PEDs, tren in the gym and two to three years later, you're going to be on the Olympia stage. More than likely you're just living in another world because it's not going to happen. So that's a hundred percent long game is the best way to put it. Yeah. IMean, it's, IMean, you can look at it and there's only so much tissue you can synthesize in a year, even with PEDs in play. IMean, I probably, probably one of the biggest growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone trensformations I've seen is Nick Walker. IMean, you can, you can see it. IMean, he added a hundred pounds from the time, the day he started to now. And you know, that was a 10 year timeframe that it took for him. And what do we know about Nick? IMean, the fact that he is, you know, yes, he is one of the top genetic guys in the world, but the kid works extremely hard. I know that for a fact, there's only a few guys right now from what I know that are true workhorses, like we would think a la Jay Cutler, right? Where these guys, they don't miss, right? Nick would fall into that category. And that's the little bit that I know about him and just seeinGHim throughout the years that he's just, he has a different mindset and he's driven and he has laser focus. He has that killer instinct that only a few guys have, and that's what it takes at the end of the day. You know, long story that we're getting into is it takes a long time guys. So if you're not in it for the long game, you may want to go do something else because it takes a long time. Well, what do they say? Success is where hard work meets potential. So I think that, I think that's the saying, I'm probably slaughtering that. You'll get the point. You get the point though. And yeah, IMean, I don't, I don't want to discount genetics. Genetics play, play a role in it too. But everybody can improve. Everybody can get better. And I think that's the one thing that I do love about bodybuilding is it is a metaphor for all things in life. If you can learn how to master that discipline, learn how to master that control, you can take that and apply it to everything else you do, business, life, family, you know, being, being consistent, being stable, being reliable. All these things are going to, going to result in success in all other areas of your life. If you can, if you can master that mindset. Man, Paul, that's phenomenal. That is a huge takeaway right there. IMean, it definitely did that for me. IMean, I started bodybuilding at 13 years old and it taught me nothing but work ethic. IMean, that is why I'm so disciplined to this day because that's exactly what I did when I stopped competing. I applied it in every aspect of my life was the fact that I was willing to go through, you know, getting to extremely low body fat levels and being disciplined all year, never missing meals, never missing trening, no matter how I felt. You apply it to every aspect and you check those boxes off every single day. So that's, that's great stuff, man. Well, you may not know it, but you inspired me. I remember I saw one of your, I think it was a real pop up and it was late at night and I'm sittinGHere and I've got like a bunch of check-ins I still need to do. And I'm like, I don't feel like doing them. You had something up where you said, do one more check-in. There it is, man. That's right. You know, do one more. And I'm like, damn, this is timely. I just want to go to bed. I love it, man. It spoke to you. That's great. Yeah. So, IMean, it's a, it's a, I know you have that type of mindset, but that's, that's really like when I, I like mentoring young men and working with young men. And I think that's probably the biggest point that I try to get across to the guys that I work with is that work ethic, mastering that work ethic, mastering, being able to push through pain, being able to push through, making yourself uncomfortable. Really. IMean, success, success comes from, you know, I know it's cliche, but being comfortable with being uncomfortable. Oh man, it's true. It's absolutely true. And we live in a microwave era right now. Everybody wants everything right now. And that's not the way it works. You got to go through the hardships. IMean, I have guys come up to me, you know, I want to learn how to be a coach like you, you know, at your age or be successful. I'm like, listen, you better be ready to work 24 seven. Cause this didn't happen overnight. I, I put my first Olympia competitor on stage 10, you know, a decade ago in the two 12 class. So, IMean, it's, it's, it's been a long time coming. It's, it's a lot of work. It's a lot of work and it's a lot of dedication and it's putting so much effort, but you have to care about each individual that you work with. You know, you really, really do. It's not just another number. These, these are people I was thinking about this last night, cause I knew we were going to do this podcast and, you know, as a coach, you can get wrapped up in the numbers. Right. And, and just kind of want to check the box off of here's, you know, this is what you're doing, go do it. These are people, IMean, us as competitors, you know, judges will judge, you know, competitors and they should based off the physique that day. But these are people that have insecurities, worries, doubts, fears, you know, family life, home problems, you know, financial issues, work issues. IMean, these are people and you got to understand that, you know, each individual is going through something at any given point of time. So you really have to tap into that psychology, which is, I think is, has helped me as a coach is something I always do. And I think it's really important as the type tap into that psychological aspect of the athlete, what makes that person tick, what makes them do what they do? Why do they want to be on the Olympia stage or why do they want to win their pro card? What is the goal, what's in goal and what makes them get up? What's their why? Right. So these are things that you get into that psychological aspect as a coach, which I always make sure I do, even if the person is from another ethnicity and doesn't even speak English, which I've prepped so many of those guys, I will still find a way psychologically to tap into it and find what we need to pull out the absolute best to get where they've never been before, which is why another reason I've been able to have somewhat success with higher level athletes that maybe struggled in the past would maybe say conditioning. Right. There's a great book, man, if you haven't read it on on mentoring people, it's Coach K. pporlix iteratin, plasmarologist, electro Nicolaitis too, endometologist, plasma科는 cancer Iteratis, endometriosis, endovascular disease, enzyme induced delay, stem cancer, dermantage butcer, endometrial cancer, epimetersederm, Endometritis in structure. And I've always heard that about you. That's one thing that, you know, from being in the inner circle, all the stuff and talking to people, you hear rumblings about other coaches that are deadbeats and, and some that are great. And everybody I've ever talked to that's worked with you so that you've always been there for them and that you care about them and you give them your all. I've never heard a bad word mentioned about you. No, I appreciate that. IMean, I've definitely made my mistakes over the years as a coach. IMean, everybody does. We're human. Yeah, they all have. But I've definitely learned from you take accountability and you, you move on and you learn from it and you build from it. Right. Um, I just made a post about taking extreme ownership and accountability this morning. You know, kind of how athletes like to switch coaches on it. It's pretty crazy. What you'll see pros jump from five or 10 different coaches because they're looking for that magic bullet. And you know, at the end of the day, secret sauce, man, but it really comes down to the individual. So yeah, taking extreme ownership has been key for me. You know, just developing that mindset, like, you know, understanding, Hey, these are people and I need to care for them. So just as much, like you said, the physiological standpoint of, you know, how do IManipulate the body? How do we manipulate the mind? Now you can't always force people to have a killer instinct and you can't necessarily teach a killer instinct, but you can bring it out of somebody. If they've never experienced it before, you can get someone really comfortable with being uncomfortable, like you said. So that's, that's what I try to do. And I intertwine it with everything and you know, I'm not a cheerleader, but I'm definitely there to, you know, take the thinking out of it, right? That's what a coach is supposed to do. Because we know when we get to the end of a contest prep, there's a lot of things going on neurologically with our neurotrensmitters because of a lot of things that we're utilizing that are, you know, causing those neurotrensmitters to down-regulate and sleep obviously gets a lot worse the last two or three weeks and there's a lot of things going on where we just literally cannot see what we're looking at and people lose their minds, like you said, so that's where a good coach will come in and be like, listen, man, you know, I have to tell guys like, dude, stop thinking. That's why I'm here. So you literally need to almost not even look at your pictures and try to assess them, just send them to me and let me do the thinking. Let me land the plane, so to speak, just do the work, right? And that seems to work with a lot of guys, especially the over-analyzers and the people that will be too neurotic. They see a program and they're like, yeah, but you know, I know this and I know my body and you know, they double think everything. And usually those guys are constantly in fight or flight and that those guys are usually the worst come the final week because they think their body like, and I think, I think it was you talking about it maybe a week or two or a month ago or an older podcast where you guys were talking about your favorite foods backstage up and up and, you know, people will be like, they'll eat something in like 20 or 30 minutes. The coach is like, dude, there it is. That's it. We did it. We nailed it. If it wasn't there already, you're not going to do a whole lot, man. IMean, there's a, there's an acute response to blood pressure with sodium, obviously for vasodilation, but outside of that, man, there ain't much going to happen besides maybe drinking some fluids. Uh, yeah, eating the rice cakes with the honey and salt backstage a little bit maybe, but you know, if that's all psychological, it's, it's like, you know, it's all the little, little, I don't know. It's like the football player wearinGHis favorite pair of socks on Sunday. Right. The lucky socks, man. It's just, it's just. Consistency. It's just a superstition and consistency, but yeah, really the work has already done the day you show up for the show. Yeah. IMean, I'm a firm believer. I'm a firm believer in being pretty much ready two weeks out, I think by two weeks out for 14 days, IMean, let's just put it in days, 14 days, the body fat should be gone for the most part. IMean, the body fat should be gone. You should be waking up pretty close to like, I could slap tan on and I'm dry enough. I'm, you know, the body fat's gone. And then there you, you look at the small manipulations you can do at the end with maybe some water, some sodium, some glycogen, but nothing too over the top. Because if you try to get over the top, now there are cases we can get into that. I've prepped some bodies that the last week, the most wacky stuff happens and you have to understand as a coach, not to freak out because you understand what's going to happen over the course of six, seven days. But the majority of people should be contest ready to, in my opinion, two weeks out. And then just again, variables at the end. Yeah. IMean, you should definitely be, if you're still trying to lose fat going into peak week, you're, you're in trouble. You're not going to, not only are you going to be in trouble with just your body's response, but IMean, think from a psychological standpoint, you're stressed every day. Am I going to make it? Am I going to be ready? You're not sleeping, you know, you're in fight or flight constantly. What does that do? That shuts down rest and digest, you know, you're not in the food properly. You're not going to the bathroom. Another problem people have the day before the show and the day of the show. And yeah, it could be a fiber issue. It's a, it's a dehydration issue, but a lot of times it's also because they're in fight or flight constantly, they're just not processing that food too. So man, from a mental standpoint, from a body standpoint, yeah, two weeks out, if you're trying to lose fat, like you said, a week out, it's, it's going to be a big problem. Yeah. I think I saw you post something about it that you said you're not going to like the results if that's where you're at. Yeah, it's going to be tough, man. But IMean, I can take a couple of guys, for example, IMean, I used to prep Justin Rodriguez for many years and he's on the pro circuit and he was one of those guys that a week out, most people would be like, this dude's not going to be ready. And that's because he was a, he was a water bag. IMean, just one of those guys that I knew doing the things that we did at the end that were a complete 180 from whatever I would do with anybody else, he would drop seven to nine pounds, anywhere between seven to nine pounds of mainly water. And I would do things that just, again, on paper don't make sense, but we were able to figure out because anytime I peak somebody, I always take notes. I have every note from every peak with every, the food we ate, the timing of the food, the bathroom usage, digestion, everything. I have notes and they're all saved from years. I have years of notes and I literally, I can look back and understand what we did and how we improved. And even though I don't get a, you can't fully go by the weight scale. It's just a small gauge. We have to also go by how you look. I still use it as a small gauge because if you get on, let's say, you know, you wake up on show day and you're, you know, you're a little flat, you have a meal of this, a little bit of fluid, you step on the scale, you're two pounds up. There's the look right there, right? That's the look. Okay. So apparently that weight correlates with the look and we want to be able to maintain that as much as we can. And you'll, you'll see it because there's guys that will be prejudging. They get off stage and they're fast metabolizers. Maybe they sweat a little bit on stage. They'll lose four to five pounds just from, yeah, they do a lot around. There's just guys that just lay out like you just whacking metabolisms, maybe get a little, you know, hyperglycemic backstage or on stage, you know, and you just get back and you're like, what just happened? IMean, so there, there's a, there's a difference with maybe those guys where, you know, again, but you can also use a scale because then we need to get back up to that weight, whether it come in the form of fluid, glycogen, sodium, or all three together. But yeah, Justin would be one of those guys that a week out, he didn't necessarily look ready. Uh, and we still were able to brinGHis best looks in ever where, you know, I was doing things with him and I have no problem being, I'm totally trensparent. IMean, I would, I would take sodium out for 48 hours, 48 hours, which I don't do with anybody, but sodium would go out 48 hours. Potassium goes up and I would use it in the form of a new salt. So, yeah, we, we bump this potassium levels up, not dangerously because I don't, I don't carve people up on dates and potatoes and bananas, but you know, tasking goes up a little bit. Sodium comes out, we would, we would interject some other things like some aldactone for three days because I usually don't, if I ever use aldactone, I don't like it more than 72 hours because we know that it blocks the reuptake of, you know, the aldosterone, sodium essentially because it blocks the androgen blocker. So you can actually start seeing people get softer on it. And then no matter what they eat, show day, burgers, fries, you're blocking that. Nothing's happening until you come out of that. So run a little bit of that. devicedz양 Celluffolol o Cellulology Mundocell,ao Cellulolintocurchronalin, Cellulose Cellulose cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose, Cellulose cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulers, Cellulosecellulosecellulosecell, Cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose, cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecelluloseprotein cellulosecellulose cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose, cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose. Cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose cellulosecellulose. Cellulosecellulosecellulene Cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose Cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose Cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose. Cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecelluloserespirationsteptimographer Cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose cellulose cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosepetrine Cellulosepthalosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose cellulose, Cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose cellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulosecellulose, our bodies out there that on paper, it just doesn't correlate the same that everybody else. And I know that there's a lot of people are going to probably push back and say, well, you know, science is science. The human physiology is the human physiology, but I'm telling you, anecdotally, I'm speaking anecdotally prepping. So many people, there are bodies out there that just respond completely different and you, yeah, you gotta take notes and figure. IMean, we know it. IMean, you can look at it. There's genetic outliers for everything. IMean, there's medicine is not exact. It's made to the mean when, when you look at it. So we, we know, IMean, an example, IMean, just a clear example where you can see genetic differentiation is basketball. You can look at it. IMean, you know, seven, being seven feet tall, there's only like 2,500 people out of 8 billion that are seven feet tall and half of them are playing in the NBA or whatever it is. So IMean, body, but it's people that are at the high end of bodybuilding, probably your genetic outliers, man. And the, the rules that apply, it would be like five, six and try to play basketball in, in with the same set of coaching that you would do if you were seven feet tall. It's not going to work, man. Absolutely. And like you're talking about the scale too. So it's sort of my thought process on it. I do like to look at pictures and see how the pictures are looking. But if you see any rapid changes in the scale, IMean, you can do the math on it. You know it's not fat loss because you're not, you're not losing or gaining three, four pounds of fat in a day. That's just impossible. It's gotta be a water change in water, whether it's glycogen retention or sub subqtaneous water. And you can pair that up with the pictures and see where it is. So, IMean, that's kind of, yeah. IMean, I assume that's what you're, what you're talking. Yeah. No, no. Total disclosure. Right. So I just kind of made a little fun of coaches where they'll feed somebody sugar and be like, there it is. But what I do do with guys, and this is everybody amateurs all the way to the Olympia. I didn't have guys where, you know, I wasn't able to go backstage to the Olympia and they're texting me and I'm like, listen, go to the bathroom and take a pee, get on, get up. They have their scale with them. This is an hour before the stage, get on your scale and send me the weights. Right. And if it, if it got below what I believe was the peak weight, you know, taking six ounces of fluid right now, taking a little bit of sodium, let's wait 20, 30 minutes, get your legs back up. Let's take some pictures. Let's see what happened. Get back on the scale until we get back to that point is exactly because they do poorly together. I don't want people to get to scale obsessed, but when you're talking about at the very end, just like you said, if you're dropping fast, it's not fast. So it's going to be, it's going to be a fluid loss. Typically it's coming from the muscle at that point because you're already dehydrated to an extent and you probably use some sort of pharmacological diuretic, you know, whether it be, you know, hopefully just something like diazide or aldactone if you're using that smart or you know, some guys don't need it at all, but still if you've dehydrated it down to an extent it's coming from the muscle. So therefore it's got to be replenished somehow in some way. And we know that water can hit somebody really fast. Sodium and water really can hit fast where it can make substantial changes pretty, pretty quickly, man. Yeah. I've always just, usually I don't even use a diuretic. I generally don't need, need one last year. Just rain on a little bit of diazide going on the night before the show and it was plenty drive me out plenty. But like you said, some people are water bags, man. I've, I've, I've seen it. It's, it's gotta be some differentiation in the aldosterone regulation, I would assume. That's, that's what I've always thought over the years. It had to be something with aldosterone and I honestly get like, you know, when I run labs with clients, I'll get their, those levels checked on their lab work, their aldosterone levels. Like when I was preppinGHassan in 2022 and we won two pro shows, he was getting labs every two weeks. I had to figure out what was what had been missing over those years where someone couldn't, cause the dude works hard. IMean, he's got a crazy work ethic and he'll do three hours of cardio. He'll eat next to nothing if he has to. So there was something going on and it correlated into that. And you know, we were able to pinpoint it and figure it out and fix it and dial that in. And he was another guy that, you know, had a substantial water loss the last week. And I usually, man, it's a lot of these really big guys. So I don't know if it has something to do with myostatin gene or just the size, you know, IGF one, or, you know, that correlates with aldosterone. IMean, there's a lot going on from a cascading effect that I don't necessarily claim that I even know. Again, I've just seen anecdotally the type of bodies that usually require it. Well, bigger guys are harder to peak. IMean, it's just more tissue. And at the end of the day, it's, IMean, you can see it like with big guys. IMean, you can carve, you know, carve, carve a large dude up in 1500. It was a Dennis Wolfe. I think I heard 5,000 grams of carbs. Yeah. It was something insane, man. And he wouldn't spill over on that. 2007 when he, when he just came out and just wrecked almost everybody, but IMean, he's a tall, 5,000 grams of carbs. Yeah. And, and, and, and, you know, what, what are we on paper? Right. From a, from a scientific medical standpoint, they will tell you that the body can only store so much glycogen, even at a specific body weight. Right. But again, bodybuilding is outside the box a lot. And I remember, I think I heard this 13 years ago or more, Jose Raymond said bodybuilding almost doesn't make sense. Sometimes the less you do, the better results you get. Yeah. So you got to think out, you know, in terms of that sometimes, IMean, that would make sense. It's less, you know, less variables, less room for error. That's why I get like really hesitant when I see these super, super complex peaking protocols that I've seen some coaches put together. I think one, I think some people just do it to make themselves seem smarter than what they are. And they have no idea what they're talking about. I think they're just making shit up half the time, but it's, you know, but with big guys, IMean, it's, it's really, it's more real estate to manage at the end of the day. IMean, IMean, who, who knows how much a glycogen, a guy like his size can store? IMean, clearly, clearly if he didn't spill over that got stored. Yeah. Yeah. Had to be. Yeah. IMean, there's no other way it got stored. So, and we know that the, the energy output is extremely low the last couple of days as far as like doing, you know, trening or cardio. And of course, back in 2007, nobody was doing steps. IMean, that was not even, nobody even talked about doing steps. Right. So, IMean, you have to, you have to think about it, man. Like that is a super physiological response to carbohydrates storing glycogen that is just off the textbooks, off the charts that just doesn't really make a whole lot of sense, but it worked and you got to have an eye as a coach to actually be able to look at someone and see exactly what's going on and almost know by default how to make calls on the fly. So when the body changes without overanalyzation, like you said, because there's so many people that make it super complex. And I hear these, these really big words and verbiage and terms to sound like you're coming from a medical field. And it really doesn't always have to be that complicated. It really doesn't. IMean, it is a complex thing, but you need to distill it down into the simplest way possible. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, make it no morecomplex than it needs to be and no simpler than it needs to be. It's, it's, it's really, I've often wondered too, like with the glycogen storage, I've noticed this is just something, once again, I have no evidence, but there seems to be a genetic component to it. It seems to be the guys that are of German heritage are the dudes that I'm not, I'm not shitting you. I'm, I'm German back background. And I, Dennis Wolf, I have, you know, we talk to Roman all the time, but Roman can just eat an ungodly amount of carbs. It's a good point. I've noticed it's the big German dudes that seem to be able to, you know, I don't know if that's, you know, just probably. No, no. I think ethnicity definitely could play a role. IMean, that's a, that's a cool anecdote that you're talking about because what I've noticed too, when the, when it comes to, and I can say this because my wife is Cuban, she's Spanish. So a lot of the Cuban bodybuilders that I've worked with, they, they don't have. Dom's word to honor Homergirlnotchins in 2021 2020, Whitty targets, descending digestive infections,авливadic fundamentals, demodynamic here. People are helping each other off, everybody strening each other either way. Ashea minn, wondering what are some of the things that the hoop有人 'd like for hoopoopoo? Where leerdoesk eliminates, I think a lot of people can relate to that豆T I would look like a forced labor camp victim. I look like I just skated a mural. You are 100% right. And also like somebody like Hassan that I trened, I've never seen someone eat so low of carbohydrates and not lose muscle and protein for that matter too. Just the ability to be able to hold onto tissue was unlike anything I've ever seen. So yeah, dude, there's definitely something there. And again, these are all very important tools as a coach to keep in your toolbox to understand, you know, obviously, you know, there's a lot more that goes into it variable wise, but it's important to know these things. And it's a good point because I've always wondered about Roman. IMean, just hearinGHow much this guy eats is just insane. IMean, it just, again, off the charts. So yeah, I've never thought about the German thing went hand in hand, but yeah, I think you're right. Cause I can't think of one German that doesn't, has not been able to eat an ungodly amount of food. Yeah. It seems like they, they, IMean, it's just, just an observation. IMean, you'll see it and it's like most of your highly successful strong men. They're all Norwegian. They're all British. You know, that those guys that have all the Scandinavian DNA, you know, they're just built for liftinGHeavy shit. Yes. As far as, you know, just your general approach to prep. I know you said you have people ready two weeks out. IMean, what, what, IMean, what is your, your general framework for getting people shredded? Yeah. So, IMean, really, I'm a huge proponent in carb cycling. That's why, you know, every time you post something about carb cycling, I'm like, there it is. A hundred percent really, you know, at the end of the day, it's calorie cycling, you know, cause we're manipulating all macro nutrients. Something Jay taught me when I was 16, go to the zigzag diet. So, yeah, you know, it's just calorie cycling. So I pretty much right off the bat, start with that. IMean, you know, depending on the structure of their trening, the split, you know, how did we set off their progression season? If they just came to me, you know, after their progression season, I didn't have a hold on it. It's just prep, which I don't, I don't like that. I like to kind of have somewhat control throughout the entire year of every variable so that we can build up what we need to build up going into prep because we essentially prep for the prep, right? The progression offseason is a prep for the prep. It's preppy around like you said. So I structure it into a carb calorie cycling right off the bat and then just manipulate cardio as needed. Now, what I do with the majority of my clients that compete pretty much everybody is I'm a stickler for communication. So I get into the point where even when they're 10, 12 weeks out, we're talking every two to three days where I can make changes. I never just say, here's a week, you know, check back in a week. And this is what keeps me so busy. And this is why I kind of have to pull back on volume because I've been doing this for over a decade where, IMean, I'm talking to so many people starting aT4 in the morning, all the way up to 9 PM, depending on where they are in the world. And we're making changes based off their, their, the way they're looking, what their body weight's doing, what's their biofeedback in the gym, what's their sleep looking like, you know, constantly pulling labs throughout the prep. If they have that accessibility or the finances, depending on what we're trying to achieve. And then just, you know, basically it's like an onion, right? And I'm peeling back the layers of the onion throughout the prep where I, yes, I want you to be ready two weeks out, but I also would like you to be ahead the whole time. I am very comfortable with someone being ahead of schedule the entire prep. It makes it much easier to focus on trening and posing and sleeping. And then just enough cardio. And that's not the case with everybody, but it's, it's, it's my preferred way. If someone really did their homework to set everybody up properly, and we peel back the layers nice and slow, we preserve as much tissue as possible. In some cases, some guys even gain tissue and we know this because they're getting constantly tested throughout the course of the prep, whether it be a dunk tank, getting, you know, at a university to test the body fat, you know, the muscle tissue, DEXA scan, even though they're not a hundred percent accurate, I have seen it happen where people actually grow. And obviously that's a correlation to PDDs and their, their, their response to PDDs as well, but they are growing into the show. But man, I just really try to manipulate based off what the body does. I don't have a structure where it's like, okay, we're going to run three lows, one high, two baselines. We'll come back to that. Like, you know, if someone is checking in with me on a daily basis, which I do get to the last five weeks, four weeks. And I just see, you know, something like we just ran a high day, right? And they check back in. And obviously we know carbohydrates can increase and induce diureses, more urination. So it could be just a water loss or they're just, their metabolic rate is just picking up. Just, you're just running through it. Just like you were, you know, usually at the end of your prep, you know, lower body fat levels, insulin sensitivities, higher, you know, you're, you're on specific PDDs. You're just burning through glycogen. You know, we could run two or three high days in a row. We could run what I call super saturation days, which is an extremely high day on top of that with some free foods, right? The specific foods that digest well, that don't cause systemic inflammation. People would call it a cheat meal. I don't really call it that. I call it more super saturation mixed with a high day. So it's just really an overfeeding, which we do over the course of two to three days. So it's almost like a diet break. The terminology they like to use now, it's an overfeeding and then pushing. So I always tell people, you got to know when to push the gas pedal and pump the brakes. It's a, it's a constant balance of structuring to hold muscle tissue, preserve it and be able to push, you know, and pull down so that we can burn, we can burn fat and lose fats. Like you said, there's a difference between burning fat and losing fat. We're losing fat consistently and we're holding on and preserving as much tissue consistently. And as long as those are goinGHand in hand, and then their biofeedback is good, their digestion, we're not getting side effects, no GERD, acid reflux, bloating, sleep is good. Then, you know, we're able to control all those variables because we know that proper sleep is going to induce a lot of physiological things that we want to promote fat loss and preserve muscle and increase insulin sensitivity and all those things. When do you, IMean, what is a warning sign you look for when you need to pull back and give people a refeed? Usually I can't say gym performance because it depends on the person from a psychological standpoint. If someone goes in the gym and they feel sorry for themselves, they're already going in defeated. They're not going to have a good session. So it may not even be, it may not even be that. Now we know neurologically things happen when you eat a lot of carbohydrates, dopamine increases, all the neurotrensmitters, you feel better, but there's different mindsets, right? So typically what I will look for before the refeed will come is either, now it could be either, or it could be a stagnation in body weight. And it's like, man, I've been pushing this diet hard on this individual. It's time to feed them because we can't go any lower. We can't do any more. So instead of just digging them into a hole, we're going to do the opposite and actually feed the metabolism more. And it actually brings it back to life. And typically that's three to four days. What I've seen anecdotally, four days is usually the max of really, really pushing somebody again, not everybody, but this is just general population, the average person. So obviously a look right, a specific look where they actually look softer. So they're so flat that they don't look as hard, right? So it's almost like, man, this person either accrued some body fat overnight, which we know didn't happen, or the retaining a ton of fluid, which typically doesn't happen. So they're, they're so flat, the muscles just not pushing against the skin. Therefore it's time to pull the trigger and fill this body back up, refeed it, utilize that performance in the gym the next day. Cause at that point, you're not going to feel the carbs that day. It's just not going to happen. Almost everybody on a high day, they don't feel that they don't feel that food until the very next day. Cause like, it's just the onset time of glycogen can take some time to really get in there when you are at low levels of body fat. So yeah, you know, typically or sleep really goes down the drain. So there's a correlation of different biofeedbacks, but typically an over flat body and usually gym performance, not always the case for everybody. Like I said, but it's on average is from what I've seen. I remember when I was absolutely buried on that prep a few years ago, I went into the gym one day and I've, cerebral milk pressure, there's a老師的毕业食品 你说我的楼勤就是那个尿垫 但我觉得在尿垫上有好几篇  hits by the bed many times我最遗憾的就是农夫病 有老婆病就是心肴病下去 meat illness the most patients actually have an stren澳洲 Telephone Ad Marin 对于澳洲电 Cann wy不能开 alligator姬说我说那个牙是非邪病 relatives Cabrewood huddle in 就是名牌非常有生命意味非常有好陷阱 nany wallet it really ends up in the liver highs eningsea Won't say that. And there's never any love it is 有从所莫及 Thrashes or patterns Yes there literally end up in the liver. 高频甚至在晕动化飙出 fighter agent and etcetera especially dies there are even some oh yeah and that's another thing too real quick before not to get off too much of a tangent but yes cortisol being too high will do that and sometimes if i'll pull cardio out for three days in a row just as an example so obviously they're getting a little more rest they're trening they're still trening obviously the cardio is gone and they're getting more sleep just that in and of itself with the cortisol reduction night and day difference to a body night and day difference i noticed too with pushing the stimulants and fat burners too hard too that sometimes can cause problems i've had people where i'll just tell them you know take two days off from the from the from the stimulants and pull them back and then get some sleep and then you'll see improvements sometimes too no absolutely IMean that's where i'll usually interject like phosphatidylserine and imodin things that will reduce cortisol ashwagandha rhodiola rosea melora l-theanine these are all things obviously you would take closer to sleep and that reduction in cortisol and just like you said coming down on the stimulants and you know if you're on any thyroid or anything like that too even taking a couple days break from that will will make a huge difference so IMean these are all things that people have if people are listening to us talk right now organically that this is how you coach people IMean this is this is how you coach you can't just do it because everybody else is doing it everybody's response is individualistic and that's exactly how you coach i'll get guys that want me to map out their diet and cycle for the whole 16 weeks and i'm like i can give you a framework but like i can't say where we're going to be at we just have to see see how your body reacts and adjust accordingly but IMean you know we all have a sort of framework we work from from but yes or you just take a bunch of trim that works too yeah man just do it load it up two grams a week man why not fuck it right if you want to die go for it don't do it don't do it kid i hate to cut short man i did want to talk to you about maybe we can do another one but dig into a little bit of cycles and stuff for yeah contest prep and offseason but i'm running short on time so maybe we can do a part two at some point and talk about the approach to that stuff i think people always think there's some secret formula man and there really isn't it's just basic stuff no at the end of the day yeah there's there's nothing that you know i always heard there's no secret foods or anabolics being grown in meter labs in california it's pretty much everybody's doing the same stuff now you know what's funny with the anabolics yeah it's like it's it's always the gym bros that are running all the weird off the wall shit and you know doing the weird cycles and then like i i talked to guys that are on the pro pro all the time and it's like all season test EQ you know or primo and gh you know maybe a little bit of insulin and that's it dude IMean i'll leave it at this because i don't want to i don't want to cut your time i know you got another one coming up but like i've talked to guys amateurs that IMean you know not to sound they didn't look great and these guys were running exotics like cytodrine and lasix into the you know the last day or two and i'm just like what like you missed the whole point of everything like you are thinking like this is going again the magic bullet right this is it this is this is what they're doing in kuwait right they're hooking me up to an iv and it's like oh my gosh guys listen burn the body fat preserve the muscle tissue work your round do your homework show up on show day ready in shape make it happen IMean this is this is crazy that people are getting into this nonsense so IMean it's wild stuff man well let's do another one at some point man and we can fill people in on this stuff what i know you have a supplement line and you got going now what stuff are you want to promote man what do you want to tell us about yeah so submit factory.com you can find out i have some of it back there right there i still need to pick up your gut revival i'll send it out to you brother i'll send it out to you as a fellow irritable bowel disease brother i know exactly what you're going through and how it feels it's up and down day to day man and prep can definitely run some havoc on it you can put a little bit of hot sauce on some chicken and be an hour later like dude i just made a huge move even while you're eating it you know you're gonna people laugh at me and my my my plain ass chicken and rice man it's like the only fucking thing i can eat the way it works man and you're not in pain so i hear you man but yeah what we listen i don't want to keep you i appreciate that rule we'll definitely talk about the supplement line we'll get into more prep bollocks layouts final week peaking whatever the case may be man i love talking about this stuff i know i haven't been around publicly so paul was able to be out there man i've been nagging for a while i've been nagginGHim i've been chasinGHim down folks so it took a while depending on a great job man paul keep up the great work brother you're doing an amazing job with just thank you for me you're putting out with these great guests man so i'm just honored to be on here thank you for having me hopefully this was educational we'll get more going a lot more if anybody has any further questions leave them in the comments section and next time maybe we can address them and we can go from there man yeah and i'll put your contact information in the description below so perfect you get that over to me i'll do that thank you for watching folks thank you