WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up everybody? Big Paul here today and I've got a muscle rant for you. I have not done one of these in a while. I've been in a fantastic mood since I've just been on TRT. My mood has been a-okay because I have not had any TRIN. I have not been blastinGHigh doses of androgen so I feel nice and mellow and nothing bothers me except gym bros and muscle nerds getting into pissing matches on social media. We're going to talk about that today. Who's right? Who's wrong? This whole silliness where gym bros and muscle nerds are going after each other and calling each other out, pointing out why the other one is wrong and specifically there's a couple influencers out there that are going back and forth after each other. Look, I get it. Sometimes people say stupid shit. Sometimes people say stuff that makes no sense. Sometimes there is that skinny guy who's read all the textbooks and studies and has never actually accomplished anything in the gym and it pisses you off when you see them telling you that you don't know what the fuck you're talking about. I get it but I'm going to rant about this in just one second. Muscle nerds versus bodybuilders. Who is right? So look, I get it. Controversy gets views on social media. Calling out that person, pointing out somebody who's an idiot, going specifically after other people. People love drama. People love to stir the pot and see everybody go at each other. Everybody wants to go to the circus and watch the clown show and there's been a lot going on on social media lately with the muscle nerds and the bro scientists, the bodybuilders, the gym bros, whatever the fuck you want to call them, going after each other, saying one doesn't know what the fuck they're talking about and then it's just this bash contest going back and forth, why you're wrong, why you're saying the incorrect thing, calling each other out and it's just fucking silly if you ask me. Here's the thing, nobody likes to know it all. I don't know why people haven't learned this in grade school. When you go around saying, hey, you don't know what you're talking about, Mr. X, you're an idiot, you're a dumbass, when you do that kind of stuff, it works for a period of time, you're going to get views, you're going to get likes, but eventually everybody thinks you're an asshole and ends up hating you. You might be right, you might be completely right, but when you're specifically calling people out and you make a living on social media going through and calling certain people out on their videos and being that guy to prove that you're right, you end up painting yourself in a corner. Nobody wants to be around you, nobody likes you, and it's been really bad with the gym bros versus the muscle nerds lately. And hey, I get it, there's some really idiotic stuff that gets said on social media all the time by both sides. You got the muscle nerds who like to call out the bodybuilders for being bro scientists and saying stuff that makes no sense, and believe me, there is some idiotic bro science stuff I see out there all the damn time that drives me nuts. And when you personally assault or attack people for saying stuff that you find to be incorrect or you disagree with, it just makes you look like a jerk. You just look like a class A jerk. Nobody likes that guy. Well, anyway, you were wrong about this. Nobody likes that guy. And the muscle nerds are doing it, and so are the gym bros. The gym bros like to go to bat with the muscle nerds and end up making themselves look like fools half the damn time. The whole thing is just embarrassing. Just stay in your lane, do your thing. And here's the thing, this is what kind of the conclusion I've gotten to with, and if your ideas are good, they should stand on their own two feet. They should stand on their own two feet. Now I look at it from the muscle nerd perspective, and I get why gym bros get pissed off at muscle nerds. You see these guys that read studies, that read textbooks, they're very well versed, they're very well educated, they're very knowledgeable on things. I was a science major in college. Granted, it was nothing to do with bodybuilding. I was a computer science major, and IMajored in computer science and data analytics. I love science. I love reasoning studies. I love talking to people that are very knowledgeable when it comes to science. But here's the thing. I think that's the problem with a lot of the muscle science guys out there, the muscle nerds. They're absolutist. They do not leave any room for other possibilities, things that could potentially, might not be in a study, aka a bodybuilder running a thousand grams a test, taking 10 units of GH, running insulin, doing all sorts of other crazy shit. They don't do studies on people like us. That highly trened individual in the study is not on a gram of gear. I promise you, that's not, there's no study that would get funded that would be ethical to show any of this stuff. I don't know. Maybe there is somewhere, but you can't paint everything into a study. And I would say this for the muscle nerd crowd, don't be absolutist on things. Keep your mind open to the possibility that there may be things outside of the studies that exhibit some merit and that may actually work. And a lot of times what I've seen over the years is that real science eventually catches up with bro science. Now, sometimes bro science says some stuff that's absolutely idiotic and completely wrong and nonsensical. That is very much true. And I say, it's okay to point it out. Just don't attack individuals. When you attack individuals, you make yourself look like a jackass and everybody ends up hating that guy. Nobody likes the guy that goes around talking about why specific people are wrong. You just end up painting yourself in a corner. And here's the thing with science. Science is a process of discovery in curiosity. I would think rather than writing off all of the bodybuilders, the guys who are actually big, the guys that have gotten huge and figured out how to get in, get huge with bro science, maybe you would take some time to be interested in what they're actually doing. Look into it, find out, have some intellectual curiosity rather than being a study absolutist and saying that, no, that doesn't work. Clearly that bodybuilder has done something that works because he got bigger than you did. Now on the Jim bro side of things, there is some serious, serious Dunning-Kruger effect going on. I love when dudes who have no background, no education, go after PhDs thinking that they're going to compete with a PhD on biochemistry or biomechanics, arguing biomechanics with somebody who has an advanced degree with a guy who barely passed high school geometry class, or maybe not even that. Dude that's trying to go after a PhD in biochemistry when he didn't even take high school chemistry class. IMean, that's just nuts to me. That's like trying to step in the ring and box with Mike Tyson. You're making yourself look like an idiot and you're embarrassing yourself when you do that. Look, I get it, punching up, that whole deal, you're making yourself look like a dumbass. But here's the thing, this is what this is what I go back to. We all are after the same thing. We're trying to get to the truth. We all love bodybuilding. We all love getting in shape. We all want to do better. Why not work together on some of this stuff? Here's the thing, and this is an argument I hear the bros make all the time, well you're not big so you don't know what the fuck you're talking about. I get that. There should be some application to the theory, but sometimes being big is not a prerequisite for knowing what the fuck you're talking about. You can be incredibly intelligent and not be big. We look at some of the guys that trensformed bodybuilding. I look back to the 90s. IMean, Dan Duchesne, without Dan Duchesne there would be none of bodybuilding as it's currently constructed. The guy was a freaking genius and was the first to really understand how PEDs work and leverage PEDs, and he looked like he never touched a weight in his life. We would have totally missed out on people like that. So we have to consider other people's opinions. I just find it when you go after people, when you act like a jerk, when you're an asshole, it just makes you look bad and eventually it's just going to be a problem. People are going to stop listening to you. It's going to create adversarial relationships. You're not going to like the long-term result when you're constantly calling people out. It's just, and I see it all the time, I see these guys on social media that call other people out and then they get defensive when somebody comes back after them. And it's just this back and forth dick measuring contest that just goes on where people just look like idiots and make themselves look like complete assholes. And you're embarrassing yourself when you're doing it. I'm not saying that I am innocent of this, but I just think let's be a little bit kinder to each other. Let's consider other ideas. And if somebody says something that's completely idiotic and off-kilter, you don't need to personally attack them. Just present your ideas and if your ideas are great, people will listen to you. All right folks, that's all I got for you on this rant. Let me know in the comments section below who do you think is right or wrong. The bro scientists, the muscle nerds, I think the people that are fighting, I think both of you are wrong. I think you're both acting juvenile and immature. Let's be a little kinder to each other. Let's listen to each other. I don't like the whole culture of calling each other out on social media. I find it to be tasteless. It's great for views. It's great for entertainment. If I were smarter, I'd probably be a little more controversial and talk about shit like that, but not my style. I don't like being in the culture of calling people out. I find it to be kind of gross to be honest with you. Anyway folks, that's all I've got for you. Let me know in the comments section below what you think. I appreciate each and every one of you. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com