 Warning! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, Battle Tested, Expert Formulated. Use discount code AB10 and check out for 10% off. Well, I'm good, man. We're going to talk some prima-bolans today. We've already done HGH. We did some trend. It's funny. Everybody came out of the woodwork on the HGH one. I knew that would happen, that the HGH haters got quite a few of the people they were saying, it's like the worst drug that ever happened to bodybuilding. I don't know why people take HGH. There's so many, I don't want to go down too far down that rabbit hole, there's so many myths around HGH that just aren't true. We'll have to do a whole other episode just to debunk some of that stuff too. Yeah. My ebook should be ready to go shortly. We're just getting it formatted. Yeah, I got a lot of people asking me about the ebook, man. I probably had a dozen people message me, where can I get the ebook? You can't cover pretty much any questions. You read it. I mean, it's pretty much covered a question. Yeah, it's very comprehensive. We'll let you know when that's up, folks. Let's talk some primo, man. Let's go behind the history of primo, when the primo came about. Primo came about in kind of what we would call the golden age of steroids when all pharmaceutical companies were rushing to come up with the next best thing to replace testosterone. So their official push was to find a safe alternative for women and children. A large part of it was actually to help beat the Russians in sports. We knew the Russians were using the cold war. We were just trying to figure out better drugs to help us win some games. We had to have better track times. Yeah, so primo was kind of born out of that. It was first described in 1960 as a molecule, and it was first put into medical use in 1962 by shearing. And that's where it got its name from. It was originally called Nipple and Nipple Depot. And it's changed a couple of times. It went from shearing to squib to seabagaibe, and now currently under Bayer. So it's been in production since 1962 pretty much straight through. Yeah, I know the real primo, you can really only get it overseas now, you know, in Turkey and Japan and places like that. The Rimmel Bowl and the Bayer makes. It's changed, yeah. I'm not sure why the name changed, but I guess for a pattern of reasons, they redid it. Probably. So, Prilvan is a DHT. It's a synthetic drug. It's not naturally found in any human or mammal. It's an androesthetian steroid, which means it was derived from testosterone versus like an esterine, a steroid that's derived from estrogen. So like nandrolone is an esterine. It starts at estrogen, and then it's converted to nandrolone, whereas all the testosterone-based DHT things are androesthetians. It's pretty similar to actual DHT. It has the same ketone group on carbon-3 that they all have. That carbon is what helps to bind with the androreceptor. That's one of the key features of most anabox steroids. And then it also has a carbon bond at carbon-1 and 2, a double bond of carbon-1 and 2. If someone actually corrected me on my post on Instagram the other day about it being broken down, similar to DHT, 3-alpha hydroxy steroid hydrinase. So I looked in more into it. So it is broken down slightly. DHT is fully broken down and basically disables. So it looks like Prilvan is slightly broken down in the muscle. So it's part of the reason why it's not quite as effective as some stronger steroids, but I would say it's pretty irrelevant. So the interesting thing about Prilvan 2 is it has a methyl group at carbon-1 that allows it to be taken orally. So it's available in two forms, Primoque and Amphib, which is typically the injection, and Prilvan acetate, which is typically the oral. What separates the oral version and the acetate is that it's not C7-alkylated, so it doesn't really jack up your liver quite like Winsraw or any of those. Oral Primo is really difficult to find. I don't know that I've ever seen it in the wild. Okay, I've seen it. It usually comes in 25 milligrams. Yeah, I've never used it. I personally never used it. It's probably not, it's not going to be as strong as the injectable. You'd be better off with using the injection. So the interesting thing is the injectable Prilvan amethylate still has that methyl group at carbon-1. So you will see if you use an Osprimon that your liver enzymes might be slightly elevated because it'll still impact your liver a little bit, just not quite as much as a carbon-17. So for people that haven't taken organic chemistry the farther up on the carbon chain that you move with a methyl group, the worse it is for your liver typically. So when you're on carbon-1, it's really benign, and carbon-17 is really not good. But you're going to preserve more of the drug by pushing it farther up to carbon-17. So that's why like a D-ball, they have that methyl group there. I want to back up for a second. Can you explain a little bit more detail about dehydranase and how it destroys DHT and makes it not anabolic in the muscle? So our muscles contain this enzyme. So testosterone is 5-alpha reduced to DHT in certain tissues, and then it's further, when it binds to the receptor, it's basically then further broken down by a bunch of enzymes. It turns into metabolites, and basically it no longer will cause any sort of muscle growth. In the human body, DHT is not really designed for hypertrophy. It's more to express secondary male characteristics. Yeah, that's the way I look at it. It's a sex hormone. Yeah, so you might want to deal with it in those terms. Hair and hard-ons. Yeah, it'll still bind to the end of the receptor. It's just not going to express the same gene set. And this is another thing too that I remind guys. I get these guys that think, and I would assume most people know this, but I get a lot of guys that think something like phenosteroid or any 5AR inhibitors going to help with hair loss with this, but it's already reduced. It's not going to make any efforts. The only story that those drugs would work with would be testosterone, really. If it's already 5F reduced, there's nothing to stop. And in certain drugs like nandrolin, we could do a nandrolin video sometime. It'll actually make it worse. It'll actually make your hair loss worse if you take a 5AR blocker with nandrolin. A lot of guys don't know that, but run that because they were using testosterone, and then a nandrolin, and a hair will fall out. Yeah, I did know that. I remember Derek from More Plates, More Dates talking about that and how it blocks the conversion to DHN, which is actually safer, correct? Yeah, technically nandrolin is more androgenic than testosterone. You kind of want it to convert to DHN. Yeah, the DHN. If it goes too much, then obviously it causes sexual problems. Right. So, milligram, kind of the cool thing about, so premalvalen, like we were talking about before we started recording, premalvalen is historically viewed as either a girl steroid or a very weak steroid. It's totally incorrect, and it's funny in the last five or six years, I feel like you've really seen it come to the forefront. Yeah. You guys use it a lot. A really big guy's use premal now. It tends to be very safe. I'd say probably it's the highest safety profile I've been a steroid. It is on a milligram for milligram basis, it's pretty much the same as testosterone and most of the other analog steroids as far as muscle growth is concerned. I think what guys are doing most likely because of the poor oil solubility with it, so it comes in 100 milligrams per ml and for the cost, guys are not running enough of it. So, if you look at it in terms of a milligram basis, if you were to run 200 milligrams of testosterone, would you expect to grow a lot of muscle? Probably not. No. You're saying is it going to run 200 milligrams of premal? So this is why the guys in the 70s were using 100 a day, right? What's these guys that think were running 700 milligrams of premal? I have seen UGL Primo that's dose to 200 milligrams. Man, it hurts like hell. It wants to fall out of solution. Yeah, it is. It is very, very, very painful injections with the 200 milligram premal that I found. Primo is, in my experience, has some of the worst PIP out of any steroid I've ever used. So, that's probably from using the formal grade stuff, right? You reason there? Both. I've tried both. I've used the Bayer and the UGL stuff. The UGL stuff is even worse. You had the underground lab stuff. Yeah. So, I would say on the Bayer side, on the pharmaceutical side, they've removed BB benzoate from it because infants have a tendency to be allergic to it. And it's used in small children pretty often. And it was removed, but that also is one of the things that gets rid of that PIP. So, on the underground lab side, I'd be curious if it's that dose to 100 milligrams. 200 are the ones I was seeing. 200 would hurt. Yeah, that's just going to be a concentration issue. But, man, the bears kick like a mule. Yeah, when you remove the benzoate, it's going to do that. Yeah, they're pretty rough. Yeah, okay. So, it has a very low affinity for sex hormone and binding lab. I know a lot of guys are now very obsessed with SHBG. SHBG. To me, sex hormone and binding lab is kind of like a non-issue. I would generally just let your body deal with it the way it's going to deal with it. Only 16% of, it binds to that with only 16% of testosterone and only like 3% of DHT itself. So, it's not really being carried like that. It's mostly staying as a free hormone in the blood. It's closest chemical cousin is Proviron, actually. And then after that, it would be pretty similar to Anivore. And Proviron has no anabolic properties whatsoever, correct? Yeah, because it's missing that bond. So, that bond is basically not allowing it to really work with that enzyme. Proviron is basically oral DHT. Yeah, I know a lot of guys like to run Proviron on contest prep for our hardener. Yeah, and it probably kind of, like I always think of it like it's a suicide thing. It almost like waste itself so that things become more effective, right? I'm not really sure what actual muscle hardening, I'm sure of it being a DHT, but I don't know what actually affects, you know, Proviron really has on muscle. I know it doesn't cause muscle growth per se. No. So, a lot of people also are confused with Mastron and Prima, right? So, I think the simplest way to say it is Mast is basically like Pormans Prima bond. Right. Or the easiest way to say that. They're very similar. I would say a good way to look at steroids is how they were used clinically. And it kind of explains what they do. So, Mastron was typically used in a place where you were looking for no tissue growth versus Prima bond was used for a place where we were looking for anabolism. You know, and it was usually used in anemia. So, the production red lip cells is still considered an anabolic effect. So, they're kind of opposites in that way. I think the overall outcome of using one or the other is that they're very similar. Mastron probably tends to be a little drier. You know, there's some mineral loss in stuff of Mastron. Beside that, they're pretty interchangeable. I don't know what your experience between the two. Yeah, I have found, you know, this is all just bro-sciencey anecdotal stuff, but I have found that Mastron gives me a drier look. Primo, I seem to grow better with Primo. But I do tell people that if you can't afford Primo, I'd rather you save your money, get Mastron and buy some GH. If you had the budget to a lot in one area, I would save the Primo money, run Mastron and get GH. I would agree with that. Yeah, you're going to get a lot more out of it that way. Yeah, I think that's a better use of your funds. I've also like one of the things I tell guys that I have noticed is that both PrimoBall and Mastron, actually, I think the real benefit of both of them is that it makes your testosterone work better. Yeah, it definitely does. You can see that. You get less estrogen conversion. Estrogen conversion goes down. You get in free testosterone is higher. Yeah, I would say Mastron has a stronger effect on estrogen. Primo definitely has some. And it was used, I only know one study where Primo was used for women's breast cancer, but I used a huge amount of 1200 milligrams a week. And when I run Primo with my testosterone at about 80% of the dose, my estrogen cuts in half. Okay, that seems about right. Yep, that's what I have seen. Mastron does have a stronger effect. It was interesting. I've read John Dewitt on this past weekend, and John was talking about Contest Prep, how he doesn't, he doesn't run an AI. He said what he'll do is he just keeps cranking up his Mastron dose until he gets his estrogen at a point where he wants it for fat loss or he'll place with that ratio of Mastron to testosterone. He'll place testosterone down, increase the Mastron to get himself dried up and looking good for end of show and pull his estrogen where he needs it to be, to be crisp on stage. It's probably a better method than running an AI if you don't need it. Yeah, I thought that was a better methodology. His theory was instead of throwing another drug at it, you can pour another anabolic on it. Yeah, especially when the AI isn't really doing anything but blocking, at that point, blocking. Blocking aromatase, yeah. And what you were just saying about the dosing at 80%, I mean, my understanding is the standard dose of two testosterone in premon is generally one to one ratio. One to one, yeah. And then it's not all depending. I mean, that becomes a liquid volume problem or a money problem. I mean, the reason I end up at 80% is just simple math because the UGL premos dose to 250, or 200, and the UGL test is dose to 250, so it just works out that way. So if I'm running a gram of test, I'm running 800 milligrams of premon. If I'm doing one CC of H, that's simple. And I think that that's also one of the reasons why for years, it didn't do well clinically as far as building muscle. Like in animals, when it was tested, it didn't really do a lot. Or in humans, it was always used as monotherapy. So I mean, if you ran premon alone, I'm really not sure how much tissue you'd build without estrogen there. Right. Well, it's kind of why nowadays we kind of learn that you need testosterone as a base or something. The only really other. The only other kind of valid option, I guess, would be dianimal, but not something that I would choose. Right. So why don't you run that? I mean, that's essentially what the guys did. Everybody gets obsessed with the guys in the 70s and the early 80s not running testosterone, but they were running D-ball. Yeah, and then they knew enough to pull the D-ball before a show, right? Yeah, that was there. They would run Primo in D-ball, and then, exactly, they would yank the D-ball out before the show. Yeah, if you look at the cycles of any of those guys, no need to name names, but everyone that was on the Olympia stage from the mid-70s probably did. Everybody knows, you know, you talk to those old guys, aren't old and all those dudes were. Yeah, it's the same exact cycle for all of them. Yep. You know, Zane, all of them, right? And then they would bring the Primo up a little bit and probably swap out the D-ball for a wind straw. And then the offseason, it was Deca and D-ball. That's what they ran. Yeah. In contest prep, it was a Primo D-ball, and they'd yank the Primo at the end, or maybe throw in some wind straw. That's what they did. You're talking about, like, being used with anemia. It actually, it appears to be the second on the list for red blood cell count production. I've heard that, that it's right behind Equipoi. I've heard that it's really looking greater. So, in some studies, show that oxymethylone is equal to Primo-ball, and Equipoi is actually below it. Now, in reality, I'm not sure if that's true. There also could be a dose thing, right? Most guys are going to grant a grand of EQ. Most guys are going to grant a grand of Primo. I haven't seen that it elevates me the same way that EQ does. I don't know if in reality that proves to be true, but it does elevate red blood cell count significantly. And that's kind of where it was used, right? And that also could be one of the short comments, right? But I would, beside that, I would say Primo-ball is probably, assuming you have some sort of estrogen source, I would say Primo-ball is probably the perfect anabolic that's out there. Yeah, I mean, it is essentially side effect free from what I've seen. The only thing that I have noticed, it does seem on blood work, it does seem to suppress HDL a bit. They're all in a different way. All DHT derivatives do that. I also think that reputation for being weak is bros associating side effects with strength. So you get a lot of stupid Jim Brose that think because D-ball and things like Tren make them feel like shit, that that is them growing and having some sort of effect, or being bloated is a lot of guys confuse bloat with muscle growth. Yeah, they look at the scale. Yeah, they look at the scale. They get obsessed with the scale. You get these guys that say, well, you don't really gain much, or you lose all your size when you come off cycle. It's just water. I don't have that experience with Primo-ball. And at least the theory is the, it seems to be the case with Anabar too, at least in studies. That mostly you seem to keep bloat retropotin. Yeah. People often they've tested them again, they've measured them, you know, six months later they still have that tissue that was built versus, you know, Dianabar, you don't retain any. I'm not even sure how much tissue is really built. No, Dianabar in my experience is just all bloat. Yeah. This is water and mineral retention. That's a thing too, we were talking about beforehand, is that it seems to be all pro bodybuilders come to similar conclusions. I have noticed that once guys hit that pro level, they stop using all the toxic compounds. And most of the guys I talked to, the offseason, they run Test, Primo, HGH, and insulin. That's it. Yeah. Now they run, they might run high doses. Yeah. But that's sort of the. That's what the things are done, right? Yeah. All the D-ball, anodrol, trend, all that stuff gets dropped in the offseason. It's no longer around once guys turn pro. I think they start thinking about the sustainability of their careers and then they just through trial and error figure out the other stuff just is not worth it. Yeah. Now, and not that it wouldn't be more effective, but Primo is probably one of the more faked steroids. Yeah. Because it's not going to produce a no dose result very quickly. When it's faked, the standard thing is it's generally 75% masteron and 25% test progenate because that kind of mimics the effects of what Primo will generate. That also, if someone is using underground lab Primo that's dose at 100 per CC and they're getting some sort of pain from the injection, it's most likely that and not real Primo dose at 100. Assuming it has Benzo-Benzui in it, shouldn't cause, you know. I have seen most of the fake Primo I've seen from UGLs has turned out to be masteron. Yeah. It's cheap. It's cheap and most people are not going to know the difference between that. I have heard of equipoise, but although I think. No, it could be. From what I've heard recently is that people have gotten so wise to it that the UGLs are not doing that anymore. Yeah. Although the HALM testing stuff just shows the presence of a drug, it doesn't even, you could just have like a milligram of Primo and it'll still test, right? Yeah. I don't know how those filamentous tests work, but a lot of people have those home tests now and are calling labs out on stuff. Yeah. Or the lab may be getting shake powder and they don't know it. They never know. It depends on where it's from, right? I mean, most of the balls are made in China at this point. So that's another issue. But I feel like, well, maybe I'm wrong about this, but I feel like the fake Primo thing has been vastly overstated. It's sort of like the fake GH thing. I'm sure there is some running around. I have sent stuff off from testing and I've only once had fake Primo. It was masteron. Yeah. We think also as it grows more popular to just less fake stuff out there, I think. Well, then there are a lot of female competitors that use it, so they don't want to screw it up. Although I do know, I don't want to name names, but I do know a female competitor that thought she had Primo on her prep and they got it. She couldn't lose weight. She was staying bloated up and got a test done on the Primo and it was actually DECA. I don't know why they would fake Primo bowling with DECA. Because they don't care about your health. I guess. That's an odd, odd thing unless it was just a mislabeled thing. Yeah. I mean, I know a female competitor who thought she was using Anabar and it turned out to be Anadrol. Wow. She grew a lot. Hey, I'm sure she did. Grew an Adam's apple. Yeah, there's some side effects there. Yeah. Singing baritone in the choir afterwards. But yeah, I don't know. I mean, you do have to exercise some caution. That's why before I was just plunking down the money and getting the real bare stuff, but it's also really hard to source. Yeah, if it's only in those two countries at this point. And I don't know if it's possible that the Japanese stuff is also being manufactured for other countries and not aware. I've only seen the Japanese and the Turkish stuff now. It wasn't Spain at 1.2, but I think they pulled that. And it's ridiculously expensive. It's like growth hormone level of pricing. Which so, I mean, that's probably just the market too. But when it's manufactured, it is actually very fragile as molecule. So it gets destroyed really easily. And that's part of the cost similar to Anabar. They're just very, very difficult to make from scratch. And the odds of you wrecking it, if you were to make it from scratch, most underground labs are not making the raw from scratch. They're buying the raw and just adding oil to it. But if you would actually synthesize it, it is incredibly fragile. Okay, so the manufacturing of it, I'm sure the labs that are making the raw are charging more for the grant for, you know, the another. So it's the manufacturing of the raw that's difficult, not the actual. Yeah, it just, it can get ruined really easily with heat. You know, actually, it's just not so easy to just like that too. If you actually let it boil, it's junk. Yeah, the testee can be heated over boiling point and it'll be fine. Testes if it boils, the whole thing is garbage. Yeah, I didn't know that. That's interesting. Yeah, that astrotest doesn't like heat. Yeah, that's really, really interesting. But all right, so let's let's talk about dosing a little bit. I know we touched on it briefly earlier. And by no means is this a recommendation, but this is typically what I have seen other bodybuilders do. It's not what I'm saying you should do, but the majority of pros that I talked to that are running primable. And as you mentioned, Kurt are running higher doses. They're running up around a gram or more of primable and alongside their testosterone. And I mentioned that I'm running at 80%. That's purely just math of how pulling one CC of each comes out. But it's somewhere between that and one for one with your your testosterone. I have seen some people that will absolutely bury their estrogen running primable and too high. I've seen other guys that that doesn't happen to. But that's typically what I see is primable and being around with testosterone. Sometimes I'll see guys sprinkle in pros will sprinkle in a little bit of nangelo with it as well. Just a tiny little bit, like a third or even less 25% of what they're running the dose at and HGH and insulin. If that's a typical pro offseason cycle would be your test primable and maybe a sprinkle sprinkle of nangelo. Maybe not GH and insulin. That's what I see most pro bodybuilders doing in the offseason. If it's not primable and it's equipoise or masteron the other two choices. And I would say on the low end because you get a lot of guys probably that that follow you that are not running. I'd say on the low end. It's not to say 200 milligrams of it wouldn't have any benefit, but it's you're probably going to get very little out of that. I would say probably under three, 50 or 400 is probably it's almost not worth the time to use. I feel like just like testosterone. Once you're out at the really beginner stages, it's probably about 500, 600 and minimum. You know what I've wondered and this is something I've speculated about is for the TRT crowd. If it wouldn't make more sense. All these guys are on AIs. It wouldn't make more sense just to run a low dose of primable or masteron instead. Well, I'd probably be better. Yeah. And I would say from an aesthetic point of view, I would think again, I don't have anything to back it up. But if you were on, let's say you run 200 milligrams of testosterone for TRT. If you were to use 100 milligrams of tests and 100 milligrams of like mass law, like the Masty or Prima Bonanetha, I would probably think you'd get a better look from that than you would get 200 milligrams of tests. It'd be harder. Yeah, I would think so too. Most of you would not need an AI? Yeah, you shouldn't. 100 milligrams of tests and you need an AI. You probably need to have some genetic testing to figure out what's going on there. There are some people that are high converters. I'm a higher converter, but I've seen some insane stuff. No, I've seen some insane stuff though, man. I had a guy one time that had a estradiol level over 2,000. I couldn't believe it, man. Yeah, it's wild. I know why is it kept running more than 150 tests without huge estrogen issues and then an AI crushes it. And I've seen the opposite. I've seen guys, I had another guy I worked with that, like he basically had no estrogen at all, almost none, just naturally. And he didn't know set of kits or? I mean, he seemed to be all right. He got stayed super lean, but I've noticed like what I have noticed, and I'm kind of getting off on a tangent here, is the guys that tend to stay super lean are lower estrogen converters and the guys that tend to be fat. I guess you're... I don't understand. The fat is, what's the somatotype? Not ectomorph. Endomorph. Endomorphs tend to be higher estrogen converters. Which came first though? Did they get fat and then they produce more enzyme? Maybe, but I, when I'm looking at cycles for somebody, I would consider this and when you're building your own cycle, if you tend to be somebody who accumulates body fat more easily, I would lean into something like primabolan or masteron as your primary anabolic as versus guys seem to be obsessed with DECA, D-ball, things like that. That would be a horrible choice if you're a guy that tends to be fat. I would definitely weigh that in the decision making process. Whereas if you're on the opposite end of this spectrum, if you're 8% body fat ectomorph who doesn't accumulate muscle, maybe something that would promote more estrogen conversion would be better for you. You're just more, you know, or just general volume, naturally thin. I read something, and of course I'm off on a side tangent now, but I read the study about how nangelone actually causes upregulation of Aromatae's expression. What progesterone does, so yes, if you want anything that's, that method seen today, I posted on trust alone on ment, and that's kind of what you see there too. Is it actually, it's not really producing that much estrogen, but the progesterone effects are huge. And so that monstrous effect there is pushing up the, see then you just, Interesting. That's the effect from, nangelone can definitely do that. If your test isn't, and it's probably an individual thing, but your testosterone has to be in a sweet spot with nangelone, it won't refer to work rate. Right. Otherwise you just hold a ton of fluid and look horrible. But on its own, it doesn't do that, right? They ran DECA only cycles. Yeah, everybody did back then, like Mentzer, all those guys. And none of them held a whole lot of water. So it was more when you, if you, if there's estrogen present with those things, then it's going to magnify. I used to run DECA only cycles when I was younger and they really made me look great. Yeah, you feel it. Awful. I couldn't get an erection and I had no sex drive. So. Very short lived. Yeah, it was, they weren't fun. They weren't fun. All right, Kurt, I think it's a good spot to wrap up, buddy. I really appreciate you coming on today. And people, if you want to get ahold of Kurt, I'm going to put his contact information in the video description below. Hopefully we'll have the ebook up soon. Oh, yeah. What, what the, it's atomic life. Right. Atomic life coaching.com. Atomic life coaching.com. Go there to check out Kurt guys. If you want to book a console or hit Kurt up for some science.  inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions inventions