 Warning! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, Battle Tested, Expert Formulated. Use discount code AB10 and check out 410% OFF. Alright folks, Big Tall here today with Kurt Havens. We're gonna not talk about steroids today for a change of heart. We're gonna talk about the science of carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are something that people get very emotional about. And hopefully we can pull back the curtain and show people that carbohydrates are not the enemy, that they're actually your friend if you're a bodybuilder and they are going to improve your performance in the gym. We're gonna kind of take a high level look at what the various forms of carbohydrates are, how your body metabolizes them, and what role they play in performance in the gym. And we'll sort of dig into all that and hopefully demystify it a little bit and show you why it makes sense to eat carbohydrates if you want to be the best bodybuilder you could possibly be. What's going on, Kurt? Nothing, man. Yeah, this is kind of like a kind of an ongoing hard topic, right? Yeah, I mean it's a constant debate that I am having with guys on social media that they all think the carbs are the enemy. I mean there are certain situations, I always have looked at diet as a tool, it's a tool in your tool belt, and there are various tools for various jobs and you want to choose the appropriate tool for the appropriate job. So like if you have somebody that has severe metabolic disorder, insulin resistance, obese, you probably want to be sparing with carbohydrates. We're not very mindful of that. But I think most of what we'll talk about is probably with bodybuilders, you know, athletes, or weak and worse, guys in the gym that are trying to look better. Yeah, and we're going to focus on that aspect of it. So if you're a dude that wants to perform your best in the gym, look your best. Maybe you're an amateur bodybuilder, maybe you're a powerlifter, maybe you're just a gym bro that wants to look good at the club on the weekend, or I went to my class reunion yesterday, a gym class reunion, carbohydrates are your friend. So let's start from the top down. Well, I'm going to share my screen here. We'll talk about what, I think it's important to sort of look at carbs at a high level and understand what the various types of carbs are, what they are at a high level carbohydrates are just a sugar, correct? Yep. What collection, sugar or collection of sugar molecules? Yeah, and to, and to, and I think to even be more basic, right? Well, I think one of the arguments is that people will say, well, carbohydrates are not a required thing for the human body, right? We don't, there's no such thing as required carbohydrate in the human body. Right. That means that glucose is required for the human body. So if we don't give ourselves carbohydrates to our diet, your body will make glucose, right? Primarily through breaking down protein. Right. Making it from fat is a very tedious and long process of the generally, it's certainly not that efficient, especially during exercise. You're not going to cleave a glycerol off the triglyceride to make glucose wider than it needs. Not really going to happen. No, it's not. It's not a ready accessible fuel source that's going to get you through your workout. So it's, it's just at the end of the day, I tell people it's a survival mechanism. Yep. So literally when you eat a keto or, or carnivore diet, that's it. That is, it's just, it's basically your body, your body will make what it needs, but it's like the bare minimum for survival. It's not going to be optimal for performance in the gym. I was just going to say, so you need roughly average person needs like 140 grams of glucose a day just for their nervous system to function. So you got to figure you're already starting up the whole, if you're eating less than that. Yeah. Anybody that's run low carbs at the end of contest prep to get that extra bit of fat off, they know what it feels like when you dip below. Usually I found when I get below 150 grams of carbs, that's when your brain stops working. And the first thing you notice is the brain fog. Yeah, it's the brain fog. That's, that's the first symptom. And your brain literally runs on glucose. Yeah. And it cannot. So it kind of an interesting fact. So it can run on glucose, right? And it can run on ketones as a backup, but it cannot run on dietary fat. And the reason why is because the brain is 60% fat. So if the brain could actually run on fat, it wouldn't have less itself. It would eat itself. Correct. So it cannot, the brain cannot function on dietary fat. Yeah. And I think a thing that like guys don't understand, they talk about how you don't need carbohydrates, but it's that your body is making what it needs just to keep going. And if that were true that you didn't need carbohydrates type one, diabetics wouldn't die. You literally, they used to call, I believe type one diabetes before they understood what it was. It was called wasting disease or wasting disorder and type one diabetics could eat all the food they want. And they would literally waste away, starve until, until. Also coma. Yeah. You'd fall into a coma and die because your body couldn't, couldn't utilize any carbohydrates. They used to put them in rooms and hospitals together, you know, before the 1920s and they would just die. It's a pretty horrible way to die too. All right, Jim Bros. I'm going to interrupt this regularly scheduled broadcast to tell you about the new science of HGH ebook by Kurt. Havens. It is available on the anabolic bodybuilding website for download right now. There is a link in the video description below for the ebook. If you want to pick it up, it is probably the most comprehensive ebook about performance enhancement use with HGH over 100 pages of information with references. And it's awesome. Go check it out. All right, so let's take a look at the from top down what carbohydrates are. What carbohydrates are we have at basically we have two categories here. We have simple and complex and simple. We have your single and then dual sugar bonds here and complex or many sugar. So we have the monosaccharides, which is a single sugar, which we have glucose, fructose, galactose. And then we in disaccharides, we have maltose, sucrose, lactose. And then in complex, we have starch, glycogen and fiber at a high level. Glucose is the most abundant carbohydrate in the body. Glycogenesis in which the liver converts glucose into glycogen for storage. So glucose is converted to readily converted to glycogen in the body. So glucose is probably the best thing that for us for glycogen storage. And it's a one way. So in muscles, at least it's a one way pathway. So it's synthesized, but it can't be released unless there's exercise. Like you're not going to, you can only use the glycogen in your liver to free of legend. So you don't pull glucose out of your muscles to run your body. Yeah, typically, unless you're completely depleting the endocontasprud, then that may that rule may. Yeah, with no exercise without stimulation. Yeah, it's so the whole thing like where people don't, I think for most of these keto and carnivore diets, why they work for for most people is most people are sedentary. They're not actually using any glycogen. And people want really immediate stuff, right? We live in a country where everything's instant. So when you first drop your carbide, it's really low. The first thing you need to do is lose water. So these guys will get these guys will get on the scale will be 10 pounds lighter in a week because they lost like. And so I met a little pure thinner, right? Because it makes your makes you look thinner when you're depleted. Yep. And for the average person that doesn't look fantastic to begin with that that initial weight drop makes it look initially better. Right. So then they stick with this. Yep. Yeah. And that's another point too. I try to make people like with the rapid weight loss or weight gain, you can you can do the math on it. You can do the math on it. A pound of fat is roughly 3500 calories. So in order, we talk about that 10 pound weight loss. So if you were to metabolize 10 pounds worth of fat, that is 35000 calories of fat in a week. So that would be 5000 calories a day. You are not metabolizing 5000 calories of fat in a day. Well, that's that's in a vacuum too, right? Because you're not just going to metabolize fat. Right. The body doesn't want to do just that. Right. So that whole that whole, you know, when I hear people say, well, I lost 10 pounds in a week or two weeks, you didn't lose 10 pounds of fat in two weeks. Yeah. Literally a lot of times I'll see people where they actually their body fat percentage will go up. Yep. Yeah. You're just losing muscle, muscle, weight, and they're not actually losing any fat. The, and what really determines like to keep it like on a really understandable level, what determines people say, well, what determines if it's going to be muscle loss or fat loss, typically in a really simple way is, is really a function of diet and exercise. So if you just cut your calories to a point that you'd be in a deficit to lose body weight, but you don't exercise and your protein is below the minimum threshold, most of the weight is going to come off as muscle. Right. Right. So in order to shift the, the, it to mostly fat loss, your protein has to be high. I mean, there's some things that just are non negotiable. So the protein has to be high. And by high, I mean, you know, 0.8 grams per pound. It's not, that's 500 grams of protein a day. And you have to strengthen it because the body needs to see a reason to keep that muscle tissue. This is no reason. It's not going to keep proteins at this is elevated and protein breakdown will increase. And it's much easier for your body to take amino acids like alimine out of the muscles to make glucose to really efficient process. And once I want to pull that the muscles. Yeah, I hear a lot of the carnivore guys, they make the argument for gluconidogenesis that your body is going to make all of the glucose that it needs. It will. It's not efficient. Right. And you got it. You have to do thousands of grams of protein in order to sustain that, which means you're not getting any protein to our muscle proteins. This is another waste of it. And I don't think people understand that gluconidogenesis is literally a catabolic process. Yes. Right. Yeah. I mean, that's at the most simple, at the most simple level, that's really all it is. And we want to prevent catabolism when we're trying to grow muscle. Ideally. But anyone looking to this, their goal probably is to look better, right? And if I lose the muscle and not necessarily losing the fat, you're probably not going to look any better. Yeah, we can do the math too on the glycogen depletion too. So I mean, we talked about it briefly before, but it's really it's somewhere between three to four parts water per gram of of. Yeah, glucose. So, I mean, let's just assume three. So if you have a thousand grams of stored glycogen and you lose that thousand grams of stored glycogen, you're going to lose 3000 grams of of water along with it too. So you have four kilograms, which is 8.8 pounds of my math is correct here. So that there's your nine pound weight loss that you had in the week. You may have lost a pound of fat, but you probably lost nine pounds of glycogen with it as well. And again, not to get too complicated, but a hydrated muscle, meaning a muscle that's full of glycogen because it has water. Carbohydrate, the reason why the end part is hydrated is because the water content. Hydrated muscle that's full of glycogen is an adiabolic muscle, right? And a muscle that's deputed of glycogen is not an adiabolic muscle for multiple reasons, but it's as simple as that. You don't want to be flat and try to grow. Right. Yeah. I mean, it's just the whole process of that. It's just really nonsensical that people think that that is an efficient way to do things. And then, you know, you toss in gluconeogenesis on top of it, so your glycogen depleted. To be truly in ketosis to people that run keto diets, your protein has to be pretty low. Yeah. Most people that do keto are not actually keeping ketosis. No, they're not doing keto. They just call it keto by name only. I guess really it would be more of a carnivorous, phytolebot. The body, so we use like 160 grams of glucose as an example. It's like we're talking about maintaining the body at a minimum amount of glucose. The body will convert amino acids to glucose at a 30% efficiency rate. So the body's pretty good at breaking protein down to make glucose out of it. And if you needed to just run in a bare minimum of 160 grams of carbs of glucose a day, and you ate no carbs, you'd have to consume 530 grams of protein a day just to make the 160 grams of glucose. So then try to grow muscle when you're already eating 530 grams of protein just to cover your glucose needs. Yep. It doesn't make any sense. So you need 1,000 grams of protein a day just because you're a few feet rice. Yeah. It's literally you're just eating really, this is what I tell people all the time, you're just eating very expensive heart to digest. And you're basically, again, really simplified terms, you're basically training your liver to become very efficient at running on protein. Right. And the energy yield from that is atrocious. Like I said, it's only 30% so it's not, it's not this very efficient process. So you're probably not doing that. Something I've wondered about too is if it doesn't actually tax and put more stress on the liver too. Well, you'll see markers will go up, right? ALT. Yep. And then you go up because the liver's not working hard. Right. Yeah, you'll hear people talk about how high, it was the thing in the past, I heard how people say high protein diets were bad for the liver. I don't think it was the actual high protein diet. I think it's probably gluconeogenesis potentially putting stress on and just speculating here. Yeah. And it also came with kidneys, right? So I think where a lot of the misconception is people see things working harder. Yep. And working harder equals stress, right? When you go through a run, your lungs, you know, hard to work harder. It doesn't mean your lungs are under stress. Okay. In order to work harder without destroying it. All right. So let's move on to fructose. This is another one I think guys get themselves twisted up into knots. I've had multiple people reach out to me talking about, you know, the coach said, don't eat fruit. Because fructose is not going to get stored as glycogen. Fructose is a ketonic simple sugar found mostly in fruits. And honestly, when you take a look at fruits, it's a very small amount of fructose. It's actually in 30 to 50. It's not even that. Like I looked at like a banana like 20 out of the, yeah, like 25 grams of carbs from banana. It was like six of its actually fructose. Yeah. And I mean, the estimates roll over the place, but you'd probably have to consume between 100 and 200 grams of pure fructose in order for it to create fat in the liver. Like your liver has a great capacity for this stuff. Yeah. I move a bold statement and say that no one's ever gotten fat from eating fruit. Yeah. I mean, anything's possible, but you know, this is another one where I go back to Roman for instance, an example he talked about when he was in boarding school, the only he famously talked about his apple diet where he was, I think he was eating 100 apples a day because it was the only carbs that he could get a hold of. And he didn't get fat. But from what I understand, the liver on average can store up to about 100 grams of glycogen. You'd have to eat a shit ton of fruit. So if we think about that, a medium banana has about 25 grams of carbs. If my math is correct. And six of that is six or seven, something like that is actual fructose. You'd have to eat like 20 bananas. You'd have a very upset stomach before you'd ever get fat. Yeah. Upset stomach and you probably would be hypercalamic as well. For eating that many bananas. The point of filling the liver with glycogen too is to maintain your blood sugar. From what I understand, and I've heard this speculated before that you're, because the liver glycogen is the emergency store for basically keeping you alive that your body's going to prioritize liver glycogen over muscle glycogen first. Yeah, the body doesn't view, regardless of what you and I think the body doesn't view muscle is very important. So it's going to prioritize organs first. So I remember Dr. Todd talking about this, like he would have some fructose in the diet that he would, diets he would put together in the past, so you would occupy the liver so you could free up other glucose to be stored as muscle glycogen. It's a common, I don't know how you do it, but a common way to carve back up is to fill liver up first, right? So you first reintroduce carbs, you could introduce some fruit first or some honey. Yeah, I'll do bananas and orange juice. I don't want to move on to muscle. Yeah, I'll do bananas and orange juice for that portion of it. But roughly one third to one half of fructose is converted into liver glycogen according to the studies I found in 20% of it. I'm sorry, one third to one half is converted by the liver to glucose. 20 to 30% is converted into glycogen and 20 to 30% is converted into lactate. And lactate can never be run back around through it and turn back to glucose again. Right, so like the fear of fructose being converted into liver glycogen or liver, fat is pretty, pretty, pretty low. I don't think you have to worry about that. Now high fructose corn syrup might be another... It could. The data is kind of if you're on it. It's really such a small change from regular fructose. Yeah, and I told you, I had looked, literally it was on Pfizer's website. They had a study up on fructose and high fructose corn syrup metabolism and they literally don't know. They said that in the study. They have ideas on how it's metabolized, but they're not 100% sure. With most of this stuff, no one is 100% sure, right? But we've had a pretty good idea for a long time. The one thing that high fructose corn syrup seems to do, which is one of the reasons why it was most likely invented was, is it doesn't... It doesn't recognize it. Right. And fructose in general. So when you change the ratio to make it more fructose, the brain doesn't really recognize it as a nutrient. So you will continue to be hungry. It's one of the reasons why you're dieting. You don't necessarily want to rely heavily on fruit, right? And that's probably more likely the reason why you get fat because you have no left hand signaling. Right? And you just keep pounding it. We can pretty much eliminate the worry about fructose. You need some. And it probably is going to be good for liver, glycogen storage. And the other health benefits of eating fruit. Right. My furniture. And fruit that is inversely correlated to every disease known. All right. Next one is galactose, which is another amount of saccharide, which is a milk sugar, which is part of lactose, correct? If I recall correctly. All right. So next down on the other simple sugars, we're going down to the disaccharides, which is two sugar molecules. It's two units of sugar combined. So we have maltose, which is two units of glucose combined. It's broken down into glucose in the small intestine by the maltase enzyme. That's why sometimes people get gassy from things that stuff like that. Right? Yep. The sucrose is a bonnet fructose and glucose molecule. They get split apart. And known as table sugar. It's just plain old table sugar. And it's the sweet tasting sugar. And then lactose, which is the glucose and galactose combined gal. It's broken down into small intestine into glucose and galactose by the lactase enzyme. A lot of people as we age are deficient in. So people who like to eat a ton of dairy, this is why dairy calls us problems. That stuff just sits in your intestine and rots. That's why you get gassy because your body's literally doing nothing with it. It's just rotting in your intestine. Yep. Probably not the best choice of carbohydrate source. No, I generally don't include it in milk. Polysaccharides, complex, which are many sugars bonded together. The starch, which has many glucose units joined together. It's metabolized into glucose. A bodybuilding example would be rice. Yep. Extrarch is a glycogen structure. They're usually plant. I think they're all plant based, correct? Yeah, all structures are plant based. Glycogen, which is multi branch glucose stored for later use. And we talked about that a little bit earlier. We talked about the weight loss from it. And then fiber, which is a carbohydrate polysaccharide that cannot be completely broken down by the digestive process when we have soluble and insoluble fibers. It's really the only nutrient that the human body doesn't fully absorb, right? I think a lot of people are confused about the term absorption. I think it's misused. The lack of absorption is diarrhea. So if someone says, well, you can't eat this much protein because you won't absorb it. It's a myth. And also the easiest way to tell the spirit of absorbing something is you'd have diarrhea. Right. It doesn't occur. So fiber is really the only thing that, depending on the type of fiber, a percentage of it is just passed through. But everything else that you put in your body is put to use somewhere. A simple way to think of fiber, when you see these people that say net carbs on their advertising for their health foods, carbs, they literally, fibers, most fibers not making it into the bloodstream as glucose. So when you see 10 net grams of carbs and there's actually 25 on the thing that's there netting out the fiber from it. So I don't really count fiber in my carbohydrate intake. It's also for bodybuilding purposes. I hear a lot of guys talk about, you know, I've had some dudes that like they like to eat their brown rice in the offseason. I'm like really poor choice. You can get your fiber from elsewhere. But if you actually want to do something with that. Right. Yeah. Mineral absorption too. Right. It's going to really affect your performance and you're not really getting much of the starch actually into your body from it. It's great for fat loss because it'll make you feel full. Right. But you're not getting much out of it in the offseason. Brown rice is a really, really poor choice for your offseason carbohydrate sources. Your starchy carbohydrate sources. Yeah. When you die, it's time to eat more fiber because it gives you a full longer. Right. We want to increase your volume. One of my hacks for dieting as I go in and I posted a picture up the other day and I think it blew people's heads. Heads opening is looking for higher weight foods that have lower caloric density. So swapping out oats for something like some rice or something in a meal or using a potato that's going to weigh more than the rice per gram. So it keeps you feeling satiated. So your food volume is essentially the same as you were before but you're swapping it out for lower calorie foods. So just sort of a bodybuilding hack there and you can do it a lot with carbohydrates. Yeah. There was a list published. I can send you a link of the 10 most satiated foods and it's interesting because there was nothing that was really heavy dietary fat on that list. Yep. The number one satiated food was a white potato. Was potatoes, yeah. I saw that thing. The carnivore guys will think that that's false but it's actually the opposite. Yeah. I mean a large baked potato has something like 200 calories in it. It's the fat that people put on the potato, the bacon, the cheese, the sour cream, the butter. That's where you get in trouble but try eating a whole baked potato, 200 calories worth of baked potato and let me know how you feel. Or try to get 1000 grams of carbs from baked potatoes. Yeah. I would challenge you to do that. You're not going to go very far. So let's talk about fat storage and carbohydrates. This is another area where people get themselves really, really, really twisted up into knots and just assume that carbs make you fat. Okay. So carbohydrates directly don't really get stored as fat. Right? And again, I think the average American misunderstands what a carbohydrate is. They're what we just discussed. Things like pizza, you know, you can't get a lot of carbs. Things like pizza, it's not a carbohydrate. But if there's more calories of pizza from fat than there is from the carbs, we'll say, you know, less than 2% of carbs will get directly stored in adipose tissue outside of metabolic syndrome. So did nobody- That is the one caveat. I want to tell people that. I want to stop there for a second. So if you're insulin resistant, if you're in some sort of, you have some sort of metabolic disorder. If you're in some sort of, you know, like disorder, if you're severely obese, then a lot of times you'll see it where people will just start spewing out triglycerides from eating carbohydrates. But that's not normal. You are in a diseased state. You're sick. So de novo lipogenesis is the creation of a triglyceride from another source. Right. So in order for the potato or white rice to get stored as fat, it has to circulate. So go to the liver, right? The liver's full. It'll go to your muscles. Your muscles fall. It has to go back to your liver. Assuming your liver's still full at that point, it would then get your mitzvah triglyceride. And then it will enter circulation. And then if you're in a calorie deficit, then it gets stored. If somebody's not in a calorie excess, nothing can get stored. Right. So if you're in a calorie deficit, it doesn't matter what it is. Your body does not store glycogen or fat in a calorie deficit. Right. So it's a good point. You're not only in an excess. Can you store? That's physics. Right. Yeah. I mean, it's thermodynamics. And I, people like to argue the whole thermodynamics thing doesn't apply to the human body. But the human body, from what I understand, is an open thermodynamic system. Think of it, I think, the simple way to explain, like people don't understand the difference between an open and a closed thermodynamic systems. A closed thermodynamic system would be the pot of water with the lid on it when you're boiling it. Right. None of that water is escaping from the system. All the moisture is collected back into the pot. Whereas an open thermodynamic system would be the pot with the lid open. So we exchange heat, right, when we burn calories. Respiration heat, et cetera. Right. But thermodynamics still applies. You cannot create energies only exchanged. Yep. That is not destroyed, nor created. Anyway, all right. So yeah, I wish I could find this study. There was a study recently, and I saw Lane Norton post it and talk about it, where they actually did. I think it was an isotope. Maybe it was. What's that? Is it on the body cap, what it was made of? Yeah, what it was made of. And it was well over 90% of it was actually from lipids. Yep. And this stuff's not new. This is, like I said, they've known this since the 1920s. You can buy a medical book from the 1920s. And it specifically talks about the carbohydrate role in the human body and the dietary fat role in the human body. And the role of carbohydrates is immediate energy for glucose and to be stored as glycogen. Not once in there, does it mention it being stored as fat? Right. Yeah, so your body is going to prioritize one maintaining, like we talked about, that sort of that 100 to 150 grams of carbohydrates as a baseline for basically cellular and brain function, correct? Yeah, and red blood cells, for instance, can only run on glucose. They don't have the ability to run on ketones. So that's a great example of some of these in ketosis. The body's still going to destroy some level of muscle just to maintain red blood cells. Yeah, so once again, when you're in ketosis, another catabolic state. Ketosis is catabolic. Gluconeogenesis is catabolic. Both. Both. You are destroying proteins in gluconeogenesis for glucose. Your body's making glucose from stored proteins a lot of times. Where do we store protein? In our muscles. In our muscles, right? Fat is stored as body fat. Generally. Generally, right? And where do we... Very small percentage used for a immune system and cellular membrane, right? But that's like where essential fatty acids. So... With that, those are essential fatty acids. Essentially, that's another thing too we'll talk about. We should probably do one with fats as well.  but saturated fats are pretty much only used for energy. Storage energy. Storage energy. There is some small bit of it, I think it's converted to cholesterol, which is used for hormone production. Right, but the body, it can make its own cholesterol. It's a deliverance. Yep. The guys that are worried about, I get this is another one, I get people that are illogically worried about hormone production and fat. That's another burrow method I've seen out there, is that you have to eat a lot of fat to have hormone production. Yeah, it's very small. Very small. And actually the requirements for DFA's is actually really small too. A guy my size probably, I could get by with like 20 or 30 grams a day. Yeah, and so we should probably do a video on that, but by definition the only two fats that are essential are ALA and LA, right? LA. It's a toxin. The reason why they're considered essentials because of the only two fatty acids the human body cannot produce, but they're not actually what the human body is looking for. It wants EPA and DHA, which is what's essential. EPA and DHA, too. Official oil. The only reason why they're not, those are not considered essential because technically you can produce them from the ALA and LA, except the conversion rate in humans is 3%. So if you were to just consume flaxseed oil, which would give you technically the essential fatty acids, your conversion rate is only 3%. You're still not going to get the needed amount, right? That's where our ancestors, when they would eat animals, they were eating grass. So they were able to convert it to much higher rates, we were getting those fatty acids. Right. So in modern diet, there's very few things that supply this. That's why it's wise for most people to supplement with those. And me personally, I use fish oil to go right to the end. I use fish oil. And then I backfill with flaxseed oil because I'm sure there's a role for those other two fats, even though you bring the end product in. Same as I would backfill, Todd and I disagree with this, but I backfill with DHA and pregnant alone, even though I'm giving myself the end substrate of testosterone, because there's still a role of those hormones out there just producing testosterone. Yeah, I think I think I was talking to Vigorus Steve, he does the same thing. Yeah, so I don't. That's something I need to consider. Yeah, so the whole, you need fats for hormone production. It's very, very, very. It's very low. It's very low. It's very low. Like you really don't need a ton. Now one table spoon of flaxseed oil and three to four grams of fish oil would be more than enough fat. Yep. And if you look at your body, you have plenty of stored fat. Right. That's the thing I get. Like I get these guys that are 30% body fat that worry about taking in enough fat for the hormone production. I'm like, dude, you've got about 50 pounds of it on your ass. You don't need to be taking more of it just to make more. I don't think the average American is deficient in fats. I've never met anyone deficient in fat outside of someone for a very short time during a show prep, maybe. Yeah, like I think in a contest prep I've been there before, but I mean, we're talking about 4% body fat where your dietary fat is down to almost zero. You'll know it when you're there too. I've been there before and you feel fucking awful. You'll know it. You'll know it. So I don't think very few people actually. Most people never care about that. They've never gotten to that point where you're literally in a starvation state at that point. So yeah, people fear the fat. Let's talk about insulin too. This is another one that people get just absolutely themselves twisted up and not sit in carbohydrates or what make you fat. Right. So the insulin model of obesity was disproven almost 30 years ago. So insulin is just a, it's like a chakron. It's just moving a substrate to a cell. And insulin in and of itself cannot make someone fat. insulin doesn't have any calories per se. insulin itself cannot, does not, it does not get stored. Right. So the, and the primary site where insulin is going to drive nutrients is going to be into the muscle. Right. Right. That's where the most abundant receptors like lute 4 would be located. Not so much. Yeah. People, people don't understand that, that the majority of it's going to be stored in the muscle. Yeah. Just ask any bodybuilder that's running, eating a bunch of carbs and taking, taking, yeah, taking their, yeah, it's just, it's just ridiculous that people even think that. But yeah, I mean, insulin can store fat. Of course. I mean, and if someone has a metaboptoid disorder, that's a different story, but that's not necessarily what we're talking about. Right. And I think that a lot of these books, like I've seen, okay, I can't remember the one doctor, but there's this one doctor talking about the insulin model of obesity or whatever. But it's, it really, his book and like this whole model that he's talking about applies to type two diabetics. Yeah. And everything is just completely disordered. Yeah. I mean, I don't know. So in case people don't understand, so type one diabetes is an auto, is caused by an autoimmune disease. And the pancreas doesn't produce adequate insulin to move nutrients. Right. Two diabetes is basically generally 80%. Those people are overweight. There are other, there could be other causes, but it's generally you've gotten to a point where your cells are basically inflamed and the cell membrane, group four, which is the receptor or the group receptors can't translate to the outside to allow insulin to bring the nutrients in. So then it's at your blood with their opposite. If you're eating a decent diet and your training weights, it's pretty much damn near impossible to be type two. Yeah. I mean, I'm not saying it can't happen. You'd have to, you'd have to severely overage. And you take a lot of growth hormone. Yeah. Even then, even then, like the whole growth hormone thing, I have not really seen insulin resistance and even guys running tons of growth hormones as long as they're diet. So my blood sugar never goes above the highest I've ever seen it as in the 90s, the low 90s. My blood sugars were running really high. And I discovered that I actually have pancreatic insufficiency. Okay. My insulin levels were running really low. Basically, my body doesn't make enough insulin to keep up with that. That's also why so bodybuilders use insulin typically because it is anabolic. I have a super physiological difference at the normal level that we produce. It's technically it's anabolic because it helps build tissue, but it's not really doing anything wild. It's not directly anabolic. Yeah. And the other reason is because the food required to be 280 pounds, most people pancreas are not able to keep up with that low. Right. No, you can't keep up with that. That's another point too that I've made with guys. If you're slamming a bunch of carbs, that insulin probably could be prophylactic. I think a lot of older bodybuilders, you hear them becoming diabetics and I don't know that doctors understand how to properly diagnose them. And they assume that it's type two when they're probably pan... Yeah. Yeah. They're probably more... They've probably made themselves into type one just from wearing out their pancreas from overconsumption of carbohydrates. Although, I mean, it is a feedback loop. The more insulin you produce, the more insulin resistant you become. So, which is why we carb cycle. Yeah. But also, because you're going to get someone that's a low carb cell at the watch list that says, well, there's your proof right there that... So, you bite in carbs, you're not burning your pancreas up. The amount of carbohydrates we're talking about are over 2,000 grams, right? That's doing this. It's not... It's not... 150 grams of carbs aren't burning the pancreas up. Right. Yeah. I mean, you have to be eating thousands. And even then, like I've seen, like, you know, it's not what people think. I mean, I consume five days a week. I consume 1,500 grams of carbs and my blood sugar never gets out of control. Right. Yeah. People just... They don't understand it on a basic level. So, we have established that carbohydrates primarily are going to get stored either used for energy, immediate energy needs, whether it's brain, cellular, et cetera. And then, you know, it's going to get stored as excess carbohydrates, get stored as glycogen in both the liver and the muscle. That's another point too. Like, a sedentary person is probably not really going to be storing any muscle glycogen because they're not doing anything. No. No, the sort is much... It's very reduced versus the bodybuilder. And this is where carb cycling makes a lot of sense for bodybuilders. I'm not saying it is the be-all and all diet. Like, I tell people... I would say probably the vast majority of bodybuilders use some form of it, right? Right. Right. They're doing some sort of caloric cycling. You look at all the top-level pros. They're carb-loading it. Even on contest prep, they pull carbs down because they need to be in a deficit to burn fat during the week. And then, they'll carb-load one or two times a week with a high carbohydrate day. So, what we have here, and we'll go back to Roman Fritz again where I had him on the other week and he talked about his carb-load being 2,500 grams of carbs. The average person who does not weight less, according to studies, can store up to 500 grams of muscle. At the top-up. Yeah. At the top-up. It's usually three to five, probably. Yeah, three to 500. But, this does not apply to a 280-pound bodybuilder. A guy like Roman might be able to store, I mean, we can just look at it from his last show. He carved up on 2,500 grams of carbs, took insulin with it because you're going to have, your body cannot just make up enough insulin to facilitate that sort of carbohydrate intake. And he did not spill over or store any fat from that. He had shredded glutes on stage. And people are like, well, how the hell does that happen? And it's because that he has an immense capacity to store glycogen from all of his training. And this is another thing too, like, and this is just sort of speculation on my part where the guys that do low-volume training or hit strength-style training, I don't think it makes a whole lot of sense when it comes to increasing glycogen storage. You're probably better off on a higher-volume-style training to promote glycogen storage and to facilitate insulin. It's matching your diet to your training to be a bodybuilder. But a guy like him who's doing higher-volume training clearly demonstrated that he can store 2,500 grams of glycogen, which is crazy. And what carbs is that? It's even more than that. Yeah, so it's even more than that. If you think about it, people are like, I had a lot of people say, how's this guy not fat on stage? It's because those carbohydrates are not being stored as fat. They're being stored as muscle glycogen. The more muscle you have, the more energy you require to maintain that muscle, the more you can store it in that muscle. Correct. So on a carb cycling diet, you can be in a deficit for the majority of the week. And technically, if you looked at your BMR, be in a surplus on that high carbohydrate day and store zero fat. You'd have to push that surplus for days. And this is why we keep the fats low on that day and push the carbohydrates really high because we're trying to promote glycogen storage. Yep, and what that provides to be inversely, quarterly, or at least, you would bring the fat with the higher the carbs are low with fat. Correct. So it's essentially, it's a trick of the energy management systems of the body. So you're technically in a caloric surplus on that day, but that surplus is not being stored as body fat. It's being stored as glycogen. Now, we're not burning any fat on that day because you have to be in a deficit to burn fat. We do know that, but that excess energy is being stored. There's no violation of thermodynamics here. It's not. It's just getting stored. It's getting stored as muscle glycogen, and then we fill ourselves back up. We have glycogen type topped off for the week, and you can get pretty aggressive with it too. So as Roman demonstrated, we talked about it before. So let's say that he is storing 2000 grams of glycogen and glycogen is three to four parts water on top of it. So we're talking about a guy his size. So we're talking about, so two, I'm doing math here. That's eight kilograms of stored water and glycogen. So we're talking about 18 pounds, 16 pounds. How much better are you going to look on stage with that extra? I mean, I was like putting an air pump in here. It's a woman, but I can move mine by 11 pounds. So just right. And I'm just using simple math here. It probably doesn't work out to be exactly that way. You're going to burn some of it off. Right. Yeah, there is a thermic effect of carbohydrates. So and that's another thing too with running the high carbohydrate day and people, it just blows people's minds like they think they need in it. Being in this clerked up at the whole time, I've actually find that it increases metabolism and guys will actually start to lose weight again. Like they'll sort of hit a wall and then you throw the high carbohydrate day on on a contest prep and then your metabolism just picks right back up. Yeah. Well, part of the conversion from T4 to T3 is glucose is required, right? Right. In nature, we really haven't evolved much in those 40,000 years when our body had no carbohydrates. The body was not really looking to be putting on muscle. It was trying to just survive at that point. And so it would slow things down to compensate for lack of food when you have an excess of carbohydrates. It's like a reward to your body is going to speed things up to compensate for that. Yeah. So we're preventing by this, not only are we storing glycogen, we're preventing down regulation of the thyroid as well, maybe even stimulating it. Yeah. Yeah. It's someone's metabolism is working correctly generally like when I go from a low to a high day, I just wait after the high day. Yeah. Yeah. Usually it's the day after I will be heavier because just a water. But then two days, then I'll start dropping again. I'll drop even more again. And you'll notice too, like after that high carbohydrate day, I don't know if you have this effect either, but I'll sweat that night after I've had all those carbs. I am just a furnace. My body is a furnace. Yeah. Well, you and I both have probably faster thyroid sediments. So just speeding that up even more. It's really a pretty, pretty amazing process to go through. Right. And not to go on a complete tender, but with that conversion to quarter to three, the conversion itself is also what helps growth hormone work and convert to IGF. So you're getting a lot of different effects by eating. Yep. Yep. So you can see here where obviously we need to be in a deficit to burn fat. And the offseason, it makes sense to be in a surplus because we're going to have to be in a surplus to gain. But it just makes zero sense when you unpack and understand how all these processes work. It really, you're just tying one arm behind your back when you eliminate carbohydrates from your diet. If you're trying to be a bodybuilder, if you're trying to be a strength athlete, really any performance athlete that involves muscular performance, you're just literally cutting an arm off. It's just a dumb way to do things. And there's very little direct role of dietary fat in muscle building. It doesn't play a direct, it has no direct function. There's also the health aspect of it too. Like a lot of these people that I see run the high and they'll say otherwise, but I have not seen it in the liver. Their lipids are completely trashed. And then you add gear to that too. Which already skews lipids on top of it. So we have to be very careful with fat intake when we're running PEDs. Yep. So there are a multitude of performance reasons, health reasons. There's just a multitude of reasons why you would not want to cut your carbohydrates super low if you want to be a strength or bodybuilding athlete or for a hypertrophy. It's just none of it makes any sense. Yeah. But again, it goes back to the basic sense. Most Americans are very confused about what they're eating. They want to look at their diet. Rarely do I see someone's diet who's not eating at least 100 grams of fat. Yeah. Oh no. Yeah. People are probably getting that in a meal, Kurt. I mean, you eat a burger and fries. I mean, I don't know. I mean, there's got to be close to 100 grams of fat just in that meal. Yeah. I would imagine. I don't know off the top of my head. I'd have to work some macros. It's high. You know, it's or pizza. You know, how much fat is in pizza or and I think that's another area where people get themselves confused. Too, as they think the carbohydrates are making them fat, but really, you know, they talk about eating sweets, but most candy. Most of it has fat in it too. Yeah. And people aren't really pounding candy either. It's what I see people eating or like cookies and cakes and desserts, which the only candy that I would use that probably say was you was like stuff that pure sugar, pure sugar. But you that person that goes out to dinner at the cheesecake factory and they think the cheesecake made them fat because of the sugar because of the sweets. There's probably more calories. It's not from the fat in there than there is from. So it's the fat sugar combo that's getting them in trouble. And we know, I mean, just logically peeling the layer of the onion back that your body is going to prioritize glucose for fuel. So any excess. Right. Any excess fats that you have in that meal, what's going to happen to those? It has to get stored. Like I said, it's not just go just doesn't just feel right. It has to get stored as fat. That is the only possible thing that's going to happen to it. Your body is going to prioritize the carbohydrates. Now you're if you're eating an excess of both, I mean, you are going to store fat from carbohydrates too. But I don't know. It's so it just makes no sense. The whole thing makes no sense. All right. Do you have any parting words for the folks on carbohydrates? We should definitely do a video on that. I think we'll help. Yeah. I tell you, I can't encourage people enough to read this book. No, your fats. I don't know, man. It frustrates the crap out of me how people make assessments on diets and what diet is the best for them when they literally have zero clue about how any of the stuff even works. Like they don't even understand what a carbohydrate or a fat is. Yeah. When that's why, like you and I are both coaches and we both probably recommend various similar diets to people. Yeah. When you're my coach. So I know what you recommend at least to me. So now I will say this. If I have somebody that's severely obese, I will put them on a lower carbohydrate diet. I still but what I'll do. And this is what I do. This is sort of my thing. I'll get the fat off of them and I'll slowly start pushing the carbs back up. Like if I have somebody that's severely obese and I'll get these guys, they're just shocked. You know, they're like, I didn't think I could eat this many carbs. I just, I thought this was impossible. But like once I get them back down to a reasonable body fat level, I'll start pushing carbs back in and get their metabolism sped back up. I've done it. I've had a lot of guys come to me too that have had, you know, I have one client I can think of off the top of my head right now that lost 200 pounds before he came to me. But he was eating something like 1200 calories a day. He was just, he got the fat off, but he was just his metabolism was just completely destroyed. And so we slowly started introducing carbohydrates back into his diet and stuff. Just kept pushing them up, pushing them up, pushing them up. And I've got him up to now where he's eating, I don't know, 3500 calories a day over 3000. And he hasn't put on any fat. His body fat hasn't increased at all. But the key is what you touched on just now. I think the key is to you're going to grow better. You're going to respond better to insulin and carbide or to your leaner. Right. So once a man is over 15% body fat, there's some level of inflammation that's going on chronically. Yep. You're probably insulin resistant. It's also inflamed basically in the cell membrane. It's not going to be as receptive to things like glucose. So, yep. So the easiest way to tell is if you can't see your abs, you should probably get leaner before you try to get. Yeah. Oh man, I got people upset with that post I put up. But yeah, so there, I mean, there's that whole aspect too. Yeah. So if you're over 15% body fat, you probably do have some level of insulin resistance going on. Probably. Most of you. Yeah. I mean, there's a large percentage of Americans are insulin resistant, whether they know it or not. Yeah. Yeah. It may not show up in your A1c, but you'll see it in your lipids. Yeah. Yeah. So if you're a reglacer, I'd start to climb there. There's an issue with glucose metabolism. It's amazing to me how doctors don't know that. Well, because they don't. So like your medical school, we're taught very little like you in physiology go with the cryptocyclists. You go for energy in the human body, but they don't relate it back to food. So food is never discussed, right? And there's so much that has to be crammed into that timeframe that food is not really, there's no room for it, at least as the curriculum is now. Yeah. It's just amazing to me that they'll prescribe a medicine to lower triglycerides, but not address the dietary or exercise at the end of it. It's just so weird to me. Well, most doctors don't know anything about maintaining health or what's going on. So clearly if triglycerides are high, something's disordered. Yes, but their solution is generally a prescription drug. A prescription drug. Yeah. All right. Any parting words for the audience, Kurt? No. I think that was good. All right, guys, carbs are not your enemy. They are a tool. They are a thing. They don't get your emotions wrapped up in carbs or fats. They're just things and understanding things. If you want to not be afraid of things, people fear the things they don't understand. And that's the first step for demystifying and removing fear from things is knowledge. And you're not done with that, right? You don't have people identify with their diet. Yep. That's religion. It's just a thing. All right, guys, thank you for watching. Take care. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.