warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, big Paul here today, and we are going to dig into red a true tide. I'm going to go through and give you my drug profile for red a true tide. We're going to talk about the nuts and bolts of red a true tide. It is currently in phase three of clinical trials. Is it the miracle drug that everybody is talking about? My friend Chase Irons has been getting everybody worked up about it. Chase has used it with quite a bit of success and I figured it's time to talk about it. We're going to look at it. Is it the panacea that everybody makes it out to be? Are there some downsides we need to look out for? Should we proceed with caution right now? We're going to dig into all that in just one second. All right. Before we get started here, folks, I want to remind you about the science of anabolics and PEDs. E-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together. We have cool videos up just like this one where we go through each of the every PED that is appropriate for bodybuilding. Most of the commonly used ones and we talk about them in detail, how they're used, what the science is behind them. You can check the course out. There's a free preview of it. If you want to go over to my website, there is a link in the video description below and you can see what the course is all about. I think it's the best course out there right now. There's about a hundred or so modules with about 50 hours of content. We're adding new stuff monthly. We do Q and A's. Got more videos coming out soon. Anyway, folks, go check that out. Now let's dig into some retta trutide. All right, retta trutide. I blame chase for this one. Chase has gotten himself lean using retta trutide and some other stuff. He's on a cocktail of stuff. Now I talked to him today. I been doing some research and looking into retta trutide. I spent pretty much an entire day reading about it. I already knew a bit about it. I'm familiar with GLP ones and how they work, but this is a combo, a multi receptor agonist. That is a new class of drug. Um, it's, it's a combination of GLP one GIP and glucagon receptor agonist. We're going to dig into it. We're going to talk about it. Uh, it, like I said at the beginning, it is in stage three clinical trials right now. It has not been FDA approved yet. It does seem like that it's on the fast track to getting there. I would assume so probably in the next year or so, but it does seem very, very interesting. It is being developed by Eli Lilly and company, a phase three clinical trials where they, during the phase three clinical trials, they're confirming the efficacy effectiveness. They're monitoring side effects. They compare it with similar interventions and collect information about the safety. We have the phase two trial information. We're going to look at some of that today. I'll put links to the article. There's an article on peptide sciences that I'm going to be referencing for some of this stuff. Some of the information I gathered through Chad GPTs, I read through the, the, uh, phase two clinical trial studies. I looked at that and I'll have links to all that stuff up here today, but, um, so it, the, the properties of the redditry type, we mentioned it's a multi-receptor agonist, GLP one, GIP and glucagon receptor agonist. It targets the receptors of the GLP one glucagon like peptide one we're familiar with GLP ones because we have similar glutide that a lot of people have been using for fat loss. ozempic is a common name for that. GIP gastric inhibitory polypeptide and a glucagon receptor agonist is the, what, what is, um, the combination of the drug is indications. What it's designed to be used for is obesity. It's being studied primarily for weight management in people with obesity, with promising results in early trials with significant weight reduction. So far, uh, it's also a type two diabetes treatment, treatment shows potential for glucose control, likely with synergistic effects from its multi agonist action. Um, I, I think they're just looking for it for a weight loss drug. IMean, there are a lot of people with, with type two diabetes, but weight loss is, we're going to, they're going to make the bulk of their money, but it does seem like it could be beneficial for people with type two diabetes. Very beneficial in fact. All right. The effects of RETA Trutide. It stimulates insulin release, uh, GLP one and then GIP triggers the pancreas to release insulin. It is a glucagon receptor agonist increases glucagon activity in the body stimulates liver glycogen to release raising blood sugar. Um, high blood glucose is counteracted with the multiple receptor approach. Also activating GLP one and GIP receptors. That's the thing that I was wondering. I knew that it was a glucagon act. Um, a glucagon agonist and glucagon triggers the pancreas or not pancreas, but the liver to dump liver glycogen and raising blood sugar. It's, it's a count, it's a defense mechanism that the body has to keep you from goinGHypo, you know, hypo in the middle of the night. Whatever. Um, and I was wondering, this is something I was wondering about is how they kept blood sugar from getting too high. And it seems like the multiple receptor approach by using the GLP one and the GIP with it, um, seems to, seems to counteract some of that. Um, so it's kind of really very, very cool. Uh, it also increases, uh, lipo, lipolysis, fat burning and energy expenditure, which is also interesting. Uh, GLP one which we know it slows gastric emptying slows the movement of food through the stomach into the intestines and leading to a feeling of fullness that helps control appetite. Uh, the slowing of gastric emptying in some GLP ones I know in the semi glutide, semi glutide, there is a small risk of gastroparesis. I did not see anything in the studies that showed that that still exists with this particular drug, but I would assume that it does. Maybe it doesn't. That's a concern as a bodybuilder that has to get bigger. Uh, I gastric emptying, low gastric emptying is going to be tough when you head into an offseason and you need to eat and shovel down food. Although in speaking with Chase, he's the only person I know that's actually used it and he says that that seems to go away and I think it's dose dependent to like he's not running the crazy high doses or the higher end doses that they were using in some of the fat loss patients for the study. Uh, the GLP one promotes satiety by acting on the brain. It reduces food cravings by decreasing activity in the left insula of the brain inhibits overeating by increasing activity in the right orbital frontal cortex. OFC of the brain modifies reward signaling. GLP one neurons project to the VTA and the NAC which are involved in food reward in the brain. So it seems to change up that it also has an effect on Graylin and leptin from what I understand. Um, it also increases insulin production and sensitivity. The GIP works to increase insulin production and insulin sensitivity. A from what I understand a the general, the old GLP ones do not affect insulin sensitivity. They only increase insulin production. Now this is pretty cool to improve lipid metabolism. It seems that when I saw studies, it seems like there was an improvement in cholesterol in triglycerides in studies with using this drug reduces, uh, liver fat. IMisspelled that. I have Y fat 81% return to normal in 48 weeks. 81% of the, of the, uh, the people that had fatty liver, um, infiltration returned to normal and there was an 82% reduction of liver fat in those patients, which is fucking crazy. I reduces a one C and improved insulin sensitivity from when I looked at the a one C numbers, it wasn't drastic, but it, there was an improvement in a one C numbers. Um, and it could be to the, these pay, these, these participants probably weren't diabetic. It probably would be a stronger effect on people that were diabetic. Weight loss. I'll get into some details on the weight loss, but a 24% in a 48 week at the 12 milligram dose during the trial, pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics absorption administered subqtaneously with a steady state concentration reached after several doses. If I recall correctly, they, in the trial, I believe they were doing aromasingle weekly dose. I think Chase said he was doing twice a week. Don't quote me on that. Uh, Chase has videos up on it. I'll, I'll post links to his videos as well. Um, distribution of the drug is widely distributed across all tissues targeting multiple receptors. Metabolism is primarily in the liver. Uh, we'll talk about it in a second, but there was some cases of increased liver enzymes, uh, in a few of the patients in the trial, excretion primarily renal half-life. The pharmacokinetics of retrotrutide are considered to be dose proportional. It's half-life is approximately six days. So you can see the once a week dosing is probably adequate. Uh, some side effects, cautions and considerations when taking retrotrutide that were noted in the study gastrointestinal side effects were the most commonly reported side effect. I don't remember the exact percentage, but we can go look at it here in a second. Include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and constipation. That sounds like fun. I think nausea was the most common side effect here. There were some, we'll look at the numbers here in a second, but there was some reports of vomiting and diarrhea that I know that's an issue with GLP ones. It also seems to be dose related and when talking to chase, he said that his nausea and appetite kind of settled in after abouT4 weeks of being on it. Decreased appetite, which is something we, I guess would be a desirable effect of the drug fatigue cancer. Okay. They noted that a personal or familial history of medullary thyroid cancer or multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome type two men too should be cautious when using it. Now in the studies there was no malignancies noted in humans, but in the rat studies there were, so this could be something that's specific to the rats. It was a problem only in the rats, not the humans. But from what I read, longterm study and observation are warranted right now with where the drug is at. They recommend that if you have a family history of cancer or if you've had a personal history of cancer, then you might want to stay away from it. Cautions. Care should be taken with a history of pancreatitis, gallbladder disease or renal impairment. We'll get into that in a second, but there was some issues with in some select patients with all three increased ALT. It was pretty small amount of people that had ALT elevations, but there was some pretty significant ALT elevations in some of the patients in heart palpitations, severe effects, side effects, adverse effects that were noted in the study. 15 serious adverse effect events occurred in amongst the 13 participants. Uh, there was a trensient, uh, increase in ALT levels and of more than three times normal levels. Those of us that are old oral steroid users, that's nothing, not, not trying to rationalize it here, but cost of doing business sometimes. Uh, the, uh, the ALT and AST levels were unchanged or had decreased a bit at week 48 in this patients. Increased amylase and lipase levels were asymptomatic with the exception of one serious adverse event of acute pancreatitis. Uh, those are digestive enzymes. Uh, your pancreas makes digestive enzymes, heart rate increased in a dose dependent manner with retrotrutide up to 24 weeks and then declined thereafter. There was some elevation of heart rate in some patients. It seems to go away when you come back off. There were cardiac arrhythmias that were mild in severity with one exception of severe event of prolonged QT syndrome, a QT wave and a participant treated with undanasterone or danasterone. A danastrone. I don't know what that is. Dan says strong. I don't know what that is. I slaughtered that one. Um, no cases of clinically significant hypoglycemia, which is also important to note. No medullary thyroid cancer or C plus C cell hyperplasia were reported. Cutaneous hyperesthesia and skin sensitivities. Adverse events were reported in 7% of the participants. All right. This is a excerpt from peptides.org. If you guys want to go there, there's a link to it in the video description below on, uh, let's see the largest in the two most notable trials included 338 non-diabetic subjects, 6% to 16%, which dropped out of the study due to side effects, depending on the retrotruda dose in comparison, there were no dropouts due to adverse effects in the placebo group. The most common reasons for discontinuing treatment were gastrointestinal adverse events. Here's a list of the most common, common adverse events experienced by the 62 people who received the highest 12 milligram weekly dose of the peptide nausea in 45% of the, um, dropouts of vomiting in 19% constipation and 16% of the dropouts. Diarrhea and 15% cardiac arrhythmia and 11% fatigue, 10% early satiety. So being full to full 10% increased lipase levels, 8% injection site reaction, 8% hepatic disorder, 3% pancreatitis, 2%. Uh, here's what the research is, uh, should know about the risk of more serious side effects. 15 serious events occurred in 13% so it's with similar frequency in both retrotruda and placebo groups at 4% trensient increases in ALT levels to more than three times. The upper limit were observed in 1%, which we already talked about. So here are some of the most notable benefits from the trial besides the weight loss. Um, IMean that's pretty, pretty, pretty well established. The phase one B and phase two D reported retrotruda reduced cholesterol, reduced triglycerides, non HDL cholesterol and other cardio metabolic parameters compared to the baseline. The improvements were greater compared to both duoglutide and the placebo. 24.2% weight loss reported in the 48 week trial group, which is crazy. That was a 12 milligram dose, which was also the highest dose. The majority of the participants lost at least 10% of their initial weight with almost two thirds losing 20% or more, which is insane. Nearly half losing 25% or more in about a quarter losing 30% or more because, you know, these were just regular people and these lazy motherfuckers probably didn't work out or do a diet. You know that most of them probably weren't following any sort of structured plan or workout routine. I would guess that would be my guess. You know, who knows, but I don't know how they control for that. All right. The studied dosing results. Let's take a look at this. One milligram with initial dose of two milligrams. There was a four milligram with initial dose of four milligrams and eight milligram group with an initial dose of two milligrams and eight milligram group with an additional initial dose of four milligrams. Sorry, I can't speak 12 milligram group with an initial dose of two milligrams. I, you know, I've seen this stuff, uh, listed, you know, the black market and these peptide places and it's incredibly expensive. You can imagine how much it would cost to do 12 milligram dose a week, especially when the prescription comes out. But I, like right now, it's probably would be a six or $700 a month expense to run that much at 48 weeks, at least the least squares. Mean percentage change in the redditor type groups was 8.7% minus 8.7% in the one milligram group. So they lost almost 9% of their body weights, 17.1% fat loss in the four milligram groups, 22.8% in the combined eight milligram group 20 or 22.8 sorry, 24.2 in the 12 milligram group as compared with the minus 2.1 in the placebo group. What's hilarious is the placebo group lost weight too. Um, just goes to show you the power of placebo. My personal experience, I have not tried it yet. So I would say check out Chase's videos where he talks about his, his experiences with it. So wrapping this up, let's, let's, let's go through and think about this critically. Here are my concerns. Here's what I worry about for bodybuilding. Yes, it does seem like it does incredible stuff for a regular person, non bodybuilder person who's not going to the gym. Somebody who's obese, this could work miracles in theory. It looks like granted that the longterm safety of it pans out. There are some pretty significant side effects that we need to be aware of, especially as you get deeper into contest prep. Like I, I know guys talk about contest prep. There is some risk of kidney problems with this stuff. That is a, that is a something that we need to be concerned about with kidney. There is a risk of acute kidney damage with it in dehydration that was noted in the study. When are we severely dehydrated at the end of contest prep when we caught water using diuretics and doing other things at that time that are kind of silly and you're putting your kidneys under stress and you put something in play like this that could further damage kidneys. I speculate that a lot of the kidney damage that bodybuilders suffer comes at the end of contest prep. And I would be concerned about that with this drug at the end of contest prep. I, if, if it were to be used during contest prep, I would probably pull it at the last couple of weeks. Another concern I would have for bodybuilders using this stuff. I know some a glutide has some risk of permanent gastroparesis, which if you're an obese person that struggles with eating, then you eat too much having slower digestion. It's probably not a bad thing because you're going to have a decreased appetite. But if you're a bodybuilder trying to get huge, it's going to be a problem if you get into your offseason and your gastric emptying sucks and you can't pound down the food that you need to, to get big. Now with that said, talking to chase, he hasn't had any issues. He said his appetite's been just fine that it's actually come back. I think he's running a lower dose, but that would be a concern for me. I, I, uh, I struggle with appetite myself. I don't like to eat. I have a hard time putting food down. And if you're a person who has troubles with stuff like that, then that is also another concern. Another thing, I would assume that you're not going to be using insulin with this. There is a risk of hypoglycemia. I, that was noted in the study that when using insulin, it's probably not a great idea for a bodybuilder to be using insulin with something like this. Now, where I could see it being used, where I could see it being used and something that might be an, an idea is if you get deep into an offseason, insulin resistance is on the rise. You've accumulated a little too much body fat. You have, uh, some beta cell down regulation. I don't know. You know, you basically rising blood sugars, all the issues that come along with going into the offseason, too long fat, fatty strip on your liver. A lot of bodybuilders when they come out of offseason, when they go get liver ultrasounds done, have some fat accumulation on their liver. If you needed to do a clenup phase to extend your offseason, extend your offseason. Possibly. Is that a good case? You know, good, good scenario. Good, good case where you could potentially benefit from using it. Maybe extend your offseason, you know, running it for six, eight weeks, something like that. I don't know. I'm just tossing out ideas. I'm not making a suggestion here, but I'm just thinking of it for me personally. I would probably proceed with caution. I have a history of cancer might not be the smartest thing to do for me with my history of cancer, even though it hasn't shown to be cancerous in people yet. There hasn't been any evidence of being cancer. It's only been in rats with the GLP ones. I don't know that there's any documented cases of cancer in human. I would be a little bit concerned about that. Uh, but I could see a case, a use case where you could potentially use it for clening up or maybe in the post contest phase where people sometimes just go bananas and eat everything that's not nailed down. Maybe that's a use case or maybe at the beginning of prep. I have also seen some instances in studies where they showed that the GLP ones cause some muscle loss, although it doesn't seem to be that bad. It's probably proportional to the weight loss and most of these motherfuckers that they're doing the study on don't work out. They're not doing anything to help themselves. They're not following any sort of structured diet. They're not using antibiotics, so maybe that's not a concern. I do know that I have had clients that have been prescribed GLP ones by their doctors that have reported weakness, lethargy, some other issues. They have basically shit workouts when they're on the stuff. Now I don't know that retrotide has the same result, but it's just something to be concerned about and something to think about. So I think there are pluses and minuses for the regular person who doesn't like to work out, doesn't like to follow a diet. It might be a panacea. It might be the miracle weight loss drug that we have all been waiting for. That is a possibility. That is a very strong possibility. It does seem to have some very cool effects. Now time will tell. It's still in stage three clinical trials, phase three, whatever you want to call it. A lot of this stuff though, over a longterm use, sometimes things come out of the woodwork after something's been in the wild for five to 10 years. They find out, Oh, there were cases of cancer related to it. Now that's not saying there will be, but it's something that you do need to consider, especially the guys that like to experiment and go forth, um, ahead and move forward on stuff that's not yet approved. I would proceed with caution me personally, and IMay experiment with it at some point. IMay not. I generally don't have a problem with getting lean. That's not an issue for me. So, all right folks, wrapping this up, retrotide does seem like a very fucking cool drug. It seems like it has a lot of promise and maybe has some applications for bodybuilding. Don't know yet. Still brand new. I wouldn't be the first to try it on a contest prep, especially if you are a pro or a high level competitor. If you're just a guy that's trying to get in shape, Hey, why not? If you struggle with appetite, if you have problems, um, you know, losing fat might be something to give a, give a whirl. All right, folks, I appreciate each and every one of you. Thank you for watching. Appreciate all your support. Take care for coaching or consultations. Head over to www dot anabolic bodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at big P three Rd at gmail.com.