 Warning! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition, Battle Tested, Expert Formulated. Use discount code AB10 and check out 410% OFF. Alright folks, Big Paul here today with Dr. Todd in Kurt Havens. We're going to talk about some D-Ball. What's going on guys? Howdy. D-Ball is every bro's favorite steroid and then eventually you realize that it's trash. We all have our D-Ball phase and then you realize that it sucks. But we're going to talk about D-Ball, its application, its history, where it came from, where it might be helpful and why. I can share my experiences why I think it sucks. Guys are all the time like, you've never used it. And I'm like, no, I used plenty of D-Ball when I was younger. It was pretty much all I used when I was younger because that's all I knew was that Arnold took D-Ball and I wanted to take D-Ball because I wanted to be Arnold. And that was my background with D-Ball. And that's all I knew is that that was Arnold's favorite steroid. So the rumors were, and so they were Paul's favorite steroid because Arnold liked it. Now, he used what? D-Ball and Primo, right? They no one used testosterone back then. They used D-Ball as basically their testosterone and then they used Primo as their balancing act. Yeah, I think the shift was from what I understand. I can't tell you the guy, but the guy that was around during that time. So that what Arnold would do is he would use D-Ball and D-Ball in the offseason, and then he would switch to Primo on contest prep and eventually drop the D-Ball for Anabar. Right, D-Ball and D-Ball. And I've tried that. I tried that in 2017. I was on 500 test, 500 D-Ball, 500 EQ, I think. And then I was doing D-Ball on top of that. And oh my God, did my guy not grow fast. That was the perfect recipe for getting giant movies. Yeah, that's all D-Ball. All D-Ball did for me was made me bloated, made my blood pressure go through the roof and it grew titties. Yeah, like a big gag of white flour. Yeah, that's what... There was one good experience I had with D-Ball, and that was in 2016. What I was doing is I was using insulin pre-lift with D-Ball, only 10 milligrams and only on Arm Day. And it was a bicep tricep Arm Day. It was either on Freya Arms or I would do it on Loki Arms, Paul. And so I would take D-Ball and then I would reject insulin beforehand with of course carbs and salt water. And then during the workout, I'd inject IGF-1 Dess. I'm sure you had some insane pumps. Pumps were so insane I couldn't hold the dumbbells. I had to use straps just to do my dumbbell work for kickbacks and for curls. I would use straps like I was doing back just to hold myself down to the dumbbells. And the pumps were so bad I'd be like crying in pain. I remember the first time I took D-Ball, I was in college and I played basketball. And I remember I got such insane calf pumps. I couldn't make it up and down the basketball court without cramping up. My calves were just on fire. And the same thing with my lower back, I would get these insane lower back pumps with D-Ball. And I think a lot of times like dudes will misconstrue the gains from D-Ball, the water and the bloat with muscle. And then they talk about loo... I think that's a lot of times like where the mystery and myth of losing everything when you come off comes from. It's all that water retention that you get with things like D-Ball and it just all goes away when you come off. It's not real contractile tissue. It's just bloat. Kind of like how Muscle Tech says you can gain 8.8 pounds in two weeks with Nitro Tech. Yeah, it's like what they do is they measure, they have a bucket full of water and they have your arm and you stick your arm in the water. And the water level rises and the amount of displacement is basically how much size you gained. And then they compare that. I've never heard that one before. Oh, we've pre-used, right? 750% more anabolic than other brands of creatine. Absolutely. It's like what do you call it? There's a millimeter increase with when they intentionally don't take the creatine correctly from the other brand. And there's 7.5 millimeter increase when they've bloated themselves up with Chinese food and water and stick their arm in the water. And 75 grams of Dextrose probably didn't hurt anything. Yeah, there's something like that. Anyway, with the D-Ball stuff, I used plenty of it when I was younger. None of the gains I ever got from it seemed to stick. They just didn't seem to stick. It was my experience with it. Whereas like the slower burn stuff like running test, premode, GH, those gains seem to stick. When you come off, come back down to TRT, I don't really lose any weight. Whereas the D-Ball gains seem to be temporary. They're just bloat and leverage. Let's talk about the history of D-Ball a little bit. Let's talk about where it came from. Kurt, can you fill us in on that? Yeah, so there was a gym in Pennsylvania called York Barbell Club. Oh yeah, I'm very familiar with York Barbell Club. That's not far from here. Yeah, is it close to you? Yeah. The Bob Hoffman, I guess, was the famous, you know, strength coach out of that place. He probably contributed more to strength training than any other single person. And there was a guy named John Bozzi Ziegler, who was a fourth generation family practitioner doctor who hung out there and lifted with them. And they became friends and they both tinkered with different ways to get stronger. And Ziegler actually went out to, he was in Italy and he was hanging out with a Russian Olympic weightlifting team when they were traveling for a meet. And they got really drunk. And the Russians admitted to Ziegler that they were all used to testosterone. That's why they're winning all the games. So Ziegler came back to the US and he was more, he was more of a scientist than a doctor. So he, he messed around with some testosterone at first, but the usual stuff, it was weight gain and the guy know that he couldn't push the dose high enough to outperform the Russian. So what he did is he went back to the drawing board and he figured he would create a better drug. And he basically created Dynaval by taking methyl testosterone, the oral version, and just adding that double bond to carbon one, carbon two. Oh, so it is methylated, bold and known intentionally. It just worked out that way. Yeah. So he, and then he sold it. He had no way to actually produce it in quantity. So he went, Siba was in New Jersey right down the, you know, an hour away from him. And he sold the idea to Siba. They happily bought it. And the funny thing is Siba already had boldenum, but it wasn't marketed yet. So they only wanted. So they invented that in 1949, but they had no way to use it yet. So they were still tinkering with it. They tried with boldenum syponate, which really hurt. They tried, you know, other esters until they finally came across the under connoisseur with worked. But to now they had the pattern for both. So then they released, you know, 1959 or 1960 or whatever they released D-Ball on the market. And this, this doctor was basically responsible for that. So I'm going to repeat that the company that invented boldenum released methylated boldenum, but they weren't the ones to figure out, to methodate the boldenum. No, this local, it's some random dude that just happened to live nearby on his own, created a double bond in methyl test, which ends up being methylated boldenum. And coincidentally, the one pharmaceutical company he went to, or sell it to, happened to have already discovered boldenum. So they, they've been looking for something and then all of a sudden it just falls in their lap. And they're like, this is what we were missing. This is way stronger. Okay. Which is funny because I, who knows how many scientists back then just worked on anabolic. I mean, that was the only thing these guys focused on. Right. I mean, when Searle came up with a thousand variations of testosterone, there had to be 500 scientists just working on anabolic steroids at the time. You know, so this was like perfect luck for Seba. Now Seba had to happen to this thing. That's really fascinating. And then it's funny because John Grimmick actually used to go to York Barbell with them. So he was one of the first like people that experimented with D-Ball. So why with, so we methylate in carbon 17 to make it orally bioavailable because it survives first pass liver metabolism. Why does that make it so much stronger and different than just boldenone? Well, it stiffens like again, if you picture it's like a three dimensional thing, it stiffens the molecule. So when it enters the anterior receptor, it's not going to, they basically twist when they go in, this basically stays rigid. And then it goes back to the metabolites like we did with Mastron. So it seems like the answer to all these things is how it's broken down. And because it's going through the liver the first time, the metabolites are very different from D-Ball than they are from boldenone. One of those being methylated estrogen, which was a crude birth control pill. Correct? Yeah, that's seven, right? Seven alpha. Seven alpha. Yeah. Because for instance, based on that 17 beta is the oral one that I think is used to increase people's estrogen. This is 17 alpha. Yeah, which is not bio identical at all. And it lasts forever for what I understand. Yeah, and the metabolites, so they just found another metabolite recently for D-Ball that lasts like 19 days in the blood after you take five milligrams. Holy crap. We'll leave them metabolite for 19 days. So again, the Olympic committee and stuff now have all these tools to find all these drugs. I don't know if they didn't even know about before. So yeah, I think the answer always goes back to metabolites. It's not, like when you look at the structure function, it's not just the base. It's what's happening after. Right? You see kind of the opposite with Trembolone. Like Trembolone looks like it'd be something, but then the metabolites are something different. That's interesting. Not to go from like a trend tangent, but you know, So the way it's broken down is more important than what it is. What are the functional metabolites? We know methylated estrogen is a metabolite that the side effects are derived from. What are the functional metabolites of one methyl test and 17 alpha methyl, So one test is what's going to really do the, it's going to be the effective one. And from what I understand, the methyl estradiol is really nasty, right? Right. It's the 19 day half-life. I think you said it was or something like that. It's a really long half-life toxic form of estrogen. Yeah. And your body doesn't know what to do with it. It's not like bioidentical. So that's part of the bloating that is the guy now. When the level of voting and then the other part of the voting is a disabled, the 11 beta hydroxylase, which is the same enzyme that's disabled by anadrol. Well, you can always spot a dbol guy. They usually hit their usually red puffy and are covered with acne and titties and they have gyno. Yeah. Oh, we medical condition gender non specific mammary glands. There we go. That's, we can't say boobs or breasts anymore because it's not affirming. Yeah. So then it was ran. I mean, then Siba ran this thing medically until what, like 84 85, right? And then the FDA finally pulled this rose era. Yep. Was it ever a real medical application for it? It was just purely for performance enhancing. Well, they used to, it was written for osteoporosis. Ever see the old ads? No. Oh, I'll send you one later. They have really old frail women and it was like, Diana Paul will fix your frail old body. He's with a walker that they would give dbol to. It's a thought. Well, we're not breeding anymore and they already have. I've never, I've never seen. I've never seen. I've, I've, my mic was out of place for that. So they were giving it to old women for osteoporosis, right? And anemia, a plastic anemia of the same stuff they tried to play off all the steroids for, right? The cool thing about dbol was the first one that was truly invented just for performance enhancement. Like Siva, I don't think Siva had any intention of using it for medical use. Yeah, it was the go to to beat the Russians from what I understand. And that was, and my understanding is all of the steroids were for that purpose in that error. It just then they had to come up with another reason so they could get approved. But I mean, there was no reason for any of these drugs to be made. That's so fucking weird. It is so fucking weird. It's just so weird. Like why even, why can't there be medicine to make you better than zero? Like what's the moral issue with it? Is it like religious? Like God made us in this image and it's not our place to try to improve on God's creation. Is that the reason why it's not like, why this concept that. That drugs are allowed to take you from the negative to the zero, but there's drugs cannot take you from zero into the positive. It just doesn't make any sense to me. I don't know. I think it was just people getting butt hurt that somebody would have had an advantage over them in competitive sports is really what it boiled down to. But it's like, because they could take it too. Yeah, but some people, you know, it's that whole thing. I'm going to be natty and I'm going to take the moral high ground. I'm not cheating. I think a lot of it, at least the stigma that I saw, it was if you go back and look at the history of water and all that stuff, it was a whole anti cheating thing. It's really what it was. Okay, but if I was a gladiator and everybody's using a gladius and I'm going out there with a knife and I mean like your swords are bigger than mine. So you should have your swords banned so that everyone has to use my small ass weapon. Yes, this is a metaphor. And that's not appropriate. The correct thing is put your knife down and pick up a sword too. Well, the whole thing like with baseball, I think that's when it really took root was when I remember it was in the late 80s, early 90s. I remember when all that happened was people were getting like all the baseball nerds were getting really butt hurt about about records being shattered, you know, for the from their heroes from when they were younger. They felt like it was cheating and so they got really upset that, you know, Babe Ruth or whoever their favorite baseball player from your was was getting his records were getting destroyed by these guys that were enhanced. And they viewed it as cheating and then that's kind of where the whole thing came from because I don't know if you remember or not. I think it was George Bush that owned the Texas Rangers. Yep. And then a lot of this stuff became illegal. 95. Yeah, it was it was it was a real. It was it was around the Bush time in the White House. They really really were just butt hurt about it about baseball records being shattered. I believe our current president was the one who brought the bill up, which makes sense. Correct. Now it makes sense. It was a really weird situation. I remember I remember it because I was, you know, I'm old. I mean, you probably remember it, but I remember this stuff getting banned. I mean, when I was in high school, you could still. I mean, even in the nineties, I remember you could still easily get access to pharmaceutical grade, dbol, whatever. I mean, all the way up until the early 2000s and then they really clamped down on things. And that's from like super drawing all those things got taken off the market too. Yeah, I mean, like it was once again, it was baseball. It was Mark McGuire, Sammy Sosa, all those guys. This baseball just kind of turned a blind eye to it. And there was all these guys shattering records during that period of time in the baseball Hall of Fame. They're still in there, but they put them in a separate section. There's like a steroid using section now rather than the asterisks. It's just an enhanced section. They have to man like they've moved them away from the natural players. That's so funny. You know, dbol was the original performance enhancing drug really from what I recall. I mean, it's what they, yeah, that's what they used in baseball. That's what they used in the Olympics. And, you know, it's just really weird how this, all this stuff came came about. Like it was just because people from what I recall is just nerds getting upset about records being shattered. Yeah. So did anybody notice that we're inventing the drugs? Right. So what's funny is Thor is a God. Iron man invented a special suit that makes him a God. Bruce Banner goes through a lab experiment that turns him into a God. And then Captain American took steroids. That's that's basically their origin story. And it's, but, but somehow steroids are bad. It's a steroids are considered bad, but being a God or getting exposed to gamma radiation is not bad. And this is a whole other side rant. We're really getting off the dbol track here. But like, if you think about it, like, like in, in sports, like they load these guys up on. On pain killers and all these other things that are absolutely destroying them when they would probably be better off just taking some growth hormone and testosterone. Yeah. There is that movie. Jack Ryan shadow recruit, one of the many iterations of Jack Ryan, where the main character in this movie gets kicked. Oh, no, it wasn't Jack Ryan. Yeah, it was. Yeah, it was. He, I think he got kicked out of the Marines in the beginning of the movie because after getting injured in combat, he used Deca and dbol and windstrawl to heal faster so he could get back to service. So he re enlisted right before and then they dishonorably discharged him and he loses his pension. It's like, let me get this straight. He gets wounded in combat and he takes medication designed to heal people from injuries and you're not only going to discharge him, you're going to dishonorably discharge him just to fuck him out of his pension. That was the most mind boggling thing I've ever heard of. If there's anyone you'd want to be on steroids, if it's not athletes, it's soldiers. It's a back on the dbol thing. What, you know, it's, you know, the history of it in bodybuilding. It was sort of like you were saying it was originally used as a testosterone replacement. Why, why do we think that is? Why weren't guys just not running testosterone? Metho test. Metho test is better. Metho one test is going to be way better. One test, I think is twice as strong. Now, whether that's a potency thing, not an efficacy thing. The one test is better than regular test. Well, it's more androgenic. Oh, it is. Yeah, it's not more anabox, but they people didn't get that. So they just, okay. But I think that they to answer Paul's question, I think they were just horrified at the side effects from estrogen, right? And it was difficult to take a small enough amount of testosterone. So it was easier to take five or 10 milligrams of dbol and then you could pull it out really fast. Right. And then the guys in the golden, I would use it as their estrogen and then they would yank it for a show and they would dry out. But they'd keep the anabox and they'd keep the premode, the Winnie, whatever else that we're using in there. If you look up any of the cycles in these guys. So it was really, you know, if we take a step back and think about it was really the ability to modulate quickly and control estrogen because there were no AIs back then. Right. So even understood it. I just think that they were more in touch with what they were taking. It was all wet and dry. That you basically primo was their AI. And then dbol eventually fell out of favor in bodybuilding. I don't know when probably the nineties nineties. Yeah. There's still guys some that use it probably not at the pro level anymore though. Right. No, it's it's a favorite of Jim Bros. You'll see a lot of Jim Bros that run dbol. And I really, you know, I talked to a lot of pro bodybuilders. I honestly, other than an occasional pre-workout, I don't know of really any pro bodybuilders that are in the ball. I think that the science changed when Dorian and Chad Nichols were running the show. I think that Chad Nichols was probably our first real scientist, even though he was a cop, he was the closest thing these guys ever had to a scientist because I think eight out of 10 of the guys in the Olympia stage were Chad's clients. In flying, there was no other alternative. The only person that wasn't working with Chad was Dorian himself. And Dorian was someone who did reading and then self experimentation and kept accurate log books going back 20 years. So he was the first scientist in bodybuilding. And I think that methodology is why no one used dbol. And after the Chad and Dorian era, there probably was no dbol use. And I always think it's comical when people tell me that they're talking about dbol, even at all. It's as bad as when someone says that I use two CCs of this and three CCs of that. It's basically like it's the hallmark proof they have no clue what they're talking about or what they're doing. Although I recently heard Dorian talk about early on and of course this was probably during the 80s when he was coming up the dbol was his favorite. What? Yeah, that was when he was really young. And yeah, right. Yeah, I doubt he was using that when he was on the Olympia stage. You can look at Arnold, you can look at the pictures of him and you can clearly see when he stopped using it. Yeah, the 74 he was probably on the most right. Yeah, you can see that he was like he had this puffy round look and then he went from that to being hard. It was a very, very different look that he had. And I know from what I've heard, whether or not this is true, like during the 80s when he was a movie actor that it was test and or not test. I'm sorry, it was Primo and Anivars what he used all the time. I've heard that as well. Much worse. Again, I've never done it, but the only use I've seen in modern times where people might use dbol is they'll use it still in place to test them or use it with something like tremolo. Supposedly it has some sort of synergistic effect probably because one is so strongly AR dependent and dbol is not. Yeah, I would imagine it would probably I'm just speculating but it's got to be the method. The methyl estradiol in conjunction with the tremolone that's probably has some sort of effect. But it's not how what they administered a cat the cattle is methyl estradiol with not just regular estradiol just regular estradiol. How does this work? Okay, so if you can inject estradiol, why the fuck would you ever take oral? As you know, my experience is the young guys are afraid of needles so they go right to orals to begin with right. Right. And then you get to this age where you realize that you all you've done is destroy your health and you shut yourself down so then you switch to testosterone. That's so weird that there. It's like I want to be more manly. So I'm going to take hormones to make me more manly. But I don't want to take the ones with needles because I'm afraid of needles. It's like the reason you're not made manly is because you're afraid of needles. Not because you don't have enough muscle muscle. I think your should not be a you can feel fear but it shouldn't influence your decision making. That's what I think. Part of the stoic pattern that's that's the fortitude virtue that makes up the four pillars of stoicism. But what taught explain what happens to your your bile ducks and stuff when you take all steroids. Okay, so my understanding is we learned this the other day when we had our discussion that it's through the androgen receptor. That's what I didn't know that the oral steroids cause the enzymes released in the liver to instead of flowing through the bile ducks to get to your gallbladder for purposes of a lipid digestion. Once it makes into your small intestines that they may move so slowly they actually start to eat the liver itself. It's almost retro that so the sludge isn't sludge just in the gallbladder. The sludge is sludge in the gallbladder because it was sludge moving through the liver and still caustic and eats the way of the and that based on what I learned from Kurt. The more resistant to being broken down and the more androgenic androgenic. The compound is the more it's going to damage the liver and be carcinogen. Oh and be carcinogen. So that's kind of how you read it. Yes, so like you look at the half-life and how androgenic it is and that's how bad it is for your liver. That's why Halo is so bad. Right, because the androgen receptors on the organs are really going to respond to more androgenic stuff than they are like anabolic. They're like hair follicle. Of course that makes sense. Yeah. You know, and so that's how you rate that's it. So D-Ball might not be as bad in theory, right? As androgenic and Halo test would be really bad and the role would be bad. But I like Halo testing. Yeah, but also you're probably not using 50 milligrams of it. No, two weeks, 10, 20 milligrams. Yeah. Yeah, I mean D-Ball, it's funny how it was the choice in the golden era and like nobody uses it anymore. It's just completely changed. Oh, it's just Jim Bros. And I think it does, you were smaller too, right? Like I feel like the Bob Harrison, all those guys use like 20 milligrams of it. They weren't using 50 on it. Yeah, 10, 20 milligrams is what I heard. You know, and Danny Padilla talks about that as well. He said he used to use randomly, we jump over and use, you know, 10 milligrams or 20 milligrams. He said no one took 50 milligrams because it was so strong. Yeah, the old Arnold cycle that I heard now, once again, this is just hearsay was that he would take an amp of PrimoBall on every day and 20 milligrams of D-Ball. What is an amp of Primo? 100 milligrams. 100 milligrams. So 100 milligrams of Primo a day and 20 D-Ball. 20 milligrams of D-Ball, that was the store. This is 700 Primo. Which is 700 Primo and basically 140 of the tested category drug. That's right. It's not test itself. It's oral test basically. Yep. Because there is no oral test. There's methyl test, but methyl. It's not the same at all. It's not the same as D-Balls or more test like than a methyl test, right? Well, methyl test is really endogenic and not anabolic at all, but it holds a crazy amount of fluid. Same reason. It messes with the carbon 11. The hydroxy. Yeah. I wish Arnold, I mean, he's getting old, man. I wish it just at this point in his life he wouldn't give a fucking just come out and say, what exactly were you doing? Do you see the really dumb article that was in Men's Health where he said he was using TRT? No one used testosterone then. Nobody used it. He was just making shit up. Didn't he write it in his own book in total recall? Yeah. He said that he mentioned it, right? Yeah. The story was that there was a, this is another one. I don't know if it came directly from him, but he was a teenager and I think he was 15 or 16. And I think it was his pediatrician that prescribed him five milligrams of D-Ball Day. It's what the story I heard. Wow. In Germany. In Austria. Austria. Yeah. I mean, didn't Dan Duquesne get prescribed steroids? That's how he started, right? In the 1970s. Yeah. I thought that's what Dan said is he got his start, his doctor would give his stuff and he just couldn't, he was trying to get more things so you could see what things would actually do. His doctor would only write him so much stuff. So I imagine if those guys were starting that early that they never went through puberty. Probably not. Probably not. And most of them would drive the puberty equation more than stunt it. But yeah, they never matured into the adult they were supposed to be. They had a divergent path. Yeah. Right. I mean, you can see it at Arnold when he was 19. I mean, the dude was massive. Do you want to pull up a picture or something? Yeah. I mean, you can clearly see he was on something. I mean, he was freaking gigantic at 19. Yeah, here we go. Let me see if I can pull this up. But yeah, I mean, it was crazy what he looked like when he was 19 years old. And I've always wondered about this too and it's not a, probably not ethical, but it seems like a lot of guys that are pros when they're young, I would imagine they probably started taking shit when they were teenagers. All right. So that looks really good. I think he needs more delts. I mean, that was, here's another one, a 19-year-old Arnold. Jesus. It's just like soft, but big. But that's definitely the debal look that I'm talking about. Right. And you can see when he changed, I mean, there was a period, there was a period of time when it's...  I don't know, Joe Weeder or those guys, I think the old story that I heard was that when they got to the U.S. that Frank Zane was the man, he was the guy that everybody went to for, I mean, they called him, what they call him? The chemist. The chemist, yeah. He was a chemistry teacher too. Yeah. Oh, well that changes everything. Yeah, the Frank Zane. He's like the first guy to mess with thyroid stuff too, wasn't he? Yeah, he did all that stuff. So, I mean, you can see, so here's one of Arnold when he was 25, so you can see. Yeah, I know. His name isn't creative at all. It's just, that looks really good. Yeah, so you can see how his physique changed. So clearly. That looks so much better. Compound choice has changed. I mean, he's not carrying as much water. There's definitely a change in what he was, and I would, you know, just once again, I'm just speculating, but I would say that. That's when he stopped using D-Ball. Yeah. That looks like, that has been one of the probably the best pictures he's ever taken. And what was it, what was the Olympia, his last one, that was the 70s? 75, or what are we talking about? Which last one, the last one? He came back in 80. He came back in 80. I just came back in 80 to make sure someone else didn't win because. This was him at 25 as well. So you can see the difference. From 19 to 25. Yeah, that's a huge, he looks so much better, hard. Yeah. So, I mean, that's the, I mean, that's the D-Ball look that we talk about. And then I guess it was in the 1980 Olympia. Wasn't it the deal that he hadn't been working out or supposedly wasn't on anything? And then. 10 weeks or something, right? Yeah, that was this, that was the story. Mike Bunter quit. Yeah. He got, he did it just to fuck with Menser. Menser. Right. And it's like, and it's kind of like the situation where Colombo, they felt bad that he broke his ankle doing strongman. They gave him Tom Plats' win in 81. Well, honestly, Padilla probably could have won that too. I mean, you can see this was him in 80. He definitely was not as big. No. Oh no. He looks hard while God, he looks really hard. Yeah. Yeah, he definitely was not as big. Way better like that. And Conan, he was, I mean, when did he film Conan? It was probably not long. It was like 80. I thought it was 77. Well, Conan came out in 81, didn't it? So he definitely looked good in Conan. But anyway, I'm getting off on a rant here. But that's, that's what I try to tell guys. You can go back through and see when guys used e-ball and when they didn't. I mean, Dorian Yates, there's some pictures of him when he was pretty bloated up. You can, you can see. Oh yeah. You can see, you can see when he was probably running that. But I don't know. I mean, Dorian, Dorian's been somewhat open about his cycles from what I understand. It was just test. Deca, e-ball. Tested Deca and e-balls, what I think he pretty much ran. So I was, okay. So I thought Conan was 82. 82. It was filmed in 81. Okay. Okay. So it was after the Olympia. Yeah. All right. Any parting words on, on debal before we go? Yes. I think that the one time I used it and didn't get gyno is basically using 10 milligrams pre-arms one day a week. Yeah. That kind of a disaster. My buck too. Well, here's the, you can see the Dorian Yates test and Deca and debal look. Oh my God. That was terrible. Oh my God. That was terrible. Just so you guys know, that's what that's what test Deca and debal looks like. Like a muscular version of my offseason. And you wonder why your blood pressure is high. Yeah. I had her guy reach out to me. He was at yesterday. It was asking me how he could get his blood pressure down. He's running, you know, 40 milligrams of debal and I'm like, dude, stop taking fucking debal. That would be a good, good first step for getting your blood pressure down. That's so weird that someone in 2023 is using debal. Oh, there's, oh my God. I know guys that use it continuously. You wait until this video is posted. There's going to be a lot of angry comments about people talking about how debal, great debal is. I mean, I, I will say there is one exception of people that I have seen that, that, that were debauch can be an application. I once in a while, and I'm sure you have run into them, Todd, you've been coaching for a while, the people, there are some people, they're very uncommon that do not seem to convert much testosterone to estradiol. But it's still an oral steroid. Yeah. So it's still not appropriate. Like to me, the only time you would use an oral steroid is be after you pull oils three or four days before the show. So we would limp along anivar for three or four days. That's the wisest way to apply that tool. They don't grow more muscle. They don't have special features. The orals are just toxic. In fact, I always knew the oils, the injectables were not liver toxic, but doctors are so convinced that they are, but Kurt shared with me a study where they proved, and then they cited the sources where the injectables do not cause liver problems. I think they even once so far say that doesn't have any relation to adenocarcinoma and it doesn't have any lipid function or liver function changes. So ALT will not go up from injectables. That it's just not a significant way. Like primo might elevate. Primo was the one exception because of the methylation. It makes me wonder on contest practice, it makes sense just to not even run worlds until the last two weeks. That's what I was saying was I think in the last three days, like why would you even use them before you pull the oils? Like the whole point I thought was to bridge the gap between when you stop picking the oils to when you step on stage. I have noticed, although I've noticed any time I change hormones that I have a phase of where I go through where I have additional water retention. I don't know if it's from aldosterone from additional androgen. So I don't know that I'd want to make any changes going in the last couple days because of water retention. So I guess another way of approaching it is just like, I think the point that some people do it is to retain some water intramuscular. So anadrol, that they want to drive up intramuscular water retention. And that is the point of, and the nitrogen retention, that's the point of the oral steroids the last couple of days. With windstraw being the driest option. Yeah, I've seen some coaches where they run a really heavy dose of windstraw going on to the last week. Like I've seen guys push it up to 200 milligrams, 200, 300 milligrams a day in the last week. Wow. Yeah. Most of them are 100. There's one coach you talk about in particular that likes to push that. But I would be curious to get him on sometime to talk about it, but he'd want to. No, he's guys, he's guys look great. They win. These guys look great. All right, folks, that's all I've got on this one. Thank you for watching. Hopefully this was helpful to wrap it all up. D-ball sucks. There are better options. So thank you for watching. We appreciate your support. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigt3rd at gmail.com.