 Warning! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition. Battle Tested. Expert Formulated. Use discount code AB10 and check out for 10% off. Alright folks, Big Paul here today with Kurt Havens. We're gonna dig into the science of testosterone, the parent male hormone, probably the most important hormone if you want to be a man. Right? More important than nangelone. I always laugh when I hear guys talking about doing nangelone only cycles. It's always a curious thing to me that dudes think that's, I mean I guess they did it in the 70s or whatever, but... Well, they usually used eBall with the breast, again. Right, right, that was your testosterone base, but... So let's dig into some history of testosterone. Okay, so it was isolated in 1935 and on the market in 1936 and as soon as they isolated it, it was like this mad rush for all the pharmaceutical companies in Europe to get this thing produced. And the two scientists that actually first isolated it actually won a Nobel Prize. Just kind of crazy if you think about the way testosterone is viewed nowadays versus how it was viewed in the 1930s. That's crazy. It becomes this ostracized thing if you use it, but yet these guys were the most brilliant scientists in the world. So some basics. It has 100 to 100 anabolic androgenic rating. It's kind of the benchmark most drugs are based on that as a standard. 95% of... So we're just talking about men basically. Right. Women is like one other call. 95% naturally is produced in the testicles of man. Not in my testicles, Kurt. No, no, no, in the natural. So 5 to 7% is 5-alpha reduced to DHT. But once it is 5-alpha DHT, 10% of the circulating hormone in your body, 10% of testosterone in a ratio would be DHT. So the concentration of DHT is 1-tenth DHT. Yeah, it always heard 10%. But that varies, correct me if I'm wrong, but that varies from person to person. Yeah, these are just averages. Unfortunately, medicine is based on averages. So it's not always accurate. And then about 0.3% is aromatized to estradiol, which again, it's going to vary, right? That's based on averages and that's in natural person, people. Right. And then also, correct me if I'm wrong here, but that also is dependent upon from what I've seen body fat percentages to. So the fatter you are, the more you aromatize. Yeah, that's the enzyme is mostly there. And in the brain, there's a large percent as well. Yeah. And so that's statistically the 0.3. It specifically says, you know, 19 to 39 year old non obese males because it's a different rate. Obviously, you know, these people, it structures pretty straightforward. It has a ketone at carbon three and a hydroxyl group of carbon seven and then an ester can be attached. An interesting way to look at steroids to that's not so typical is to divide them into class one and class two. I don't know if you ever heard that before. No, I've never heard that one before. So one would be binding with the enduro receptor and class two or drugs that don't. So like dbol and anadrol would be class two. And class one would be something like tremolone that pretty much only works through the air. Right. So would then be considered to have mixed activity because it does both. So it's one of the few drugs that kind of has both. You would have what we would consider genomic response, which is a testosterone binds to the enduro receptor goes to the cytoplasm can become the HD or stays testosterone and then go into the nucleus and cause gene transcription, or it combines to a cell like the outside of the cell to receptor there and not enter the cell and cause other effects that are considered non genomic, meaning not related to gene expression. What would be non genomic effects? Some examples like aggression, aggression. Okay. Yeah. Any of the neurological effects, other non genomic effects. Mostly those kind of things in that they're experienced within seconds, as soon as the soon as it reaches a cell versus like genomic effect that could take, you know, hours, days, weeks, actually build up. It is also a neuro steroid. So it's a positive regulator of GABA on its own. Inside the human brain now for men, estrogen is actually the primary hormone that dictates our brain works. Just kind of interesting. So yeah, that is interesting. Testosterone, our brain is more formed by estrogen than testosterone. I do know how I always feel better when I'm running a testosterone base. I've tried nandrolone only cycles. Believe me, I've done everything, all the stuff that people get angry with me when I talk about, you know, doing this or doing that. And I've tried it all, but I always feel the best when I'm running a testosterone base. Yeah. And it'd be like if you had to pick, if you had to run a gram of something, right? You know that if you're running a gram of testosterone, it's going to feel good. Right. You know, and your health isn't going to be compromised. Well, it's pretty clear what the metabolites are and how it's going to affect you with testosterone. Yeah, but it's so interesting still that it's been around that long. We still don't know everything there is to know about it. There was a large period of time where it was not studied at all from the late 70s until the mid 90s. It basically was shelved. No one looked at it. That's crazy. There was a scientist in the 90s with the last name, Bazin, and he was the first one basically to revisit these things. In 1996, he did a study where he did a graded dose response in young healthy men, and he basically was the one that proved to the medical community that testosterone grew muscle in a dose-dependent fashion. Yeah. Wasn't it the old belief was that it didn't have any effect on muscle growth? Yeah, some of the old textbooks that I have state that it blocked cortisol and just work through an anti-catabolic mechanisms and had no actual anabolic effect, which is wild. And this was like in the 70s. Yeah. You know, and so in 1996, so that kind of changed at least that aspect of endocrinology forever. I pretty sure this then it opened up the door for a lot of other stuff. And that's when they went back and they looked at ment, you know, trust alone and stuff. After they realized this, they were like, wait a second, there's other compounds that might do this as well. So your free testosterone is what is in the blood that is not bound to anything. It is literally free. And in theory, it's what is going to bind to the engine receptor. That's not a hundred percent case. So you have, you have basically the majority is bound to albumin. It's producing a liver and that is not available at all. That's basically blocked from your body to use. And then there's, you know, the second largest, you know, percent is by sex hormone binding lablin. And that is a transport hormone similar to cholesterol. So it helps transport to the cell. And the sex hormone binding lablin also has its own receptor that can mediate some effects. And that testosterone that's bound to sex hormone binding lablin is considered bio available. It's not free, but it's still usable. So that's kind of changed in recent. So they used to think it was just the free testosterone that mattered. So technically, the stuff that's bound to sex hormone binding lablin matters as well. Right. So there's some kind of confounding stuff where people want to crash sex hormone binding lablin, get as low as possible to make more free. That also increases the rate which it's excreted. Yeah, I'd always, I mean, the dogma or the belief that I'd always heard was that you wanted SHBG low to increase free testosterone. Actually have more usable testosterone. That's what I had always heard. But that, you know, that's doesn't seem to be true. Yeah. I think the problem is if you buy the more testosterone someone uses, the lower the sex hormone binding lablin is going to go anyway. So we really have to, I would advise most people to just let the body do its thing with it. The faster you, the more free there is, the less bound to sex hormone binding lablin, the faster it's going to go back to the liver. You get broken down to a dial and excreted. So you don't really want to crash that either. Yeah. But I, although everybody that runs PEDs, at least from what I've seen, especially DHT derived PEDs pretty much has crashed SHBG from what I've seen. Yeah. Yeah. So in theory, you're excreting more hormone than you know, than you can necessarily use in theory. I guess, I guess if you're blasting a ton of stuff, it probably doesn't matter. Yeah. And if you're pinning all the time too, right? So there's other ways to like manage it too. If you pin infrequently enlarged doses, you're going to have sex hormone binding lablin because the body doesn't know what to do with that big bolus versus if you pinned every day, it's going to naturally be lower. It, because it mimics more of like the body's versus like natural production. Right. So you can kind of manage that on your own without adding other things like proviron in there. So people are probably largely overthinking the SHBG stuff. Then if you're taking enough, it probably doesn't matter. I would say it's irrelevant. It's like you said something to me a while ago that really stuck with me. It's the people that are worrying about the 5% and the 95% isn't taking it. Right. It's like, it really your biggest concern in your cycle is the free testosterone. It's not the fact that your diet is total crap. You know, very, very few people that I've met, it's really, that's really a concerning thing. Right. I mean, there's better things to focus on them. I see people get focused on the little stuff. They're not making any progress. They're so caught up in the minutia that they have totally lost sight of the bigger picture things, so stuff like that. I can tell you that most bodybuilders, I'm sure Ronnie Coleman wasn't thinking about his SHBG. I don't think he'd even know what it was. No, probably not. And correct me if I'm wrong, the total testosterone levels, like people get completely consumed with their total testosterone levels. Is it even really relevant? Not necessarily, right? Because a lot of that's bound to albuminates. You can't use it. Right. I've always thought it was irrelevant that free testosterone probably matters more. Yeah. I mean, I would say if the total though is, you know, in the two or three hundreds, I'd be concerned about the total. Right. Total is 600. I'd be more concerned to see where the three was. Right. So the standard, the standard range that's, you know, accepted in this country is generally 264 to 916. Right. You know, anatomastor deciliter. And that's considered a normal range. I think 264 is way too low. Right. And it's healthy. Right. Yeah, it definitely is. That's what we're talking about. It's like a normal range if you go to get TRT. I can tell you, I felt like shit when mine was like that. I'll get guys though that are blasting gear that'll see their free testosterone, or total testosterone levels at 2000 and they're disappointed it's not 5000 from taking a gram of test. At a certain point you're not able to use it. Right. Yeah. I'm like, it doesn't matter. The best estimate that I've seen, and it does not apply, again, bodybuilders aren't really studied. The best estimate I've seen is that at any one moment in time, because so things are constantly binding, tenderness, receptors are releasing and other things are binding, it's constantly influx. Is that 3500 milligrams is about the most that's usable by most people at any one given time. But again, that doesn't take into account a guy that's 280. Right. So that could be, it's possible a guy running home in such could use 10 grams of gear and actually have enough receptors for that. Because the more you use, the receptors actually upregulate. Yes. Right. That is another bro myth that exists out there. Yeah. The whole, you're down regulating your endogen receptors by exposing yourself. That's just an old bro myth. Yeah. You've got to come off because your receptors get dirty. Yeah. Because if you're outside of your cell and the side of the plasma, that's like clogging up everything. So yeah, so the more the more angioteninload the body sees, the more receptors it's going to make. So it has a place to put them. It doesn't like huge amounts of things floating around in your blood that don't have a place. Right. That's why it will robotize heavier. That's why it will turn to the HD heavier. I think probably why guys made progress or whatever when they came off or is just simply because they're removing toxicity from the body. Totally. Or we all have those regulating factors too that upregulate after a period of time. Right. So if you're on gear for a certain period of time and all the data in humans and in animals so that like day 50 of a cycle, basically, anabolism kind of stops and it becomes anti-catabolism. Right. So you will still make progress because what matters from muscle growth is the balance between break down and positive. So you're still going to make progress, but it seems that's like what we six give or take. So most things are really starting to shift the way the body is working. So at that point, what most guys would do is then they either either give a couple of options to down regulate things like myostatin. You can either increase the food or you can increase the drugs or both. Right. So I mean generally guys, at least in my experience, will step things up. Right. You'll step the food up a little bit. You'll step the drugs up. Yeah. Step the food up. And that should obviously keep things moving at least in a positive direction. That's the smarter way to do it versus just like bombard yourself with three grams of gear out of the gate. Yeah. I mean, that's generally my methodology with people is I'll push up food and when food doesn't work, then I'll push up the gear a little bit more. Yeah. You'll go back and forth. Yeah. It's this back and forth game and just keeping an eye on body composition as well. But that's typically how I program things, at least for myself. And it makes sense. I mean, in nature, your body wasn't going to build muscle if it didn't find a reason for it, right? It needed food. You don't consciously show up more, basically just a reason to grow muscle. It's not going to continue just to grow. Right. That's what we have most, obviously, because cavemen couldn't be 300 pounds. There's not enough food out there. No. You hear that carnivore gas? Yeah. So anabolic effects versus androgenic effects. Anabolic effects are typically muscle, bone, and red blood cells. I think that's misunderstood. Certain steroids like primavolein was generally prescribed for anemia. We still, anabolism, they were looking for, but it was more specifically like blood markers than it was muscle tissue. And then androgenic are what would be considered secondary characteristics like hair on our faces, lack of hair on our head, genital growth, those kind of things. Sounds like me. No, kind of question. You're just androgenic. I have hair growing out of my ears and not on my head. Exactly. So let's talk about building cycles out. To me, it never, I mean, at least anymore, I used to run all kinds of crazy cycles. I just, the more I think about it, it doesn't make any sense not to have a base of testosterone in a cycle. It just makes zero sense to me. And I get a lot of guys come to me and they want to tip toe into stuff and start off with D-Ball or Antivar only. And I'm like, why not start off with the parent male hormone, see how you respond to it and go from there. So what are your thoughts on building cycles out with a base of testosterone? So I think one of the misconceptions is what testosterone's role is in the cycle. Right. So if you're using testosterone only, which is what I advise anyone that's new with this would use because it's predictable. Right. Is when testosterone is used in monotherapy, meaning used alone, it's going to provide both anabolism and it's an endogenic things and it's going to provide estrogen. But when testosterone is typically used, at least at a beginner to a moderate level of experience, it's really just there to supply estrogen. Right. You would typically increase the testosterone to a dose that's manageable without crushing your estrogen. And then you would add another anabolic on top, like you always talk about. Yeah. The testosterone is really just serving at that point. There will still be some anabolism from it, but it's really just serving as a base of estrogen. When you get into more advanced cycles where the testosterone gets into the grand quantity, it's obviously driving growth as well. But it's still there for some level of estrogen. I think that that's kind of like the easiest way to look at it. The guys are confused why the testosterone is there in the first place. Yeah. So let's talk about estrogen just very quickly in its role in health and growth and all of that. Okay. I mean, so estrogen, it protects your brain, right? Like I said before, so it's largely responsible for how male's brains are formed and function. It's kind of what actually makes us largely male and at least in our thought process. It protects your kidneys, protects your heart. To some extent, it's responsible for insulin growth factor one, the conversion of growth hormone to insulin growth factor one. If you have very low estrogen, most likely you're not going to produce a ton of IGF. It increases like a gin storage. It has a ton to do with growing. It's why it's better to be a little lead estrogen, probably run a little bit higher in the office season if you're trying to grow and trying to stay too dry all the time. Right. I mean, sure, that's you've had experience with that. Oh, yeah. Yeah. If you, if you're, I mean, you can just see it on contest prep. You're not growing on contest prep. These guys that talk about growing into shows, I just laugh. There's only one human being I know of that ever did it. And it was Kevin LaRone. And yeah, he's literally one in a billion. Yeah. I mean, it's just impossible. And also like I have to think about like the neuro protection as well. So you, a lot of these dudes that ran nandrolone only cycles, a lot of them end up having mental health issues. You know, you think of a guy like Mike Mencer that completely went absolutely insane. And then I'm having heartburn. Yeah. Running three grams of DACA only with no testosterone and also ran into cardiovascular issues too. So dude might still be alive. Brother raided out of kidney failure. Yeah. And I think that basically. Right. That's what protects. Right. So that's an example. I know it's anecdotal, but that's an example of people that ran high nandrolone only cycles and probably killed them and likely contributed to Mike's mental health issues. People got very upset when I talked about that, but anybody who knew Mike knew that he was our. No, he wasn't. Well, he struggled very mightily with mental health. I mean, he was hospitalized many times. And then the cardiovascular issues too. So the neuro cardiovascular and renal protective qualities of estrogen and not bearing your estrogen. I get some guys that want to bury their estrogen in the offseason and run run AI is all offseason. It's just not a smart approach. You know, you want to limit that to just contest prep only when you're trying to get LinkedIn and even now, like I'm not even running an AI right now and I'm nine weeks out. I'll save it until the last six to eight weeks if I can get away with it. Yeah. Yeah. It should be used like sparingly as needed, right? In an emergency, not so much just to manage. It's like, why would you take another drug that you're not getting an aneurysm out of just to manage the side effect of a drug you can't already handle, right? Like lower your test if you can't handle. Yeah, lower the time. You and I both know this. The bigger and the leaner you get, the more tests you can handle without having an estrogen issue from it. Yeah. I mean, I can run up to a gram now without running. Or even more without an AI. Yeah, exactly. But when you first started, I mean, what was your top end? 400? Yeah, not even that. I was my, I think at 375, my estrogen would get up over 300 sometimes. Yeah. And so estrogen also is technically a growth promoter on its own and men, at least. This is kind of where it's different. So activating the estrogen, except for actually aids in growth through other mechanisms, we could probably do a full show just on estrogen if you want. Yeah. And another aspect of that too, like the guys, and I remember the whole liver king scenario where he was running 12 units of pharmaceutical growth hormone in his. IGF is like a 200, right? Yeah. It was, it was even lower, I think. One 50 or something. But his estradiol was buried. It was puzzling to me that the doctor didn't put the math together on that. They just kept it. The doctors don't know that, right? Right. They just kept, he reached out. Well, the emails that got exposed, he was reaching out to people to try to understand why his IGF one was so low. And it was because he was running a shit ton of windstraw. If I recall correctly, and his estrogen was buried. What was, what was using for estrogen specifically? Do you remember nothing? I didn't think just the windstraw. Yeah. He was running a winch at the key. If I recall, it could be completely wrong. He was on deco very low test. When very low test, windstraw and TRT. Yes. Like even like 20. Yeah. And then, and a ton of growth hormone, right? Yeah. I don't think there was IGF. I think it was just growth hormone. Windstraw, I think is what he was running. And, and regardless, his estrogen was buried. And you're not going to get much out of it. It's kind of. You're wasting your money on your growth hormone. Yeah. Basically. Right. So it's not even if you're, that's another thing that people don't understand is that if you're taking HGH and you buried your estrogen from running, or even like if you're running an angeloin only cycle and you have no estrogen, you might get some autocrine, right? Because it'll, an angeloin will help, you know, autocrine IGF like in the muscle directly, but still you better off just having some level of estrogen. In general, I could speak from personal experience. I ran angeloin only cycle. So I felt horrible when I did. Yeah. And there's about was probably single digits at that point. Yeah. It was, it was like eight. Yeah. That's what it was. And I felt absolutely abysmal on it. I had no sex drive. I was flat. Your mood, your, your joints probably start to feel a little funky. Yeah. It was moody. I could try. And everybody always thinks it's pro pro lactin, but it's nothing to do. It's very rarely that people really have pro lactin issues. I think that's almost never. So circling back around, it is important to have a testosterone base, especially in your offseason. Now we can argue on contest prep where you can probably pull it down. And, but you're right. I found that I stay fuller when I keep testosterone high. I definitely do as well. I would say I think another misconception that I see a lot now that everyone, everyone of all ages is using the term TRT, right? There's 20 or guys that are on TRT. Right. I'm not really sure why that would be considered TRT. That just a low cycle at that age. Cause they're not really replacing anything. It's missing. I think where the misconception, a lot of guys wonder if they get on TRT, if they're going to grow any muscle, not to say that you wouldn't grow some. It's been shown that if testosterone is the only stimulus for growth that's in you, you like, if you're not training specifically hard, your diets are correct. Testosterone would have to be over 1400 nanograms per deciliter in your blood to cause growth on its own. So no TR, no actual TRT protocol is going to cause muscle per se, not on its own. I think the only thing that you would gain out of actual TRT versus being natural is you're not going to get the dips, right? You're just going to stay pretty much even, assuming you're, you're using it correctly. That would be the only benefit I would see as far as muscle. We're talking about 150, 150. Yeah. Yeah. Real dose. Yeah. I, yeah, I don't see, I mean, people will feel better. Body composition improves a little bit, but I don't. There's no benefits of TRT. I'm not against TRT at all. I just think that it's, this misconception is about what it's very different than a certain second. They're not going to be confused. Not the same. You're not going to turn into a open class pro body builder. And the standard is 300 milligrams is where it becomes super physiological, like greater than the human body can really ever produce. And that's kind of our TRT is typically capped at 250. Is there trying to separate the two? Right. Right. Like when we study the highest dose that we ever study in humans is 600 milligrams. Like we're very aware of what 600 milligrams does. We've never really studied above that. I've studied above that. Yeah. Yeah. Frequently. Yes. Cool. I, what I found with a testosterone too, it just, you know, it's funny how most everybody comes to the same conclusion. I just did a video about this the other day, but you'll see most pro body builders. They end up in the same place where you'll see guys eventually come to the conclusion that it's testosterone base for your cycle and marry it with usually prima bole and yeah, prima bole and sometimes aqua poise. You'll see guys run once in a while masteron, but usually it's prima bole and our aqua poise, but you'll see most, most pros run and then HGH and Encel and that's sort of the, sort of the holy standard, the standard for getting big. When I think you said it in your video about, about pro cyclist yesterday, it's, you get to a point where you realize that all the toxic stuff is really toxic and doesn't make you feel very good and you're not getting any growth out of it. Right. Trend is not typically used in humans to promote growth. Like it's not a fantastic. Anabolic, right? For that, like guys that, I'm sure you know, guys run trend pretty much year round. They never seem to get me bigger. No, they don't. They make me hard and lean. They don't grow, but they never get past a hundred and eighty five hundred and ninety pounds. So yeah, I'm a hundred percent with you on that. I think, and even if you could tolerate, like if someone could tolerate more testosterone, even testosterone growth on an insulin on its own would be technically enough to grow up, right? Right. You know, minus that extra on a ball. Yeah. And correct me if I'm wrong, but permeable and does have some modulation of estradiol as well. From what I understand, it's a reversely binding aromatase inhibitor. Yeah. So we, Todd and I, Dr. Todd and I figured some stuff out a week ago, which we got to do a video on. Primalon seems to act as an AI, like you said. Yeah. It has, there are 16 new metabolites of Primalon that were actually just discovered this year. And one of those acts as an AI and versus a masteron actually acts as a separate. Yeah. We're actually interacting with the eschatore receptor completely differently. And that would make sense since it was used as a breast cancer treatment. Originally, you didn't know that when the drugs were designed, that was just a fluke of faith. They said, bro, that's altered DHT and see what happens. You couldn't, they couldn't have known that, right? They didn't understand enough about the molecules that then. So my logic of running both primable and a masteron together actually makes sense. Yeah. Without destroying your estrogen. Without destroying your. That's typically what I do on contest prep. I'll run a one third of my dose would be testosterone, one third would be primo, one third would be masteron. Okay. Can you prefer that over just switching over to masteron fully? Yeah, I have experimented with it and the problem I run into when I just run masteron by itself as I flatten out. Okay. Makes sense. You get like this mineral excretion and stuff that occurs with, yep, you know, masteron, is it affects Aldosterone and things like that. Yeah. It seems, although you can, you can play around with the doses. Sometimes if I want to get a little bit harder, I'll push the dose up, but I was talking to John do it and he said he runs just masteron with the testosterone and pushes the doses up pretty as he needs to dry out. He'll push the masteron doses up higher. No AI, right? With no AI. Okay. Yeah. But again, that's one, yeah. And he, there's nothing wrong with what he's doing, but that's also one person, right? It's like the average person walking this probably doesn't need to do what a provider built for student. Right. Right. Yeah. We're talking about performance enhancing. I have found that as I get towards the end of contest prep, that I do need to add an AI and to really harden up. Yeah. At the end, it's interesting too, with, at least with the literature, Todd and I are going to test some of this. It seems to that, you know, using arimidex actually doesn't impact IGF one, the same as Tamaxifin. So if someone were to worry about using GH and controlling it at the same time, they'd be worse off using Novodex or Tamaxifin than they would be. Interesting. arimidex on its own technically raises IGF, Eastern Studies. So we're going to kind of test that out and see how that works in actual men that lift weights, not in any of these cancer. Because that was always kind of an enigma. They were wondering why arimidex was a great cancer drug if it actually raised IGF, right? Because cancer, cancer grows partially through IGF being elevated. So apparently it's strong enough to block the receptor, block the conversions. It doesn't really matter. Right. All right, Kurt, let's talk about dosing a little bit more. We kind of touched on it briefly, but for performance enhancement, you establish that 250 is sort of the top end of 250-300 is the top end of TRT. And then we're getting into super physiological range. First time cycles, performance enhancement. What are we looking at? I think a lot of guys start too high. I think the old school thought with the 500 milligrams of tests and then de-ball on top of that for no reason is probably not needed for a first cycle. I would typically say a beginner should be somewhere between 250 and 300. And then tight-tread up is needed. But I don't think, I think if you're a beginner in your food, inner training are at least 80% on point and you're not able to grow on 300 milligrams of tests.  testosterone, it's probably time to pick a different sport. Yeah. You'll know immediately. You don't take your 700 milligrams of anything. You've seen it with coaching people. You know immediately if somebody's a responder. If I start off usually like with 250 and then I'll kind of move it up to 375 and I've seen dudes absolutely blow up on just that. Yeah. Yeah. That's the genetic thing again, right? So you get that right away. All right, Jim Bros. So I'm going to interrupt this regularly scheduled broadcast to tell you about the new science of HGH ebook by Kurt Havens. It is available on the anabolic bodybuilding website for download right now. There is a link in the video description below for the ebook. If you want to pick it up, it is probably the most comprehensive ebook about performance enhancement use with HGH over 100 pages of information with references and it's awesome. Go check it out. The upper limits of testosterone doses, what I've seen and you chime in on this, it really depends on how big you are. We touched on it a little bit earlier but I definitely have a higher threshold for it now than what I did when I was 185 pounds. The higher? I mean, I don't think it's unheard of to run two grams. I would say there seems to be a point of diminishing returns after about that. Unless you chase irons and then run three and a half. Yeah. It's not unheard of. I feel like there's some weird point of diminishing returns after a gram. It's linear to a gram and then it starts to flatten out a little bit. I think the only point to ever really go much above that is when you're chasing irons or a pretty big dude who's run out of growth from anything else. I don't think someone who's 180 pounds unless they started at 100 pounds probably does not need to be running two grams of testosterone. No. I am 280, 290 in the offseason. The highest I've ever been is 1500 and I got up there this offseason just for a few weeks and it was too much. Yeah. I felt sick. I just felt lethargic. I felt sick and I pulled it back down to somewhere between a gram to 1250 seems to be the sweet spot for me. Because that seems like for most guys that's the high end. Yeah. That's not to say if you're 185 pounds just starting out that you should run a gram. That's not a smart approach. That's something you work your way up to. It wouldn't make any sense anyway. It'd be like eating 6,000 calories when you're. Yeah. Or benching 405 when you're doing it. Right. So zero cents. But it's a path that you work your way up over a period of years. And it should be. And that's also the reason why you want to start low. Because the more you use, the more you need in the future. So the first leg of the gate is 600 milligrams where you're going from it. Right. Crazy dose isn't going to work more than a couple of times. Right. You're lucky if it works twice. So you're going to continually tie trade up over times. If you start that high, you're going to be using a bottle of test a week. Yep. And you're sure you're using drugs and that can't be good for you at all. Right. Yeah. And that's what I speculate like a guy like Dallas McCarver why he ended up at such crazy doses that he was. He started yelling and started high. Started yelling and started high and then you have no runway. Yep. To increase. The approach is always to get the most out of the least. And as we talked about earlier, you know, move your food up, move your gear up, move your food up. Make sure your training is on point. So it's a variable that you can consider in the equation, but it's usually the last one I adjust. Yeah. And you taught me this. I mean, I always was slow to move my food up. The last metric and you really push the food with me and that made a much bigger difference in anything else I did. Right. I was eating more. I mean, not just quantity, but the right food. Right. I mean, at this point, I'm eating my height is what 1500? Yeah, something like that. 15 cups of rice a day. Yeah. You're eating more than me. Well, but I'm on my offseason. So yeah. Well, I mean, even in my, even in your offseason, you eat more than me. You just have crazy metabolism. But yeah, the food, people underestimate the value of the food as a part of the equation. I honestly, and this is, I'm off topic here, but this is sort of a controversy you'll take. I've gotten to the point where I feel like the top of the equation as far as growth is food, then it's gear and then training is the bottom of the pyramid. I noticed this with my content being mostly, you know, pharmacology stuff. It's interesting. I get a lot of interest in that stuff. People, you know, they want to know the ins and outs of the drugs, but the most sane people will DM me if I post anything about exercise and they're completely confused about how to exercise. But you really need to understand everything that Nanterlone does in the human body. They don't understand what, you know, the working length of a muscle is or what mechanical tension is. Yeah. Right. It's maybe, maybe everyone needs to take a step back before worrying about the drugs and figure out the basic stuff first. Right. Yeah. So, guys, before you even consider a cycle, before you even go on testosterone, learn how to eat and learn how to lift. Yeah. Right. I mean, that's the, you and I probably touched on it before. I think there's a common theme out there. Guys will say things like, oh, you know, you don't want to do, you don't want to start steroids until, you know, you're 30 years old or something, right? Yeah. I'm not one of those hypocrites. No. I think the key is what you just said. You don't want to waste, you only have so many psychos in you before you get sick. Right. Something goes wrong or you're hair falls out. So, you want to basically make sure that you're training in your diet and your lifestyle is on point and you have enough money to go see a doctor when things are wrong. Yeah. Right. I mean, I also get messages from people all the time that things are very wrong and they're playing doctor themselves and they're adding things and removing things. They want to know, but it's not a good time to be doing steroids. I think the reason why I've had so much runway because I've been on and off stuff for, it's embarrassing to say, but 25 plus years is because I did really small cycles when I was younger. I didn't, you know, I always pushed the food and pushed the training hard. And I don't think I ever surpassed until the last year a little over a gram total. It's going to say, I don't, I wouldn't, I never looked at your stuff as being excessive compared to what's out there. Yeah. No, I've always been very conservative. I've tried and I have pushed it a little bit more this year just to see, but I didn't really see huge additional benefit once you get past a certain point. Yeah. And it's, and if you're on prep, that's the time to push it anywhere, right? Yeah. The office, the food you should be doing most of the work in the office. There are some people that disagree with that, but I think prep is the time where you throw the kitchen sink at it a bit, you know, but you can. You're already going to be using dangerous stuff. So that, you know, right. All right. Any parting words on testosterone? Any last words of wisdom? Part of, I think it's, it's, it should be the foundation of everything. Right. The trans bodybuilder does. There's no reason to leave it out unless you're really struggling with tolerating it. And I think most of the time when people struggle with tolerating it, there are things you can do to modulate it. You know, usually it's, usually what I see, and I'm sure you can speak to this as well. Kurt, it's mostly estrogen issues that people have. Yeah. And you can modulate that with running some primal wool or something with it. We're using less tests, right? We're using less tests. That's always an option. Yeah. And everyone needs to run 500 milligrams a start. Right. So there are things that you can play with your ratio of testosterone to your DHT derived injectable. You know, there's, there's things you can do. All right, folks. Well, I appreciate you watching. Thank you, Kurt, for sharing your knowledge with us and take care. Thanks for coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, disease, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigt3rd at gmail.com.