warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, bros. What's up? It's big Paul here. Sorry. I haven't posted much lately. I've been insanely busy since my pro card when signing up a lot of coaching clients and I've got multiple people competing this week at North Americans and other shows this weekend. This is probably the busiest competition weekend of the year for guys that are coaches. I'm leaving for North Americans tomorrow going up with my clients and then we'll get settled back in and I'll start cranking out some more content. But in the meantime, I've got a good one for you here. This is from the latest anabolic science of anabolics and performance enhancing drugs. Q and a with Kurt Havens and I, we talk about the PEDs, the drugs necessary to recomp when you hear people talking about growing into shows, recomping, whatever the hell you want to call it. Growing into shows, there's almost always more drugs involved. I had that experience this year where I started my contest prep at around two 50 and I ended up around two 50. I did go up for a while. I definitely dropped some body fat. The only thing that really changed this year is I used a lot more PEDs. Kurt and I talk about that in this clip and we also talk about the maximum testosterone dose that people can tolerate. There's more of it if you're a member of the anabolics e-course, it's up on the website. I loaded it up there yesterday. So if you want to check it out, if you're a member. Also we have a sale going on the anabolics e-course for labor day, 20% off for anybody who wants to pick up the course. Now I am going to put the code in the video description below, but it is labor 20 if you want to pick up the course. I hope you enjoy this clip. We'll dig into it in just one second. So first question is from Vincent. Is it possible for a fairly new competitor, even a more seasoned competitor to grow while I'm prep. For example, if someone is using carb cycling diet like you typically did or whatever, is it possible to grow into a show? The old grow into a show, the old Kevin LeBron. It's possible if you use enough gear is the short answer. I think I grew into my show this year and that was the first time ever. I'm growing into deficit right now. It's possible. You just have to leverage gear harder. That's what LeBron did. Yeah, that was, uh, be careful. I can't, cause this can't get out. I wouldn't put that up here. Yeah. Okay. I won't say it. I'll just say that. Uh, I, I know some people, I know some people that, uh, so that he was very aggressive with what he ran to start off his cycles. IMean, and realistically all of those guys are, no matter what they say, even the ones who are mild with it. Like you and I were talking about this recently, of all the pros I've talked to, I know three that are very moderate in their usage by moderate. IMean like one and a half grams. Most of them are taking a significantly larger amount than that, regardless of what they say in public. When you get them in a coaching situation or on the phone and you have to, when you, when they tell you the truth, when they actually, when you actually know them and you have to help them, they're using a lot more stuff than they tell you they're using. IMean, I saw, I have, I have a guy who's using 1800 milligrams a week of tren. So, IMean, that's not unheard of. That's less than Nick Walker uses. I'll tell you this. Um, I'm out therecompeting with the old guys and people were, people were giving me shit about my three gram cycle. My three gram cycle was not out of the ordinary in the math and the masters, uh, uh, the masters. Um, I'll add mine right now. IMean, I was, I was running a hundred mil. Well, no, uh, I'm on 3,500 and I'm not even competing and that's, and then growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone on top of that. Yeah, I've never gone up that high. Uh, I did a gram of test, a gram of Primo demo grandma masteron, um, on contest prep. And then I threw in the wind straw at the end when I dropped the, um, dropped the injectables. But yeah, it, it gets real out there. People, I'm not saying that's what you have should have to do. I know Chase is going back and forth with a pro saying that guys don't use that much. And I know that I know the guy, the pro he was going with, I know he doesn't use a lot, but he's living in his little world where he doesn't talk to other people. I don't think, and guys, I think guys are not forthcoming with it unless, you know, you're, you're a fellow person who, I don't know. I don't know if it's embarrassment or if they're just trying to hide it or, or if it's just keeping it secret or death seem to be more open about it now than they were. But yes, if long story short, if you want to grow into a show, you got to run a lot of shit. Yeah. And really most likely going to be tren is going to be used heavily for that. For most people. I know you didn't use it this time. Yeah. Well, I know tren has some special magic when you can actually grow tissue in a deficit. Yep. That's what it's used for. Probably the only compound really you can do that with. Right. Isn't it? IMean easily. Yeah. IMean you could text, IMean you did it with Primo, right? IMean if your diet, the thing is your diet has to be on point. Your diet was on point. Yeah. That's most guys diet is so far off point that there's nothing. Not only are they not losing fat effectively, they're not growing effectively. They're definitely not recomping. That's, you know, you, you know what? You just touched on something there. I think that's a good point too, is I think you have to start prep pretty lean if you're going to grow on prep. If you're fat. Oh yeah. No, you're done. No. Cause you guys spend all that time losing and nothing works right when you're fat. No, that's most of my guys know when they come to me, if they're over, if I can't see their abs, they got to lose weight first before putting on weight. I'm not putting on weight on anyone. I used to be more liberal about doing box, but I have, um, I've tightened up, man. I like I'm the same way, man. If I, if I can't see abs, we're not going on a surplus. Why would you, they're not going to gain any tissue. You're just going to get fat. Yeah. And any tissue they gain when they go lose that subsequent body fat that's gained, they can just lose that tissue, right? The body's just super inefficient when you're fat. Yeah. So it's, there's just no point. There's just no point. And there's honestly no point in men like men being that high in their body fat. Anyway, I'm 50, you're 50. Like what? Neither of us are fat. There's no point. You're not getting any stronger by being fat. You're definitely not getting any healthier and you're definitely not building tissue more effectively. Yeah. If you're a 20% body fat at the beginning of prep, you're not going to grow on prep. I don't know where I was at, but I, I, this is, I started prep at two 50 and I ended prep at two 50. No, I got up to like two 63, two 64 there in the middle. So I did grow and then I came back down. I also was on very low doses in my offseason cause I had a short offseason and it was just TRT plus, I don't know. I don't know what the exact number was, but it was like, kind of like what I'm doing right now where I just get lazy and it's just whenever I remember to take a, take a jab. But I, you know, that was it. With the, it helps with a ton of stuff, but I would say with recomp and for sure the more growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone uses can help with that too. Yeah. At least when you're older, at least for me, it makes a big difference. Yeah. Running, running a lot of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone for older guys. I, I, I think that that is the single biggest thing I've seen help guys that are over 40. You're right. Oh, you were right. That was the biggest thing you taught me. It's just anecdotal. You know, you got to use a bunch of it. This is only two IU stuff is so dumb. Like unless you want like make your fingernails thicker. I don't know what else it's two I uses two to four units isn't doing shit. If you want to grow, if you want to even lose fat, IMean, unless you're going to be really tight with your diet, but you still got to really be careful to diet at two units. All right. I think we've beat that one into some mission. Um, somebody's asking me for a forum section, um, for this. I'm like, no, this isn't a course. Um, we, we both have met forums for that. If you want to get into a forum, uh, the CM on here, he said after finding a tolerance point of test, um, and we added DHT compound over the period of time, can we titrate the dosage of test up as we increase the DHT to, we talked about this before, but I guess we'll talk about it again. For example, I think he's talking about, um, the test to DHT ratios. We, we made an entire video about that, that I posted on here. Yeah. I don't know. I find John Jewett and I talked about this as well. And I believe he agreed with me. I found, or we both found, you kind of, you kind of have a tolerance for testosterone that you develop early on in your cycling. There's kind of a ceiling for most guys would test where it like becomes not effective anymore. Yeah. And I personally haven't outgrown that. I have a very high tolerance for steroids, but I don't, my like 12 to 1500 is like kind of the top where test maxes out for me after that. It's just sides and I'm not sleeping. Yeah. But I could push the total grams five or six and be totally fine. It's just the test cms to tuck her out around there for me. And it's, that's never changed regardless of what it was exactly in my experience. I, at the beginning of my prep, I pushed the test up close to two grams. I did not feel good. Yep. Okay. Um, I pulled it back down to 1500 for a while. I thought, okay, there, um, you know, it was 50, it was 50, 50, half test FDHT derived compounds. And then I settled in like for the last half of my prep, it's, um, the gram of test, a gram of Primo, a gram of, uh, masteron. I think I would have liked to run my test a little higher if I were trying to grow, but that was, uh, that was perfect for a contest prep. Yeah. And realistically, depending on what else you're mixing with your test, testosterone is not, doesn't, isn't like the most avid binder to the antigen receptors. There's a lot of other things are going to buy more firmly. They're going to get the job done in its place. You don't necessarily need to leverage a shitload of tests. If you have like the whole, I feel like we've gone, we've flip-flopped. And I think the right answer is probably somewhere in the middle. We've gone through these things where it was like 10 years ago, it was like high tren, low test. Remember this like GH 15. Yeah. And then now it's like, everything's high test and then low everything else. Honestly, I find like for me, like with tren, the test doesn't need to be as high because the test isn't really doing much at that point. The test is just supplying some DHT and some estrogen. It's not doing a shitload of animalism at that point. It's easier to run the test at like a sufficient amount, like 600 milligrams and leverage the other stronger stuff higher. At least for me, I get less side effects that way. I will say this. I have not found an upper limit of provable and I can run other than crashing my estrogen. I would say 800 was too much for me. You crashed my estrogen. Yeah. Well, I did. I did have that. I take that back. I had that issue post show where my estrogen was buried and then it swung back the other way. But anyway, yeah, it really is person dependent. I wish I could give you a good, good example of a mom, but it's just it's really, it's really a individual.