 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, folks, big Paul here today with another muscle rant. It is contest prep season, the season for real victories and for more victories and for more victories. moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral moral quite some time now, off and on for 30 years. I took a break in my thirties. I've been to a ton of bodybuilding shows. I computed a few myself. I've been backstage at a lot of bodybuilding shows as a coach, and I've heard all sorts of excuses, complaints, justification, all sorts of shit over the years. And it is bodybuilding season, and it is the time of the year for moral victories. And I hear guys talking all the time, about moral victories at bodybuilding shows. I've heard some crazy shit backstage. I remember hearing a dude in the lineup who clearly had no chance of winning, telling everybody in the lineup that he was natty. Nobody cares. I heard another dude in a lineup when I was in a show one time that looked like he was about seven weeks out. And he was telling everybody, IMight not be in as good condition as you, but I bench pressed 400 pounds this week, the week of the show. There are no moral victories in bodybuilding. The judges don't care how much cardio you did. They don't care how little cardio you did. They don't care how hard your diet was. They don't care how much food you ate. They don't care whether you did a keto diet, a carnivore diet, a high carb diet. They don't care. They don't care how much you weigh on stage. They don't care how much prep sucked or how much prep didn't suck. They don't care how much weight you lifted. Nobody's going to ask you how much you bench pressed on stage. Nobody's going to ask you how much you squatted on stage. Nobody cares what kind of workout you did, whether it was hits, high volume, some weird ass other shit. They don't care. The only thing the judges care about when you step on that stage is how you look compared to the guy standing next to you. Nothing else matters. Nobody cares that you took less super supplements than the bro that's next to you. There are no moral victories. That's another one that drives me nuts. I hear guys all the time say, well, if I took more, I would have won my pro card. I didn't take as much as that guy. Okay, fantastic. Why wouldn't you have just taken a little bit more and gotten your pro card then? I don't think you actually would have won your pro card. You're just using that as justification. Now, I'm not encouraging abuse. I'm not saying that's what you should do. But bodybuilding is extreme. It's not for everybody. There are no moral victories when you get on stage. And I would say if you took less, if you suffered more than you had to, if you looked at like an idiot and hurt yourself on prep, if you did some stupid diet where you didn't eat something that you could have eaten and made a better look for yourself on stage, then you're an idiot. What you should do is do whatever it takes to put the best looking physique on the stage that gives you an opportunity to win. All right, folks, I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, the Scientific Principles of Anabolics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. Now that's assuming that you want to be highly competitive at this. If you're just out there having fun, if you're just doing it as a personal challenge, if you're just out there to prove something to yourself, which is perfectly fine, I'm not hating on anybody that does that. I think a bodybuilding show can be a very trensformative event for people who just want to go out there and push themselves and do something cool. It is perfectly awesome and fine to do that and to pull back a little bit or whatever. That moral victory is the only one I can see that would count. It's just a sense of personal accomplishment. But if you're a truly competitive bodybuilder, going out there and making excuses for yourself for looking like crap because you did something stupid and your prep doesn't mean anything to the judges. Doesn't make you a better bodybuilder. Doesn't make you better or have a higher moral ground than the guy standing next to you that may have done something different, may have taken a little bit more super supplements, may have eaten more food than you, may have done less cardio than you did. It does not make you better than them. The best physique wins on stage. That's all that matters. When you get on stage, whoever puts the best physique up there, that is all that matters. All right, folks, that's my muscle rant on moral victories in bodybuilding. There are no moral victories in a bodybuilding show if you want to be a highly competitive bodybuilder. Let me know what you think in the comments section below. Thank you for your support and I appreciate you watching. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.